 A breakup, especially of a long term relationship, will not happen over night. Considering that your lives have been intertwined for so long, there is no easy break from them. You and your partner will probably have mutual friends, possessions, and routines that will make it tense and awkward for awhile.


Your routines and life will change when your relationship is no longer a factor. This will take time to adjust to.
You will also have lingering feelings, even if you are no longer in love with your partner. You may be emotional for awhile after the breakup as you cope with these lingering feelings., One of the best ways to move on is by focusing your attention on new things. This way, you are doing things that can't remind you of your partner or your breakup. This will help you heal, with the added bonus of enriching your life.


Trying new things will help you to heal. Start a new project, join a yoga class, or take an art class. Just find something you enjoy that you can focus on., After a breakup, you will need to lean on those around you. Even when you are the one who broke off the relationship, it will be emotional. Lean on your family and friends when you're feeling down or upset about your breakup. This will give you the support system you need to heal.


Spend more time with your friends and family, go out more, or talk to them on the phone. This will help you feel connected and loved when you're feeling down., You will likely not go back to being 100% happy and healthy right after a breakup, especially a long term one. When you're feeling down or stressed because of the breakup, don't beat yourself up or try to snap out of it right away. It will take time to heal.


You need to give yourself time to grieve your relationship in healthy ways so you can move on. If you push down your feelings, you may have some issues later on.
Your friends and family will understand that you need time to regroup and heal., As you cope with your breakup, you need to take care of yourself. Take time to cope and process your life without your partner. Your feelings will likely be complicated and intense, even if you are the one who ended things.

Make sure you pay attention to your own mental and physical health while you heal.

Don't let go of your healthy lifestyle just because you had a breakup. Keep eating healthy and exercising like your normally would.
If you didn't exercise or eat right before, consider changing your routine to include healthier habits so you can be healthier after your breakup.