 GAD is best treated by a mental health professional. If you are struggling with feeling tension, tight muscles and body aches, difficulty sleeping because your mind won’t shut off, feeling restless and jumpy, or having stomach problems it might be time to seek professional help. Obtain a referral or suggestion from a doctor, or trusted family member or friend. Licensed therapists are trained to help others learn to manage the anxiety that is impacting their lives.


If you feel you and your therapist are not a good fit, look for a different therapist. Every therapist is different and finding one with whom you feel comfortable is essential.
Look for a therapist who practices cognitive behavioral therapy.This type of therapy is one that is commonly used to treat generalized anxiety disorders, panic disorders, social anxiety disorders, and phobias. Your therapist will help examine and dispel the negative thought patterns that you have developed.
Additionally, a therapy like art therapy might be just the right thing to help you shift your focus on creating art rather than worry., Commit to changing your behavior. In both psychotherapy and physical therapy, you will benefit from setting goals.Engage in it by allowing yourself to be open and vulnerable. Don’t abandon the process just because it gets difficult. Your hard work will pay off and leave you with a healthy sense of accomplishment.


Identify your objectives. For example, would you like to be more at peace about getting good grades in school? Tell the therapist that this is one of your goals.
Reward yourself when you reach your goal. Your motivation will increase if you reward your accomplishments.Adjust your objectives rather than give up.
Continue to make new goals as it will keep you engaged in life.
 A medical doctor (M.D.) licensed to prescribe medication can discuss pharmaceutical options for treating GAD. Medication is intended to be used in tandem with therapy rather than on its own. Ideally, medication is used for a period of time to help you through the roughest part of the struggle. You work with your doctor and therapist to lessen and eventually eliminate the dose once you learn new techniques and strategies to manage your anxiety.


Your doctor or therapist may suggest: Buspirone (considered the safest drug for generalized anxiety disorder); Benzodiazepines (quick-acting but building a dependency is common); Antidepressants (slow-acting and may increase sleep difficulties and cause nausea).Research the side effects before making a decision to commence taking any drug.
Communicate substance abuse issues. Many people suffering GAD also suffer from other disorders. Some use non-prescribed drugs and alcohol to manage symptoms. You must discuss this matter with your doctor or therapist to ensure that you receive the help you need and avoid dangerous drug interactions., Surround yourself with people who care about you. This includes family, friends, and co-workers. Branch out and meet new people to expand your circle of support. You have learned so much through the therapeutic process that you feel resourceful and confident about managing your anxiety. A good support system will help you reduce stress and may boost your immune system., Personal struggles can leave you feeling bad about yourself. Unfortunately, since GAD involves worrying, you may be worrying that you are worrying too much. Anxiety and worry are a natural part of life, and you can learn to manage it rather than try to eliminate it or feel bad about yourself because of it.


The cognitive behavior therapy you will be participating in will help you examine your thoughts and develop new more effective ways of thinking about yourself as well as helping you manage anxiety and worry.