 Peppermint contains menthol, which can relax your muscles and calm you.To brew peppermint tea, place 1 big teaspoon of dried peppermint or 2 stalks of fresh peppermint in the bottom of your tea cup. Pour boiled water over the peppermint and let it steep for 5 to 10 minutes. Strain the peppermint and sip it.You can flavor peppermint tea with honey, cinnamon or a squirt of lemon juice.;
, Studies show that drinking black tea over time can reduce your stress levels by helping you relax. It can also lower cortisol, a steroid hormone that your body releases when you become stressed.Even the ritual of brewing the tea and sipping it it slowly can help you unwind after a long day.Choose your favorite black tea and prepare it however you like (adding milk, sugar or lemon).


If your cortisol levels are normally high, you could develop a number of health issues caused by stress.Keep in mind that black tea contains caffeine, so if you're worried about it keeping you awake, you should limit your intake throughout the day.
 Although more research is needed, early studies indicate that chamomile extract can relieve stress in people with generalized anxiety disorder.For a relaxing cup of chamomile tea, place 1 heaping teaspoon of dried chamomile tea or flowers in your tea cup. Pour boiling water over the chamomile and let it steep for 5 to 10 minutes. Strain the tea and drink it slowly.The flavor of the tea will become stronger the longer it steeps. If you like a flavorful tea, let it steep the full 10 minutes.
 Research suggests that lemon balm may improve mood and cognitive performance.To get the benefits of lemon balm, you can steep 1 tablespoon of dried lemon balm or 2 tablespoons of fresh lemon balm in boiling water for 20 minutes. Since lemon balm doesn't have very much flavor, consider steeping it along with:Dried rose hips
Dried orange peel
Dried lavender

, Studies have shown that passion flower extract reduced levels of generalized anxiety.To get similar relief at home, brew up some passion flower tea and sip away. Place 1 tablespoon of dried passion flower in your tea cup. Pour boiling water over the passion flower and let it steep for 10 minutes. Strain the tea and sip it slowly.You can also look for herbal tea blends or tisanes that list passion flower as one of the first ingredients.
 Green tea has become popular for its many health benefits, like its ability to reduce stress. To brew green tea, place 1 teaspoon of dried green tea into your tea cup. Pour hot water that's almost come to a boil over the tea in your cup and let it steep for 1 to 3 minutes. Strain the tea and carefully sip it.A scientific study found that drinking 5 cups of green tea a day could reduce your stress by 20%.Remember that green tea does contain caffeine. If you're sensitive to the effects of caffeine, limit your intake during the day.
 Rose is often used in Ayurvedic medicine to reduce stress and anxiety. Some believe it can help you relax and calm your mind. To make a tea from rose petals, place about 1 tablespoon of dried or washed fresh petals into your tea cup. Pour boiling water over the rose petals and let the tea steep for 5 to 10 minutes before you strain it.The petals will turn dark the longer they steep.Choose organic roses or roses that haven't been sprayed with pesticides.

