 Buying a pair of reading glasses is a simple solution to help make reading fine print easier. Difficulty reading up close, or Presbyopia, is commonly experienced by aging individuals, and easily remedied by having reading glasses on hand to look at mail, restaurant menus, recipes, and other common things. Check for reading glasses, which normally retail for about $10, at drug stores and department stores.If you plan to use your reading glasses on a regular basis, visit your ophthalmologist for a prescription. Inexpensive reading glasses can cause eye fatigue when worn for too long.;
, Handheld magnifiers are portable and can be beneficial for reading fine print in stores, restaurants, other establishments, or at home. Opt for a model with lower magnification, given that larger magnification limits the area of visibility (e.g. 3x as opposed to 6x magnification). Handheld magnifiers range in price from approximately $5-$150., There are numerous magnifier apps available for both iPhones and Androids. These apps use your phone's camera to zoom in on and magnify whatever it is focused on. The quality of these magnifiers relies heavily on the quality of your phone's camera; some also use your phone's flashlight feature to illuminate the view.The Smart Magnifier app for Android, for example, uses your phone's camera, auto-focus, and LED flash to magnify whatever you want to focus on.
 When presented with a document to sign, never hesitate to bring it home, or to a more quiet, comfortable setting, so that you can review it thoroughly. Conditions in a store or office may not be ideal for you to read the fine print in a text properly, or to take the necessary time to review it. Taking the document home will also allow you to have a second person review it, if necessary.Never let a salesperson or representative pressure you into signing or purchasing something without thoroughly reviewing the fine print. It is your right to know the exact details of what you are entering into.

