 All social media platforms include a process by which you can block someone who is bullying you. Once you've blocked them, you will be unable to see their posts or comments when you go online.Check the privacy and security guidelines for any social media site where you have an account, particularly those you use regularly. Make sure you understand how to block someone if you need to do so.
You may want to practice the blocking instructions on a friend or family member first, so you know how they work. This can help if you have difficulty following step-by-step instructions written in text. Have the person with you so they can help you if you do something wrong.
Keep in mind that typically, the person you've blocked will not be notified that you did it. They may eventually find out when they don't get any response from you, but by then they likely will have moved on.
If you block someone for bullying behavior, let your close friends and family members know as well. They may want to block the person on their accounts as well, or avoid interacting with the person.
 Sometimes online bullies will "hack" your account to post abusive or threatening messages to you, or to write posts that appear to have come from you.Use an email address for social media accounts that isn't commonly known. This can keep real-life bullies from finding your social media accounts and moving their bullying online.
For example, if you have a school email address that is shared with teachers and other students, don't use it to set up your social media accounts. A bully can easily access or guess that information. Instead, create a free email account and use it only for social media.
Make sure your password is complicated enough that it can't be guessed easily, and change your passwords every few months. This will help keep bullies from getting into your accounts.
 If you've kept a diary of bullying incidents, you can use that information to narrow down the specific places where the bullying is most likely to occur. Once you know where those places are, you can take steps to avoid them.For example, suppose you walk to school every day. On a particular part of your route, there is a bully who frequently comes after you. Work with a parent or other adult to adjust your route to school so you can avoid that place.
If your bully is online, you may have to take additional steps to avoid them, such as deleting your account on the site where they bully you. Make a note of the people you want to keep in contact with (preferably who don't have the bully in their contacts) so if you start a new account you can reconnect with them. Enable strict privacy settings on your new account so the bully cannot find you again.
 If you are most likely to be bullied at certain times of day, such as during lunch or at recess (if you're in school), you often can avoid the bully by making arrangements to be somewhere else during those times.Bullies often are more likely to act during non-structured parts of the day. Building structure into those times can get you away from the bully.
For example, if a bully is harassing you during lunch time, you may be able to eat in a teacher's classroom during that time, or go to the computer lab, library, or another place where you feel safe.
 As a last resort, if nothing else has worked to eliminate the bullying, find out what you can do to move to a different location where the bully will not be present. This may involve requesting a transfer from administrative officials.If you're a student, keep in mind that changing schools can be complicated, and will require help from your parents.
Some students who face bullying at school have good results being home-schooled. Talk to your parents to find out if this arrangement could work for you.
If you're being bullied at work as an adult, you may be able to request a transfer to a different shift or department that will keep you away from the bully.
To completely remove yourself from an online bullying situation, you may have to take a break from social media. Deleting your accounts is a sure-fire way to get away from online bullying – however, it can be difficult to do if you enjoy social media because you have a hard time interacting with people face-to-face. If that's the case for you, delete your accounts and take a break for a few weeks before starting new accounts with heightened privacy.

