 Blood clots sometimes form for no discernible reason, but certain conditions and situations increase your risk. The first of these is prolonged immobility. If you are on bed rest or sit and cross your legs for a long period of time, you may increase the risk of blood clots forming, particularly in your arms and legs.


Extended travel in an airplane or car can minimize muscle movement, increasing the risk of blood clots forming in the veins.
 In pregnant women, the growing uterus slows the blood flow circling back to the heart. This can increase the risk of a blood clot forming, especially in the legs or pelvis. Women who have delivered babies very recently remain at an increased risk.
 You need sufficient water in your body to make blood circulation effective. If you become dehydrated, your blood flow may slow, giving your body the chance to form clots.
 Estrogen and progesterone can increase clotting factors, leading to an increased risk of clots. Hormonal contraception (like the birth control pill) and hormone therapy both introduce these hormones into the body.
 Intravenous catheters are foreign bodies. When one is inserted into a vein, it can affect your blood circulation, leading to a clot.
 Certain conditions can irritate the bladder lining, causing bleeding and the development of clots, which can be passed through the urine. These conditions include:


Cancer.
Liver disease.
Kidney disease.
 When the body is hurt, either by an accidental injury or by a surgical procedure, excessive bleeding (and clotting) can result. In addition, the extended period of rest that usually follows surgeries and injuries increases the risk of a clot forming.
 People who are significantly overweight or obese often have a buildup of cholesterol in the body. As a result, the arteries narrow, causing the formation of blood clots.
 Smoking causes plaque to form in the blood vessels, narrowing them and leading to clots.
 If you have a personal or family history of clotting disorders, you are at an increased risk of developing clots. Clotting disorders cause the blood vessels to narrow, leading to blood clots.

