 Dress in a way that you feel comfortable. If you normally wear conservative clothing and think a low-cut shirt will make him want you more(and vice versa), it will probably just make things more awkward because you'll be uncomfortable, which will cause you to act out of character.;
, One might like a lot of enhancing makeup, while another might enjoy you more natural. One might think that your crop top is cute, another might think it makes you look too over the top. A lot of people don't go on blind dates, so you should get a feel for what they like. It is okay to wear a V-Cut shirt if you think he might like it, but be careful to follow the step above as well.
 Make an effort to hold a conversation with him, or else he will feel like it's his responsibility. Don't force conversation, but don't let him keep it up alone. Dripping over his every word is fine, but don't be such a ditz that you can't pick up the topic yourself and move with it.
 Avoiding the gaze of your date may be cute or flirty in your eyes, but he may see it as discomfort on your part. Staring is a little creepy, but looking into his eyes often is a good thing.
 Guys love it when you pay attention to them. Talk about his classes, any sports he's involved in, his friends, and anything else you can think of.
 This isn't too hard. If you really like the guy, little things like smiles, glances, and touches will come naturally if you overcome shyness.
 Guys love confident girls, for a lot of reasons. One is because a girl who is always isn't confident, or just acts that way, gives a lot of mixed signals. A confident girl who speaks up gives guys a good idea about what she wants. Don't mix up confidence with heavy independence. While you should say what you want, be careful that you don't seem too independent. It might turn a guy off if you always want things your way, or if he thinks if you will never really need him.
 Don't be too demanding on your choice of food or items if the guys is buying for you.
 The first time you look at your reflection and say, "Ugh, my hair will not work today!", he'll see one of those people. The kind that always primp in the mirror, always need to lose just three more pounds, or are always shopping for a cute new top. It will make you seem shallow and not worth it.
 Perfectly romantic dates are rare. If you really want to date the guy, kissing will come soon enough.

