 Video Download Helper is an extension available on Chrome and Firefox (called an "add-on" in the latter) that makes it easy to download un-encrypted streaming videos from site you're visiting, including YouTube. This extension is available for Windows, Mac, and Linux., This extension allows you to quickly download most videos online, including any video from YouTube.

In Firefox, click the menu button (☰) in the upper right hand corner of your browser window and select "Add-ons" then click "Get Add-ons".
In Chrome, click the menu button (☰) in the upper right hand corner of your browser window and select "More Tools" then click "Extensions" and scroll down to "Get More Extensions"
Search for "video downloadhelper" and then click the "Install" button next to the Video DownloadHelper entry. The extension will automatically install.
Restart your browser after installing Video DownloadHelper.
A search engine query will also yield the extension's download page.
 Navigate to the video that you want to download. You will need to open the video's page in order to start the download., At the top-right corner of the browser window, you will see an animated DownloadHelper icon. Click this to display a list of quality and format options., The top option on the list is typically the MP4 format in the highest available quality. Select this option for playback on your computer and any device that supports HD video. If you want to use the video on an older mobile device, select a compatible format and resolution from the list., Once you select a format, the Save As window will appear, allowing you to choose a location and name the file., After saving the file, the download will begin. You can monitor the download in the browser's download manager., Find the downloaded file in the location you set and double-click it to start playing it. If you downloaded the file in MP4 format, it should work in most video players. If you are having trouble getting it to work, try using VLC Player or MPC-HC. Both of these media players are free, open-source, and can play multiple video file formats.