 Most herbs can grow just fine indoors, but it’s important to make sure that they get enough sun. If you want to use natural light, you need at least one large, south-facing window that lets in at least four to six hours of unobstructed light every day. For the best herbs, you’ll need to make sure that you rotate your indoor plants daily to ensure that one side doesn’t get all the sun while the other side withers., Great herbs require plenty of light, and modern technology allows for indoor plants to get plenty of sun-like light indoors. You’ll most likely want to use fluorescent light or LED light, but there are lots of options.


Standard fluorescent tubes (T12 or T8) are cheap and easy to find. They don’t emit heat, so you can place them close to your herbs (no closer than 12 inches). However, they tend to be dimmer at the ends, so the best indoor herbs are lit with multiple tubes. For the best herbs, purchase tubes that are color formatted especially for indoor gardens.
The high-efficiency T5 fluorescent tube is better for great herbs. They spread more light over a wider area than standard tubes. You can even buy fixtures with adjustable stands, which will allow you to move your light up as your herbs grow taller.
Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) are another option, though they do not spread light as far or as efficiently as standard and T5 fluorescents do.
LED (Light Emitting Diodes) are a rapidly changing new technology, and can be excellent for growing great herbs. “White” or “natural” LEDs are better for plant growth than red or blue LEDs. The downside of LEDs is that they are relatively expensive.
If you’re growing your herbs on a large scale, High-Intensity Discharge (HID) grow lights are best., You’ll need large clay or plastic pots (at least eight inches in diameter in order each plant to get as big as it can).You’ll also need a good growing medium; for the best herbs, don’t use potting soil.


Great herbs don’t need fertilizer. Fertilizer makes plants put all of their energy into growing faster and they lose much of their flavor—much like steroids do to humans., Fill it with soil or growing medium. Mix water into the soil with your hands until it feels moist throughout. It’s a good idea to place a plate or tray under your pots, in case of leakage. If you don’t want to use your own, you can find plates of this kind in the potting aisle of any gardening store., You’ll need to dig the hole deep enough that you can place the plant and all of its soil and roots into the hole without any roots being exposed to the air., Get the plant out of its container by turning the container over very carefully and tapping on the bottom. Pull very gently on the base of the plant’s stem until it comes out of the container. Place the plant in the hole you dug and brush dirt into any spaces left in the hole; you can add more dirt to the container if you need to. Immediately after transplanting, water your plant.Watering your plant a couple of hours before transplanting it will make your plant happy, and it will also make the soil easier to move into the new container.Never pull a plant out of its container by the stem. This stresses the plant out and also kills its root system.
 Your soil should never get dry all the way through, but it shouldn’t be constantly waterlogged, either. Mud in a pot is a bad sign., You can do this by keeping an oscillating fan in the room with your plants and turning it on, on low, for a few hours every day. Misting your plants regularly with a spray bottle will also help maintain a plant-friendly level of humidity in the air around your garden.