 Goodwill impairment is performed on a "reporting unit" basis. A reporting unit is a segment of the business that is autonomous enough to provide discrete financial information. For example, consider a firm called Vet Corporation that purchases veterinary practices in the hopes of increasing each practice's profits due to centralized management. Each practice the firm buys would be considered a reporting unit.


In this case, perhaps Vet Corporation has purchased 10 veterinary practices. Each practice would be a separate reporting unit. This means that each practice would have its own carrying value, and own unique value in the market place if Vet Corporation ever decided to sell it.
 Pretend that Vet Corporation recently purchased the veterinary practice of Dr. Brown. You must determine what this practice is now worth on the open market, so you can compare it to the carrying value to determine if impairment is necessary.


Calculating what a business should be worth on the open market is complex, and therefore you should enlist the assistance of a chartered accountant or financial analyst.
You can get a rough idea on your own by looking at the price that similar transactions have gone for in the market. You can also look at historical data to assume what average prices are. For example, if a similar vet practice recently sold for 10 times its annual profits, you can assume yours would sell for a similar price.
Assume, for example, that it was determined the market value of Dr. Brown's practice was worth $800,000.
 The carrying value of the unit in this case is the value of the company's assets (or the value they were purchased for), minus any debts. Assume the carrying value of Dr. Brown's practice is $900,000.


This means if you look on your balance sheet, you would see a carrying value of $900,000. This may mean assets of $1 million, minus debts of $100,000, for example.
If the market value is higher than the carrying value, you can conclude that no goodwill impairment is necessary. If the market value is lower than the carrying value, you must proceed to the next step of the impairment test - determining the cause of this difference.
In this example, the market value is lower than the carrying value by $100,000.
 Open whatever accounting software you are using to make the appropriate journal entries for the impairment. In this example, goodwill must be impaired by $100,000. To record the journal entry, Vet Corporation should debit Loss on Goodwill Impairment for $100,000, and credit Goodwill for $100,000.This transaction does two things. First, by crediting goodwill, the goodwill account is reduced by $100,000. This reflects the fact that the business is now worth $100,000 less than is recorded, so the goodwill asset account is reduced by this amount to account for the difference.
By debiting Loss on Goodwill Impairment, you are recording the fact that a loss of $100,000 has occurred, which will appear on the income statement as an expense. This is because accounting rules require that any loss of goodwill not only reduce the amount of goodwill on the balance sheet, but also be recorded as an expense on the income statement. This means your profits would be $100,000 less for the year.

