 Start practicing holding the door, not putting your elbows on the table, saying please and thank you.;
, Lili is Asian-American and absolutely gorgeous. If you are Asian, wonderful! Accentuate those beautiful features. If not, don't fear. Just remember the three Ss: Simple, Sensual, and Sensible. Remember, Lili is proud of her beautiful pale skin, so never fake-and-bake. That is SO not Lili. Emphasize one feature at a time, whether in fashion or cosmetics. Always look classy but with a hint of sensuality.
 But be cute about it. Like, for example, for school, color code all your binders, but use only cool colors, like Purple, Teal, Orange, Pink, etc. Also, if you are like Lili, you will be rather busy, so you should have a cute day planner.
 Appease your parents by participating in all sorts of extracurriculars, as well as keeping straight A's. The happier they are, the more freedom (and spoiling!) you get. You can do an instrument, but NOT in school, and if you take a language, Italian, French, or Spanish are the most acceptable. Lili would definitely take ASL (American Sign Language) though, because her parents want her to be humanitarian. Latin is also great because it is valued in high society. Always make your extracurriculars sound really cool, even if they aren't. Never join the math team or chess club though, and if you do a sport, make sure you look the cutest in your uniform. Tennis is one of the best, as is cheer and dance, but volleyball is one of the worst because of what it does to your thighs.
 Most people will be jealous if you have money and no worries in life. Get good grades, look nice, act nice, and always enjoy yourself when you're out. Never tell people about "bad things" in your life, this will make people think they are better than you if they have something you don't. If someone has something you don't have or is going somewhere nice, than don't act like it is a big deal, just stay cool, make it seem like it is something normal in your life.
 This applies to clothing, makeup, friends, and guys. Especially guys. If you want him, get him. Be hard to get but kind of shy and cute at the same time. Give your number out, don't get guys' numbers. Make him come to you.
 Work out with cool sports, yoga, pilates, Tae Bo, kickboxing, etc, (Bellydancing is really cool too!) and eat healthy foods only and drink only water, juice maybe once a day and possibly flavored water. Soda is for vulgar people. However, tea is always appropriate and delicious at teatime. Iced tea is good with dinner every few nights, but remember the sugar content. Be careful. But tea is a perfect treat. Try going 2 weeks eating healthy with no cheat days, and although it will seem SO hard during the time, look at yourself and weigh yourself at the end. Then think about if it was really that hard? No.
 watch Sex and the City, and dream of being like them and working in New York. Although Lili dreams of owning a nightclub, you can really dream of any non-traditional New York career.
 Don't tell anyone. Even though Lili didn't do this, it's a fab idea and it gives you a lot more control if you want to "tweak" the results a bit. Scare the queen bee out of her skin, smile sweetly, and always be the bigger person. She will have an off day, and you WILL be on, and you will come out on top.
 However, not much is needed. Look for ways to get money. Post adds on a neighborhood website offering babysitting and pet sitting. If you have a lawnmower, offer to mow peoples lawns or rake leaves. Do something to get money whether that is simply asking your granny or you having to work for it.
 With the money you have collected (anywhere from about $150-$1000) you need to go shopping. Go to outlet malls where clothing is a bit cheaper than at the retail stores. Tommy Hillfiger, Abercrombie and Fitch, Armani Exchange and even Dolce and Gobanna clothing can be purchased for a lower price. Also, check wholesale stores that sell gently used clothing for a much cheaper price then at the actually store.(check tips for a minor addition to this section)

, Be pleasant, somewhat coy and mature. Act as if you know what you're talking about and believe in yourself.
 Convince your mum to dress elegantly. Some good wardrobe basics would be a Louis Vuitton handbag, a Burberry scarf and a pair of pearls or diamonds. Also, convince your dad to dress well. Some good choices would be Lacoste/Tommy Hilfinger/Nautica polo's and 2 or 3 Pierre Cardin jackets. An Armani suit would also be good. If you can't afford all these, just convince them to look elegant.
 When friends come over, make your ordinary house look 'rich' by printing poster sized pictures of famous paintings, or you and your family dressed in beautiful clothes, or your parents' wedding and frame them. Then hang them up. On your desk keep all your things neat and tidy. Have a pink or white bedspread, and for your computer, put a cover, (pink or white), over it. The house should be tidy.
 It is a must. Use big words. Rich people are often well-educated and thus have good vocabularies. Learn a new word every day like "aberrant," "culpable," or "capricious." Having a vocabulary like this increases charm and wit, which can be considered a MUST in higher circles.
 Never get detention though. If you had one and then you switched schools (a good idea for a new start) just never admit you had one.
 Make sure though, that unlike Lauren, her intentions are all acceptable to you.

