 When you consistently do what you enjoy, you’ll be happier and come off as more confident. Even if you feel what you’re interested in isn’t popular, you’ll likely meet other people that share the same interests.


Build a team of friends that will boost your confidence.
Participate in your favorite activities and you’ll meet friends who like the same things.
Ask for phone numbers, email addresses, or social media accounts for fellow participants you click with to meet outside of your meeting.
Based on your unique interests, you may want to attend classes at a local library, join a herpetology club, or a writing group. There are so many different clubs available to meet new people.
 Even if it's just for a few minutes, chat with them and get to know more about them. People are genuinely welcoming to strangers. Ask how your waitresses day is going and show interest by waiting for a reply. Talk to fellow elevator passengers, even if it’s about the weather., Most people lack the confidence required to be themselves. Incorporate easy ways to show the world who you really are. Over time, it becomes easier.


Wear something silly and people will assume you’re naturally confident. Try intentionally geeky glasses or mismatch colorful patterns.
Be okay with having different viewpoints than other people. If you follow a certain religion or believe in a particular political candidate, you don’t need to keep this to yourself.
Aim to be true to yourself and your feelings. If someone hurts your feelings, let them know in a mature and rational conversation. Don’t get too emotional about it, but be confident enough to speak up.
 People who know what they’re talking about are more confident than people who don’t. Invest time in learning new things so you can speak about them with others and use these new skills in your everyday life.Take a low-cost class in a subject that interests you at your local community center, library, or college.
Enroll in an online class about something that interests you. Many websites offer MOOCs or Massive Open Online Courses from well-regarded universities for free.
Listen to podcasts on your smartphone. Some cover topics about history, technology, and even marketing.

