 Being in love is about connecting with another person emotionally, caring for their happiness as if it was your own. When you love someone their fate becomes intertwined with yours. You may feel sad when they cry, get angry when they are hurt, and celebrate with their successes.If you can't wait to share good news with them or hear about their day, love is likely growing.This does not, however, mean that love is completely selfless. You should feel the same connection coming back to you as well.;
, You do not have to like all of the same things in order to love someone. In many cases, having differences allows your love to grow, as you share and teach each other parts about yourself that the other person never knew. Disliking someone's taste in music, for example, does not mean that you cannot love them.


Judgement, anger, or disrespect for each other's interests, however, may prevent love from really growing.
 When you allow someone to be exactly as they are, without any belief that they aren’t good enough, without any belief that they would be “better” if they were different, you're in love. Loving someone is about accepting them as they are, loving them despite, or even because of, their faults. No one is perfect, but they don't have to be for you to love them.


You may even learn more about yourself with this person, as loving them helps reveal truths about you that you might not have noticed before.If your love is dependent upon the other person acting and speaking how you want, then your feelings are conditional. We often confuse this with love, but this is just positive thoughts about someone. This is loving what a person says or does, not loving them.
 This is not just a turn of phrase: being in love actually changes your brain chemistry to "reward" you when they are in your life. If you are constantly thinking about them, missing them when they are gone, and finding ways to stay in contact with each other, love is likely blooming.This should be different, however, from obsession, when you think of them so much you cannot function on a day-to-day basis.
This desire to be with someone sometimes manifests itself as a fear of losing them, which is a natural part of love., Love in the real world, contrary to movies and TV, is not eternal sunshine and rainbows. Even people deeply in love will fight and argue, from parents and children to happily married couples. However, loving someone is about appreciating them even when you disagree. Little arguments and fights don't push you apart, and you are able to work back to common ground through careful communication. Even when you're angry or upset with them, you still love them, and these fights can often make you closer.

Love doesn't go away in an instant after one bad day. It may fade eventually, but it takes a lot of time. Love is a feeling, not an action, so don't look at what you're doing as much as what your feeling or thinking about.
 Everyone has different needs and wants in a relationship, and that leads everyone to a different definition of love. What do you need in a friend or lover? What do you offer? Have you ever felt like you were in love, and what did it feel like?


Love changes and grows with age: 20-somethings who just moved in together may have a different definition than a couple celebrating their 50th anniversary. This doesn't mean, however, that both couples don't love each other.
If you feel like you are in love, and the feeling lasts several weeks or months, you are likely in love.
 Love at first sight, though romantic, is not a real phenomenon. Attraction happens quickly, as does infatuation, but love takes time to develop. Love is based on an understanding of the other person emotionally and socially, and such an understanding cannot be rushed.


There is no "right" amount of time to fall in love, but you do need to be with someone long enough to feel like you understand them., Love is not just about sexual attraction or romance. Most people will happily admit that they love their families and best friends. Love is based on a deep relationship, a connection that lets you know you can trust someone completely. You understand them and they understand you -- not perfectly, but enough that you feel invested in each other's lives and happiness.

