 Using any web browser you have on your computer (Google Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, etc.), visit the Google Docs website.;
, Click the “Go to Google Docs” button on the welcome page to go the Google Account login page. Enter your Google or Gmail account details on the username and password text fields, and click the “Sign In” button to proceed.


If you don’t have a Google account yet, simply click the “Create an account” link at the bottom center of the page and enter your full name, user name of choice, and password to get an account instantly.
 Click the menu button on the upper left-hand corner of the Google Docs page, and select “Sheets” from the drop-down list.
 If you would like to start a fresh spreadsheet, click the “+” icon on the lower right-hand corner of the Google Spreadsheets page to create a new document.


If you already have a file saved on your Google Docs account, simply click the name of the spreadsheet you want to use from the Google Spreadsheets page to open it.
 Click “Insert” from the toolbar on the upper left-hand corner of the window, and select “Charts” from the drop-down list. The “Chart Editor” window will appear.
 Click the “Start” tab from the Chart Editor window and type in the names of the spreadsheet cells that contains the data you want to put into the chart.


This is a mandatory step. You need to select cells that contain data before adding a chart. If you simply add a chart on an empty spreadsheet, the chart will only look like an empty box

, Next, click the “Charts” tab and pick the type of chart you’d like to use. You can choose from a wide variety of charts, such as line, pie, map, and bar charts, to name a few.
 Finally, click the “Customize” tab if you want to tailor a few options of the chart, such as the row numbers, sorting sequence of columns, and paging.
 Once you’re done setting up the chart, click the “Insert” button to add the chart to your spreadsheet.
 Once you’ve added a chart to your spreadsheet, click “Chart Title,” and enter the title you want to use. Once you’re done, press the “Enter” key on your keyboard to save the changes you’ve made for the chart’s label.

