 You may feel a small knot where the piercing hole should be. This is knot is composed of dead skin cells, which block the piercing hole as it tries to heal.


If the hole seems to have healed entirely, you may need to seek the help of a professional to have your ears pierced again. Keep in mind that every person’s healing time varies. You may be able to go several years without wearing earrings and still be able to reopen the hole at home, or your hole could close completely after many months., Spread a generous amount of petroleum jelly or an antibiotic ointment over the earlobe to lubricate the area and reduce friction.Using your fingers, carefully rub the lubricant onto your earlobes. The added heat from your hands will also help soften the skin.
 Using your fingers, gently pinch the sides of your earlobes and lightly pull in opposite directions. This will help the earring hole to open up slightly.This can help push some of the lubricant into the earring hole. Do not rub or pull on your lobes with too much force.
 Add a thin layer of petroleum jelly or antibiotic ointment to the disinfected earring posts. Try to avoid getting the lubricant on the front of the earring so you do not have any issues keeping a firm grasp on the earring.


Be sure that you are using earrings with thin posts. Thick earring posts may not be able to fit through a slightly closed ear piercing hole. Forcing a thick post into the earring hole may cause pain, scarring, or bleeding to occur.
 While looking in a mirror, slowly insert the earring through the front with one hand. Use your free hand to grip your earlobe. Lightly press your thumb against the back of the piercing hole, where the knot of dead skin cells is located.
 Gently move the earring around the opening of the earring hole. You may also need to wiggle the earring around for several minutes to find an appropriate angle that allows you to push through the earring hole.Keep your thumb placed at the back of your earlobe so you can feel the location of the tip of the earring post.


If you feel discomfort or pain, try numbing the earlobe with ice for a few minutes before trying again.If you continue to feel pain or discomfort during this process, you will need to seek the help of a professional.
 Once you've found the piercing hole and the proper angle, slowly twist the earring through the hole. Do not apply too much pressure.Since the piercing hole is partially open and the ear and earring post are well-lubricated, the post should feel as though it can easily slide through.


If you cannot twist the earring through, stop and slowly insert the earring from a different angle.
 After you have twisted the earring around the hole to reopen it, gently push the earring post all the way through. Secure the earring with the earring back.


Do not jam or force the earring in. This can lead to scarring or infections.
 After you have inserted the earring, be sure to wash your earlobe with warm water and antibacterial soap to prevent irritation or infection. It is important to keep your hands away from the earlobe as the lobe heals to avoid introducing bacteria into the opening. Avoid using hair products and powdered make-up for several days to ensure that the area remains clean., Reopening an earring hole without proper care and sterilization can lead to blood loss, infections, and nerve damage. If you experience pain or are unsuccessful trying to reopen the piercing, do not continue.Talk to your doctor or a professional at piercing parlor or jewelry store about safely reopening your earring hole in a licensed and sterile environment.

