 If your leather product has a label, read it carefully before following any cleaning routine. In the case of clothing, the label will tell you whether or not the item is machine washable. For furniture, the label may direct you to a customer service contact for more information. You may have also received paper instructions after purchase.If you don’t have a label to consult, but you know the manufacturer’s name, then you can visit their website. If they have a website, they will likely list a customer helpline or support center.
 Get a dry microfiber cloth and go over the surface of the leather. This will help you to remove any dust and surface debris. In the case of furniture, run a vacuum brush attachment over the surface. Doing this step before every cleaning will prevent you from working dirt deeper into the leather, which could give it a gritty appearance., Before you apply any cleaning solution, find a spot that is small and out-of-the-way and use it to test the cleaner. Place a small amount of the solution on the area and wait a few minutes. Wipe it off and then look for any discoloration or wrinkling.If you notice damage to the leather, then you may need to talk with a cleaning professional, such as dry cleaner for clothes, before proceeding., Excessive moisture on leather can cause it to wrinkle and fade. When you apply a cleaning solution or balm to any leather product, make sure to wipe away any excess immediately. Always use a damp towel or cloth, not a soaked one, as this will allow you to control the moisture applied to the leather., Look over the surface of the leather and see if you can discern any pattern. If the grain of the leather heads in one direction, apply any balm in line with this pattern. This will let the moisture of the cleaner go into the grooves of the leather to remove any dirt or debris found in those pockets., As the finishing touch, get a dry sponge or microfiber cloth and go over the leather a final time. Look to see if there are any stains that need additional treatment. Removing any cleaning residue will help to prevent dust from sticking to the surface.