 If you do not already have it, you can get the app for mutiple desktop platforms at https://slack.com/downloads.


You can also go to https://slack.com and sign into chat using a web browser.
 Enter your team domain and press “Continue”. Then, enter your email and password and press “Sign in”.


The team domain is setup by the team administrator and is formatted like: .slack.com.
 This is your team name displayed in the upper left. The menu will display a list of account a team options.
 This will take you to the “Settings and Permissions” page.


This option will only appear if you are a team admin.
You can also access this page by going to https://.slack.com/admin/settings in your web browser.
 This is located near the top of the page and will display a list of editable app and user permissions.


The Member role will have access to most team settings by default. Most of these settings are for removing access to these features.
 Click “Messaging” to expand. Dropdown menus will appear allowing you to choose which member roles can use the “@everyone” and “@channel” messaging commands as well as who can post in the #general channel.
 Click “Invitations” to expand. Deselect the checkbox to restrict those with the ‘Member’ role from inviting new members to the team.


Admin and Owner will retain access.
Guests never have invite access.
 Click “Channel Management” to expand. Dropdown menus will appear allowing you to choose which member roles can create and archive public and private channels as well as who has permissions to remove other members from channels.
 Click “Message Editing & Deletion” to expand. A dropdown menu will appear allowing you to restrict message deletion to only Admin and Owner roles.
 Click “Stats” to expand. A dropdown menu will appear allowing you to restrict access to the https://.slack.com/admin/stats page to only team Admin and Owner roles.
 Click “Custom Emoji & Loading Messages” to expand. Dropdown menus will appear allowing you to restrict the upload of custom emoji and loading messages to only Admin and Owner roles.


This setting only changes upload permissions. Once uploaded any user can utilize the custom emoji or loading message.
 Click “Slackbot Responses” to expand. A dropdown message will appear allowing you to restrict access for adding custom Slackbot responses to team Admin and Owner roles.


Custom Slackbot responses can be very useful for answering common/frequent questions (For example, storing login information for a team account)
You can also deselect “Enable Slackbot” to disable the slackbot for your team complete.
The default set of Slackbot responses will not be removed unless Slackbot is disabled.

