 While we may take the time to check our dog's body for changes while we brush or groom it, its important to look in its eyes for changes as well. Pay attention to any redness or puffiness and keep an eye on these changes to make sure they go away quickly.


Just like humans, dogs can have allergic reactions to things in the environment. Just because a dog's eyes are red doesn't mean it has an eye infection. It could just be a little irritation.;
, Inflammation of the eye and a discharge from the eye are typical symptoms of an eye infection. However the latter can be misleading because conditions such as glaucoma (increased pressure within the eye) and allergies can also cause the cornea to change from white to red. Look for the general indicators of a problem, remembering that these symptoms could also signal a different problem:


Excessive blinking: The dog is blinking a lot to try and rid its eye of an unpleasant sensation, such as dryness or itching.Closing the eye: Again, the dog is closing its eye to get relief from an uncomfortable sensation on its eye.Rubbing the eye: Rubbing of the eye also signals an uncomfortable feeling on the eye that the dog is trying to get rid of. Discourage your dog from doing this, as it could lead to actual damage to the eye.
Red eye: The blood vessels in the eye are inflamed, which gives the eye an overall pink or "red eye" look. Red eye is also a sign of glaucoma, so you should seek veterinary care if red eye persists, as untreated glaucoma can cause blindness.Ocular discharge: Discharge associated with an eye infection will usually have a yellow-green tinge to it. Discharge caused by allergies or a simple irritation, on the other hand, is more likely to be clear.Sneezing or coughing: Sneezing or coughing, combined with other symptoms of an eye infection, could signal that your dog has an upper respiratory infection that is involving the eyes. Eye infections often happen without an additional infection but a yellow-green discharge from the eyes of a sneezing dog could indicate a larger infection. , Eye infections can be caused by bacteria or viruses that are stronger than the natural immune defenses in the eye. If your dog is already unwell, and thus its immune system is compromised, viruses or bacteria will have an easier time taking hold in the eye. Thus, any eye infection symptoms observed in an already sick dog should be taken very seriously.


If your dog's immune system is weakened, the dog has allergies, or there has been trauma to the eye (such as a scratch or hair rubbing on the cornea) then infection can take hold more easily., The symptoms for an irritated eye versus a seriously infected eye are not that different. This makes knowing when to take your dog to the vet difficult. However, the important thing is to recognize something is wrong and seek a professional opinion, even if the outcome is that the dog's eyes are just lightly irritated.


Most vets consider eye problems to be serious because of the potential for deteriorating vision and blindness. In other words, if your dog is having problems with its eyes you should remember that this is definitely a case of better safe than sorry. Take it in to see its vet as soon as possible.
 The vet will examine the dog generally to check its general health, listen to its chest for signs of respiratory infection, and check the size of its lymph nodes for signs of general health. The vet will then examine the dog's eyes, comparing one with the other.


The term "conjunctivitis" is not interchangeable with "eye infection". There is a slight technical difference between the two because conjunctivitis refers to inflammation of the eye, and this inflammation isn't always caused by infection.Often times conjunctivitis affects both eyes, but one will be worse than the other. The veterinarian will then use an ophthalmoscope, an instrument that combines a light-source and magnification, in order to examine the surface and deeper structures of the eye.
The vet is checking for anything that has rubbed on the surface of the eye and caused irritation (such as stray hairs or eyelashes). He or she is also checking for inflammatory conditions affecting the inside of the eye, such as uveitis, which can be due to trauma, infection, or immune-mediated.
 For example, the vet may put a special dye, fluorescein, into the eye so that he or she can see signs of trauma or corneal ulceration. Additionally, the vet may use a tonometer to check the pressure within the globe. This rules out glaucoma.These tests will probably cost you more money, especially if you don't have pet insurance. Remember, however, that finding a serious problem early will likely cost you less money in the long run than treating a serious problem that is more advanced.
 If the eye is red, has a discharge, but all the other tests are normal or negative, then the vet will make a presumptive diagnosis of an eye infection. The vet will then start treatment as appropriate, which is usually an antibiotic eye ointment, gel, or drop that is applied to the eye once to four times daily depending on the formulation.


Treatment is usually given for a minimum of 5 - 7 days. You should apply the medicine for the full amount of days, even if the signs resolve quickly, in order to prevent antibiotic resistance from occurring.