 Select ripe, unblemished and unbruised fruit. Wash the fruit under cool running water, and gently scrub them with a vegetable brush if necessary.


Fruits such as apples, pears and stone fruits should be peeled, sliced and cored or deseeded.
Remove the stems and leaves from the fruits if necessary.;
, Keep the jars and lids hot until they are ready to be filled.


Jars and lids can be kept hot by placing them upside down in a pot of hot water or by washing them in a dishwasher and keeping them in the dishwasher until needed.

For a light syrup, ideal for very sweet fruits, add 1 1/2 cups (360 mL) of sugar to 5 3/4 cups (1.4 L) of water.
For a medium syrup, ideal for sweet apples, cherries and berries, add
2 1/4 cups (532 mL) of sugar to 5 1/4 cups (1.2 L) of water.
For a heavy syrup, good for tart fruits, add 3 1/4 cups (769 mL) of sugar to 5 cups (1.2 L) of water.
 Cover the fruit with the sugar syrup allowing 1 inch (2.5 cm) of air space at the top of the jars. Stir jars to allow air bubbles to escape.


If you wish to use the hot pack method, instead of canning raw fruit, add fruit to the sugar syrup, return to a boil, cook the fruit for 2 to 3 minutes and fill the jars immediately.
If canning low-acid fruits with a pH level higher than 4.6, such as Asian pears, add 1 tbs (14.8 mL) of bottled lemon juice. , Place the sealed jars on the rack in the pressure canner filled with 3 quarts (2.8 L) of hot water. The jars must not sit directly on the bottom of the canner, and should not touch each other to allow steam to flow freely around them.
 Allow steam to vent from the canner for 10 minutes before adding canner weights or closing vents. After 10 minutes close vents or put on weights (depending on the type of pressure canner you are using) and allow the pressure to build.
 Check the gauge frequently to ensure the pressure remains constant.
 Carefully remove lid and allow steam to escape.
 Keep 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of space between jars to allow air to circulate.


Listen for a small “ping” sound indicating that the seal of the jar lids has been sucked down and the jars are properly sealed. This could take around 12 hours.
