 The National Education Association developed the LEAST system to give teachers a strategy for handling conflict in the classroom. Start with the first step and, if necessary, move to the next step. Progress through the steps to deal with classroom conflict.L: Leave it alone. If the disturbance in the classroom is minor and will likely not recur, ignore it.

E: End the action indirectly. When a student disrupts the classroom, let him or her know that you see their actions. Give a nonverbal sign, such as raising your eyebrows, waving your hand or walking toward him or her.

A: Attend more fully. Ask the student to tell you about the issue. Ask what’s happening and who is involved.

S: Spell out directions. Remind the student of the rules and consequences. Plan to follow through with consequences after you have warned the student.

T: Treat student progress. Make notes about the discipline issue. Write down what happened, who was involved, when it happened, and what your response was.
 Keeping a level head is the best thing you can do in a conflict situation. Do not show negative or angry emotions to students. Instead, stay calm and collected. Talk in a normal voice.


It may help to take a couple of deep breaths to calm yourself down., Take the student out of the classroom to talk about the conflict. This will take the student out of the immediate physical situation. It will also remove him from his peers, who may be contributing to the discipline problem.Don’t involve other students in the conflict.
 Remain neutral with students. If a student is trying to make you argue with him, don’t rise to the bait. Instead, maintain a firm yet calm stance.If the student continues to try arguing with you, say, “We will discuss this after class.” This closes down the conflict momentarily., If an argument arises in class, talk about it during the next class session. Ask your students how they would have dealt with the argument. Have them think about how they can understand perspectives that they don’t agree with.This can work especially well when you are talking about sensitive issues in your class. If the discussion gets heated, ask students to take a moment to reflect on the issue in silence. Then ask them to reflect on why the discussion has gotten so heated.

