 That is, you are trying to sell a story, so you want to create a vivid image of it for the the producers or executives. Treat your pitch like a story your telling a group of friends.


Speak with the correct inflections. Don't downplay a dramatic part of your pitch by mumbling through it. When you're practicing giving your pitch, add inflections where necessary to emphasize the story. Get louder and faster as the story gets more exciting and softer, though still clear-spoken when the story enters a tender moment.Don't be afraid to use hand gestures. They can add emphasis to your story and help get your point across. Just be sure they are appropriate. For instance, for a quiet, important part of the pitch, you may want to keep your body still.Practice for people you know. Ask them for advice on how to make your story telling better.;
, Guide your listeners through your story by offering up signals of where you've been and where you're going, using phrases such as "Halfway through the story..." or "near the end." These clue the executives in to where you are in your plot., Your language is creating the story for the executives, so use precise, specific language.For instance, instead of saying "The opening scene is in an Asian country.," say something such as "The scene opens in Tokyo on a steamy morning, as the streets are just beginning to fill with people walking and riding their bikes to work."

, For instance, the movie executive may ask you about who you think should be cast in your movie. Try not to step on any toes. That is, you can name a few people who would be good in the main character's role, but you should mention that you are open to other ideas, since the executive will have a better idea of who's available and who's trending., Movie executives are busy people, so they may need to take a call or text during the pitch. Let them take the time they need, and don't get flustered. Just resume where you left off., If you get lost, you definitely want a backup. However, executives will be more impressed if you can give a pitch without referring to your notes.