 This is likely to be the doctor's first suggestion if your pain isn't too severe.Possible medications include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) or naproxen (Aleve).
Though non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can be very helpful, they may not be right for you if you have high blood pressure, asthma, heart or kidney problems. Talk to your doctor about these medications before you start because they can interfere with other medications, including herbal remedies or dietary supplements. NSAIDS are especially known to cause gastric ulcers. Consult your doctor if over-the-counter medications do not help within 7 days.
 Depending upon your symptoms and medical history, your doctor may suggest:Nerve pain medications. These medications are increasing in their popularity because the side effects are often less severe than those produced by narcotics. Common ones include gabapentin (Neurotin, Gralise, Horizant), pregabalin (Lyrica), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and tramadol (Ultram).
Narcotics. These medications are likely to be prescribed when over-the-counter medications weren’t strong enough and nerve pain medications weren’t helpful. They may cause side effects including sedation, nausea, confusion, and constipation. These medications often have codeine or a mixture of oxycodone and acetaminophen (Percocet, Oxycontin).
Muscle relaxants. Some people get painful muscle spasms and these medications can help this. A common one is diazepam. Some muscle relaxants may cause sedation and dizziness, so they are best used at night, just before bed. Read the packaging to determine whether you should avoid driving or operating machinery while taking them.
 Cortisone can suppress inflammation and swelling. If need be, your doctor may offer to give you an injection directly into the area that is causing the pain.Your doctor may also use oral steroids when trying to decrease swelling.Corticosteroids are often used to delay or possibly eliminate the need for surgery.The hope is that once the inflammation goes down, the body will naturally heal over the long-term.
When given at high doses over the long-term, cortisone can cause weight gain, depression, diabetes, high blood pressure, osteoporosis, increased bruising, acne, and a vulnerability to infections., Your doctor may recommend surgery if other options are not improving your symptoms, your nerves are badly compressed. There a few different types of surgery your doctor may suggest:Open discectomy. During this procedure the surgeon makes a cut into your spine and takes out the damaged part of the disk. If the damage is extensive, the surgeon may remove the whole disk. If the whole disk is removed, it may be necessary to fix the vertebrae around the missing disk to give you stability. This is called fusion.
Prosthetic intervertebral disk replacement. During this procedure, after the surgeon removes the damaged disk, it is replaced with a prosthetic disk.
Endoscopic laser discectomy. During this procedure the surgeon will make a small cut into your spine, then insert a thin tube that has a light and a camera on it (an endoscope). The damaged disc will then be removed using a laser.
 Surgery helps most people who get it, but it may take you several weeks to recover. You may be able to go back to work after two weeks to a month and a half after the surgery.If you notice signs of any complications arising from the surgery, contact your doctor immediately. Though rare, possible complications include infections, damage to the nerves, paralysis, hemorrhaging, or temporarily losing sensitivity to touch.
Spinal surgery works for a while. But if the patient fuses two vertebrae, the load is often transferred to the next adjacent vertebrae, which may require additional surgery. An important question to ask the doctor is if you may require additional surgeries in the future.

