 Ask yourself this question. It is a question you should pose to yourself as often as you can. To many people, it seems simple until they have to really answer it. Fear pushes a lot of of people in a corner. There seems to be more bravery in dreaming about doing things they most desire than actually being practical about life. Is this the case for you?


Write down what is holding you back.
Go over the list. Are those fears real, imposed from elsewhere or not even of substance?
Who or what is holding you back? What would happen if you challenged that person or set of circumstances?;
, From early childhood, being known as rebellious is considered sinful, failing to fit in, a troublemaker. Why is this? There is a very simple reason––people who are already set in their ways do not like change. And any person who is thought of as rebellious is usually a source of change. Perhaps switch out the term "rebel" for "change maker" or "change bringer". Is that more palatable in revising people's comments when you want to make changes in your life?


Why don't you live to your full capacity?
What are you most afraid of? Other people's expectations, loss of income or status, loss of routine, loss of freedom? What things have led you to believe that any of these things are real possibilities?
See the word "rebel" as a way to express freedom. A lot of people understand the dictionary meaning of freedom but fail to take in the depth of living life as fearlessly as they can; the reality is that most people meet their grave having had only half lived their lives.
 Fantasy is what people want but reality is what we need. It is easier to pretend we're going to have a great life than to actually implement it. Most dreams, ideas and plans die out because we let them die. We need to learn to act on whatever dreams, plans or ideas we have, we need to learn that fantasy is just that fantasy! Reality is essential.
 It's terrifying acting on your dreams. However, no one ever promised us any easy life. Your harvest is yours, so making its possible is in your hands––no one else's. Go ahead and make those plans; you will start to find that your life is going to fit around the plans.

