 In a large bowl, mix together the maida, baking powder, salt, and baking soda until evenly combined.


Use clean hands or a wooden mixing spoon for best results.
 Gradually add the yogurt or curd into the flour mixture, using 1/4 cup (60 ml) at a time. Mix after each addition.
 After adding all the yogurt, knead the dough inside the bowl until it becomes soft, smooth, and a little sticky.


If the dough feels too dry or crumbly, you could add another 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of yogurt. Do not add any water, though.
 Tightly wrap the dough in several layers of plastic wrap. Chill it in the refrigerator for 6 to 8 hours before continuing.


Alternatively, you could simple cover the top of the bowl with plastic wrap or a loose plate. The covering or wrapping is simply used to prevent the dough from drying out.
 Remove the dough from the refrigerator and punch it down. Knead it a few times, then break it apart into 8 or 9 equal pieces. Roll each piece into a ball.


Note that the balls should roughly be the size of a lime or lemon.
 Roll the dough balls in additional flour. Use a rolling pin to flatten each one into a circle.
 Pour the frying oil into a skillet with tall sides and a heavy bottom. Allow it to heat on your stove, on high, until the temperature reaches 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).


Check the temperature using a candy or oil thermometer.
If you do not have a cooking thermometer, you could verify that the oil is hot enough by dropping in a small speck of dough. It should immediately sizzle and float to the top. Within moments, the dough should deepen to a light golden color.
 Drop the bhatura into the hot oil one at a time. When the dough puffs up and the bottom deepens in color, flip it over and fry the other side. When done, there should be golden-brown specks on both sides.


The temperature of the oil will usually drop once you add the bhatura and rise when you take the finished bread out. For best results, keep a close eye on the temperature of the oil throughout the process and manipulate the controls as needed to maintain an even temperature.
 Remove each finished bhatura with a slotted spoon. Place them on a plate lined with several layers of clean paper towels and let the excess oil drain off. Serve the bread while it is still hot and fresh.


For an even more authentic experience, serve the bhatura with chole masala.

