 Pranks, tricks, and practical jokes can help you pull the wool over your friends' eyes (with hilarious results). Below are a few ideas for pranks that will totally freak your friends out:


If you have a substitute teacher, switch names with one of your friends for the day/period. Even if they don't consent, say "NO. I AM JOHN DOE! HE'S AL ALLEN!"
Pretend you are a lost foreigner. For example, learn a few Japanese phrases and then speak only in Japanese, acting as if you don't understand English. You can also try with other exotic languages, like Swahili.
When you’re in a lift, stare into your bag and randomly say, "Are you all right? Got enough air in there? Yes you can eat the clothes..." For added effect, make weird replies in strange voices, ventriloquist-style.
Put your friends in awkward situations. Make your friends feel like they've accidentally said something that has hurt your feelings, but make sure the connection you make is a ridiculous one. For instance, if your friend says, "Hey, do you want to go biking after school over at the bridge?", get a sad look in your eye and say, "Last time I went biking at the bridge... I never saw my pet guppy again."
Tell everyone you changed your name. The name can be serious or funny, but be drop-dead serious when you try to convince people that that's actually your name. If they don't buy it, pester them until they do. Once the person/people finally agree to call you by that name, switch it back again.
Celebrate random holidays, like “Talk Like a Pirate Day” and "Hedgehog Awareness Week”. Make tee-shirts and show your spirit! Shout greetings to people at random.
 Pretending to be someone (or something) you're not can have a truly freaky effect if you pick your roles right. This is a great chance to exercise your acting ability - the crazier you can act without breaking into giggles, the better! Keep in mind that impersonating police or government officials is a crime!


Run into a store and ask what year it is when they tell you run out yelling, "It worked, it worked!" (Best if you wear old fashioned clothing)






Act like a character from a TV show that you like. This is best if your chosen character has a distinctive costume and voice. For example, you might try wearing a skirt and suit jacket and talking in an angry tone as if everyone is House and you are Dr. Cuddy.
Pretend to have a phony affliction. For instance, pretend to be a blind person in public, then get into a car and drive off, or have a friend push you around in a wheelchair, then stand up to shake his hand.
Pretend to be on the run from the law. Get a friend to wear a dark suit. In public, run around as if you are trying to get away or hide from someone. After people see you, make sure your friend comes into the scene right away, following your path. Allow your friend to chase you.
Pretend to be any fantasy character. Dress and act like a witch, robot, zombie, vampire, Werewolf, ghost, warlock, etc. For instance, if you choose to be a vampire, then wear a cape and hold your hand in front of your face as you hiss, “AHH! Sunlight! I'm burning!"
Pretend to be a psychic. Have strange premonitions in public. For instance, if you're at a fast food restaurant, look up at the menu for a while, squinting and rubbing your temples. Lean over to the person next to you in line and say, "Don't try the fries" or something like that, then mysteriously leave so that the person can't ask why.
Pretend to be part of a tragic romance. If there's a bench nearby, pretend to be dying on it as if it's a deathbed. Have a friend with you - the two of you should dress up like a prince and princess or another star-crossed couple. Hold your partner's hand and say things like "I'll always love you." You might even try bizarre ideas like, "Tell my mum I love... waffles."

