 Certain older models of computers, printers, copy machines, and other types of office equipment can use up to between 50 and 90 percent more energy than energy-efficient models. Look for office equipment with energy saving features, usually bearing the “Energy Star” logo. This certifies that the equipment is made to reduce energy usage.Energy Star certification can be found on computers, printers, copiers, refrigerators, televisions, windows, thermostats, and ceiling fans, as well as other appliances and equipment.;
, It’s important that everyone also power down electronics when they are not in use. Contrary to popular belief, shutting off your computer at the end of the day will not shorten its lifespan and can save a lot of energy.It can also help to use a power strip for each group of electronics in the office. You can then use the strip’s on/off button to turn off the power to all the appliances at once when they are not in use.
Remind everyone in the office to unplug "vampire electronics" once they are fully charged, like your cellphone or your laptop computer. Once your cellphone is fully charged, unplug the charger from the electrical outlet, as it will still draw in energy if it is left plugged in.
You can also encourage everyone in the office to make sure their computers have the power down option set as well as the hibernation option set. Screen savers do not save energy. In fact, they are considered energy wasters. Your computer must provide twice as much energy to light up your computer screen when the screensaver option is turned on as it normally does when your computer is running.
 If your office is considering a computer upgrade, suggest switching to laptops instead of desktops. Laptops use much less energy than desktop computers., You can also suggest that your office switch to green power for all electricity in the office. Green Power is a program offered by some energy providers that can reduce your office’s carbon footprint.GreenPower providers are part of a government-accredited program to offer clean, renewable electricity in offices in an attempt to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Your supervisor can contact your office’s energy company and ask them if they offer GreenPower for the office to reduce the office’s energy consumption on a day to day basis.

