 In many cases, cafeteria lunches might not always be the healthiest, or the most lean. In order to make sure your cafeteria food isn't inhibiting your weight loss, bring your own lunch.


Pack a simple, brown-bag lunch.
Get a nice lunchbox and thermos to keep food hot.
Mix it up with a bento box.
If you have to use the cafeteria, go for the salad instead of the pizza. If you don't have this option, try to limit your portion sizes.
 Fruit helps to satisfy your sweet tooth, thanks to its natural sugars. Fresh vegetables help you fill up more quickly. Fruits and vegetables contain fiber to help you feel full longer.Try some of these tips to introduce more fruit and vegetables into your diet:


Eat what's in season, and eat fruit and vegetables for snacks, or for dessert. When you eat apples in the fall, for instance, or cherries in late summer, it might as well be an indulgent dessert. Cut up celery, carrots, peppers, broccoli or cauliflower and dip them in a light salad dressing or hummus.
Eat vegetables as a main dish. For example, make a stir-fry or a hearty salad and add just a few ounces of cooked chicken, salmon, or almonds.
Snack on fruit or vegetables between meals in order to control your hunger.
 Whole wheat bread, oatmeal, whole wheat pasta, sweet potato, and brown rice are all excellent sources of energy and nutrition. Combined with the right proteins and vegetables, whole grains are perfect all-around nutrition.Simple carbohydrates include white bread, processed flour, and white sugar. This gives you energy quickly, but then comes with a crash. It gets transferred into fat very quickly.
Substitute whole wheat flour or oat flour in baked goods. You might need to add additional leavening ingredients. Put barley in your soup instead of rice, or try a pilaf with barley, wild rice, or brown rice.
Avoid processed foods, like white bread, semolina pasta or crackers, or processed sweets like candy bars, sugary beverages, and dessert snacks., Such fats as those from nuts and olives can help you to feel full longer. These unsaturated fats have many health benefits and, in moderation, can help you to lose weight. Look for these on labels: "unsaturated fats," "monounsaturated fats," or "polyunsaturated fats." These are the good fats.


Avoid saturated fats, as they can increase your desire to eat more and cause negative effects on your body, especially your cholesterol and your heart.Many junk food items are high in these saturated fats, and they contribute to a vicious cycle of poor eating habits.
Watch out for vegetable dips and salad dressings (especially creamy, mayonnaise-based dips such as ranch), as these can be very high in fat.
Avoid fast food and drinks with a lot of cream, which tend to both be very high in unhealthy fats.
 Protein is important for organ function, as well as building muscle if you plan on working out. There are a variety of sources for protein, but the drawback is that protein can sometimes contain a lot of unhealthy fats.


Select lean cuts of beef, or extra-lean ground beef, when you're eating red meat.
If you like chicken, remove the skin.Skip the fatty deli meats, like bologna and salami. Choose lean turkey or roast beef as a replacement.
Vegetarians can get plenty of protein from soy, nuts, beans and seeds. Lentils, legumes, and beans are excellent sources of fiber and protein as well.
Eat low-fat dairy for a source of protein, including low-fat cheeses and milk and nonfat yogurt. , Eating more sodium causes your body to retain water, which can cause you to feel bloated and gain more weight. The good news is that you'll sweat that weight out very quickly, so an easy way of cutting some pounds is to eat less sodium in your diet.


Instead of salt, try spicing your meals with chili flakes, fresh salsa, or cajun spices and seasonings.
Some people claim that unsalted foods will taste much saltier eventually, if you cut salt out for a while and let your taste-buds re-acclimate.
Watch out for foods containing a lot of cheese, as they can be very salty.
 Going out to eat makes it too easy to cheat. Food sold at restaurants is commonly much higher in fat, sodium, and other weight-loss killers. The portions are also often much larger than what you might usually eat at home. Instead of heading out, try to make your own meals.


Eat dinner with your parents. Some research shows that children who do not eat dinner with their parents at least twice a week were 40% more likely to be overweight.Don't eat while you do other things. Watching television or movies, reading, playing video games, or studying while you eat often causes people to eat much more food than they normally would. So, don't buy that salty, buttery popcorn if you go out to see a movie; you might eat too much.
 By eating small portions throughout the day at regular intervals, you can keep hunger at bay. Between your meals, eat a 150-calorie snack to stave off hunger and keep you from overeating later. Be sure that you don't eat a fattening snack such as sweets or chips. When you're hungry, your body conserves calories and slows down your metabolic processes.Research suggests that increasing meal frequency might not help increase your metabolism., Lots of people think skipping a meal will help to lose weight; however, when you skip meals, your body stops breaking down fat and starts breaking down muscle tissue. So, you should be wary of diets that involve meal-skipping.Muscle tissue burns more calories at rest than other tissues, so you're actually working against your goals.
 This is the most important meal of the day. Breakfast is not only important to help give you the energy to take on the morning, it can also be a vital part of weight-loss.


Breakfasts that are high in protein were not only observed to increase satiety in the morning, they also helped people to feel more full in the evening. Try to eat at least 35 grams of protein with breakfast, in order to help you feel more full throughout the day.Eat healthy cereal for breakfast. One recent study revealed that people who eat cereal for breakfast each day have a much easier time losing weight than people who eat other types of breakfast. Start your day right with a high-fiber, nutrient rich natural cereal, or oatmeal.Switch to skim milk. Each lower-fat step you take down, you're losing 20% of the calories. Switching to a low-fat version of milk is an excellent way to cut down on the calories you're taking in, without having to sacrifice nutritional benefits.

