 Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a large sauté pan or pot. Allow the oil to heat over medium-high heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.Choose a pan or pot that holds at least 5 quarts (4.7 l).;
, Add ½ pound (227 g) of lean ground beef to the pan. Crumble the meat with a wooden spoon, and let it cook for about 6 minutes, or until it browns and is no longer pink.You can substitute ground turkey or chicken for the beef if you prefer.
If you like, you can also add ½ pound (227 g) of Italian sausage with the casings removed in with the ground beef.
 Add 4 minced garlic cloves, 1 tablespoon (5 g) of dried oregano, and ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of crushed red pepper flakes into the pan. Stir well to incorporate the spices, and allow the mixture to cook for 1 minute.You can adjust the amount of red pepper flakes based on your preference. If you like a spicy spaghetti sauce, mix in a little more. If you prefer a milder taste, you can add just a pinch or omit it entirely.
 Add 1 ¼ cup (296 ml) of dry red wine to the pan. Mix well, and use the wooden spoon to scrape any browned bits of meat from the bottom of the pan.If you don’t like to cook with wine or don’t have any on hand, you can substitute a mixture of ¼ cup (59 ml) of red wine vinegar, ½ cup (118 ml) apple juice, and ½ cup (118 ml) water for the wine.
 Stir in a 28-ounce (794 g) can of crushed tomatoes, 2 tablespoons (28 g) of tomato paste, and kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Mix well so all of the ingredients are fully combined., Allow the tomato, paste, and sauce mixture to come to a boil. When it begins to boil, reduce the heat to low and let it simmer for approximately 10 minutes.For the best results, cover the pan while you’re simmering the sauce.
 Add ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground nutmeg, ¼ cup (5 g) of chopped fresh basil leaves, and ¼ cup (59 ml) heavy cream. Use a whisk to mix the ingredients into the sauce so they’re fully incorporated and simmer the sauce for another 5 to 10 minutes, or until it thickens.Stir the sauce occasionally while you simmer it.
 Remove the sauce from the heat when it's done simmering. Add the cooked pasta of your choice directly to the pan, and toss the two together until the pasta is fully coated. Place the pasta in bowls and serve while it’s still warm.A pound (454 g) of cooked pasta is usually the appropriate amount to add to the sauce.
Top the pasta and sauce with grated Parmesan cheese and chopped basil if desired.

