 After the long school year, your room will probably look like a school classroom. Pens in your wardrobe, an eraser fallen under your bed and all your school books thrown around the room. It's a good opportunity to throw all the things you don't need! Make it fun though, we don't want to get you dead bored!;
, Call them and go out to get some fresh air! You can make long walks under the warm sun, and have bike races at the afternoon. Enjoy the nature and your freedom, as well as the fact that you are spending time with your friends out of the classroom!

, Gather all your close friends and head to the beach! Stay there all day long and do anything you want! Pull harmless pranks on each other, enjoy the sun, play in the water and take many photos to remember those wonderful moments!

, If you have your parents' permission, start your own blog! Write there daily about subjects that interest or affect you and meet new people over the world!

, I know, summer is for having fun, not for working, but you can't imagine how great a summer job is! You can earn qualifications for when you search for a real job, and of course, you can earn your own money. Get a friend and find a work together!

, Find a big, steady tree and make the ultimate tree house! Use it as a place to relax with your friends. Take anything that you need in there: Video games, magazines, pillows, a bean couch! The possibilities are endless!

, Helping the animals gives you great satisfaction! Feed the stray dogs and cats, make a bath for the birds. Find other ways to help!

, Call some people to stay in your house at night. Read scary stories and play games together. Dance and sing 'till you drop!

, Buy a tent and put it in your backyard or even garden. Gather everything you will need, such as food, drinks, and sleeping bags. Take your best friend and stay in there for the rest of the night, pretending there is no house near your tent at all!

, Find a genre you like and buy one or two books. Reading brings you to a new, magic world! Plus, it makes you smarter.
 Roll a watermelon down the street. Run along the beach shouting that there is a lion in the water. Do anything that comes to your mind!

, It's the most important thing in the summer! Find the key to happiness!

