 Adopting a dog is a serious responsibility. If you’ve never owned a dog before, you might not have much of an idea of what you’re in for. Foster owners are looking to place their dogs with someone who has a history of caring for dogs. This communicates to the foster owner that you know, in part, what you’re in for.While it’s not a guarantee that you will be able to adopt a fostered dog, prior dog ownership enhances your credibility as a bona fide dog owner and animal lover.
If you haven’t owned a dog before, you might want to buy a dog first, then adopt a fostered dog after you have some firsthand experience training, housebreaking, and living with a dog.
 If you live in a housing situation in which dogs are not allowed, you will not be allowed to adopt a dog. This ensures that dogs are not improperly adopted and set out on the street when, for instance, an individual’s landlord finds out that they have a dog. Other situations in which adopting a fostered dog is inadvisable include:having a family member with a dog fur allergy
having family members who do not want dogs in the house
being too busy to care for the dog

, If you want to meet your potential fostered dog before filling out any paperwork, you can do so at an adoption event. Adoption events are small festivals where adoptable pets – including dogs – get to meet potential owners. Fostered pets are often available through local adoption event.For instance, PetSmart offers four National Adoption Weekend events in the US and Canada. The events are in February, May, September, and November.You can find an adoption event near you using the Petfinder Event Calendar, available online at https://www.petfinder.com/calendar.
Once you decide you want to adopt a fostered dog you located at an adoption event, you’ll need to fill out the necessary paperwork. There will be an interim period while your paperwork is being processed before the dog is actually placed with you.
 If you want to adopt a fostered dog, you’ll need to complete an extensive questionnaire. This paperwork helps the humane society, animal shelter, or similar agency determine whether you’re qualified to adopt a fostered dog. Questions you might see on the adoption paperwork include:Why do you want to adopt a dog?
Are you looking for a puppy or an older dog?
Do you plan on moving soon?

, When you adopt a fostered dog, you’ll have to meet them and their foster family. This will give the foster family a chance to learn more about your character and temperament in order to determine if you’re a good fit for their fostered dog. It will also give you a chance to see if the fostered dog’s temperament and personality are a good match for you.Ask the foster family questions about the fostered dog’s habits and behavior when meeting them. For instance, you might ask if the dog is housetrained, if it chews furniture and books, and if it knows any tricks.
Schedule a meeting with the foster family and fostered dog you’re interested in as soon as possible. Otherwise, other families might adopt the fostered dog before you.
You might be able to reach the foster family by email or phone.
 When you show up to your meet-and-greet, bring a dog collar and leash with you. Since you’ve already been approved by the adoption agency, you should be able to head home to your fostered dog that very day.You’ll have to fill out some paperwork before taking your dog home if you attended an adoption event. You likely won’t be able to take the dog home until your paperwork is processed, even if you’re ahead of anyone else on the adoption list.
 Once you’ve decided to take the dog home, you’ll have a fill out a few more documents. These are much briefer and more limited in scope than the application you initially completed in order to adopt the dog. The documents basically constitute a contract that makes you legally responsible for the health of the fostered dog from that point on.Along with the final adoption paperwork, you’ll need to pay an adoption fee.The adoption fee for a particular organization will vary. Ask a knowledgeable representative of the organization what the adoption fee for your dog will be.

