 Research products similar to the one you're planning to launch, especially those already well-known by consumers. Check out trade journals, competitor websites and brochures, and any other source of information on the products that you can find. Use this information to orient your launch towards the ways in which your product is different and better than the competition. , A SWOT analysis of your product can help you take a closer look at your product and compare your product to a similar product made by your competition. SWOT stands for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. You can perform a SWOT on your own or in a group setting as well. A SWOT can help you to:


figure out how best to market your product before its launch
identify problems that you may need to address
find ways to make the launch more successful
address any problems before the launch, You can do this by deciding what demographic will be most willing to purchase your product. Try to pinpoint the age, gender, and socio-economic background of your target customer.This customer is the type of person that you should focus on when preparing to launch a new product.


Try giving him or her a name to personalize the process, and attempt to put yourself in his or her shoes. For example, you might identify your target customer as a 24 year old male from an upper-middle class family and call him Ayden.
Try to determine the needs, behaviors, and even mindset of your target customer. For example, perhaps Ayden needs headphones that will block outside noise so that he can listen to music as he rides the subway to work each day.
 With your target customer in mind, create packaging that is bold, the right color scheme, pleasing to the eye, and even memorable. Packaging is the first step to getting your new product noticed.


Consider including cusp shapes in your packaging. Cusp shapes are pointy and sharp, so they make some people feel like they are in danger. Including these shapes on your packaging are an easy way to get customers to take a second look.Stick to something simple. Busy designs may overwhelm customers, so having a simple looking package may also be a good way to go., Choose a phrase or motto that is catchy, captures the essence of your product, and will speak to your target customer. The slogan should consist of simple language and could rhyme or contain words beginning with the same letter to make it catchier.


Popular slogans include McDonald's "I'm lovin' it," Nike's "Just do it," and Walmart's "Save Money. Live Better."
One study found that the three main factors in creating a great slogan are clarity, creativity, and familiarity.Try to keep these in mind as you create your slogan.
Consider hiring a writer or communications specialist to come up with this slogan. It may save you time to employ someone with a remarkable command of language.
 One great way to get some good publicity going and to find out what people like most about your product is to allow people to test it out. You can use their feedback to help you market the product, such as by gaining customer testimonials.Consider the best way to allow people to test your product. For example, you might be able to show people the high quality of your headphones by setting up a kiosk in a mall and inviting passersby to try them out.
 This document should recount the product’s specific details and features. It should explain the specifics of a product to consumers while still making it attractive and exciting. In other words, a good product sheet balances important technical information that is legally necessary with marketing allure.


Product sheets should Include information regarding general usage, product components or ingredients, and any relevant safety warnings.For example, the product sheet might explain how to get the best quality sound out of the headphones and warn about the dangers associated with listening to music too loudly.
Within reason, they can also be seen as extensions of a marketing campaign, and use words and images that will entice customers.For example, a headphone product sheet might use words like “crisp,” “powerful,” and “thumping” to describe the sound quality in a way that customers may find enticing.
 Ensure that this website provides customer testimonials, appealing images of your new product, as well as detailed information for consumers. Include product comparisons, ordering information, and promotional offers to further entice buyers.


Make sure that your website guides visitors to do what you want them to do. For example, do you want them to order your product? Do you want them to download your app? Make sure that there are multiple ways for your website visitors to do what you want them to do.Consider hiring a skilled website designer. A website designer can make sure that your website is easy to navigate and professional looking.
 Multichannel marketing is often successful, so place ads in many types of media simultaneously to announce the pending launch of your product and reach the maximum number of target customers.Website ads are increasingly important. But also buy ad space in local newspapers or trade publications to expand awareness and build hype. Consider radio ads and, if your budget permits, television spots.


The more forms of advertising you can obtain the better.
Consider hiring a public relations or advertising firm to coordinate these advertising efforts for you.
 Consider doing so weeks before the actual launch. Cultural influencers can include community leaders, bloggers, local celebrities, and sports figures. Give free samples and encourage these people to use your product. Then arrange for them to be interviewed about your product, or to write review articles or posts.Anything positive that these people say (or write) can be used to hype up your product launch.
To contact someone influential who you would like to try out your product, try sending an email to the person. In the email, make sure that you introduce yourself, explain your product, and ask if the person would be willing to test it out and tell you what he or she thinks.
 A rolling launch should begin six to eight weeks before the final product unveiling. Make sure there are plenty of strategic “leaks” regarding your product as the unveiling date draws closer. You can’t control when journalists or bloggers will cover your product, so give them plenty of time."Leaked” photos or mysterious tweets regarding your product create an atmosphere of intrigue that builds interest.
Planting “news” stories about consumers are enthusiastically responding to free samples or trials can create momentum.
 Invite reporters, bloggers, consumers, celebrities, and members of industries related to your product. Give out free samples and try to make the event memorable with respect to catering, lighting, and even musical performances. Doing these things will give people more reasons to attend the event and may also generate more interest in your new product., Given the number of products on the market these days it can be hard to generate a buzz, and you may have to move beyond trade shows and convention halls to get attention.Instead of a convention center or showroom environment (and depending on the nature of your product), consider a less traditional location such as:


a bar or restaurant at the top of a skyscraper
an avant-garde art gallery
an infamous historical site
a local street festival or fair
online during a "cyber launch"
during a flash mob