 After you learn that your loved one committed suicide you may withdraw from friends and family members. Others may cause a stronger emotional reaction of guilt or blame. Remember that these people may be just as upset by the death as you. Rather than isolating yourself spend more time with those who also loved this person. Doing so may offer you comfort., Dwelling on the hows and whys of the suicide (while understandable) won't lead to peace.


Recounting your fond memories may bring you back to a time when this person was happy. You may choose to remember her that way.
 As soon as you feel able, try to return to your usual routine. Doing this will be very hard at first. Even getting dressed or cleaning your home might be painstaking activities. No, things will never be "normal" again, but establishing your routine again may help you gain a sense of purpose and structure., Taking care of yourself is probably the last thing on your mind. However, eating a few balanced meals each day will give you the strength to persevere through this ordeal. Exercising - even if it is only walking your dog around the block - can help reduce the sadness or anxiety you feel and improve your mood.As you develop your routine, include meal-planning and exercise into your schedule so that you can properly nourish your body during this stressful time.
 All the upsetting thoughts and feelings associated with your loved one's suicide can cause you to feel sad, anxious, or even depressed. Doing activities that help you relax may ease these feelings and reinvigorate you.Self-soothing activities can include anything you find calming, such as wrapping up in a warm blanket, drinking hot tea, taking a hot bath, lighting aromatherapy candles, playing soothing music, sitting in front of the fire, or reading a good book.
If you are an adolescent who finds it hard to express yourself and release stress in other ways, you might benefit from drawing out your feelings in an expressive coloring book or free-handed., Attending social events can be a form of distraction from your grieving, and to remind you that, no matter how rough things are right now, life will get better.Distracting yourself from your emotions for a short time is not diminishing the seriousness of what you're going through. Instead, going out with friends, watching a funny movie, or dancing to favorite songs you shared with the deceased can be a great way to restore your ability to handle the grief.
You might find yourself bowling over with laughter and then drowning in tears. That's okay, too.
 Suicide survivors frequently gain better understanding of what the deceased was going through by seeing a grief counselor. A counselor can explain confusing mental health issues that your loved one may have been battling. He or she can also help you process what you're feeling and develop healthy coping skills. This is especially helpful, if you witnessed the suicide, since such a traumatic ordeal can manifest into post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD.Ask your primary care doctor for a referral or search for a professional specializing in grief after suicide.

