 Locate the Bitcasa app on your iOS device. It’s the icon with a green background and a house on a cloud drawing. Tap on it to launch it.


If you don’t have the Bitcasa app yet, you can download it from your App Store. Launch the App Store, search for Bitcasa using the search bar, and once the results appear, tap on the app. Tap “Install” to download the app to your device.;
, Tap the “Log In” button found at the bottom of the screen. You will be brought to the login screen. Enter your Bitcasa email address and password then tap the “Log In” button.
 The menu “Keep Your Camera Backed Up” will appear. Here you can enable the camera backup function so all the photos and videos on your iOS device will be backed up and stored in the cloud.


Toggle or enable the first option for Automatic Camera Backup.
This method is only applicable when you first log into Bitcasa. If you’re already logged in or have already previously logged in on the same iOS device, proceed to Method 2 or 3 instead.
 After enabling Automatic Camera Backup, you will be asked if you’d like to upload your existing camera roll. Tap the “Yes” button if you’d like Bitcasa to upload all your existing photos and videos on your iOS device. Otherwise, tap the “No” button.


If you chose “Yes,” all your existing photos and videos will start uploading to the cloud.
 The second option is for enabling the use of cellular data. If you’d like Bitcasa to continuously connect to the cloud and upload all new photos and videos right away, enable this option.


Do note that enabling this option will eat up your data plan and will probably cost you money. If you leave this off, Automatic Camera Backup is still enabled, but it will only be done when you are connected via Wi-Fi.
Disabling this option is cheaper, though you will have to hold on to your new photos and videos while you’re not connected online yet.
 Once done, tap the “Go Home” link found at the bottom-left side of the window. You will be brought to Bitcasa’s main screen, which gives you easy access to major categories of your files.

