 American Shorthaired cats have a dense, short coats. This means that you should brush her vigorously once a week. This will keep her fur nice and smooth and also cut down on shedding.


You can buy a cat brush at your local pet store. , As you are brushing your cat, check over her skin for lumps, bumps, sores, scratches, bruises, or skin irritations. If you notice anything, keep a check on them for a few days. If they don't go away or you notice them getting bigger, more irritated, or getting infected, take her to the vet.


You should also be on the look out for fleas and ticks. If you notice any of these, buy topical medication or flea and tick shampoo.
 You should keep a check on your American Shorthair's claws. Buy cat claw clippers at the pet store or use clean human nail clippers. Look at the claws and clip off the white areas of the nail. These are the extra portions of her nails. Do not cut off the pink portions of the nails.


This is where the blood supply as well as the nerves are in the nails. Cutting these areas will cause pain and possible infections.Settle your cat onto a flat surface or in your lap. Place your non-dominant lower arm on the cat to hold her down. Use this arm to hold her down gently so she cannot squirm or scratch your arm. Grab the first paw with the arm holding her down, then gently press on the pad of the paw to make the nails visible and spread apart. Trim each nail this way, then move on to the next., To help avoid gum disease or other mouth issues, you need to brush your cat's teeth every day. Buy cat friendly toothpaste at you local pet store or ask your veterinarian for some. You should also buy a soft bristled cat toothbrush.


You have to get her used to you being near her mouth before she will let you brush her teeth. Let her lick off the toothpaste first, getting used to the taste. The next day, gently rub the paste into her gums. The next day, start with the toothbrush. This may take a few tries for you to do successfully, since she isn't used to it, but she will eventually let you brush her teeth.
Do not use human toothpaste on cats because fluoride is toxic to them., American Shorthair cats are social, friendly cats. This means they love to play with you and your children. Set aside time every day to play with your cat. Buy toys specifically for interactive play, such as mice you can throw, feather toys you can dangle, or other small cat toys she can chew.


Also look into getting her a scratching post, scratching toys, or a cat tower. This will help exercise her claws and wear them down, which can help you clip her claws less.
Don't give her toys that have ingestible rubber parts or string elements. These parts can be eaten and cause problems in her stomach.