 In the US you must be a citizen between 18 and 35 years of age with a high school diploma or the equivalent in order to work as a firefighter for federal, state, and local agencies or bureaus.Each country has its own unique set of qualifications. Be sure to check the specifications in your jurisdiction, if you live outside of the United States.
For example, in Canada, you must be 18 years or older, speak English, and complete three training courses.;
, It's an enormous help if you're familiar with basic survival skills like assembling a tent, reading a topographic map, using a compass, and tying knots. Much of your time on duty will be spent living outdoors, so having wilderness survival knowledge will give you a leg up.


Break in your boots. You will be supplied with most items needed (hard hat, leather gloves, fire resistant clothing, backpack, tent, etc.), but you need to purchase your own boots. The US Fish & Wildlife Service recommends you break these in before turning up for duty to avoid blisters, sores, infection, and other concerns.
Practice hiking with a pack. Increase the distance hiked and weight carried gradually, until you can hike with 45 pounds for several miles.Complete a fire training course from a local community college, university, or vocational institute. This will give you the basic information you need to get started on the job., If you have no prior experience in wildland firefighting, there are basic classes you may be able to complete locally. This can increase your chances of being hired. The first step would be to complete courses in fire science and emergency medical training. Beyond this, specific educational requirements vary at the federal, state, and local level, so contact the organization you plan to apply with to find out more.


Earning an associate’s, bachelor’s, or graduate degree in fire science or other related subjects will set you apart from other applicants, but this is not typically required for entry level wildland firefighting positions.
Check the courses offered in fire science at your local community college or university to make sure there is at least one course in wildland firefighting.
Contact the school to find out if hands on training is part of the fire science curriculum., Many organizations that hire wildland firefighters require previous experience. Volunteering with your local fire department will give you an opportunity to work in the field, receive training, and develop the physical stamina necessary to be an effective wildland firefighter., This gives you an opportunity to find out more about the job from someone with firsthand experience. They can also give you tips for the application, physical test, and how to be successful on the job.
 Make sure your will, power of attorney, life insurance policies, etc. are all in order prior to taking a position as a firefighter. Wildland firefighting is an extremely hazardous profession. Before you leave for a season, make sure all of your affairs are in order. While training and safety precautions reduce the risk of death for wildland firefighters, it remains a possibility.While wildland firefighter safety continues to improve, the job is still very hazardous. In 2013, an entire crew of 19 was lost when their emergency shelters were unsuccessful in protecting them.In recent years, annual deaths have decreased dramatically. Apart from 2013, less than 20 fatalities have occurred annually since 2010. , Every wildland firefighter is required to meet certain physical standards when starting the job. Your physical aptitude for wildland firefighting will be tested through the work capacity test (WCT). Every U.S. agency or bureau requires you to complete this test before becoming a wildland firefighter.


The WCT is administered as part of the application process for many agencies. If you don't meet the requirements for the test initially, you have two weeks in which to take it again. If unsuccessful the second time, you will likely not be accepted for the position.
The WCT is often referred to as the pack test because it requires applicants to hike several miles with a 45 pound pack.
The WCT is administered when you return to duty each season to ensure you’ve maintained physical aptitude., If you're not in shape already, start your training a soon as possible. Running and hiking holding heavy weights while going up and downhill are excellent forms of exercise to prepare for the WCT. For most agencies, the fire season starts in May, so you will want to give yourself a few months of proper training before this beginning in February at the latest. If the WCT is part of the application process, you’ll need to begin your training program earlier in the year.


Contact the agency you’re applying with and local fire science programs to find out if there are group training programs for the WCT in your area.
Get a personal trainer through a local gym. They are great resources to help you safely and successfully reach your training goals.
Give yourself rest time throughout training. Do not run or hike every day. Instead, start with two or three days of activity each week, and gradually increase to five.
Set yourself apart from other applicants by completing practice WCTs before applying., The United States Forest Service recommends you consult your physician before training to become a wildland firefighter. Substantially increasing your level of activity can be dangerous. If your lifestyle has been mostly inactive, you have a history of a heart condition or chest pain, or you have joint or bone problems that could worsen with a change in physical activity, visiting a physician is essential., There are a variety of websites where you can look for current wildland firefighting job opportunities. Each site will also provide information about the application process, who to contact for assistance, job descriptions, and what training or experience is required prior to application. Carefully review this information before applying for a position.


If you’re interested in applying with US state agencies, there are currently 11 regional organizations that hire wildland firefighters. A full list of these Geographical Area Coordination Centers, with links to their websites can be found at https://www.nifc.gov/aboutNIFC/about_faq.html.
One place to find federal jobs is through the US Fish & Wildlife Service at http://jobs.fws.gov. Click the “current job listings” tab, and search for “fire.”
The US Department of the Interior has a full page devoted to application information specifically for wildland firefighters. This information is processed through the Fire Integrated Recruitment Employment Systems or FIRES. The FIRES recruitment system, application information, and links to current openings can be found in the US at http://www.firejobs.doi.gov

You can check with US National Park Service’s Fire and Aviation department at http://www.nps.gov/fire. Click on the "Jobs" link. From there, you can search for jobs under "Job Search.” This has customized searches for National Park Service fire-related jobs.
You can also search for wildland firefighter job openings, internships, apprenticeships, and more through the United States Department of Agriculture at http://www.fs.usda.gov/detail/r5/fire-aviation/management/?cid=stelprdb5341420.
 This is typically a digital process though a few local agencies may still have paper forms. Be aware that filling out applications online can be a little tricky due to the way they are worded and set up. If you’re experiencing difficulties filling out the application, ask for help immediately from the human resource department or other contact at the agency you’re applying with.


Set aside adequate time to complete the application. The application usually takes about an hour, though it varies between agencies.
If there’s not a checklist available from the agency you apply with, make your own application checklist to keep track of necessary steps.
Before applying for a job, make sure you meet all of the minimum education and experience qualifications., Wildland firefighters take two tests as part of the application process. This allows agencies to quickly cut down a pool of applicants, so you must pass this hurdle in order to be hired as a wildland firefighter. The first exam will be a written test with questions on wildland firefighting basics. The second exam is the Candidate Physical Ability test, which evaluates each applicant’s endurance, strength, and physical fitness.The written test typically covers things like protective equipment, response procedures, and mechanical reasoning. These topics will all be covered in any basic introduction course to fire science.
If you aren’t able to complete a course in fire science prior to taking the test, there are a number of online resources you can consult free of charge. Search online for “wildland firefighter written exam prep.”
There are often study materials available through the agency you apply with.Passing the Work Capacity Test (WCT) or "pack test" is essential. This test consists of a three mile walk carrying a 45 pound pack. You must be able to complete the WCT in 45 minutes or less without jogging or running.
Every wildland firefighter completes the WCT before returning to work each season., Most organizations require wildland firefighters to become certified or complete a training course. The most common requirement is completion of fire academy training, which may be required prior to application in some cases. Others require specific degrees, course work, or certifications. Make sure you know what these are, and if at all possible, complete them in advance to set yourself apart from other applicants.


Check the website for the federal, state, or local agency you’re applying to. Most sites will have a checklist or outline of the requirements for wildland firefighters. If you’re unsure, contact the organization prior to applying to verify you meet all their prerequisites.As an example, in Colorado, one of the most popular areas for wildland firefighting, firefighters must earn the Interagency Incident Qualification Card sometimes referred to simply as the “Red Card.” This is completed through the National Wildfire Coordinating Group.If you’re interested in a specialty subfield, you will need to complete additional training. For example, aviation firefighters complete training through the US Bureau of Land Management to learn how to safely parachute into fire areas.
If you hope to advance within the field, you may need to earn a bachelor’s or graduate degree in fire science, rangeland ecology, or other topics.