 Even if you are now the proud owner of a major league baseball team, you still want to look your best at the big party.


Visit the dermatologist. After the 10 year reunion you probably want to look like the youngest classmate in the room. Whether a simple face peel or a little Botox will do the job, schedule this appointment weeks or possibly months in advance so any “work” that needs to be done can heal and let the final result shine.
Make a hair, teeth and skin appointment. Have your look updated so you can be the belle of the ball. Women should have their makeup evaluated by a professional and men should consider whether hitting the reunion with the Tom Selleck mustache is really a good idea. Also, hair styles are very important to looking your best. Have your do updated and professionally colored if necessary. However, distinguished grey may help you punctuate that you are the picture of success. Don't neglect the dentist. A fresh, white smile will remove years from your face and give you the polished look you need.
Get in shape. You don’t have to be completely muscle bound or flash your six pack like “The Situation” but you will want to look like you’ve taken care of your body over the years. This endeavor, like the visit to the dermatologist, should begin months in advance, especially if you need to drastically lose weight. Going on a crash diet may not get you the results you desire so plan ahead by implementing a sensible food and exercise regime.
Find the right outfit. You want to be noticed but not called out as a fashion victim so finding the right outfit for the big night is key. Consider consulting with an in-store fashion expert to assist you with finding the exact wardrobe to help you accomplish your task or bring along your spouse or partner for assistance.;
, In the movies characters end up hiring that super attractive escort to be their date (if they are dateless), however escorts that look like William Baldwin or Julia Roberts are not for hire by the dozens. Instead take more of a strategic approach to find the right person to have on your arm when you make that big entrance.


Your spouse. If you plan to invite your spouse make sure he/she is looking as awesome as you. Without being a jerk give your spouse a secret evaluation and either show up with a new outfit as a special gift or ask your spouse to be “supportive” in your efforts to eat right and exercise by joining you.
Your partner or significant other. Maybe your new boyfriend or girlfriend could be the ideal date. Especially if this is a new love, having him/her by your side may not only be a great way to get noticed but provide you with that extra confidence to show everyone what a stud you really are.
A friend or work colleague (especially if it is a noteworthy or famous person). If you aren’t partnered up with someone, consider bringing the hottest friend or work colleague you know. You could earn extra points if you can find someone who has prominence in the community or society.
Who needs a date? Maybe you are a confident, single successful guy or gal, which means you can hit the reunion and get noticed all on your own. Be sure you are ready to face the room alone as you don’t want to show up alone, only to look like a sad sack instead.
 Without looking like a braggart, draw attention to any talents or skills that will make others stand up and take notice.


Kick out the karaoke jam. If the opportunity arises and you truly have a good voice, grab the mike and belt out your version of Dionne Warwick’s, “I Say a Little Prayer.”
Dance like there’s no tomorrow. Have you and your honey been taking ballroom dancing courses and could possibly land a spot on Dancing with the Stars at this point? Break out your best moves and you’ll have the group circled around you in no time.
Musical talent. Join the band and rock out on rhythm guitar or bust out in a piano solo if you’ve honed your musical skills.
Give sound/good advice. Maybe you are a fashion consultant to major designers or just invented a cool new app; without sounding judgmental or being a thumping bore, provide insight into your industry when asked. Don’t offer up unsolicited advice but be ready to answer questions if the moment presents itself.
 People are most attracted to those who are interested in them. Show your interest in how other people at the reunion are doing, which will make them notice how awesome you are in return.


Ask questions. People love to talk about themselves so give them the platform to expound upon what they’ve been doing since high school. Make sure your questions are sincere so they understand you truly would love to know how well they’ve been doing since graduation and that you wish them only the best.
Find common ground. If you are talking to someone who owns a ranch, tell him/her about your love for horses (if that’s the case). Ask specific insider type questions that will let your former classmate know you have knowledge and an interest in that area too.
Don’t linger too long. Remember, a reunion is a big cocktail party and everyone wants to get a chance to converse with a variety of people. After a 10 to 15 minute conversation, let your classmate know you were happy to have seen him/her and you are going to talk to another friend. Only hanging around for a few minutes also will allow you to make a good but strong impression and perhaps leaving your former classmate wanting for more.

