 Talk to and buy from a jewelry store that has a good reputation and staff that makes you feel comfortable and informed. Ask to talk to the head jeweler at a store or an expert on platinum to get all the answers you need about quality.


Research or ask to see the credentials of a jeweler. Look at how long they’ve been in business and check independent reviews of them online to see what their reputation is like.
Make sure anyone in the store can answer your questions about a ring thoroughly and confidently, or can direct you to someone else on the premises who can.You should not buy precious metal jewelry like platinum rings from an online store, where you cannot look at and ask questions about the piece before buying.
 Go into a jewelry store with specific questions in mind to help you further determine the quality and authenticity of a platinum ring. Make sure you know all the possible details you can before purchasing.


Ask about how the metal will wear and look over time. Shiny new platinum naturally dulls slightly with age, but many actually enjoy the way this makes precious gems set in the metal appear sparklier by contrast.Find out if the jeweler can resize or repair the ring in the case of scratching or other damage. Some may even offer free or discounted repairs or retreatment, or a money-back guarantee if you are not satisfied with the ring.
Ensure that a store is not overcharging for a ring with a lower platinum content. For instance, an 850 or less platinum alloyed with iridium should not cost the same as a 950 platinum ring, or be marketed as pure platinum when it is not.
 Make specific ring choices if you have an ethical concern about the impact of platinum on the environment. Note that platinum mines create a huge volume of waste to produce just an ounce of pure platinum.


Consider a used or vintage platinum ring for an option that doesn’t require or support additional platinum mining. Consult an antique jewelry expert to get an appraisal on vintage metal quality.
Choose a jeweler that has options for rings made with recycled platinum alloys, which can be just as durable and luminous as the new metal. You may also have your own platinum jewelry melted down by specialty jewelers to create a new ring.
Buy from jewelers that advertise low impact mining methods and fair trade labor practices for new platinum rings that contribute to slightly less negative impact. Do your own research into policies and partnerships to verify their claims.