 This recipe is easy to make and only takes about 35 minutes to prepare and cook. It is a low-carb dish that will serve approximately 4 people. The ingredients you will need are:

1 squeezed lemon
4 heads of fennel
3 tablespoons olive oil
6 oz. (150 g) sugar snap peas
2 tablespoons roasted sunflower or pumpkin seeds
Sea salt (to taste)
Black or white pepper, freshly ground (to taste);
, Then trim the green shoots off the tops of the fennel, so that only the bulbs remain. Discard the shoots and trimmings.
 Put them in a baking dish. You can use a pastry brush to apply olive oil onto the wedges or you can simply drizzle the 3 tablespoons of olive oil over them.


Sprinkle the sea salt and freshly ground pepper over the oiled fennel wedges.
 You can save the juice and use it for something else or toss it – you won’t need it for this recipe. After you’ve squeezed the juice from both halves, cut the lemon into small, thin wedges.

Place the lemon wedges around the fennel in the baking dish. These should be discarded afterward — they are for flavoring the fennel, not for eating.
 Roast the dish for approximately 20-30 minutes. Keep an eye on its progress – it’s ready to be taken out when the fennel has lightly browned and become tender., Use a dry frying pan to roast the pumpkin seeds over medium heat for several minutes. You want them to be roasted a nice brown color, but not burned.

To prep the raw sugar snap peas, first trim off both ends.
Then thinly slice the peas on the diagonal. You can also roughly chop the peas, as long as you end up with thin slivers.
 Once your fennel bulbs are roasted a nice brown color, carefully take the baking dish out of the oven. Place the roasted wedges on a large serving plate. Mix the sugar snaps and pumpkin seeds up with the roasted fennel on the plate. Serve immediately.You can sprinkle a little more sea salt and freshly ground pepper over the completed dish before serving, if you like.
This works well as a side dish to chicken or seafood.

