 You might have to explain to them how you see things, and why you have a certain feeling or opinion, so they can understand.  So, take some time to reflect on why you think or feel a certain way. Or why that person might like to do a certain thing, or be interested in a certain topic.
 If you don't feel comfortable sharing your disability, you can still explain that you have trouble with a specific thing. Most non-autistic people are familiar with the idea of social challenges or awkwardness and view it as a normal and reasonable thing to accommodate.


"I have a hard time reading people. If I'm doing anything that upsets or bothers you, please tell me, so that I can stop."
"I have a bit of trouble understanding sarcasm and jokes. If I look confused or am asking you odd questions, that's why."

, For example, if your boyfriend doesn't like it when you show him a newt, a lizard, and a praying mantis you caught, it may mean that he doesn't like to look at creepy crawlies at all. Consider the idea of a pattern, and feel free to ask if you are unsure.
 If someone is uncomfortable with something, or if you are uncomfortable with something, there needs to be a clear understanding. If someone expresses a boundary, listen closely and ask for clarification as needed. If you are uncomfortable with something, say so, so that the other person knows to respect that.


"So it bothers you to be hugged from behind? Okay, I won't do that anymore."
"I want to make sure we're clear: do you always dislike it when I put my arm around you, or is it only in certain situations?"
"Please don't jump out and try to startle me like that. It really upsets me."
"I really dislike being kissed on the cheek or forehead. Maybe you could hug me instead, or kiss the top of my head?"

, It can be difficult to keep track of different people's different perspectives. You can improve your memory by summarizing the conversation in your head, after it happens.


For example, tell yourself "Diamond said she was looking forward to visiting Europe with her mom. Germany is her favorite country, because she speaks the language, and she wants to see France too."

