 First and foremost the actor/actress needs to have confidence that you understanding the script, and therefore your direction won't be vague or confusing. They want to know that the director will push them to give a good performance as this will help them grow and learn. Actors need to be treated kind and respectfully as human beings.;
, They have a sense of proportion around the project and are sensitive, honest, have a sense of humor and are good at listening to others. #*Skills- He can play against the obvious reading of the line. Create clear images .
Are they able to give flexibility and expressiveness in voice and movement?
Motivation/commitment: They are committed to the project so they have emotional and physical stamina, trust your decisions.
 Casting is the most crucial decision you will make.

The actors ability.
Appearance/quality. Appearance is secondary to whether he/she has what it takes to play the role. Does he/she feel a connection with the characters journey?
Do you work well together? Do they trust your decisions and do you share a mutual respect for one another.
Casting relationships. This means that you build up an ensemble of actors which work well together and you get along with; this way you find the right roles for the actors rather than vice versa.
 Focus on winning and being the best.
, Understanding the importance of being on time is key. Your time is nothing to mess around with and this needs to be made clear up front.
 There will be a chaotic atmosphere if the actors and directors are not on the same page.
 If you have a different idea of a scene than your actors, then it might come out negatively, to say the least.
 No one wants to see an actor that has to stop every few minutes to say, "Wait..what's my line?"

, Great actors do that all by themselves but if your actors are not in that category then you will have to tell them to form their roles and characters that they will be playing on a foundation of truth. Rather than doing just an impression of the character.
 This technique should be used during rehearsals.


Paraphrase dialogue. This makes actors think about what they are saying rather than doing a line reading.
Backstory. Use improv for actors to events that happen before the film takes place. This is an alternative to method acting.
Facts. Based upon the bare bones of the scene, use improv to explore
Warm up. improvise what happens before the scene or do a silent improv (just actions) to get actors warmed up for the scene.
Parallels. If an actor is struggling to show the right emotions it may be because they cannot relate to the events for example if it is in space, so improvise a less dramatic event.

