 Buy a head or body harness for your dog that will allow you to direct the motion of their body. This will give you more control over the walking process. The harness should fit snugly, but not tight enough to chaff the skin and cause irritation. Attach a thick, sturdy leash directly onto the harness and you are good to go.


Practice making smooth, even motions with your leash. A harness is not any less reactive than a collar. You do not need to jerk or pull for your dog to feel it. Walk your dog around your home testing out the feel of the gear.
A chest-led harness is often preferred by owners looking for a bit more control. The leash attaches to the chest of harness (via a ring loop). If your dog pulls, the leash will tighten pulling his body to the side instead of letting him lunge forward.;
, This is especially critical with a new dog or puppy. Before you begin teaching commands, you will want to start building a relationship with your dog. Say your dog’s name throughout the day and praise him when he responds to you. Make this a ritual before you go out of the house, reinforcing your bond before you head to an area with distractions., Practice making eye contact with your dog and holding it. Do this 2-3 times a day at least. Get in the habit of looking into your dog’s eyes when speaking with him or when offering commands. This lets your dog know that you are the alpha and leader in the relationship and should be followed.Don’t get carried away and turn this into a stare-down contest. If you adopt an aggressive posture while giving eye contact, your dog may respond in kind. Remember, you are trying to have fun with your dog, not scare him.
 Observe your dog closely over the course of two days and write down every time that he lunges or refuses to leave an object, person, or other dog alone. These are the trigger or threshold moments. You will first need to address the indoor triggers, followed by the outdoor triggers. Once your dog masters "On-By" during a potential trigger moment, you can mark that one off your list.
 Like humans, different dogs respond well to different types of encouragement. Some dogs are food-motivated and will do just about anything for a treat. Others want special toys. And still others yearn for open affection, hugs, and kisses.The entire time that you are training, rotate in various forms of positive reinforcement to see what creates the best reaction out of your dog.
 Clip a leash onto your dog’s harness. Put one of their favorite toys (or treats) on the floor. Walk the dog past the toy saying “On-By.” Hold the leash taut if you must to keep them from getting the toy. When your dog successfully passes the toy without lunging, give them a treat (not the one from the ground).


After they go on-by successfully a few times, make them do it with a loose lead. You do this by lessening the tension on the leash, giving them more control over movement. Again, follow a success by treating.
For an even more challenging scenario, add additional toys into the mix. Make a little path where they have to go in between a bunch of toys. Heavily praise a lunge-free walk.
 Moving from inside to outside increases the distraction level and can be a challenge for even the most well-prepared dog. Counter the distractions that may come your way by having a plan of action in place from the moment you leave your house until you return. You might ask yourself, “What will I do if a person approaches and my dog lunges? How should I have my dog respond to other pets?”


If your dog begins to lunge, pick up your pace and say, “On-By.” Keep a firm control on the leash and start a jog, if necessary. Odds are your dog will enjoy the opportunity to run so much that they will ignore the prior distraction. When you’ve passed the object in question, praise your dog., Praising and rewarding is not as simple as just tossing a few dog treats in your pet’s general direction. Good positive reinforcement is thoughtful and planned. For example, be prepared to reward by carrying a variety of dog treats with you (in a baggie in your pocket). Also, reward your dog right away for a job well done. And praise every behavior that is good and on command.There is a good possibility that your dog will eventually fully transition from treats to just praise and physical affection.
Differentiate praise by speaking in a higher tone, as you would when excited. So, you might say, “Well done, boy!” and clap your hands., This applies to both your commands and positive reinforcement methods. If a certain behavior isn’t okay once, then it is never okay. For example, lunging is never acceptable, regardless of the circumstance. Use “On-By” in a consistent way by not pairing it with another phrase.


Instead of saying, “On-By, leave it alone, keep going,” just command, “On-By.”
This also means that everyone in contact with your dog needs to use the same commands and reinforcements. Everyone’s cooperation is especially important during the early stages of training., Stay positive regardless of any setbacks that you may encounter. For example, a new dog may move into the neighborhood, distracting your dog to a whole new level. If this happens, refocus on your indoor training and try to train outdoors when the other dog is not around. Adapt to changing circumstances and keep praising your dog., Once your dog understands what “On-By” means, it is your job to not abuse this power through overuse. Reserve the command for situations that require it, including possible safety concerns. You want your dog to be friendly with other people and dogs when it is appropriate. Don't rush to use "On-By" every time anyone approaches.


When you are around others, don’t limit your dog’s normal behaviors such as greeting other animals or even marking, unless it becomes excessive.
 Have a friend stand fairly far away from a sidewalk or trail, close enough so that the dog knows they're there. Tell the dog “On-By,” then treat them for not lunging. If they lunge, have the friend move back. Gradually have the friend move in closer until he/she is right by the trail and the dog goes “On-By.”


Ask a friend with a dog to do the same as above. The presence of another dog will add an extra element of distraction and is good practice for real walking scenarios. Make sure that your friend’s dog is well-behaved.
When you pass your friends, do so at an arc. This will give you and your dog some extra distance. Your dog will eventually get used to the pulling away sensation and will learn to go along with it., Once you’ve established the basic “On-By” command, take a multi-week, or even just a few, dog training sessions. The class environment will expose your dog to a whole new level of distraction. And you will have the chance to troubleshoot any difficulties that you having by talking with your fellow classmates.To ask for advice, you might say, “My dog always lunges and barks at this one fence. Have you had this happen to you? How do you handle it?”

