 The quicker you address any bullying that is happening at your child’s camp, the quicker you will be able to protect them from it. Don’t wait to see if the situation will get better if your child has told you or is giving you any clues that they are being bullied. Do something as soon as you have an indication that your child might be being bullied at camp.


Talk to your child about what is going on and let them know that it’s not their fault and that you support them.
Try to get as many details from your child as possible. Knowing names, dates, places, and times will help you report what has happened.
If your child is physically injured or seems emotionally distressed then you should seek assistance.
 In some cases, camp officials may already be aware of what is going on and taking steps to address it. But, in many cases, adults have no idea that bullying is happening.Reporting to camp counselors or administrators that your child is being bullied is one of the best things you can do to protect your child.


Telling camp officials protects your child by creating a team of people addressing the problem.
Reporting the bullying also holds camp administrators accountable for taking action, protecting your child, and resolving the problem.
Suggest to the counselors that they have a talk with all of the children about bullying. This may help reduce the problem without targeting specific children.
 Protecting your child from camp bullies may not be something that you can do with one phone call or conversation with a camp counselor. Continue to check-in frequently with your child, camp counselors, and administrators, to find out what progress is being made in resolving the situation.


You can ask your child for daily updates about how things are going. For example, you might say, “How are things going at camp? Have the changes the counselors made helped with the bullying?”
Check in with camp leaders every few days or so to see how their interventions are working.
Continue checking with camp officials and your child periodically to make sure that the situation is under control.
If the camp counselors seem dismissive about the bullying, keep trying to get their attention. Your persistence may be able to persuade them to do something about it.
 While you should work with camp officials to protect your child from camp bullies, in some situations medical professionals or legal authorities may need to be involved. If your child is the victim of physical or sexual harm, you need to report it to legal authorities and possibly seek medical attention.


Contact your local police station or the police station closest to the camp if your child is seriously physically harmed.
You may also want to contact the police if there is a threat of serious harm. For instance, if another camp posts online that they want to humiliate other campers, you should contact the police.
Immediately take your child to a healthcare professional and contact the police if your child was sexually assaulted in any way.
You may also way to involve the authorities if you have already involved camp officials, but the situation has continued for an extended period of time or has gotten worse.
If the bullying is causing your child to feel anxious, depressed, or afraid, you may want to reach out to a therapist for help.

