 Does he hang around with physical sport junkies? Maybe it's the emo group or computer game guys. It could even be the book-club group, whoever they are they all have the same thing in common and that's their interest.;
, Don't do it in a freakish way, where you just kind of pop up and want to make friends. This way you can talk about him every so often allowing you to find out more about him and what interest he shares with that friend.
 The siblings always know all the juicy gossip and will definitely know what he's interested in.
 Is he always wearing football shirts? Maybe it's overly baggy jeans and hip hop style clothing. It could simply be the new style icons. Is he dressing geek and nerd or is he the relaxed cool guy in jeans, T and sneakers/trainers. (this could tell if his interest is sports, urban lifestyle or fashion, as well as where he might get his clothes)

, See his reactions to the things the teacher is talking about, does science spook his interest? Is he answering all the questions? Maybe he's chilled out in the back drawing on his desk or drumming pencils on the desk.
 This gives you the chance to get to talk to him.
 It doesn't have to be at the same table, and you really don't need him to know you are listening to his conversation, so keep it cute. Use your hair to hide your facial expressions, or sit with your side turning to him with your hair hanging down on the side he is closest to. That way you can hear what he is saying but with your hair hiding your face.
 You can do this by asking him (make sure it's a convenient time) or simply searching for his name. If you don't already have social networking accounts, you can open one too. This way you can chat and find out more about him.


On his Facebook, get added to his list and subscribe to his updates.
 Also you can search for his family members if you know their names but be sure he doesn't know so you don't look like a stalker. This way you can find out more about both him and his family.
 You could apply some of your knowledge whilst in a conversation with him but be discreet and don't say too much as not to appear as a stalker.
 This will show the true him.
 Have a look around his room. Posters, books, and video games are all hints about what his interests are.

