 Perhaps you are looking to reconnect with a friend from middle school who you haven’t seen in years or an old friend you used to work with. The very first step in renewing your friendship with this person is getting in touch with them. If you have their phone number, give them a call or shoot them a text to initiate contact.


You may say something like “I hope you’re doing well! We haven’t spoken in a while but I’ve been thinking about you a lot lately and wanted to see how you’re doing and what you’ve been up to.”
Get in touch via social media. If you don’t have their phone number, this could be a great way to find them and reach out.
Get in touch via mutual friends. If you have mutual friends between the two of you, reach out to them so they can help you reconnect.
 Take some time to chat with your friend once you’ve reconnected about what’s new in their life since you last spoke. Ask them about school, work, their parents, or their relationship.


Make sure to display genuine interest when asking them about their lives. This will show them that you care and will help restore your friendship.
 After getting updates about them, tell them what’s new with you. Share if you got into college somewhere or got a promotion at work, or even smaller updates that you think they’ll find interesting.


You can say something like “I recently got into college at the local University and I’m so excited about it. I remember that you were applying there, too.”
Be sure not to dominate the conversation with information about you.
 If you two live in the same city or within a reasonable distance from each other, set aside some time to meet in person. This will help strengthen your bond more than chats on the phone or through text. If you don’t live close, try FaceTiming or Skyping with them.


You could invite them out by saying “Wanna grab lunch one day soon downtown? Or go see a movie? I’d love to hangout.”
If you do meet up, avoid meeting in a loud or noisy place. One idea is to meet for coffee or lunch.
 If you two haven’t spoken for some time, it may be necessary to at least broach the topic of why that occurred. Did one of you move away and has recently returned home? Or maybe you simply grew apart over the years. Either way, discuss why you lost touch.


Keep the conversation light, though. Don’t pressure them to talk about it and don’t make it tense.
Consider beginning the conversation like “It’s been so nice catching up with you. I often think about how we drifted apart. When you moved away, I thought things would be different, but I didn’t know how much. I’ve really missed you.”

, After you’ve had the conversation, tell them that you don’t want to lose touch again and that you’ve enjoyed spending time with them. Since this person used to be your best friend, they will likely welcome this reconnection with open arms. Make a promise to call and see each other more and actually follow through.

