 This is perhaps the best things you can do. Be nice to everyone, because you never know sometime in the future, they could help you.;
, Not only will you gain respect and trust, but people will go to you for help. Take control of a situation if no one else is, and make sure to do a thorough job. Remember, if you are going to do something, do it right.
 It is a kind gesture to do. Also, what goes around comes around.
 What is the point of doing something if you're only going to do half a job. Doing everything your best can help your future to its full extent.
 Taking care of yourself is the first step. If you are sick or have a problem, then it will be hard to get good grades. So shower regularly, wash your hands after going to the bathroom, moisturize your body, cut your fingernails, exercise and eat healthy. Also drink lots of water. This makes you feel tremendously better on the inside and out. Because of this, you will concentrate better in school and you will glow.
 Nobody enjoys a fake laugh, smile or compliment.
 This will earn you respect. Many people are impatient, but impatience can make trouble for you. A better approach is to keep quiet. Think of something that is going on tonight, and how you will plan it. Be considerate to the person you are with... in other words - BE PATIENT!

, This is very important. If you can swear in one second, you can say thank you in a second also. There really is no difference. Good manners will go a long way.
 Talk with correct grammar when you speak. If you pay attention in school, and are curious about things around you, the words will come. Reading books can help you broaden your vocabulary. When you are out in public, be mature and compose yourself.
 Instead of sending an e-card, write a letter. E-cards do not mean as much as a hand written letter. It shows that you are actually taking time out of your day to keep in touch. Working hard instead of "butt-kissing" will get you a lot farther in life. Although butt-kissing might be quicker, in the long run, hard work is the morally correct thing to do, and you will gain much more. There is no better satisfaction than a job well done.
 Examples of these are: curse words, smoking, anger/hatred, and unnecessary violence of any kind. It is better to eliminate them completely. If you have a goal in life, suppressing those things will make it easier to concentrate and you will get to your goal more quickly.
 Be environmentally friendly by recycling, donate to charity, or simply share. By doing this, in the end you have made the world a better place. You have contributed to this amazing Earth, a creation, a wonder that was made out of nowhere. Standing up for what is right = karma points. Recycle, shut off water, shut off lights, stop the bullying. These little things can make a big difference.
 Maintain an appearance that is your age, and is you. If you want people to take you seriously, don't dress Emo or Goth or skater, because in the real world, people will look at you and not take you seriously. But by dressing maturely, you will get a fair chance.
 Take action and be heard!

