 No matter how old your child is, it is important that you communicate as effectively as possible. During the conversation, show them that you hear them. Actively listening is one of the best ways to have a constructive conversation with your child.After you have told your child about the miscarriage, give them a chance to respond. Listen carefully to your child's reaction.
Show that you are listening by maintaining eye contact. You can also use touch, such as putting an arm around a shoulder.
Try paraphrasing. You could say, "I hear you saying that you are confused and sad. I understand."

, Your child might have a lot of questions and concerns. Although it might be emotional for you, be prepared to answer their questions as honestly as possible. Remember that it is normal for kids to be curious.Very young children have a very "me"-centric view of the world. Be prepared for questions such as "Will this happen to me?" or "Was it my fault?"
Take care to reassure your child. You can say, "No, it was not your fault. And no, the same thing will not happen to you."
Older children might have more specific questions. A teenager might say, "Will this happen again? Are you going to try to have another baby?"

, A big part of communicating effectively with your child involves respecting their reaction. It is important to understand that each child will process the information differently. Try to prepare yourself for a variety of reactions.Younger children might appear to be apathetic. Maybe your child responds to the news by saying, "Ok. Can we go to the park now?" Try not to take this personally.
A teenager might respond by acting out. Slamming doors and playing loud music might be how they express their emotions.
Explain to your child that everyone is entitled to feel their own emotions. There is no right or wrong way to feel.
Find a way to help your child express their feelings. For example, a young child might find it helpful to draw a picture.
 No matter how constructive your conversation feels, be prepared to have another discussion. Miscarriage is not a topic that can generally be dealt with in just one talk. Be ready to answer more questions at a later time.It might take your child some time to process the information. Don't be surprised if the day after the talk, your preschooler asks where the baby is. Be ready to have the conversation again.
Check in with your older child. A few days later it would be a good idea to say, "How are you feeling? Is there any way that I can help you?"
Some children might feel the need to honor the baby. You could consider saying a few words as a memorial, or maybe singing a song together.
 Unpredictable events, like a miscarriage, can lessen your child's sense of security. After you explain the miscarriage, take care to reassure your child. You can use words and actions to help your child feel safe.Stick to routines. As much as possible, try not to disrupt your child's life. If he is used to eating dinner at 6, try to make that happen, even when you're having a rough day.
Keep reminding your child how much you love them. You can say, "Mommy is sad, but you make me happy. I love you very much."
Follow through on promises. For example, if you promised that grandma would come visit when the baby was born, try to arrange a visit with grandma.

