 Pick Chimchar because it can learn Fire, Ice, and Thunder Punch as an Infernape and can clear gyms easily.;
,


Catch a Gastly at the old Chateau and teach it Sludge Bomb, Psychic, Shadow Ball and Explosion.
Get the Gastly to a Gengar.
Evolve Haunter AT the level it evolved from Gastly at.
Use 5 Calciums and 5 Carbos. Level it up to the desired level. A good item would be a Salac Berry or a Focus Band.



Teach it Softboiled, Refresh, Protect and Hyper Beam.
Give it 3 Irons, 3 Zincs, and 4 HP UPs BEFORE it gets to level 20.
Evolve it to it's final form without changing any moves.
Level it up to the desired level.
Note: If it does not come with the ability Serene Grace as a Blissey, breed it and repeat until it does. Also, for good luck, give it Leftovers.



Breed the Blissey you already have, then follow the exact course you took to get the first Blissey, except give it a Shell Bell instead of Leftovers.
 It is a Murkrow.


Catch it and evolve it.
If it does not have Super Luck as a Honchcrow, breed and try again. You will likely need to trade in a Dusk Stone or two if the first Honchkrow does not have Super Luck.
Once you get a Honchkrow with the ability Super Luck, teach it Night Slash, Psychic, Shadow Ball, and Aerial Ace.
Give it five Proteins and the same number of Carbos before it gets to level 30.
Level it up to the desired level. Give it Scope Lens to hold.
 Since you have those four Pokémon, your Starter, and likely something else, this shouldn't be too hard., Catch it and breed it if it is at lv. 30+. Teach it Shadow Ball, Explosion, Sludge Bomb, and Destiny Bond. Before it is at Level 30, give it 5 Calciums and 5 Carbos. Level it to the desired level then give it a Salac Berry (if you gave Gengar a Focus Band) or a Focus Band (if you gave Gengar a Salac Berry).
 Use the Poke Radar on route 212 until you find one. If it is over Level 30, breed it. The item and the kind and amount of drugs (Protein, Iron, HP Up etc.) you give it are up to you and you alone. However, choose from these moves to Sketch:


Fire Punch, Flamethrower, or Fire Blast.
Ice Punch, Ice Beam, or Blizzard.
Thunderpunch, Thunderbolt, or Thunder.
Sludge Bomb, Rock Climb, or Ancientpower.
 It's not worth it to kill yourself in order to win a video game.

