;
, This will take you to the Download page, which allows you to pick which installer to download.
 Only choose the one you are currently using. There are plenty of systems supported, so make sure you’re picking the right one.


After clicking on the operating system of your choice, you will be taken to a download page for different versions of the program.
 Check the dates opposite the version name of the installer to know which one is the most recent release.


The easiest way to determine your operating system version is to consult your computer’s manual.
 As a default, the name of the folder should be Downloads.


On every operating system, a simple search for the Downloads folder should take you to it.
, These should be straightforward; just choose the default options.
 There are several torrent hosting sites on the Internet. A good one to try is Piratebay. It’s always on the move (figuratively), so it’s generally more reliable.
 Remember that in most countries, you are only legally allowed to download copyrighted files or media that you already physically own.
 This will arrange the torrent list according to number of seeders (uploaders) in descending order.
, Commenters will generally provide reviews for that particular torrent file and give you an idea of its quality.
 This will provide you an anonymous way of downloading, which is great for privacy reasons.
 This is in the Downloads folder as a default.
, When Deluge launches, you will have the option to set a download path or view the files the torrent will download. If you wish to set a custom download path, click on Options.
 Under Download Location, click and hold the Downloads folder and drag your cursor to a directory you want to save the file in.


If it isn’t in the selection, drag the cursor to Other and locate your desired folder by navigating through the directories in the pop-up window.
You can also choose Apply to All to set the download directory for all following torrents to your chosen location.
, The speed of the download depends on how many seeders there are.


In the main window of Deluge, you will see the Downspeed, which is the rate of download, and the ETA, which means Estimated Time of Arrival.
 Once your download has finished, which will be signified by a Completed status, you can open the Download folder by right-clicking the row of the file and selecting Open Folder.
 Double-click on the file to launch it.

