 This is a delicious soup that you can prepare at home so that you just have to add hot water at lunchtime. For this soup, you will need the following ingredients: two pre-cooked chicken breasts, chopped into quarter inch cubes; two large, chopped zucchinis; two cups of chopped red cabbage; eight ounces of mushrooms; two cups of kale; pre-cooked ramen noodles; chicken bouillon powder. Use these ingredients to prepare your soups for the week:

Start by lining up six pint-sized mason jars on your kitchen counter, which should give you healthy soup lunches for the work week.
Add a small portion of ramen noodles and a mix of the healthy ingredients to each mason jar. The ramen noodles should be the pre-cooked variety.
Add a tablespoon of chicken bouillon powder to each jar.
When you are ready for lunch at work, simply add hot water and enjoy.;
, This is a spicy soup that includes immune boosting shiitake mushrooms alongside kimchi and chicken breast. Start by gathering your ingredients: beef base (powdered or moist), pre-cooked ramen noodles, beef jerky, shiitake mushrooms, scallions, kimchi, and pre-cooked, shredded chicken breast. Use these ingredients to prepare your spicy lunch:

Start by putting a tablespoon of beef base in the bottom of your medium sized mason jar, and then add a few tablespoons or more of kimchi.
Add one handful of shiitake mushrooms and then a cut up piece of beef jerky.
Add wet noodles, which should fill up most of the rest of the mason jar.
Chop up your scallions and put them in a zip lock bag alongside any final herbs (e.g., oregano, thyme). Remove the air and place the zip lock bag in the top of your mason jar.
When you get to work, you just need to take out the zip lock bag, fill the mason jar with hot water and then empty the contents of your zip lock bag on top for a fresh and healthy lunch., This healthy vegetarian soup will keep you warm during cold fall and winter days at the office. You will need the following ingredients: miso, which is a fermented, soy bean paste that can be found at many grocery and health food stores; pre-cooked ramen noodles; baked and chopped sweet potatoes; shiitake mushrooms; and chopped scallions. Use these ingredients to prepare your vegetarian soup for work:

Put a tablespoon of miso soup base in the bottom of your medium sized mason jar, and then add the shiitake mushrooms and the sweet potatoes.
Add the ramen noodles to the top. Fill up most of the rest of the jar with ramen noodles, but leave a little space for your zip lock bag with fresh scallions.
Put the chopped scallions in a zip lock bag and put it in the top of your mason jar. You now have a pre-made lunch ready for work.
In the middle of your busy work day, you will only need to remove the zip lock bag, add hot water, and then the scallions for a healthy noodle soup lunch.