 Your thoughts are an integral part of who you are. They often guide how you feel as well as your attitude and perceptions of situations. Monitor your thoughts and recognize the content. Are your thoughts negative? Do you put yourself down, or always think something will go wrong? Which areas of your life are you most hard on yourself?


Do this in every aspect of your life. You want to make sure you think about your thoughts every day and during all different kinds of activities.;
, To help you keep track of your thoughts everyday, start a journal and write about your day, your struggles, your goals, and your dreams. Analyze your journal entries and take note of their quality. Are the hopeful or bleak? Do you feel stuck or powerful? Continue to analyze your thoughts to become more aware of who you are.
 Sometimes our perceptions of situations lead us to make faulty conclusions about what happened or what we saw. For example, if you perceived that your friend was mad at you after lunch, you may be confused and automatically think that because her mood was low, you did something wrong. Becoming aware of your perception of her mood can help you to analyze why you jumped to the conclusion she was mad at you.


When you have a situation like this, take time to analyze your actions and beliefs about what occurred. Write down what you saw, heard, or felt that made you interpret the situation in the way that you did. Ask yourself if there could be other causes for your friends mood or if there are outside factors that you are unaware of.
 Your feelings can also give you clues into who you are and why you react to certain situations or people in the way that you do. Analyze your feelings by becoming aware of your reactions to topics of conversations, tones of voices, facial expressions, and body language. Identify what you are feeling and ask yourself why you had this type of emotional response. What were you responding to? What about it made you feel the way you do?


You can also use physical cues to tune you into how you are feeling. For example, if you notice you are breathing heavier or faster, so may be stressed, mad, or afraid.If you can't figure out exactly how you feel at first, keep writing down your reactions and thoughts about certain situations. You may need time and distance from a situation to recognize how you feel.
You also can ask a trusted friend or family member to help go over your thoughts and reactions to help you figure out exactly what you feel. It may be hard for you to distance yourself enough from the ideas to truly know how you feel or what these things mean about you.

