 One of the meals that anoles enjoy the most is crickets and they can provide most of the nutrients an anole needs. Thus, when caring for anoles, crickets will make up the majority of your lizard's diet.


Buy the smallest crickets offered at your pet store. If there is only "one size" available at a pet store, go to a different one. Anoles need to be given small crickets.
 You will need to add supplement powder to the crickets at each feeding to help ensure the anoles get enough calcium and vitamins. Anoles are missing some key nutrients and can get metabolic bone disease (MBD) and die if they are not given supplements.


If you keep crickets around in bulk, "gut-load" them by feeding them a vitamin rich cricket food prior to feeding them to your lizards. This way, all of the nutritious food your crickets just ate will then, in turn, be passed on to your anole.
Equally, if your crickets are starved, your anole soon will be too.
 In addition to crickets, anoles like small cockroaches or flies once in a while. This varies their diet and gives them some much needed exercise.


Anoles may also eat waxworms, fruit flies, small worms, canned crickets, or earthworms.
 Mealworms pass through anoles undigested. This wastes the lizard's energy due to unproductive eating and they will not get any energy from the food.


Additionally, the lizard will feel full when it is actually not getting any nutrition. Thus, it could cause the lizard to become malnourished.
 Unless it's feeding time, the anole's food should be kept away from it when the lizard it sleeps. This way the "leftovers" won't munch on your lizard while it's asleep. You may not expect it but medium to large crickets can eat the anole's extremities.


If the crickets are small enough, they probably won't bother your anole. However, some owners of anoles advise to never release or leave crickets loose in the tank with the lizard. Rather to place them in a separate container, move the anole to the container for 5–10 minutes to eat, and then move the anole back to his tank when done.

