 You will have more success spending time with your dog if you plan your activities into your day and week. Schedule times that you will feed, walk, and play with your dog. This schedule will also benefit your dog by giving them structure in their day.


Dogs should generally be fed twice a day, walked one once or twice, and taken out often to eliminate. They are also social creatures and will want to spend time with you while you are home.;
, Dogs can cut into your social life. While you can still go out, you will have to plan ahead to make sure that your dog's needs are met.For example, if you know you are going to be working late one day, ask someone if they would be willing to walk your dog for you. If you are leaving on a weekend trip, find a friend to dog sit.
 While you should have a regular schedule, you do not have to plan your entire day around your dog. Your dog may not mind if you come home late one day or if you miss your weekly dog park visit for an appointment, as long as you do not do it too often.
 An easy way to increase the time you spend with your dog is to let them join you on your daily tasks. Whether you are at home or out doing errands, you can fit the dog into your lifestyle. You can:


Take the dog on car trips.
Talk to the dog while doing chores.Visit the pet store together.
Take the dog with you to the beach or park.
Ask your friends if you can bring your dog when you visit.
 Spending time with your dog should not feel like a chore. Appreciate your dog, and remember that they are a member of your family. Express gratitude to your dog for their love and loyalty, and reward them with your attention.


Occasional treats when your dog has behaved well is a great way to surprise your dog. Some people like to give holiday or birthday gifts to their dog. You can even find specialty dog treats at certain pet bakeries and stores.
You might consider bringing your dog on holiday with you. While you will have to find transportation and lodgings that allow dogs, the quality time and memories you make together will be invaluable.

