 If you crave an exciting and busy seasonal trip, choose a skiing destination like Jackson Hole, or Park City, Utah. In remote parts of Montana and Wyoming, there are resorts that cater specifically to winter crowds with snowmobiling, ice fishing, and hot tubs made for romantic unwinding. The West Coast also provides an array of sightseeing and exploring, at an off-season reduced cost.


If you prefer a romantic and secluded winter getaway, look to the East Coast, where traditional beach tourism will be minimal, but cozy accommodations will be many. Check into the North Carolina Outer Banks, where shelling and wildlife will be excellent, and crowds nonexistent. Visiting an Eastern beach is an excellent choice for having a local honeymoon, as many touristy venues will be closed. You will get to experience life in the off season, with days strolling the beach and nights with home cooked meals by the fire.
Let's not forget the appeal of a wintery European adventure. Ski the Alps in Switzerland or gaze upon Buckingham Palace in the lightly falling snow. The climate varies widely in Europe – coastal areas will be warmer, while inland, more mountainous areas will provide the winter you're looking for (just make sure everything is still open!).;
, Elsewhere around the world, your options are many. In equatorial locations like the Bahamas, Puerto Rico, or elsewhere in the Caribbean, the season extends throughout most of the year, and is not impacted by our traditional concept of a 4-season year. In the Southern Hemisphere, summer will be in full swing, and you will have many of the same options as a summer honeymoon in the Northern Hemisphere to choose from.


And for some of these places, even though the weather is the same, it's still the off-season for tourists. You could have the great weather and not have to deal with the crowds. A true win-win.
Make sure it's not the rainy season instead. You don't want to trade the snowbanks of home for riverbanks encroaching upon your hotel.
 Mid-continental locations like Calgary, Alberta, or small Midwestern towns like Hermann, Missouri can give you a wide range of wonderful options as well. Calgary, for instance, combines excellent big city thrills with nearby wonderlands such as Banff and Lake Louise. Hermann, known for being a quaint German town that still clings to Alpine culture, will give you a European trip without leaving the US.


Picture your winter honeymoon, nestled away in a warm log cabin, where only the birds can bear witness of your love. You'll be cuddled up in each others' arms, amid a crackling fire, sipping on hot cider, where love can grow and bloom to its fullest potential. Where passion can ignite without boundaries or borders. Where intensity knows no bounds. Life's depth, begins in this moment.
 Planning a winter honeymoon doesn't have to be boring! In fact, winter is one of the best times to plan a honeymoon in the Northern Hemisphere because it is the off season for tourism, which means that you will pay less money for many of the same attractions, and will face less difficulty in booking. There will be fewer crowds, cheaper prices, and still plenty of things to do.


Regardless of what appeals most to you, ultimately the most important part of any good honeymoon is your companion on the journey. Whatever you plan, it will take a backseat to the memories you'll be making with your new spouse.
 Before you get attached to anywhere, check out the weather first for your ideal dates. If it's monsoon season or the middle of a blizzard, you may want to go with your plan B. Either that or change the dates you were considering – a honeymoon doesn't have to be at any specific time.


If you plan to travel a distance, plan for the possibility of inclement weather. Allow yourself some leeway should anything happen. If you find yourself with a very tight itinerary, you increase your risk of losing money if your flight is delayed.

