 Meet with your child’s teacher to discuss a variety of topics with the teacher. These include effective rewards and consequences, effective homework routines, how you and the teacher will communicate on a regular basis about problems and successes, how you can mirror what the teacher is doing in the classroom for greater consistency, and so on. For some students, success will be obtained relatively easily by establishing consistent schedules, routines, and homework communication methods as well as utilizing effective organizational tools such as planners, color-coded binders, and checklists.
Being on the same page with your teacher can remove the "teacher said differently" excuse.
 Organization and consistent routines will save the day when it comes to homework, and it’s a good idea to coordinate with teachers whenever possible. Does the teacher provide a daily homework list or does the school promote the use of planners? If not, buy a planner that has plenty of space to write daily notes and show your child how to use it.


If the teacher(s) can’t or won’t commit to initialing the planner every day, ask the teacher to help find a responsible student—a homework buddy —to check the planner before dismissal each afternoon.
If your child is struggling to remember assignments, check your child’s homework box in the planner every day as the first thing when you get home. If your kid remembered to write down the homework assignment, give your kid praise.
 Praise is the best and easiest way to encourage learning and good behavior from your child. Giving your child positive feedback about something they did that makes you proud can also benefit your long term personal relationship.Every day the planner comes home, make sure to give your child praise. Then make sure the planner back into the backpack every morning before school. Arrange for the homework buddy to give morning reminders to turn in the homework, too.
Reward your child for trying and struggling to do the right thing, even when he or she fails. This teaches your child that work ethic, despite failing, is a good skill to have.
 Homework should be completed at the same time and same place every day. Have plenty of supplies on hand, organized in bins if you have the space.


Be sure homework doesn’t start the second your child walks in the door. Let him or her get rid of excess energy riding a bike or climbing trees for 20 minutes, or let her/him chatter and get that excess talking out of his system before telling him/her to do seatwork.
Try to avoid allowing your kid to stall or put off work. Some kids use diversion techniques like asking for snacks, going to the bathroom, or complaining of tiredness and needing a nap. While these are all completely valid and normal things for a kid to ask for, try to notice when your kid is really trying to avoid work.
 Show how you would organize the work and recommend ways to prioritize the assignments. Chunk big projects and set deadlines for individual stages to be completed.Provide a brain-food snack such as peanuts as you review the assignments.
It is particularly important that you communicate with the teacher about what a good homework assignment looks like, and what doing the homework well looks like. You don't want to teach your child something that contradicts the teacher's methods or rules, even if just for consistency and structure.
 Many children with ADHD have trouble keeping track of their belongings and struggle deciding or remembering which books to bring home each night—let alone remembering to take them back to school the next day.


Some teachers will allow students to have a “home set” of textbooks. This might be a recommendation for inclusion on an IEP as well.
Consider having a list of items your child should leave home with near the door. Check this list every day before your child leaves for school.
It is tempting for you to control and remember everything, even if your child is supposed to be responsible for it. However, your child not only needs his or her textbooks to do homework, but also needs to remember his or her textbooks to learn responsibility and how to follow a schedule.
If applicable, try using online books or sources and post the passwords somewhere in the house. Some find using the computer for homework and reading more comfortable.
 One of the big challenges people with ADHD face as adults is that they didn’t learn to socialize appropriately as a child.Pick an activity your child likes and that can fit into your routine.


Encourage your child to participate in peer interactions like scouting activities, sports teams, and dance.
Find an organization which will allow you and your child to volunteer together, such as a local food pantry.
Host parties and encourage attendance at parties that will help your child to live as normal a life as possible. If your child is invited to a birthday party, have a frank discussion with the hosting parents and explain that you need to attend to act as an anchor—and disciplinarian, as necessary. They will appreciate your candor and your child will benefit from the experience.
 You might be able to decrease your child's potential for anxiety by role playing out the anxiety-producing situation. In addition to providing familiarity and a comfort level for the upcoming event, role playing allows you to see how your child might react then guide him or her in appropriate responses. This is especially helpful in preparing to meet new people, work out conflicts with friends, or going to a new school.


If your child does not want to role play with you, ask a therapist or other trusted adult.
When role-playing, explicitly identify skills and techniques for navigating the situation. Write them down and discuss why they are useful.
 In the United States, children qualify for free special education services based on one of two basic reasons: they have a qualifying disability or they have fallen far behind their peers academically. Once parents become aware that their child is not succeeding in school and they feel additional help is required (an opinion usually made in conjunction with the classroom teacher), parents may request a special education evaluation. If you live outside the United States, contact your local school board to ask about special services.


This request should be made in writing. Assistance can take various forms from minor accommodations (such as extra time for taking tests) to self-contained classrooms with teachers and aides who are specially trained to deal with children who exhibit behavioral disruptions. Once qualified, a child with ADHD may have access to other school-based services, as well, such as riding home in a smaller bus with extra staff who supervise students more closely than a lone driver is able to do.
Beware the school that tells you ADHD is not a qualifying disability! It is true that ADHD is not listed as one of the 13 disability categories in the language of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), but category 9 is “other health impairment,” which is later defined as “… chronic or acute health problems such as asthma, attention deficit disorder or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder… which adversely affect a child’s educational performance.” , An IEP is a formalized document created by school staff and parents that spells out the academic, behavioral, and social goals of special-ed students. It includes how results will be determined, as well as specific interventions that will be used to achieve the goals. The IEP lists decisions made concerning self-contained classrooms, percentage of time in mainstream classrooms, accommodations, discipline, testing, and more.


In the United States, you must provide documentation of your child’s ADHD diagnosis in order to get an IEP. Complete a special education evaluation that shows the child’s disability is interfering with his or her education. Then, the school will ask you to participate in an IEP conference. If you live outside the United States, contact your local school board to ask about special services. The school is required to invite parents to regular IEP conferences to evaluate the progress of the child and the effectiveness of the plan. Then adjustments can be made as needed. The school is legally bound to follow the guidelines laid down in the IEP. Teachers who fail to follow the IEP can be held liable.
Be sure that the IEP is specific to your child and that your input is included in the form. Do not sign a completed IEP until you have reviewed it and added your input. Once a child has an initial IEP, it becomes easier to establish special education services when changing schools or transferring to a new school district.
 Unfortunately, even with outstanding cooperation and effort by the adults, many children still will not succeed. They may require more intensive services available through the school or district special education department. In some cases, rigid teaching methods by inflexible teachers are the issue and parents must seek administrative support or look into changing teachers, changing schools, or exploring special education options. Choose the best paths for your circumstance to ensure maximum success for your child.

