 When you are working on a detailed plan for your time at Disneyland, choose which rides you absolutely must go on. Because lines are largely digital affairs nowadays, getting on your favorite rides can be done literally months in advance. Choose which rides you are most excited to go on and book those first.The same can be said of food: reservations may be booked at restaurants a full six months ahead of time, so be sure you plan your “must see” food spots, as well.;
, You may want to avoid the rides in the most popular times of day, so check in with the park to determine the busiest times. Although there will be some variation based on season and visitor volume, identifying which times are the busiest and which are more relaxed will provide you with a more enjoyable Disney experience.
 Make sure you have figured out how you are going to arrive at the park. If you are staying at a Disney hotel, shuttles will take you. If you are camping or staying outside of the Disney bubble, you may need to rent a vehicle or use public transportation.Bear in mind that Disney traffic is heavy and intense. If you are driving yourself, prepare for a dizzying traffic experience.
There are shuttles leading to and from the park, including shuttles to the airport.
There are also in-park travel options, including travel between parks.
 Single-day tickets are the most expensive (per day) tickets to come by, while the cost per day decreases drastically for each day you add after 3 days. If you are able to make your trip a bit longer, you will see more savings.Although tickets are cheaper for longer visits, Disney resort booking is not. If you are trying to save on your budget, consider a longer park ticket, but staying in a hotel outside of the park.
 Rather than making a lot of phone calls or purchasing tickets and booking hotels once you arrive, always book your itinerary online before you go. Tickets go quickly, as do hotel rooms and packages. For the best possible rates and deals, you must book online.Most Disney experts suggest booking a minimum of six months in advance, if not longer. This will get you the best prices, and will ensure you are able to visit all of your preferred locations.
 Bundles and deals are not only for the budget-minded, as they take a lot of planning and guesswork out of the equation. While you will not have as much freedom to choose the types of tickets you buy or the duration of your stay, you can essentially have the work of choosing parks, dining, and boarding made for you.Bundles can also be useful for people on a budget. Some authorized third-party retailers offer both bundles and discounted tickets and hotel stays.
 Weekends and holidays are the busiest times, as you might expect, but certain months and times of the week are busy, too. When planning your trip, you might want to consider visiting in the off season: January through March and again from September through November. Although there are some spots in each of these periods that get busy (spring break and Halloween, for example), visiting during this time will yield the best results for a more relaxed vacation.Although these times are less busy, it is important to note that “less busy” and “completely dead” are not the same thing. You will still find lines and massive amounts of people, even in the off season.
 Fast Pass is a system that allows you to hold your place in line digitally. The system now allows park goers to “stand” in line 30 days in advance (60 days if you have a park-owned hotel reservation). While it is not available for all rides, using Fast Pass to mark your place in popular attractions and even dining areas allows you to enjoy your park experience without the stress of standing in lines for hours on end.The system is particularly useful if you have children who are anxious to move around, as standing in line is no longer necessary.
 Magic Bands allow parkgoers to enter their hotel rooms, pay for some amenities, and mark their spots using the Fast Pass system all without so much as the touch of a button. A Magic Band is an electronic bracelet, and is particularly useful for young children who might not be able to handle money or electronic devices well.Some users have reported difficulty with Magic Bands due to electronic malfunction, but these issues seem to be uncommon.
 Instead of trying to cling to a paper map or keep track of all of the tips and tricks to navigate Disneyland, make your smartphone work for you by keeping a digital map of the park on hand, and taking advantage of Disney and Disneyland apps designed to make your stay easier.Not all apps are Disney licensed or approved. Although downloading an app with tips that is not Disney sanctioned is likely to work out just fine, make sure any ticket or Fast Pass apps are legitimate before you use them.
If you do use your smartphone for much of your trip, remember to bring a backup charger or battery.

