 Studies suggest that having goals (and people who support those goals) may help you be less likely to use drugs.This is likely because it encourages you to consider what you want out of your future and what you'll do to get yourself there. In contrast, using drugs is all about what feels "good" right now, regardless of the impact it makes on your future.If you feel tempted to try drugs, even once, consider what it may do to your goals for the future. How likely are you to be able to achieve your goals if you're dependent on an expensive and/or illegal drug, or in jail or with a criminal record for using it?
Setting goals can also help improve your self-confidence.When you feel confident in yourself and your ability to achieve what you set out to do, you're less likely to want to do drugs.Setting and achieving goals is also crucial to getting off of drugs. This practice shows you that you can achieve what you set out to do, including kick your drug use.;
, Strong relationships with your family and loved ones are a protective factor against drug use. In other words, having a strong relationship with your family and friends will make you less likely to give in to temptation.If you’re feeling pressured or curious about drug use, don’t keep it to yourself. Find someone you know, trust, and respect to talk to about it. Other people can offer you advice and support, which is very important for staying drug free., If you’re consistently being pressured, even bullied, to try drugs, talk to someone in authority, such as a parent, teacher, or counselor.You don’t have to face this pressure on your own. Getting support from others will help you stand strong against drugs.
 If you are tempted to use drugs because you want to feel good, keep your focus off of drugs by doing other things that are enjoyable and fun.For example, take up a hobby, spend more time laughing with friends, play a fun video game, or help others out, to feel better instead. This will help you find new meaning in your life.
Go for a run, get lost in a good novel, talk to family and friends, play a fun video game, or actively try to solve your problem or negative thoughts by seeking counselling.Talk about how you feel with friends or engage in a distracting activity like going out to a movie.
 If you're offered drugs, decline and walk away. If you're afraid of peer pressure, then know in your heart that true friends will respect you if you decide to say no to a drug, and they won't push you into doing something you don't want to do. If they do, then consider finding a new group of friends.
 If you see a family member or friend taking drugs, stay away from them and definitely don't follow in their footsteps. If you can, talk to a trusted adult friend about it; they may offer guidance or social support. A support system can be crucial to a person's success in achieving and maintaining a drug–free lifestyle.Be aware that vulnerability to drug addiction can run in the family, so if you have a family member who is addicted to drugs, know that you may be especially vulnerable and should do that much more to be drug free.If you have friends who actively use drugs, find new friends. Instead, surround yourself with people who do not use drugs and who think being sober is a better way to live.Teens are especially likely to use drugs if their friends do., If there is a certain group of people at school who are known to do drugs, don't hang around them. You can find friends who are interested in more productive behaviors.


If you are at a party and you realize that there are drugs there, simply leave. Peer pressure might make you crack, even if you're certain you'll be able to say no.
Be aware that social influence is very strong, and it has an effect on your temptation to use drugs.Even social media can influence you to be more likely to use drugs.If you notice a lot of photos about drug use on your social media, consider blocking those sources of influence too.
 If you're tempted to try drugs even when you're on your own, such as seeing what it would be like to experiment with your kid brother's Adderall, you can handle that temptation too. Think to yourself, "Why am I really wanting to try this?" What are your reasons for wanting to try drugs?If it's because you think everyone else is doing it and you want to connect with your buddies, remind yourself that not everyone is doing drugs. In fact, drug use in general is down among young people.There are plenty of great, healthy ways to connect with your friends, such as taking up a hobby or sport together.
If it's because you're feeling stressed or pressured, recognize that drug use is a common way to handle stress, but it's very unhealthy. There are great ways to handle stress, such as exercise, yoga, and meditation. If you feel really stressed out, talking to a therapist could help too.
Remember that your decision-making skills haven’t fully matured if you’re a teen.Choosing to use drugs is a decision that could haunt you for the rest of your life. Will your 50-year-old self thank you for deciding to try drugs?

, Most likely there will come a time when you will be asked to do drugs. Be firm in your answer and do not hesitate. If you hesitate you leave the door open for peer pressure.


If someone who offers you drugs asks you why you do not want to do them you do not need to give any reasons. Just say that you don’t do drugs. If you provide reasons you leave the door open for further conversation, where the person can then try to persuade you to try the drugs.You may have people try to change your mind by saying things such as "But everyone's doing it" or "Just once won't hurt you." Remain firm. You can tell the person that in fact, drug use has gone down among young people, so clearly not everyone is doing it, and you won't be either.Or you can say "Nope, not even once. I don't need that in my life."

, Keep your mind sharp and actively involved in the world around you. If you stay engaged and busy and active you will not have the time to do drugs. Boredom can lead to drug use, so by never being bored you will be less likely to use drugs.Learn a new language. Pick up a hobby. Teach yourself a musical instrument. Volunteer in your community. You will enrich your life (and boost your resume) and help yourself stay away from drugs.
 Depression and low self-esteem can lead to drug use. If you are experiencing depression, you should seek a counselor to help you work through it. In addition, pursuing things that make you happy and maintain your self-esteem will make you less likely to default to drug use.Make a list of everything that makes you happy. Pick a few that are easily attainable, such as experiences like cooking an inexpensive meal, or going to the movies, and be sure to engage in those activities regularly.

