 Nail stickers are super easy to apply and are available in an endless array of shapes, colors and designs. All you need to do do is carefully remove the adhesive backing (or in some cases apply a little nail glue) and press the sticker firmly onto the nail for 10-20 seconds to attach. Little jewel stickers, like the ones shown in the picture above, are popular and can be purchased at most drug stores.









It can be helpful to use a tweezers to apply these stickers, as the tweezers will prevent you from dropping the sticker and prevent the sticker from attaching itself to your finger.
Nail stickers should only be applied once your nail polish has dried completely.
 Another popular nail effect that you can do at home is to "crystallize" your nails using glitter or coarse white sugar. While the clear top coating on your nails is still wet, sprinkle the glitter or sugar onto your nails. As the top coat dries, the little "crystals" will become attached to your nails and you'll have a really cool effect!








, Nail art encompasses a whole range of designs and techniques, many of which require a steady hand and lots of practice! With nail art you can create polka dot, flower, ladybug and bow designs just by using different colored polishes and a toothpick, or you can get even more creative and try gradient, acid-wash and water-color techniques to produce a unique, eye-catching look.
 Color blocking involves using two, three or more polishes of contrasting colors to create cool geometric shapes on each nail. You may want to use a thin paint brush, rather than the brush supplied with the polish, in order to effectively and neatly color block.
 A French manicure consists of natural-colored pink or peach polish topped off with bright white tips. It is an extremely sophisticated look, which can be achieved at home with a little practice.









Contrary to what you might think, the white tip is actually painted on first, using a special white polish provided in most home manicure kits. These kits may also provide adhesive strips which you can apply to your nails in order to get a perfectly straight white line across the tips. Otherwise you will need a very steady hand!
Once you have done the tips and they have completely dried, you can apply the natural colored polish over the white polish, before finishing your nails off with a clear top coat.
 Once you have the basic method of how to paint your nails, the possibilities are endless! Consider painting the galaxy on your nails, get feline fabulous with leopard print nails or be artsy and express yourself with splatter paint nails. If you can think of it, you can make it happen - with nail painting the possibilities are endless!








