 You'll want a time when no one is especially stressed or distracted. Try a time like doing simple chores together, a long car ride, or cleaning up after dinner.


If your parents are moving quickly, being louder than usual, or being short with you, that means they are probably stressed and not ready to listen.
Avoid times of extra stress, like when someone is sick, a big family transition (e.g. right before a vacation), or holidays with relatives over. Your parents may not be as focused, and have a hard time listening well.
 You can say something like "I have something big to tell you, and I'm wondering if now is a good time."

, Mention all the research you've done, and what aspects of autism seem to fit you.


For example, "I think I could be autistic. I've been researching it for the past month, and a lot of the qualities describe me—meltdowns, sensitivity to sound, difficulty understanding others' thoughts and feelings, and fidgeting, for example. I've put a lot of thought into this and it's helped me understand myself better."
Describe the symptoms that are most noticeable in you, especially that others can notice. For example, you lining up your things and having meltdowns may be easier for others to see than your face blindness. Bring up the most obvious ones first.
 If you show that you're open-minded about various possibilities, your parents are more likely to be open-minded too. Instead of saying you're sure you're autistic, say that you think it's possible.


You may have done weeks or months of detailed research, and thus be used to the idea. However, your parents are likely hearing this for the first time. If you sound uncertain, they're less likely to give a knee-jerk "no" response, and they'll take the possibility more seriously.
 Your parent(s) want what's best for you, so focus on how seeing a specialist could improve your life. Here are some examples of the benefits of a diagnosis:


You could learn autism-related techniques for reducing stress in your life, making you more comfortable and calm.
You could do better in school due to getting accommodations, which could improve your grades, enhance your understanding of the material, and/or reduce stress.
You could get therapy focused on your specific challenges (e.g. sensory integration therapy).
You and your parents would have access to a supportive community of autistics and their loved ones.
 Many people don't know much about autism, and rely on stereotypes that don't match autistic people in general, including you.


Many autistic people are able to speak.
Autistic people do care about others, often quite deeply. Many autistics have empathy. However, not all of them know how to show this in ways that others understand.
Autism is not a childhood disability. It is lifelong. There is no "cure."
Autism is not limited to white boys. People of all ethnicities, ages, and genders can be autistic.
Autism is not an epidemic. It isn't contagious, the word "epidemic" is misleading, and autistic people have many unique gifts to offer the world.
Each autistic person is different. Some need a lot of support, while others go for decades without knowing why they're different. The degree to which they have different symptoms may vary.
 Getting care for a disability can be tough if your parents are abusive, neglectful, or otherwise bad. If your parents are dismissive or cruel to you, focus on how their life might be improved by you getting a diagnosis.


For a parent who is annoyed by specific traits you have, such as meltdowns: "A therapist could help me avoid meltdowns, so then I wouldn't be crying and making a scene so much."
For a self-absorbed parent: "Parents are really important in the diagnosis process. I bet they'd want to interview you. After all, you're the expert on what I was like in childhood."
For a parent who is tired of you asking about autism: "If we finally got answers, I wouldn't have to keep wondering why I'm different."

If they don't believe you after some time, go to a school counselor or other trusted adult, and explain the situation. The adult may be able to talk to your parent(s). Once you can see the doctor, you can also explain to the doctor.
 This is big news, and your parents may need time to absorb it. They may also not understand what autism is very well. Do your best to be patient with them if they react badly. It's not personal; they're just confused.
 Your general practitioner or insurance company may be able to refer you to an autism expert, who can officially evaluate you for autism.


If your parents are skeptical, you can explain that seeing a specialist would clear things up.
The diagnosis process is not perfect, and can rely on your ability to produce anecdotes about certain traits you do or don't have. Being prepared for your appointment can help you get a more accurate diagnosis.

