 Are you looking for one specific car, a 1969 Charger for example? Or are you looking to do a restoration that falls in your skill set? Maybe you are a great mechanic, but hate body work or vice versa.;
, Some vehicles may need more extensive mechanical work, while others may only need the oil changed. Likewise, some car bodies will be in pristine condition while others might look like a pile of rust. Check for things like a solid structure or a running motor and only take on repairs that you are comfortable with doing.
 The less work you need to do to a car, the more you’ll pay for it up front. The worse condition the car is in, the cheaper it will be up front. Be careful and consider the costs of repairs, also. You wouldn’t want to spend $500 less on a car that will cost your $5,000 more to repair.
 You can find these at auction houses, your father's garage, or basically anywhere as long as you actively look. Some people hold a lot of value in their old cars, and others simply see them as junk. Be sure to negotiate yourself the best deal on the car. You’ll need any money you save for the restore.
 This way you know how big the job will be and approximately how much it will cost right from the get go. This will help you to plan the restore at a pace that you can accomplish without disappointment., It is a common misconception that dents can just be “popped out.” For the most part this is untrue, though for some specific cases there does exist a highly specialized technique called paintless dent repair (PDR).Almost always, fixing a dent will mean grinding off the existing paint, pulling the dent, filling it with body filler, priming to protect the metal, and then repainting the panel.
 Even if you do not like the color or intend to paint the whole car anyway, a healthy coat of paint on all of the panels means a couple of things. First, a lack of serious scratches on original paint means that this car likely wasn’t involved in major accidents that could damage the frame. Second, paint protects the metal panels on your car from rust.Any scratches that are deep enough to feel with your finger will likely need sanded down and repainted. Minimal scratches, such as wash scratches, can be buffed out.
All bare metal should be primed before painting. All metal should be covered with primer, paint, or another appropriate sealant to protect from rust., Even just a small amount of rust will create lasting problems along the metal body panels on your car. If you have any rust you cannot simply paint over it. You should remove it all and if that creates a hole in the panel you will have to patch it. There are no shortcuts with rust., Old cars often sport chrome bumpers, mirrors, or other parts. These definitely shine the vehicle up, but aren’t as tough as they look. If the imperfections are small then you might be able to repair the part.If the chrome is seriously damaged you will have to replace the part or strip the chrome and rechrome it.
 An easy way to disguise floor problems is to use a nice looking floor mat. Make sure you look underneath any mats, seats, or other hiding places for floor damage.


On the extreme end, a hole in the floor will mean welding a patch, priming, and painting inside your cab. This can be a huge project that takes a lot of time.
 Start by taking out your seats. This is usually done by removing the four bolts on the runners that attach the seat to the floor and then lifting the seat out. Even if no repair is needed this will allow you to give the seats and the interior a deep cleaning. Inspect the seats.


If there are any cuts or gashes in the upholstery, you can try to repair them.If they are large or you have multiple damages, your seats may need to be reupholstered.
Stains can often be removed by cleaning with appropriate stain removers. If you can’t get the stain out, you may consider reupholstering the seat.
 It will likely need cleaned up, but if there are any scratches or other damage to the textured plastic it typically cannot be repaired. This means replacing the damaged pieces. A service manual will help.
 If your project has a solid running engine, this is a good time to clean it up and change the oil. If the engine is not in running order, you will need to repair or rebuild it. This can range from a small, quick job to a very tedious and time consuming process. Be sure you know what you are getting into ahead of time.
 From drive belts to radiator hoses and spark plug wires, your car depends on engine accessories to run. When dealing with a restore, keep in mind that these components may be aged and worn. You should take a careful inventory of what needs replaced and replace it., The engine creates the power, but without a solid drivetrain to deliver it to the pavement it’s useless.


Check your transmission fluid and add some if needed.
If you’re restoring a manual shift car (which is likely), check the clutch to make sure it it working properly.
 Be sure that they are not worn, damaged, or flat. If they are flat try filling them up with air. If they do not hold you might be able to patch the leaking tires. If not you’ll need to replace them. The tread should be at least 2/32” deep, but 4/32” is recommended., It is important to have an efficient exhaust. This decreases harmful emissions and also increases gas mileage which saves you money., Once the car has been restored, the only thing left is to do is drive it. Be sure to show the car off to all of your friends.

