


For bench pressing, keep the reps low but more than five reps. Obviously, the lower pecs come into play and the decline bench presses and parallel bar dips work the lower pecs.
For push-ups and dips increase the repetitions for added strength. Although the resistance, in a push-up, is the same (your body weight), your maximum bench press for five repetitions would be more if you could do 75 push-ups versus 25 push-ups.
 Again, keep the reps low for strength. There is a fine line between upper body exercises like dips and chins in terms of muscles used: both these exercises use the chest and upper back muscles.


Include some curling if doing rowing instead of pull-ups. Absolutely do curls if doing bent over rows, but if doing inverted rows omit curls if your biceps are getting a workout from this row variation.



When doing any pulling movement, stop the lift when the upper arm is in line with the body as shown in diagram A. As a cool down set, use a light weight and pull your arms to past your body line as shown in diagram B, for a full-range movement. Muscles can only pull (in this case, the prime mover is the latissimus dorsi or lats or wings) so when the upper arm passes the body line, the lats are out of play. This can be applied to pull-ups, rowing, chin-ups, pull-downs, and any pulling movement. So, if you are doing a rowing movement (or chins) like in diagram B, you are lifting too light, so add some plates (or an extra repetition or two) until the end of your lift is like that shown in diagram A.
Think about your technique for book ripping and apply your muscles in the angles that they are at their strongest. When doing the initial rip, think of this as a big lat and chest movement primarily instead of an arm movement to impart the maximum strength. Also, add exercises for small muscle groups that are not directly stimulated from doing the multi-joint exercises and which would help to make your book ripping stronger.
 In the bench press, the decline variation is stronger than the prone or incline. With the arms (triceps), the partial movement to full extension is very strong. When ripping a phone book, use your chest and arm muscles at their strongest range.


Note: although the chest muscles are strong in the decline position, the prone position (the flat bench press) has a higher weight lifted because of stability issues (sliding off the bench head first while in the decline position).
 Ripping a phone book demands a strong grip, so do two types of grip work: 1) thick bar lifting or pinch gripping and 2) lever bar lifting. To strengthen the grip in all fingers, the simplest way is to use a thick-handled dumbbell or barbell. A normal diameter bar is 1 1/16th inch, so lift with a thicker bar than this. Notice the rotation movements when doing lever bar movements. Besides the basic rotating movement with the weight on your thumb side of your fist, do a variation with the weight on the little finger side of you fist. When doing forearm rotations with the weight on the little finger side, be careful to avoid momentum movements because this variation is prone to momentum taking over the movement.

