 Do things that expose you to different ways of living, thinking, and feeling. The more you experience and understand about the cultures and peoples of the world, the easier it will be for you to develop true compassion for them. There is some evidence that developing a sense of what you have in common with others can help you develop true compassion.Reach out to organizations and people in your community that may offer you a new perspective. For example, join the International Student Alliance at your school.
Pick a country, lifestyle, or culture that you would like to learn more about. Read books, watch videos, travel, join meet-ups, or online forums to expand your perspective.
 You can broaden your perspective and develop true compassion if you try to put yourself in someone else’s shoes. Putting yourself in their position allows you to tap in to how it might feel to live under certain conditions or to deal with certain situations.


Think about how you would feel in that position. For example, if you see a homeless person, think about how you might feel without the security of shelter.
Consider what you might think and what your attitude might be in general. For instance, if you are imagining what it feels like to be a victim of bullying, you might think, “I would think I was doing something to deserve it and that the bully was making my life awful.”
Role playing allows you to think things like, “I know how I would feel in that situation, so I can imagine how they feel.”

, Once you are able to put yourself in someone else’s shoes and think about how it might make you feel, you can begin to understand how they might feel. This is empathy and it goes hand in hand with developing true compassion.Try to imagine how someone else might feel about a situation. For instance, you might think, “He probably feels embarrassed that he fell in front of everyone.”
Consider the impact your words or actions could have on someone else. For example, you might say to yourself, “I don’t want to say that. It would probably hurt Shannon’s feelings.”

