 Although this is something you probably already do, you might not realize that you’re doing it. Take the time to deliberately look for proof to support or challenge what you’re thinking. Pay attention to past experiences, what people are doing and saying, as well as other evidence that your thoughts are trustworthy.


For example, if you think your presentation is going well, then it probably is. Your own gut feeling could be your evidence. However, you could also look around the room for evidence that people are paying attention and engaged in what you’re talking about.
As another example, if you think your friend is hiding something, you might look for evidence like them acting jumpy or trying to distract you. However, keep in mind that their behavior might not always mean what you think it means. Always investigate further as to the cause of such changes. Ask your friend in the most respectful way why he/she may be exhibiting such behaviors.;
, When you have a thought you’re not sure about it, question it. Ask yourself if it makes sense, if it’s likely, and if there’s evidence to support the thought. This is a good way to assess whether your thoughts make sense and if there is evidence to support them.For example, if you think, “I’m going to pass this test”, ask yourself questions like: “How do I know I’m going to pass,” “Have I done things to make sure I pass,” and “What else can I do so that I pass?” However, try to avoid overthinking any situation because this may lead to anxiety.
Or, for instance, if you think someone has a crush on you, you might ask yourself, “What makes me think so? Is it likely that they have a crush on me? Why wouldn’t they have a crush on me?”

, Mindfulness requires you to pay attention and accept what you are feeling, sensing, and doing in the present. Being aware of your thoughts and feelings is a great way to start determining if your thoughts are trustworthy.When you’re aware of how you’re thinking you can assess whether the thoughts are trustworthy. Being mindful can also help you recognize other signs your body and environment may be giving about the trustworthiness of your thoughts.


Instead of multitasking, which spreads your thoughts across several things, do one thing at a time and focus completely on that one thing.
To be mindful, means to be aware of all things, including your thoughts, but also to let these things pass. Because when you focus too hard on certain things you may forget that your sole purpose is to just live and experience.
For example, if you’re talking with a friend, you might turn the game off. You might notice how they’re acting, how they smell, that you feel tense, and that you’re thinking about asking them out.

