 While most banks and issuers will allow you to trace your money order without a receipt, some will not. For example, if you have lost your receipt for a USPS money order and wish to trace it, read no further. USPS does not allow tracing of any money order without a receipt.Call your issuer's customer service number (easily found on their website) to see if they can trace a money order without a receipt.
 You will need to contact the issuer of the money order. This is the service that actually processes the order, usually your bank, the US Postal Service, or another money-sending service like MoneyGram or Western Union. You should not contact the reseller of your money order, which could be any convenience store, supermarket, or other store where your money order was purchased., Money orders purchased from an institution other than a bank may be difficult to track. Try to come up with as much information as possible to help the institution locate your money order before contacting them. Important information to have may include:


Date and time of purchase
Your contact information
Where you bought it
The amount of the money order
Any information about other money orders you purchased on that day, if applicable.
 How this process will work varies between issuers.


For a bank-issued money order, your bank will likely keep a copy of the receipt, as they are the issuing institution. It is also likely that they will be able to identify your money order from your account history and trace it this way. However, none of this is guaranteed and will vary between banks. Contact yours for more information.For tracing orders through a non-bank issuer (such as MoneyGram or Western Union) without a receipt, this will have to be done either in person at the store or with the agent that you purchased the money order from or through the mail. Both options will require you to fill out a form that requires some or all of the information listed above, pay a fee, and either turn it in at the store or mail it in.For Western Union "Research Requests," as these requests are called, a fee of $30 must be paid at the store or included with the mailed-in form., Depending on the issuer and the materials you can provide, this can be either an easy or a time-consuming process.


If the money order is located and has not been cashed, Western Union will either refund your money or replace the money order.
For MoneyGram money orders, expect that, if the money order has not been cashed, the full amount will be refunded to you within 30 to 65 days of filing the correct paperwork. If the money order has been cashed, though, you will only receive a photocopy of the cashed money order.