 A dog with diabetes insipidus pretty much needs constant access to an outside area. Installing a doggie door is a good way to handle this.Another might be the canine equivalent of a cat-litter box, perhaps utilizing the large type of tray used by garage's to collect oil drips from beneath cars.
 The synthetic version of ADH is called desmopressin, or DDAVP. This is available only in liquid form and is supplied in a dropper bottle. You will have to place the drops either in your dog’s nostril or eye. Although this sounds a bizarre way to give your dog medication, the DDAVP is absorbed well through these openings, and can be quickly absorbed into the bloodstream.In addition to this, oral forms don’t work because the medication gets destroyed by the digestive tract.
The dose is 2 to 4 drops twice a day into the eye or nose. The effect plateaus at around 4 drops, and increasing the dose further has not additional benefit.Sadly, even treatment with DDAVP does not reduce the concentration of urine your dog produces. The aim of treatment is to decrease the amount of water lost in the urine, so that your dog's drinking is manageable and your dog does not constantly have urinary accidents.
 Ironically, chlorothiazide belongs to a family of drugs called diuretics (these are drugs which encourage water loss from the body). The mode of action in diabetes insipidus is to cause sodium loss from the body (one of the actions that a diuretic has), which stimulates the body's tissue to reclaim fluid from the blood (instead of the kidney filtering water and holding onto it).


This drug does not make the urine a normal concentration, but can make it approximately 50% more concentrated than without treatment.While this is not perfect, this can make an appreciable difference in the amount of water the dog drinks and consequently urinates out. In turn this helps with house-soiling problems, if the dog does not need to go out to pass water quite so often.
The dose is 20 to 40 mg/kg given by mouth twice a day. This is available as a tablet for humans, in 250 mg and 500 mg strengths. Thus a 10 kg dog could safely be given a 250 mg tablet twice daily., Because the urine is dilute, it lacks the normal disinfectant properties that help keep bacteria in check, and an important part of treating diabetes insipidus is to monitor for evidence of urinary tract infections. Even dogs receiving treatment are not able to fully concentrate their urine and are therefore more likely to acquire bladder infections.Have your vet perform a dipstick test once a month to look for signs in the blood that could indicate a low grade infection. Every three months, a urine sample should be sent for culture, to try to identify any bugs that are surviving at a low concentration but are not causing overt signs of infection.
If is important to identify and treat urinary infections because the bacteria may track from the bladder up the ureter (the tubes connecting the bladder to the kidney) and set up a kidney infection.

