 For some people, their dream job doesn’t already exist. They have to put in the effort to make it happen. If you have a vision of a business, Become an Entrepreneur to put it into action. Being an entrepreneur takes a lot of work and internal motivation, but it gives you far more control than most other jobs, and can be incredibly rewarding.If you are having trouble coming up with ideas, think of the things you love to do. Then figure out how to turn these things into a venture that would make you money.Remember that becoming an entrepreneur is risky, and is often only possible for those in good financial standing.
Before going forward with your plan, make sure that there is adequate demand and interest in the goods or services that you will be providing.
Networking is an essential part of being an entrepreneur, both to be able to attract people to your business, and to find potential investors.
 If you fall in love with a company but it has no job openings, consider what you have to offer them. Do research using their website, Glassdoor, their Facebook page, or press releases, and see if there seem to be departments or specific areas that are underdeveloped. Then come up with a pitch about how you could develop and improve these areas.For instance, you may notice that the company has a very bare social media presence. Write a pitch about how you would be able to amp up their social media, and why this would be an asset to the company.
 If you are already working at a company you like but are unhappy with your role, consider asking for additional work outside the usual bounds of your position. You may find work that interests and excites you more than they work you are currently doing, without even having to apply for other jobs!You can say to your boss, "I'm really interested in working more in the development department. Coming from customer service, I have a lot of ideas about how our company can encourage its customers to give back."

, If you can identify something that your company is lacking, make a pitch to your boss. Since you are already very familiar with the company, you should be able to identify problems in a detailed way and be able to offer a solution.Either propose to hold on to some of your old responsibilities while you work this new role, or see if it’s possible to delegate them to someone else.
This is a good solution if you like your company, but don’t like the position you’re in currently. It’s a way to let you work in areas that you enjoy while still staying in the same work environment.

