 Look at the Things You'll Need section to see what you'll need for the procedure. You will find most of these items at your local hardware store. However, you may need to do some online shopping to complete the list. Be sure to have everything together and set out before beginning. Don't forget to wear your safety gear at all times.
 These tinctures have only a small amount of iodine. Multiple bottles are necessary for significant results. Many tinctures are only about 2% iodine.


Do not use povidone iodine for this extraction. Extracting iodine from povidone iodine requires a different procedure than discussed in this method.
 Use purified water for this step. The water will have minimal effect on the tincture so you do not need to be careful about pouring at this point. Just avoid splashing.


Distilled water is a type of purified water. Distilled water can be used as well.
 Pour the mixture slowly. Fumes will begin forming while mixing. Do not inhale the fumes as they are toxic.


Muriatic acid found in hardware stores is about 30% hydrochloric acid. This will work for this method of iodine extraction.
 You need about 10 milliliters of bleach per bottle of tincture. Slowly pour the bleach into the solution. Fumes will begin to form as you pour. Be careful not to inhale the fumes.


You will see iodine crystals begin forming within the solution and settling on the bottom. Wait until there are few to no new crystals forming before filtering.
 Secure them using a rubber band. Use two coffee filters instead of only one here. The acids will act on the filters, and a single filter may break.
 Pour slowly to allow the solution to drain through. When you get to the bottom, solid iodine crystals may remain in the beaker. Pour purified water into the beaker, swirl, and filter until all crystals are in the filter.
 Scrape the crystals into an evaporation dish to allow them to dry. Let them dry only as long as necessary. The iodine crystals will turn into gas (i.e., sublimate) if left out.
 Something like a test tube will work well. Use something small to reduce the amount of potential sublimation.

