 If you're at a bigger school, you may find the sheer number of new people a bit intimidating. That's okay. Everyone feels that way at first. Get past the intimidation of the numbers and you'll find dozens, if not hundreds, of people that you get with and learn from. Many people look back on their college years with good memories, often because of the friendships that they made.
 College events are lot different from the compulsory events you might have done in high school. Because no one is forced to participate, the people who are there enjoy being there on their own. It's no secret the real draw of clubs and events is the social aspect. You'll probably meet a lot of people with similar interests, a few people you don't get along with, and a few people with absolutely amazing backgrounds. C'est la vie: it's a cross-section of life.


Take the time to do clubs and events outside your immediate social circle. It's fine to invite your best friends to participate in your club's activities. But what if bringing your friends along means that you wouldn't have met another potential friend? Try to meet as many interesting people as possible during your time in college. Don't make friendship an exclusive right shared only by you and your inner circle.
 Be yourself and get in the mood for meeting new people. However, be smart and be cautious. Go with friends and use the buddy system. Be your friend's keeper. Keep an eye on your friend and see if s/he's drinking too much, and ask your friend to keep an eye on you also. Never leave your friend alone, impaired, in an unsafe or unfamiliar environment.


Be a gracious party-goer. Don't litter bottles around someone's room, make a mess in someone's kitchen, or use someone's bed without their permission. Bring cups or soda, or if you're old enough, beer or wine. It's never bad being the person that the host takes a liking to because they're generous and well-mannered.
Be careful about drugs. Know which drugs are likely to harm you and which drugs are milder. (Alcohol and marijuana in moderation aren't likely to put you into the emergency room, but cocaine, meth, hallucinogenic, and painkillers can all be potentially fatal.) Some students find that college is a time to experiment with drugs, but follow your conscience. Don't do anything you're not comfortable doing. In addition, remember that more often than not, you don't know what's in a particular drug.
 Many college-bound freshmen are still alarmingly ignorant about sex. In college, people like to brag about sex. The truth is that college students have sex at a much lower rate than their braggadocio might suggest. One study found that a majority of participants had 1 or fewer sexual partner over the course of a year.Another survey found that 59% of students reported having no sexual partners in the last 30 days.Always use protection. Whether you're a guy or a girl, always keep a condom on you if you're sexually active. If used correctly, a condom is 98% effective in preventing pregnancy.Don't agree on sex unless you or your partner uses protection. Contracting HIV, herpes, or another STI is as easy as having unprotected sex one time. And unlike your excitement, which will fade with time, an STI like herpes won't go away.Understand that alcohol severely impairs your judgment and decision-making skills. Even a small amount of alcohol will decrease your inhibitions, meaning that you'll find it easier to justify having sex with someone you might not have if you were sober.Understand this before you start drinking.
Get straight on the myths about sex. Let's debunk some of the myths about sex:

"The birth control pill protects me from STIs." Myth. Birth control will not protect you from STIs like HIV/AIDS."I can't get pregnant if I'm on my period." Myth. You can absolutely get pregnant when you're on your period.

"I can't get pregnant if I'm a virgin and it's my first time having sex." Myth. Unfortunately, this is false. You still have a 5% chance of getting pregnant.

"The birth control pill is effective the first day you start taking it." Myth. It can take up to a month for the birth control pill to become effective.
 (Actually, if you feel like it, eating alone doesn't have to be a bad thing.) Taken from the name of a book by Keith Ferrazzi, the idea is that networking, or making connections that might jumpstart your career at a later date, can be made easy and doesn't have to be a bad thing. Make the most of your opportunities while you're in college. Turn time in the mess hall into a rewarding lesson in personal development.

