 The Bible itself doesn't contain any special instructions for its own disposal. Though the word of God is considered by Christians to be holy and eternal, the physical document that contains the word is acknowledged as being neither. Still, with its millenia-long history, its billions of devotees, and its rich spiritual tradition, it's important to show the Bible the respect it is due, even if you're not Christian. Virtually any reasonable method of Bible disposal is appropriate as long as it's done with virtuous intentions and with careful respect.


To show your respect, you may want to recite a prayer (or prayers) that hold(s) special meaning for you as you dispose of your Bible, though this is by no means required.

Never destroy a Bible with a method that is deliberately irreverent. Though it's not inherently sinful to treat an object of paper and ink with disrespect, it is sinful to deliberately denigrate God.
 One way to dispose of an old Bible is to return it to the Earth with a respectful burial. The burial may be as "involved" as you'd like (within reason), though a humble burial is just as valid as one with more pomp and circumstance. Below are just a few ideas you may want to consider for your burial:


Gathering with family members in quiet reflection
Saying a prayer as the Bible is buried
Enlisting the help of a priest to bless the Bible
Marking the buried Bible's location with a small marker

, Another way to dispose of a Bible is to respectfully cremate it (similar to how many national flags are retired). Though some who wish to disrespect or desecrate God's word do so by burning it, there is nothing inherently wrong with burning the physical Bible so long as proper solemnity and respect are observed. Generally, burning a Bible means building a bonfire or pyre large enough to completely burn the book up, then carefully placing the Bible in the fire and reverently watching as the Bible is burnt.


As above, while cremating your Bible, you may want to consider saying a prayer, reflecting in silence, and so on.
 Finally, since the Bible is made out of paper, you may want to dispose of it by recycling it. This is an especially good choice if you're interested in serving God by preserving the natural beauty of his Earth, as recycling reduces the need to cut down trees for new paper.


However, for many, "throwing out" the Bible in the same way as they might throw out ordinary paper trash can feel wrong, regardless of the intent of the act. In this case, you may want to create a special vessel for the Bible to separate it from the rest of the trash by placing it in its own bag or box.
 Though most Christian churches will accept nearly all methods of Bible disposal so long as they are performed with good intentions and proper respect, some select Christian churches may hold that it is sinful to destroy the physical vessel of God's word regardless of how or why it is done. If you subscribe to the beliefs of this type of church, you will probably want to consult with a member of your clergy to ensure that you dispose of the Bible according to your church's unique rules.


In this case, follow the advice in the rest of this article only after receiving confirmation from a qualified member of your church.

