 If your passions are very wide-reaching, you can see if a double major is an option. You may be able to choose more than one major so you're able to study everything that interests you personally. You also may be able to declare one or two minors, allowing you to explore multiple interests.Remember, a double major may require a great deal of extra work. Before declaring a double major, make sure that you're able to commit to the demands required.
 You may want to choose a major that closely reflects your future job description. However, keep in mind tastes and passions change over time. While your dream job now may be to work for a grassroots environmental organization, majoring in something too specific to that field limits your options upon graduation. This can make your job search more difficult if you start looking into different careers.It's particularly important to keep your major open if you're not sure about your future career at all. You could, for example, look into majoring in a general field like biology or psychology. This gives you the opportunity to pursue a variety of careers, or graduate programs, upon graduation.
 There's no need to select a major immediately your freshmen year if you're truly unsure. Instead of immediately selecting a major, give yourself a couple of semesters to explore your options. Get your general education requirements out of the way while taking a few classes that interest you. This can help you figure out what you want to study more specifically in the future., Nothing is set in stone, especially early on in college. Many students change their majors at least once during the course of their college career. If you're stressed out about picking a major, don't be. You can always switch majors sometime sophomore year if you dislike the path you chose., You can always ask around if you're not sure. In addition to college advisers, talk to people you trust who've gone through the college experience. Friends, family members, and professors can all help guide you.


If you have parents and older siblings who completed college, ask them how they chose their major. They may be able to offer you some guidance.
If you know other students in a major you're interested in, ask them about it. For example, "Hey, you're an English major? Can we get coffee some time and you can tell me about your major. I'm thinking of studying English as well."
You can also ask a professor. If your goal is to, say, teach biology at the university level, ask your biology teacher about what they majored in during college.

