 No matter how corny or clichéd this tip is, it's the single most important way to look attractive and natural. If you feel beautiful, you will look beautiful to those around you. Nothing draws people in more than a woman who knows her worth and struts her stuff with confidence.


Make a list of the qualities you love about yourself, both internal and external. When you are feeling insecure, read it.
Sometimes it's hard to avoid feeling insecure, but try not to let it show. Even if you don't feel 100% confident all the time, fake it 'til you make it. Soon, confidence will be second nature.
 Endorphins from exercise will give you a natural high, and this joy is extremely attractive. The proper diet not only benefits your hair, skin, and body, but it also simply makes you feel better.Your overall health is reflected to the world, and healthy habits can make you appear youthful and attractive. When you treat yourself right with a great diet and exercise routine, you help yourself feel comfortable and sexy in your own skin. What is more attractive than that?


Aim for getting at least thirty minutes of exercise a day.Get up and get your blood pumping in whatever way you enjoy. Whether you like running, dancing, riding bikes, playing soccer, or kickboxing, just make sure you're making exercise a part of your regular routine.
For your diet, focus on eating fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, as well as beans, eggs, nuts, and meat. The most important thing is to control portion sizes. Healthy eating plans typically contain between 1,500 to 1,800 calories daily, though weight loss is achieved by reducing daily intake., If you like bright colors, don't be afraid to wear them. If you can't get enough vintage clothing, embrace it. Don't get caught up in following trends, but instead wear clothing that makes you feel your best. The right outfit can make a girl feel like she can conquer the world, and that confidence is intoxicating.By dressing exactly how you want, it truly becomes effortless and natural.


Play around with different ways to dress for your body type. Try to find something that not only flatters your particular body, but makes you feel great. Wear pieces that show off the body parts you're most proud of, and don't feel the need to go along with every passing trend.

