 Class can seem much more boring if you are not paying attention and if you’re not an active participant. You may feel nervous about it at first, but try to participate in class discussions. You should also try to answer questions when the teachers ask them. Being engaged in your learning environment will make the time pass faster, the material more interesting, and it will benefit your education.Make notes about points you would like to make or questions you’d like to answer.
Ask for feedback about points you’ve made.
 A classroom doesn’t always have to be strictly serious. Depending on your teacher, make jokes about the course material during class discussions. During breaks, joke with your friends. Be sure that you aren’t making inappropriate jokes or disrupting the classroom environment.If you’re learning about physics, learn some physics jokes. For example: Q: What is the name of the first electricity device? A: Sherlock Ohms., Your teacher may say no, but it doesn’t hurt to ask your teacher to do something out of the ordinary occasionally. Ask to prepare a lesson that is more interactive than usual. You can also ask to have class outside on an especially beautiful day. Plan the activity according to the subject you’re learning.


For example, if you’re in an environmental science class, ask the teacher if it would be possible to go outside and learn about the environment firsthand.
 If taking notes seems boring, find a way to liven it up. Use colored or glittery pens. Find colored paper, or use paper that has a design in the corners. Bring multicolored highlights to highlight important parts of the lecture. You can also doodle in the corner of your paper if it helps you focus on what the teacher is saying.Work on some different, fun ways to organize the notes until you find a way that works for you.
 If you can’t manage to make class itself more exciting, create rewards for yourself for doing well in class. For example, get a candy bar to eat after class if you manage to sit through class without losing focus. Or, allow yourself to watch an extra hour of television that night if you take notes throughout the duration of the class.