 By the time you wake up will have gone anywhere from six to nine hours without any food. A hectic morning might make you want to grab a quick doughnut and coffee to go, but you'll be better off having a balanced meal that gives you nutrients for the day


While you should always strive for a balanced breakfast, having two or less cups of coffee in addition to nutrient-rich food can jumpstart your metabolism for the day. Coffee is also a rich source of antioxidants. Avoid cream and sugar to keep it lower in calories.Eating in the morning can help get your metabolism moving and keep you feeling full and energized until lunch. Skipping breakfast may seem like a way to cut your calories, but fueling your metabolism using healthy options is important to jumpstarting your weight loss goals.;
, It's really important to load up on protein rich foods in the morning. Researchers at the University of Missouri, for example, have found that people who consume a breakfast of 35 grams of protein are less likely to gain body fat as opposed to those who ingest less. Protein requires work to digest and will make your metabolism get to work early and leave your body feeling full longer. Dairy . Dairy is a great source of protein. Milk, cheese and yogurt are chalk full of whey protein. A cup of greek yogurt with nuts can yield 26 grams of protein and adding a glass of milk can put you at your 35 gram goal. Cottage cheese is another great option with a 4 ounce serving containing 13 grams of protein. Whey protein, found in dairy, will help keep your blood sugar stable and helps curb cravings and unhealthy food choices.
Eggs. Eggs are a great source of protein. Whether you like them hard-boiled, scrambled, or fried, eggs can be a great way to get your morning protein with as much as 6 grams per egg. They are also such a versatile food that you likely won't run out of new ways to deliciously prepare them.
Lean meats. Although you may be tempted to grab some bacon, it is best to get your protein through lean meats. Chicken and salmon are ideal options. If you want to have sausage or bacon, make it turkey meat for a leaner, healthier option.
 While potatoes, toast, doughnuts and bagels are common breakfast foods, these high carb, low protein foods will be burnt quickly by your metabolism and leave you feeling hungry and sapped of energy.


There are good and bad carbohydrates. Medical research recommends adults get 45-65% of their calories from carbohydrates. You can get the benefits of carbs without the bad by making good choices. Vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and beans have carbs but are full of fiber and important vitamins. Carb rich foods high in fiber can have great health benefits but you'll want to avoid refined "white" grains (like white rice and white bread) and sugary processed food in favor of plant based, whole grain options. 