 Unless you have short hair, you'll need to tie it away from your face. This will ensure that you don't smear the hair closest to your face with makeup. Tie it back in a ponytail, and tuck it behind your ears.;
, Start by taking a water-based green face paint and applying it to your face with a large brush. This paint should be a light green color and not too thick so you can add shades and textures to it. The paint should come out looking sheer -- it will thicken later.


After you've applied the paint with the brush, you can buff it with a second brush. Use a large brush to gently even out the paint by brushing it in small circular motions, helping to avoid any crease lines that may appear as the paint dries.
If you'd like to add fake warts or texture to your face, you should apply a prosthetic wart or puffed cereal to your face using spirit gum or special glue for applying warts.
 Use the same large brush to paint your neck just a bit further past the place where your neck will be covered by your wardrobe. This will keep your witch look consistent -- you don't want the authenticity to be ruined if your natural skin tone shows below your chin.
 Use a foundation brush to cover the insides of your ears with green paint. This may tickle a bit, but it will make you look more realistic. Even if your ears will be covered by your hair, making them green will be more authentic.
 Use the same foundation brush to gently apply the paint just below your hairline, so your natural skin tone doesn't peek through above your head. Just apply the paint around the outline of your hair, taking care not to cover your hair in green paint.
 Find a green cream stick with a slightly gold tint to cover the area below your eyes. You won't be able to reach the area with the thick brush you used to color the rest of your face. This will help offset your eyes. You can use a sponge to color down the gold tint to create a metallic, shiny tone. You can then dust off this color with a pound brush.
 Now take a sponge and color down the green paint by applying a light yellow tone all over your face. First, dab the area below your and above your eyes. Then, cover your entire face with the yellow tone and then dust it off with a powder brush to smooth it into the green base paint. This will make your face look more eerie and glowing and will add substance to the plain green color you began with.


Apply a thin brush with a yellow-green tint over your face to add more of a highlight to your skin.
 Line the outside of your lids with a dark purple shade that is almost black. Draw the line along your eyelid crease and connect it to the outside of your eyelid. Then, add a darker gold shade to your lids to make them pop out more. Line the bottoms and tops of your lids with black liner. For a more extreme and spooky look, you can use dark red liner instead.
 Apply the same purple shade to your cheeks and temple to create a hollowed look. Apply it in the same place where you would apply blush. You can also apply it along the jawline.
 Witches have dramatically arched brows, so find the natural arch of your brow and accentuate it with a black eyebrow pencil by raising it up a bit and extending your brow a fingernail's length past its natural length.
 Apply green lipstick to your lips and then cover it with green lip liner . After that, line your lips with black liner. You can even draw short vertical black lines on your lips to create creepy cracks.
 Even out your face by brushing out any uneven areas and apply eyeliner with a black brush again after the eye makeup has dried a bit. If you'd like to apply fake eyelashes, you can do so now, or you can just apply some thick lengthening mascara. Once the paint dries, you can let down your hair and prepare the rest of your wicked witch costume.

