 This style of dress has a bodice and a gathered skirt. Choose a fitted T-shirt that fits you well without stretching too much. Next, choose a material for the skirt. You can use matching cotton fabric, jersey fabric, or a large, baggy T-shirt. The colors and patterns can match, or they can be different.


For an interesting look, try a solid-colored shirt with pattered cotton for the skirt.
 Turn your shirt inside out and put it on. Decide where you want the bodice part of the dress to end and the skirt to begin. This is typically just below the bust or right at the waist. Make a mark using a pin or a dress maker's chalk or pen. Pull the shirt off when you are done.


Use chalk for dark colored fabric and pen for light colored fabric.
 If you need to, use a ruler and a dress maker's chalk or pen to draw a line across your shirt. Cut through both layers of fabric ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) below that line. This will be your seam allowance., Use a measuring tape to measure down from where you want the bodice to end and the skirt to begin. Add ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) for the top seam and 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) for the bottom hem. The skirt part can be as long or as short as you'd like.
 It needs to be the same length you want it to be, plus the additional 1½ inch (3.81 centimeters), and at least four times wider than the width of your shirt. The wider the fabric is, the fuller the skirt will be!

, Fold the skirt material in half with the right sides facing in. It should still be the same length you want it to be. Sew it along the edge using a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance and a straight stitch.


If you are using stretchy fabric for the skirt, use a narrow zigzag stitch instead.
 The first row should be ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) away from the top edge, and the second row should be ¾ inch (1.91 centimeters) away from the top edge. You can make a basting stitch by using a long stitch length and a low/loose stitch tension.You will eventually be pulling these threads out, so the color does not matter. In fact, a contrasting color will help you find them later on.
 The bobbin threads will be on the back side of your fabric. Make sure that you are pulling on both threads at the same time. This will keep your gathering more even. Stop pulling when the top of the skirt is the same width as the bottom of your bodice., Turn the shirt right side out. Tuck it into the top of the skirt. Align the bottom/cut edge of the shirt with the gathered top edge of the skirt. The shirt should now be inside the skirt. Make sure that the skirt's seam is centered on the back of the shirt. Pin the two together with sewing pins.
 Use a narrow zigzag stitch, a stretch stitch, or a serged stitch. Sew with a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance., Measure around your chest or torso (wherever it was that you wanted the bodice to end and the skirt to begin). Cut some ⅜-inch (9.5-millimeter) elastic according to that measurement.Use white elastic if your dress is light colored and black elastic if it is dark colored.
 Pin the end of the elastic to the center back of your dress, right into the joining seam. Sew the elastic to the hem using a zigzag stitch, a stretch stitch, or a serged stitch. Pull the elastic taut as you sew. This will gather the dress some more and allow it to stretch when taking it on and off., When you are back to where you started, overlap the elastic by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Sew back and forth across the elastic a few times, then cut off the excess. Knot your thread and trim it down., Remember those threads that you used to gather your skirt? Now is the time to pull them out. Find the ends, and pull on them until the threads come out., Fold the bottom edge of the dress up by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), all the way around. Press it with an iron. Fold it up by another ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) and press it again. Insert some sewing pins, if necessary.
 Sew ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeters) away from the inside edge of the hem. Use a thread color that matches the skirt fabric. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing, and remove any pins as you sew.
 If you'd like, you can embellish it further by adding a sash to the waistband or stitching pretty appliqué to the shoulders of collar.

