 Before applying makeup, you should always have a freshly washed and moisturized face. This will keep breakouts to a minimum and your makeup will go on more easily and look better once it’s on.


After you apply the moisturizer to clean skin, wait about 10 minutes before you start applying your makeup. This will give the moisturizer time to absorb completely into your skin.;
, Scene makeup emphasizes bold eye makeup choices, but as a preteen you don't want to go too overboard with it. Using the best palette for your skin tone allows you to be a little daring with your eye makeup without looking overdone.


Regardless of your skin tone, get some natural-looking, soft eyeshadow colors - those look good on everyone. Think soft nudes, pearly beiges, soft browns, and shimmery champagnes.
If you have pale skin, light red tones and soft greens are good for eyeshadow.If you're tan, pale yellows and vibrant greens are good eyeshadow choices.
If you have dark skin, go with soft golds and purple berry shades., Brush the eyeshadow of your choice over the entire eyelid, starting at the inner corner of your eye and working outward. Then sweep that same eyeshadow color under your eye, very close to the lash line.


With scene makeup, lots of older girls will wear multiple neon shades at one time. Until you get the hang of it, try experimenting with two.
Eyeshadow brushes are best for applying scene eyeshadow, as opposed to eyeshadow wands. Wands are the tiny little tools that all eyeshadow compacts come with.
Eyeshadow brushes are purchased separately and they basically look like paintbrushes. You can get one for cheap in any makeup department.
 Use a little more of your main shade to go over what you've already done to brighten it up. If you want to add another color, choose one that's darker than your main shade and work it into the crease of your eyelids. This will make your eyes really pop with color, which is what you want when doing scene makeup.
 Starting at the inner corner of your upper eyelid and working outward, gently draw a line all the way to the edge of your eye, where your eyelid ends. Follow the natural shape of your eyelid, very close to your lash line.


The older scene girls will be using heavy black eyeliner all the way around their eyes, so you'll want to go for that look, just less intense. The idea is to make the colorful eyelid pop with the addition of the dark eyeliner color.You can draw a line lightly under your bottom lash line if you want to go for a slightly bolder look. Another step bolder would be to connect the two lines, creating a rounded edge on the outside corner of your eye.Use an eyeliner pencil or a kohl pencil. As a preteen, liquid liner maybe be a little too dark and unnatural looking. It’s can also be pretty hard to work with - it takes a bit of practice to get right. Master the eyeliner pencil first!

, If you don’t have an eyelash curler already, invest in one. Yes, it looks a bit intimidating, like some kind of torture instrument! But they are very easy to use and can make a huge difference in your final look. Curling your eyelashes really opens up the eye, and remember - scene makeup is all about the eyes!

, Brush the mascara wand softly across the lashes, starting close to your lid at the bottom of your lashes and sweeping out to the ends of your lashes. You can gradually move up to more layers of mascara once you get into the groove of makeup, but start slowly and naturally with one coat for now.


Wait until your mascara dries completely before moving on to the rest of your makeup - about 3 to 5 minutes.
 You’ll notice that the older scene girls are using lighter foundation makeup on their faces to make their complexions look paler, but that can look very unnatural. For now, go with a natural skin tone. Use a sponge applicator to apply a very thin layer of foundation all over your face. Make sure to cover your skin evenly.


You want this to be as sheer and natural looking as possible. You can try a BB cream instead of a true foundation if you want something much easier to work with – and those creams look far more natural, as well.
You apply BB cream with a sponge applicator, just as you would regular foundation. You can buy them in the same area of the store where you’d get the foundation.
 Choose a concealer that matches your skin tone, just as you did with the foundation. Dab the concealer lightly onto the blemish area and blend the edges to make it look more natural.


Skip this step if you don’t have any blemishes! Concealer can look heavy and unnatural if you use too much of it, and you want to avoid that completely. Don’t try to cover up your freckles or anything like that.
Wait about five minutes before moving on to the next steps. This will give your foundation and concealer time to absorb completely into your skin.
 Start by smiling into the mirror. See those round cheeks pop up? That’s where you want to apply the blush. Use a big fluffy brush to apply your blush with light circular strokes on the apples of your cheeks.


You only need to use a little bit of blush to brighten your face, especially since the older scene girls are going so pale with their makeup. It’s more scene looking if you use just a hint of blush.
Choose a soft, natural looking rose color for your blush.
 Use a big fluffy brush for this, as well. Not the same one you used for your blush, however! You’ll want to keep those brushes separate.


Dusting the translucent powder on last “sets” your makeup, which means it keeps it in place and makes it last longer.
Powder also gets rid of any shine you have on your face. The older scene girls will be going for a very matte (not shiny) complexion.
 Now that you’re at the end of the scene makeup routine, you’ll want to step back from the mirror and take a look at your face as a whole. It’s easy to get distracted by one particular thing when you are focused on applying makeup to different parts of your face, but the important thing is the final, overall look.


If the color is uneven, lightly apply a little more eyeshadow to the eyelid that needs a color boost. Step back from the mirror and check again before adding any more. You probably only need a tiny bit to even them up.
 If you find that your eyeliner is thinner on one eye than it is on the other, lightly add a bit more until they are evenly matched. It doesn’t have to be perfect, but it needs to be as close as you can get.
 You want to make sure there is no visible line around the edges of your face left by the foundation, because that would look very unnatural. If you do notice a line, take a sponge applicator and dab at it until it looks evenly blended.
 It’s the eyes that you really want to emphasize with color. Apply a plain lip balm or a light berry-colored gloss to your lips as the final step.

