 It's always good to make your invitations yourself. Use lots of glitter; this adds the Hollywood glamor.


Use red paper for the invitation. On the front, draw a star with glue, then sprinkle gold glitter over it.
Include your name, the date of the party, the time, the location, how to RSVP and by when, and any other information that you consider essential (for example, what to bring, how to dress etc.)
If you don't want to make your own invitations, there are some printable ones available at the base of this article; simply print them off and fill them in.;
, This invitation should be fun and cool. Use exquisite handwriting.


Include whether there will be a change in location, what to bring, what time your guests should be picked up, etc.
 In the invitation, ask your guests to bring make-up and hair accessories. Depending on your guest age, you may or may not have a lot. So have some on hand in case there is not a lot.
 Go to a party store and ask if they have red carpet props. If they don't, ask if they know where to get one.


If you cannot find a pre-made red carpet anywhere, make one out of fabric. Simply purchase red fabric and have the fabric store cut it to the length you need. Alternatively, visit a local thrift store and have a rummage. You might be lucky and find red fabric, a red sheet or even a red rug that you can transform. Even a few old white sheets can work; just dye them red and lay them down to serve as the red carpet.
 Stretch out the carpet as long as possible so that your guests can do many poses as they walk down. If possible, have the red carpet leading up to the room where the award show will be in.


Arrange it so that you come down the carpet last.
If you can, have someone videotaping or taking pictures.
 This is where people will accept awards, sit around to eat the party food and where you can play party games. Hang gold balloons up, throw around fancy streamers and make the room appear as glamorous as possible. Use chic tablecloths and elegant centerpieces for tables in the room.
 Aim for chic and cute food, and plenty of it. Everyone may be dressed as movie stars but they don't want to starve like one! Have plenty of candies if you're planning a sleepover as well and some tasty breakfast food too.


The cake can take on a Hollywood theme. Choose one that represents Hollywood for you, such as a mini Hollywood sign on a cake or an edible print cake topping featuring a favorite actor.
 No big Hollywood event would be complete without interviews! Have someone bring a video camera and have at least one camera operator, one interviewer, and one celebrity.


Take turns! Create an entire red carpet show pre-awards show! Start out with something like: "Here comes Miss (last name) coming down the red carpet! Miss (last name), may I have an interview?" or: "Oh my gosh! Here comes (first and last name)! I hope I can interview her! Miss (last name), may I have an interview?"

,
Did you have fun making it?
How does it feel to be nominated for an award tonight?
What plans do you have right now?
Is it true that you and -insert celebrity here- are now a couple?
And of course the obligatory, "What are you wearing tonight? Who is the designer?".
 After the interviews, ask each guest to perform either a dance or song.


When the guests RSVP, have them tell you what song they will dance to or what song they will sing to.
A good place to get your music is AOL Music (http://www.aolmusic.com ) because all the music is completely free and you don't need an account. If you will not be able to access the music in the awards room, then ask them to provide the music unless you have the CD that the music is on.
If you don't have the music and your guest doesn't, then they will have to probably change the song unless you or the guest can somehow get a hold of it before the party.
If someone is going to dance, make sure there is a clear space for them. You might have to go outside if they need a big space.
Try to tape the performances so that everyone can watch them at the VIP party.
 This is a very important part of the party because this is what the guests have been invited to. Think of a name for your show. You can use the original names, such as Grammies, Oscars, Academy Awards, Golden Globes, etc. Or you can make up your own names, anything you want.


Ask your parent and/or siblings for name ideas.
For the award prizes or trophies, buy little statues from a party store or a catalog If you don't want statues, you can make certificates. You could even spray paint old dolls to make them look like Oscar statuettes. Look in thrift stores for unwanted dolls.
 The VIP party is the really fun part of the party. Here you will dance, watch movies, talk, stay up all night, etc. If you taped the main part of the party, you can watch that. Or, watch a movie, or do both. A great party always includes dancing, so dance the night away! If you can, tape you and your guests dancing. That will be very fun to watch in a couple of years,.or in a couple of hours!

, Do makeovers to each other, or you can have older siblings, older neighbors, or your mom do your makeovers. A cool thing to do is to get spray-on hair dye so if people want their hair a different color. Get the kind that comes off in the shower though. After you finish the make-overs, take tons of pictures! You can also video tape too. Make sure it is ok with all the parents first, though, in case their parents aren't comfortable with it.
 The more things you have scheduled, the more tiring and challenging the party gets. Just let the party queen take her course and leave things alone. Do try to capture moments of the VIP party with a camera, though.

