 Every time you borrow direct or indirect information from the short story, you need to follow the information with the last name of the author, the year of the original publication, and the publication year for the anthology in which you found the story.Typically, all of this information will be provided in parentheses following the quote or summary and preceding any punctuation:


Example: In “Sample Story,” the protagonist embarks on a figurative journey into her childhood (Doe, 2010/2015).


If you mention the name of the author in the same sentence, follow the author's name with the dates instead of placing those dates at the end of the borrowed information.


Example: In Doe's (2010/2015) “Sample Story,” the protagonist embarks on a figurative journey into her childhood.
 When directly quoting the text of the work, you should also include the page number on which you found the quote after the publication dates.The page number should always stay within the parentheses, regardless of whether the author and dates appear there or within the sentence.


Example: In “Sample Story,” the protagonist looks through “numerous photo albums, glimpsing at her past,” before embarking on a figurative journey into her childhood (Doe, 2010/2015, p. 41).

Example: In Doe's (2010/2015) “Sample Story,” the protagonist looks through “numerous photo albums, glimpsing at her past,” before embarking on a figurative journey into her childhood (p. 41).
 Begin the citation with the last name and first initial of the author, followed immediately by the publication year for the anthology in which it appears. Name the title of the short story after that.



Example: Doe, J. (2015). Sample story.
 Follow the title of the story with the first initial and last name of the editor, plus the title of the anthology in which you found the work.



Example: Doe, J. (2015). Sample story. In J. Smith (Ed.), A collection of stories.

If the book does not have another editor other than the author of the short story, do not include a reference to the editor.
 For print references, include the publisher's city and name. For online references, include the URL of the source.



Print Example: Doe, J. (2015). Sample story. In J. Smith (Ed.), A collection of stories. Palo Alto: WikiHow Publishing.

Web Example: Doe, J. (2015). Sample story. In J. Smith (Ed.), A collection of stories. http://wikihow.com


, At the very end of the citation, indicate the original publication date of the short story.



Example: Doe, J. (2015). Sample story. In J. Smith (Ed.), A collection of stories. Palo Alto: WikiHow Publishing. (Original work published 2010)

