 Use a unique skill or ability that you already possess and make it appear more impressive. Maybe you have great drumming skills, a stellar singing voice, or the ability to make complicated balloon animals. You can then take your ability to the next level by adding in a surprising or interesting element. Think of creative ways to impress the judges with your talent and show them how well you can do the talent even in less than ideal circumstances.You may want to enlist friends to perform with you and create an act where you all drum together on stage. Or you may ask friends who can play instruments to be your backing band for your singing performance. You can then create synchronized movements as a band that you perform together during the act.
If you have a more specialized talent, like making balloon animals or juggling, you may want to add in an element of difficulty that will appear impressive to the judges. This could be making a huge balloon animal within a certain time limit or making balloon animals while riding a unicycle or running on a treadmill.;
, When you are creating your act, you should showcase your strengths as a performer. This will help you feel more comfortable when you perform and more confident. You will also be at your best when you are catering to your strengths, as this can help to hide your weaknesses as a performer.If you are more comfortable in costume when performing in front of others, come up with a unique costume that ties into your act. Maybe you wear an updated clown costume for your juggling act or a long, glamorous gown for your jazz singing performance with a band. Think about how you can use costume as a way to feel comfortable and confident on stage.
You may be at ease when you move and dance around the stage, as opposed to staying in one place. Integrate this into your act, where you do a coordinated dance with the other people in your act or do a dance to fit your act if you are on stage alone.
 Stage props can be as simple as a microphone stand or as complex as confetti raining down from the rafters of the theater. Think of ways that you can use stage props to enhance your performance. Maybe you use an umbrella in your dancing act to add an element of originality and surprise. Or maybe you integrate the mic stand into your balloon animals act.


Stage props like confetti, balloons, pyrotechnics, and lasers can all be costly and complicated to set up. If you have the budget and the time to integrate these props, do so as long as they fit within in your act and are not simply being used to fill time or space on the stage. Avoid leaning on the props to hide your lack of talent. Your talent should always be at the forefront.
 Audience participation is always a good thing in any performance. Often, appealing to your audience will help to get them on your side and impress the judges. Think of ways to involve the audience. This may mean asking someone from the audience to participate in your act or have the audience snap or clap along to your performance., Appeal to the crowd and the judges by using body language that is engaging and fun to watch. This means making eye contact with the audience, smiling at the audience, and putting your body into your performance. Use expansive gestures and movements if you are doing a dance routine or performing with a band. Demonstrate energy and enthusiasm towards the audience, as this will make the audience feel more engaged during your act., Facial expressions are a key element of performance, especially if you are a singer or a dancer. Practice an open expression by keeping your eyes wide and open as you perform. Lift your eyebrows slightly when you are hitting a high note or holding a dance movement. Keep your mouth relaxed and open. Use your smile at the end of your performance to show the audience you are happy with your performance, and they should be as well., Remember that you are performing for an audience, who will be watching your every move. Be aware of how you appear when you perform by practicing your performance in front of a mirror. This could be a full length mirror in your bedroom or a mirror in a dance studio or practice space., Avoid the performance jitters by doing a dry run of your performance in front of a receptive, friendly audience of family and friends. Set up a mock stage and a few seats in your living room. Try to pretend you are in the auditorium where you will be perform at the talent show and give it your all. You should feel more comfortable and confident performing in front of friends and family., After you perform for family and friends, you should ask them for feedback and listen patiently to what they have to say. They may give you basic feedback, like project your singing voice more, hold a certain note, or make sure you acknowledge the crowd at the end of your act. Take this feedback and use it to improve your act so it is ready for the real talent show.
 Calm any pre-performance nerves by being prepared on the day of the talent show. This means having all your stage props ready, having your costume on hand, and making sure everyone in your band is present for the show. You may want to take time after school to prepare for the show, packing a bag of supplies that you will need for your performance.
 You know what they say, “save the best for last”. Going last in the lineup may help you get a leg up on the competition and help to calm your nerves, especially if you need time to get used to being around the other performers and to being on stage. Going last can also allow you to create a lasting impression on the judges that will be fresh in their minds as they deliberate the winners of the show.
 Take some time to sit in the audience and observe your competition, on the day of the talent show or during rehearsals for the show (if applicable). Notice if there are acts that are similar to your act or that use an element of your act. You may need to adjust your act so your version is more interesting and engaging. To win the show, you really need to focus on standing out from your competition.
 Self-talk is your internal dialogue, which is often running in the background in your mind as you go through your day. Having positive self-talk on the day of the talent show can help you to perform at your best and give you the confidence you need to blow away the judges.Push negative thoughts out of your mind and focus on positive self-talk. This could mean not freaking out when you miss up a step in practice or skip a beat. Instead, tell yourself, “It’s okay, it’s just practice. I have time to get better at this.” You can also use positive self-talk as you perform for the judges. Remind yourself that you worked hard to get to this point and that you are the best performer on the stage. Tell yourself that you have all the skills and abilities to win.
 A big part of performing at your best is putting your passion and attitude up front for the judges and the audience to see. This means not being afraid to get emotional during your performance and being yourself when you perform. Doing this will increase your chances of winning, on your terms.