 If it is a very personal problem it may be better solved by going to an advice center, or legal advice center if it is a legal problem. Not posting it on a forum.;
, So if you do choose to post on a forum, if it is a personal problem you should choose a username that is different from your real name. But you may want to use a username that is different from your real name anyway.
 This can get you a warning from the moderators and you could also be banned from the forum for this. This may seem unfair, but a lot of admins are not interested in who started the argument. As far as they are concerned, if two people are both fighting and making the forum unpleasant, then one person is as guilty as the other one involved in the argument. So if someone is rude to you, ignore them.
 Just report that person to the admin or moderator. Many forums have a link you can click on, or means of contact for the forum admin that you can report that person to. This is a far better way of dealing with it that to be rude back to the member, even though they were rude to you.
 It is no good getting so worked up and upset that you get caught up in the argument, and that you end up posting hateful comments back to the members who are winding you up. And if you do this, you can end up being banned from the forum by the admin or moderators.
 Or you may have just got a nasty response from the members about what you posted on the forum. If this happens to you, DO NOT blow up at them by posting back swear words or hateful comments in order to get your own back at them. This will only make things worse and will also get you banned from the forum. Some forums will ban you permanently for this.
 A moderator or admin can lock the thread or delete the thread. This can be very upsetting when you have spent time and hours writing your posts. Only to have your thread locked or deleted by a moderator. If this happens to you DO NOT start another thread about the same topic that was locked or deleted. As that could get you a warning from the admin or moderator. And it can also get you banned from the forum. REMEMBER it is their website and they can do what they want. So they can lock your thread or the thread you are posting on. And they can delete the thread and there is nothing you can do about it.
 Is that forum right for you? Also think before you post. As everything you post will be public and read by everyone online. Is your post or topic right for the forum? Some forums will not allow some topics on their forum. So read the rules first. And if you are not sure about it, don't post it.
, This will make the admin more angry and they will ban your IP address. Then you won't be able to view the site at all.
 Forums forbid multiple accounts and will ban you for this.
 Or you could be banned from that forum as well.

