 To add hatching to your drawing, you'll need to draw a series of parallel lines over the area you wish to shade.








There are two types of basic hatching: parallel and contour. With parallel hatching, the lines will remain straight and usually run vertically or horizontally. With contour hatching, the lines follow the contour of the outline containing them.
Regardless of which hatching type you use, the lines do not cross over one another in standard hatching. Additionally, either version of hatching (parallel or contour) can be used as a base for cross hatching.;
, To add cross hatching to your drawing, you'll need to start with a base of standard hatch marks, then add a layer of perpendicular hatch marks over the first set.









This second layer of hatch marks should cross over the first in perpendicular or near-perpendicular directions. The lines of the second layer should not cross over one another, though.
Your cross hatch marks should match the hatch mark type used in your base layer. In other words, if you started with parallel hatch marks, your cross hatch marks should also be parallel; if you started with contour hatch marks, your cross hatch marks should also be contour.
 To vary the depth and darkness of the cross hatching, you'll need to vary the number of lines you use. Fewer lines create lighter shade, but more lines create darker shade.








There are two ways to accomplish this task. You can either change the density of the lines in both layers or change the number of layers.
By sketching more hatch and cross hatch marks, and by positioning them closer together within an area, you can make that area appear darker and more heavily shaded.
Alternatively, you can create your first hatch and cross hatch layers, then sketch additional layers of cross hatching running in different directions. Note that the lines within each layer should still run parallel to one another.
 Since cross hatching typically requires you to position thin lines close together, you'll need to create the effect using a fine-tip drawing utensil.


Even if you want the final drawing to be inked, it's still a good idea to start the drawing with pencil. Use a standard "number two" pencil, but make sure that the tip of the pencil is sharpened to a fine point.
For your inking tool, opt for either a nibbed pen or fine-tip ink pen. Both options work well, so choose whichever instrument you feel more comfortable handling.
 Before cross hatching, you'll need to draw the actual shape or object you want to shade.








You can use nearly any image. When practicing the technique, however, it might be best to choose a three-dimensional geometric shape with clear, angular lines.
For this step, it's also best to draw the outline in pencil. You can trace over it in ink later on.
 Before adding any hatch marks, figure out which areas of the drawing should have the lightest shading and which areas need heavier shading.









Think about how an imaginary light source would hit the object and reflect off its surface if both the object and light were real.
Note that the absolute lightest sections will have no hatch or cross hatch marks. Your imaginary light source would hit these areas directly, so they shouldn't have any shadows.
Areas and surfaces further away from your imaginary light source should be darker and will ultimately require more cross hatching.
 Sketch your base layer of standard hatch marks into the outline. Keep the hatch marks in each section parallel to one another, even if they curve along the contours of the outline.









For this step, use a pencil and press lightly.
Place more hatch marks closer together in sections that need heavier shading. For sections that need lighter shade, space the hatch marks further apart and use fewer hatch marks overall. The base hatch marks should indicate which areas are darker than others even before you add the cross hatching.
 Sketch a layer of perpendicular or near-perpendicular cross hatch marks over the base layer of hatch marks.








Try to keep the spacing, number, and placement of these cross hatch marks similar to that of the base hatch marks. In other words, areas of the drawing with more hatch marks should also have more cross hatch marks.
By the end of this step, you should be able to easily determine which areas of the drawing are supposed to be darker than others.
 Take a step back and assess the overall drawing. Make any necessary adjustments to the hatching and cross hatching before continuing to the next step.









If certain areas need to be darker, try adding more layers of cross hatching to those sections.
If you need to make an area lighter or if you're completely unsatisfied with certain sections, you can erase the existing marks and start over.
 Once you're satisfied with the placement and amount of cross hatch marks, trace over the pencil marks with your inking tool.









When working with a nibbed pen, dip it in the ink, then draw a line on a separate piece of scrap paper before moving to your drawing. Doing so allows you to unload some of the excess ink and prevent it from bleeding onto the drawing itself.
Trace over the outline of the drawing first, then work on tracing each section of cross hatch marks. Work carefully and try to follow your previously created marks as closely as possible. You can add additional cross hatch marks as needed, but try not to get carried away since you won't be able to undo any of the marks you make in this step.
Note that any pencil marks that are still visible after inking might make the drawing look darker than the final piece will look, so don't worry too much if the overall drawing looks darker than anticipated right now.
 Allow the ink to dry, then use an eraser to carefully remove any visible pencil marks from the drawing.









You must wait for the ink to dry before you attempt any erasing. If you swipe the eraser over the drawing while the ink is still wet, you'll smear the ink and ruin the crispness of your cross hatching.
 Take another step back and look at your drawing. If you need to add more cross hatching to any particular area, do so now.









For this step, you can skip the pencil cross hatching and work directly with the ink. Adding pencil hatch marks to ink hatch marks won't give you an accurate portrayal of the end result.
Once you finish making these adjustments, the overall cross hatching process is finished.
 To apply partial cross hatching to a drawing, start with your base layer of hatch marks and only add a layer of cross hatch marks over part of that base.









This practice is a good way to add gradual shading to an outline. The sections of hatch marks left alone will create a lighter appearance, but the sections of that also include cross hatch marks will look darker.
 Basket hatching, also called "woven hatching," is a particular type of hatching that makes the shading appear woven throughout the entire outline.









Instead of keeping the hatch marks parallel to one another, create short sets of parallel marks in one direction, then add another set of short, nearly perpendicular marks directly next to the first. Create as many short marks as needed to fill up the entire space, alternating the direction of each set without crossing over any of your previous marks.
If you want to add more density to the drawing, you can also apply cross hatch marks over your basket hatching.
 Tick hatching requires you to use very short, parallel strokes (called "ticks") to create density and shade throughout the drawing.









Unlike other forms of hatching and cross hatching, this style works best if you use a thicker pen instead of a fine-tip pen.
The ticks you draw should all be parallel to one another, but you can pile the marks on top of each other to add heavier shadow to a particular part of the drawing.
Note that cross hatching isn't often applied over a base layer of tick hatching.

