 Ask the critic to clarify their position. Once they have clarified, continue to be inquisitive about their position. Communicating in such a manner shows your curiosity, your desire to understand, and it may help the critic refocus their intent. Try one of the following approaches for a good start:"I don't quite understand your point. Could you demonstrate exactly what you mean?"
"That doesn't quite make sense to me. Could you repeat that in a different way?"
"Please give me a few examples to clarify your point."

, Do not deflect onto the person delivering the criticism. Attempt to explain the factors that have led to criticism, and how the person criticizing you can help to either remove them or correct them.


"Maybe I didn't make myself clear. Allow me to explain my point in a different manner."
"No offense, but I don't believe you understand my perspective. Please let me explain further."
"I chose my words poorly. I'd like another chance to demonstrate why I don't deserve criticism."

, What is more helpful in practicing meaningful dialoguing is to listen the complete viewpoint of the critic, be certain they understand your side of the issue, be patient, remove your ego, and have enough emotional control so that nothing is taken personally.


Ask open-ended questions. Instead of allowing the critic to be abrupt and harsh, gain a deeper understanding of their perspective without allowing for “yes” or “no” answers.
Critique your weak points and ask the critic for pointers on how to improve.
At any point the dialogue becomes aggressive or nonproductive, it’s probably not meaningful.
 Oftentimes criticism and feedback are confused for one another. It may be feedback. If someone else is telling you something that focuses on improvement, is about your behavior rather than personality, is encouraging, and is not coercive, it’s likely feedback., Inform the other person of their delivery or tone if unappreciated. Suggest a more helpful approach next time they plan on criticizing you.

