 Any healthy relationship is built on a foundation of communication. In addition to sharing your thoughts, feelings, opinions, and dreams, each partner should openly express their emotional needs. This prevents you from feeling unfulfilled and looking elsewhere.Have regular “checkups” in which both partners share their needs in the relationship. Then, brainstorm ways to meet these needs together.
For example, you might say, “I know you don’t agree with my desire to return to work, but I really need you to support me.” A healthy partner might respond, “I can see that this is important to you. I will work past my own issues and do my best to support you. How can I show my support?”;
, If one or both partners shy away from conflict, the health of the relationship is compromised. Don’t push problems under the rug. Face problems head-on to stop them from building up and threatening fidelity.


If one of you doesn’t feel heard, you may turn to someone else for validation. Avoid this by facing your issues when they happen.
First, acknowledge the hurt (e.g. “I was hurt when you said…”). Offer a solution (e.g. “I would appreciate it if you…”). Then, your partner should validate your feelings and work with you to come up with a workable solution., Deep down, all humans have an innate desire to belong. Both partners want to feel loved and cared for in a relationship. When you neglect one another in this way, you risk the other seeking external sources to fill this void.


Whether through verbal declarations (e.g. “I love you, sweetie.”) to hugs or kisses, be sure to show your partner that you love and care for them.If your partner does not say these types of things to you, then let them know that you would appreciate it if they started.
 Sex stimulates you emotionally just as it does physically, emphasizing your chemistry and connectedness. If you are hoping to stay faithful to your partner and vice versa, you should maintain an active and healthy sex life.Spice things up every once in a while by dressing up for a special date. Or, light candles and give each other back rubs. Another romantic option might include taking a long soak together in the tub while listening to music.

