 The morning after your holiday party, start your day with an eight ounce mug of any kind of tea. Alternatively, try hot water with lemon and a dash of cayenne pepper.The hot tea or water with lemon and pepper will help settle your stomach and provide antioxidants. That way, you’ll start your day with a source of hydration that will also help reduce inflammation and bloating.;
, Drink as much water was possible throughout the day after your holiday fun to help your kidneys and liver flush your body. Try to drink around 64 to 100 fluid ounces per day for the week following the party. Add slices of lemon or cucumber to your water to continue rehydrating while providing your body with antioxidants.You’ll definitely want to hydrate with water, fruit juices, or juiced veggies, but do remember that detoxing doesn’t mean cutting out food and nutrients. You’ll need a well-balanced diet and regular meals in the days after a holiday binge to help get your body back in its groove., You’ll want a good source of fiber that’s light on your stomach to get your digestion back in order. Make a bowl of plain oatmeal, and add a dash of cinnamon and vanilla for flavoring. Stir in dried cranberries for additional nutritional value.If you don’t like oatmeal, consider eating a cup of light Greek yogurt. Try topping it with chopped almonds or pistachios.
 If you’re feeling rough the morning after a holiday party, you can get through the day on lots of water, a light breakfast, and healthy snacks like fruits or veggies. However, going more than a day without regular meals will affect your metabolism. Plan healthy, detox-friendly meals and be sure to eat three times regularly after too much holiday fun.For example, make a lunch like a garden salad topped with avocado slices and a lemon juice and olive oil dressing. Then for dinner, have salmon with steamed broccoli.
For the next few days, keep up with light, fiber-rich breakfasts while splitting your lunch and dinner calorie intake between proteins and veggies.

