 A cool off period after you have a major disagreement is fine, but letting things stew too long can result in a major blow up down the road. It's important to understand why difficult conversation are necessary as this motivates us to avoid putting them off.


Underlying disputes, even small ones, do not get resolved when things are put on pause. Small things that seem trivial can resurface on a bad day, leading to overreactions in regards to seemingly easily resolved conflicts. Both parties leave harboring feelings of hostility.Small-scale issues become large-scale issues when they're not discussed. Oftentimes, other unresolved issues get dragged into a debate that could have been easily smoothed over the first time a disagreement occurred. These types of conflicts are far harder to get around., Being indirect about an issue can easily fuel misunderstandings. Conversations about conflicts should be as direct as possible.


Oftentimes, we use "but" sentences to obscure what's really bothering us. For example, "I love when we see movies together, but I wish we weren't always running late." The happiness your boyfriend felt during the first part of the sentence is dampened when he hears the second part. This means he's going into the conversation with disappointment, which can fuel stress and hostility.Comments, both positive and negative, should be phrased in a direct manner. Try to end on good news rather than bad news. For example, "I wish we didn't miss the first 15 minutes of the film, but I had a good time tonight." This way, the good news is heard without the subsequent letdown. The negative news is addressed in a way that does not feel passive or snuck in, making your boyfriend more willing to change and understand., Do not simply launch into an argument when something's bothering you. If an issue's been on your mind for awhile, plan how you're going to address the issue beforehand. Oftentimes, people get nervous or angry during confrontation. This can result in you not expressing yourself correctly.


Announce the conversation topic, making clear what you want to discuss and why. Speak in terms of feelings, which are subjective, rather than facts. "I want to talk about how I sometimes feel like you don't listen to me" is better than "I want to talk about how you don't listen to me." This way, your partner doesn't feel like you're imposing an objective truth on the situation. He might resent this, especially if he sees things differently., Personal opinions can sound like facts if you phrase them without prefacing you're speaking about your feelings. "I"-statements help us take responsibility for how we feel without pushing blame onto external forces or other people. When having disagreements, use "I"-statements to curb judgment while also being upfront about what you're experiencing emotionally. "I"-statements have three parts.


The first part is the emotion. Begin with, "I feel..." and immediately follow up with an emotion (e.g., "I feel happy..." "I feel sad..." "I feel uncomfortable..."). State the emotional immediately without adding anything else. Statements like "I feel like", "You make me feel," and "It makes me feel" can trivialize your feelings or attribute them to external forces.The second part is behavior. Follow with the behavior that contributes to your feeling. Simply state the behavior that leads to you feeling a certain way, avoiding criticism, judgment, or any other external moralizing.The last part is the why. Explain why you feel a certain emotion when another person engaged in a particular behavior."I"-statements can be beneficial to communication because they help avoid blame, express emotions in an accurate manner that minimizes hostility, and can reduce negative feelings like guilt and remorse for the other person.Waiting until you've had time to think is key. Do not say things you don't mean in the heat of the moment. Waiting allows you to articulate your thoughts in a kind, patient manner.Plan around time. If you know the conversation will take a few hours, don't start it at 11PM when you both need to work in the morning. Aim to talk during a free afternoon so the conversation isn't strained by an externally enforced timeline., Difficult conversations should lead to some kind of resolution. In other words, you need to leave the conversation with specific goals on how to improve the issue.


Do not enter the discussion with a predetermined outlook. The goals should be shared and you should decide on them together during the course of the conversation.Aim for goals that preserve everyone's emotional well-being and allow you and your boyfriend to feel safe and comfortable in the relationship., The adage "Never go to bed angry" exists for a reason. You should not leave a fight or discussion harboring resentment. Positivity is key for good communication and can aid future conversations.


Feelings things are hopeless creates a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you decide you've "lost" a fight or that the relationship is going downhill, you'll end up interpreting everything you partner says with a tone of pessimism of hostility.Try to stay positive and operate under the assumption your boyfriend cares about you and wants to keep the relationship strong. This way, you'll be healthier, happier, and easier to talk to overall.