 Lip paint can dry out lips, so take some preventative measures before applying it. Use a lip scrub to gently exfoliate your lips. Then, add a thin layer of lip moisturizer. Not only will this prevent drying, it will leave your lips looking smoother before you apply your lip paint.Wash your hands before exfoliating your lips.;
, A translucent setting powder will make paint stick to lips easier. Before applying any lip paint, dab on a light layer of setting powder over your lips. In addition to making application easier, a setting powder can brighten the colors of your lipstick.If you prefer, you can use primer instead of setting powder., As it's easy to smear lip paint, a lip liner will help your lipstick stay on your lips. Take a liner that's roughly the same shade as your lipstick. Carefully outline your top and bottom lip in the lip liner., Your cupid's bow is the center of your lips. Starting with the bottom lip, dab a small amount of lipstick on your cupid's bow. Use the small wand or brush that came with your lip paint container. With lip paint, you only need a small amount.You should not need more than a pea-sized amount of lip paint., Use the lip brush or wand that came with your lip paint. Use sideways swiping motions to spread your lip paint out evenly in either direction. Go slowly to avoid smearing your lips. Stay within the lines provided by your lip liner.It's best to fill in your bottom lip first and then move on to your top lip., Continue applying the lip paint in back and forth sideways motions. Keep using the lip wand or brush that came with your container. Fill in your lips completely, making sure to get into the corners. When you're done, you should have strikingly colorful lips in your chosen color.If you smear the lipstick a little, dip a cotton swab in a cold cream or makeup remover and dab it on where the lipstick smeared., For some lipsticks, adding a layer of gloss can make them look shiny and neater. However, this should be avoided with lip paint. Lip paint does not blend well with lip gloss and lip gloss can easily cause feathering., Lip paint is meant to last all day, so it can be tricky to remove. At the end of the day, use a textured makeup removal wipe to get rid of the lipstick. You should also wash and exfoliate your lips after removing the lipstick., Lip paint can dry out your lips. After removing your lip paint, use a wax-based lip balm. This will moisturize your lips after a long day wearing lip paint.