 You should be able to discuss the issue with your landlord at a time when he or she is not rushed and there is a minimum of distractions.


You have the most bargaining power if you haven't yet signed your lease. Your landlord knows you can go rent somewhere else if his or her terms don't work for you.For this reason, you should do your best to make sure any issues you have with the due date for your rent are addressed before you sign the lease and move in.
After you've signed the lease, it's still possible to negotiate with your landlord, but you're coming from a less advantageous position. Your landlord knows he or she can charge late fees or evict you if you don't pay your rent on time.;
, Your landlord typically will be more inclined to agree to a grace period if you have a legitimate, understandable reason you need it.For example, if your rent is due on the first, but you don't get paid until the third, your landlord may be willing to take the rent on the fourth after your paycheck has been deposited.
You typically stand a better chance of getting your landlord to agree to a grace period if you have a legitimate, factual reason for needing it. Not being able to budget your money is not a legitimate, factual reason.
Emphasize that a grace period is necessary for you to sign on as a tenant or stay as an existing tenant.
 Keep the original due date in mind when you calculate a grace period, and make sure it doesn't stretch more than a week.


A standard grace period is four or five days from the original due date. If you need longer than that, you might consider asking for the due date to be changed.
Most states do have a requirement that if the due date (typically the first) falls on a weekend or holiday, rent is due on the next business day.However, most grace periods are inclusive of holidays.
In other words, if your rent is due on the first of the month, but you have a grace period until the fifth of the month, it doesn't matter on what day the fifth falls, or if there is a holiday during that time.
In practical terms, if the fifth falls on a Sunday and your apartment complex's rental office isn't open on Sundays, your rent is due by Saturday, the fourth – not Monday, the sixth – if you want to avoid late fees.
If the grace period you request is reasonable, it shouldn't place an undue burden on your landlord.Emphasize that a few days shouldn't make any difference to your landlord, but the flexibility of a grace period is important to you.
 Your landlord may be more willing to provide you a grace period if you meet him or her halfway in some other area.


For example, you may offer to pay a larger deposit in exchange for a grace period on payment of rent each month. A security deposit is designed to protect your landlord against any monetary damages you might cause, so a larger deposit may entice him or her to allow you a reasonable grace period.If your landlord has the means to do so, you might also consider setting up automatic payments that debit your checking account with your rent on a specific date each month.
Keep in mind that any concessions you make also should be included in writing, either on the lease itself or in an addendum., Your lease has provisions regarding the payment of rent, due dates, and late fees.


If you haven't signed your lease yet, you typically can simply add a grace period to the provision addressing the payment of rent, initial and date it. If your landlord initials the change and signs the lease after that addition has been made, it will be considered part of your lease and legally binding.If there is no grace period mentioned and you've already signed your lease, you typically must draft an addendum to your lease describing the grace period.
It is possible to simply cross out language in your signed lease, or add additional language creating a grace period. This will still be legally valid provided both you and your landlord initial it and write the date after your initials.However, for the sake of clarity and neatness you may want to write the provision about the grace period out separately in an addendum for you and your landlord to sign.
 If your landlord has granted you a grace period, you must make sure it is reflected in writing – don't simply take his or her word for it.Keep in mind that legally a written contract can only be changed in writing. As a written contract, any additional concessions made to your lease also must be embodied in writing.
Your landlord may want to draft the addendum instead of allowing you to do it. If that's the case, make sure you read it carefully before you sign it to ensure it says what you believe and understand the agreement to be.
If you're drafting the addendum yourself, you may want to search for samples online. No specific formalities are required; however, make sure the addendum is dated and references your original lease.For example, you can open the addendum by writing "This agreement between landlord and tenant, dated February 5, 2016, adds to and amends the lease dated August 1, 2015." Then write the agreement arrived at by you and your landlord regarding the grace period.
 No addendum to your lease is legally binding unless signed by both you and your landlord.Print two copies of your addendum, so both you and your landlord have original copies with original signatures., Once signed, the addendum becomes legally binding as a part of your original lease agreement.


Keep in mind that since the lease came before the addendum, you will have difficulty proving the addendum exists unless you have a copy of it with your lease.

