 Leather and suede gloves can become extremely stiff and hard to work with when they’re dirty. Start the cleaning process by brushing off any dry, loose, or caked on dirt and debris from the material. It’s usually best to use your fingers to brush away the dirt, so you don’t damage the leather.If you’re having trouble brushing away the dirt by hand, you can also use a soft-bristled cleaning brush. Just be sure to use gentle strokes.
 Place a small amount of the soap on a damp paper towel or soft rag and rub it back and forth to create a lather. Put on one of the gloves. Use the paper towel or rag to work the soap into the leather, paying particular attention to the dirtiest areas.Spend several minutes working the saddle soap into the leather so it really has a chance to penetrate and lift out the dirt.
 Once you’ve worked the saddle soap completely into the glove, take a clean dampened piece of paper towel or soft rag and gently rinse the suds away from the the leather. Don’t allow the paper towel or rag to become too saturated with water, though, or you may damage the leather.If you notice that there is still dirt and grime on the glove while you’re rinsing, you may want to repeat the cleansing process to get the leather completely clean.
Once you’re satisfied that the glove is clean, complete the same process with the other glove.
 To prevent cracking, shrinkage, and other damage to your leather gloves, it’s best to allow them to air dry. Set out a clean, soft towel on a table, countertop, or other flat surface, and allow the gloves to dry completely.Don’t place your gloves near a heater, radiator, fire, or other open flame. The leather may crack.
While your gloves are drying, it’s a good idea to periodically put them on and stretch them. That will help stretch them so they maintain their shape.
 Leather can become stiff over time, and the cleaning process itself doesn’t always help with that. Once your gloves are completely dry, you should apply an oil to the leather to condition it so it becomes softer and the gloves are more comfortable to wear. Use clean, soft cloth to carefully spread linseed oil onto the gloves. Let it sit for several minutes, and then use a clean area of the cloth to rub it in.If you don’t have linseed oil, mink oil is an effective alternative. You can also use a treatment product specifically for leather, which usually contains a blend of oils and other ingredients.

