 Before you start your bath, make sure you have fresh towels, soap, comfy pajamas to change into, and anything else you may wish to have with you during or after the bath. Put everything you’ll need during the bath within easy reach of the tub, so you don’t have to keep getting out of the water.;
, Soaking in warm water can help reduce anxiety, relieve uncomfortable skin conditions, and soothe aching muscles.Make your water comfortably warm, but not extremely hot. Excessively hot baths can leave you feeling wound up rather than rested, and can even put strain on your heart.It’s okay to take hot baths while you’re pregnant, as long as the bath is not so hot that it raises your core body temperature to 101° F (38.33° C) or higher. The water should feel comfortably warm, but not hot.If you’re worried, use a thermometer to test the temperature of your water, and make sure it is no hotter than about 100° F (37° C).
If start to you feel sweaty or uncomfortably hot, get out of the bath or add some cold water to cool it down.
 You can enhance your bath with bubbles, bath oils or crystals, or a soothing soak.


If you have dry or itchy skin, a colloidal oatmeal soak (like Aveeno Soothing Bath Treatment) can moisturize your skin and relieve inflammation.The aroma of lavender may help with relaxation and improve your mood.Try using a lavender bath oil or other bath products that contain essential oil of lavender.
Fizzy bath bombs are fun to watch, and can add pretty colors, pleasant aromas, and skin-soothing ingredients to your bath.
 Soothing music can improve your mood and help you feel more relaxed.Set up your phone, mp3 player, or a portable speaker somewhere near the tub and put on a relaxing album or playlist.
 Dim lighting can help create a soothing atmosphere and calm you before bed. Candles are great for providing warm, dim light. Pick candles with scents you find relaxing.
 Before you get into the bath, slather on one of your favorite facial masks or lotions. Keep your head out of the water so that the mask doesn’t rinse away before you’re ready. Put on your mask before washing your face to prevent excessive drying.
 This may sound silly, but play is therapeutic and relaxing for adults as well as children.It’s not only fun, but can help you stay engaged and in the moment, so you aren’t thinking about things that stress you out. Give yourself goofy “hairstyles” with your bubbles, or even bring a few bath toys into the tub with you.
 If you’re not feeling playful, you may wish to just close your eyes and quietly enjoy the moment. If you find your mind dwelling on stressful things, try meditating and concentrating on your breathing.
 While a bath can help soothe dry skin, it can also aggravate skin irritation and dryness if you don’t moisturize immediately after your bath. As soon as you step out of the bath, gently pat yourself dry with a towel and apply a moisturizing lotion to any areas that tend to get dry., If you’re ready for bed, put on some cozy pajamas. If you’re still feeling really warm after your bath, take a few minutes to cool down first.

