 Nurseries, supermarkets, and some hardware stores stock a range of possum-deterrent sprays that you can use. Remember to follow the instructions on the packaging so that your plants are not affected and so that possums the are not injured.
 Quassia is a small branching tree that contains substances that deter the possum from wanting to be around it.Make a spray of 100g quassia chips to 2 liters (0.5 US gal) of water. Heat for one hour, then strain. Add one tablespoon detergent. Dilute 1 part quassia solution to 4 parts water and spray on foliage.Most homemade sprays and applications need to be reapplied following rain. They should be reapplied frequently anyway, for full effectiveness.
 These will require constant reapplication to be effective in the long-term. Some things that you can try include:Brew up some lapsang souchong tea. Spray this over the affected plants. Possums don't like it!
Spread blood and bone around the vulnerable plants.
Use mothball flakes on beams, and around the base of plants. Place in pantyhose and hang from foliage.
Apply Indonesian fish sauce. Combine one tablespoon of sauce in one litre of water and then sprayed on foliage.
Make a garlic spray. Place 2 tablespoons of freshly crushed garlic into one litre of hot water. Leave overnight, strain, then spray on foliage.
Spray laundry detergent full strength onto foliage.
Tabasco sauce. Use this full strength. It can painted or sprayed onto foliage. Note that this can badly damage some plants, so do your research before applying this sauce.
Strong-smelling herbs such as sage, rosemary, or oregano may deter possums, especially when mixed with spicy chili pepper. Blend to a paste and spread around affected plants.
 Urine from male foxes, weasels, and likely other predators has repelled possums in experiments.That said, it may not be completely reliable, and it could attract other animals.Look for predator urine at a hardware store or plant nursery, and follow the label instructions to distribute it in a perimeter around your garden.Carpet Python faeces are an effective possum deterrent, if available. Pythons are possum predators.
Some homeowners ring their garden with human hair to deter pests, but this is unproven.Consider trying it the next time you have a haircut, scattering the trimmed hairs thinly over the surface.
 Wind chimes, noisy bells, or plastic bottles cut in half can catch the wind and make enough noise to keep some pests away. This isn't foolproof, but hopefully your fruit trees will be ready to harvest before the possums learn to ignore the noise.


You can also buy commercial ultrasonic pest deterrents, outside the range of human hearing.
Dogs, especially outdoor dogs, will chase away possums, and their barking will scare them off.
 You can try a traditional scarecrow, or put up fake birds such as a tennis ball with feathers glued onto it. Again, the effectiveness of this deterrent varies from animal to animal, and may lessen over time.


Hanging mirrors near the scarecrow may amplify the effect.

