 Until recently, Colorado divided custody into “legal” custody and “residential” custody, which could be sole or joint. Now, Colorado recognizes “parental responsibilities,” and their decision-making authority may be sole or joint.Parental responsibilities are the total of all the duties and responsibilities parents owe their children, including decision-making authority and parenting time.Parenting time is the amount of time you will spend physically with your child. Parenting time can be divided 50-50, or it can more closely resemble what other states would call “visitation.” If a parent is awarded parenting time, then the amount of time must be “reasonable.”Decision-making ability is the responsibility to make decisions for the children in specific areas of their lives.
Decision-making responsibility and parenting time may be joint. This does not necessarily mean that parents will have equal parenting time. Nor does it preclude child support.Sole custody is given to one parent. Only this parent has parenting time and decision-making responsibilities regarding the child. This parent will make all of the major decisions for the child regarding health, education, and welfare.;
, Allocation of parenting is made according to what is in the “best interest” of the child. There is no one definition of what constitutes the “best interest” of a child. Instead, a judge makes a holistic assessment based on a variety of factors. These factors include:the wishes of the parents and of the child
the child’s relationships with parents, siblings, and other people important to the child
how well the child has adjusted to home, community, and school
the health (mental and physical) of everyone involved
how able and willing the parent is to encourage the child to share love, affection, and contact with the other parent
how far apart the parents live
how involved and supportive the parent has been in the past
whether a parent has committed abuse (child or spousal)
the ability of each parent to place the child’s needs ahead of their own

, When deciding whether parents have the power to make decisions for their child, the court also uses the “best interest” standard. However, the court looks at additional factors:


how able the parents are to cooperate and make decisions together
history of parental involvement and whether that involvement indicates an ability to provide a positive relationship with the child
whether granting mutual decision-making will promote contact between parent and child
whether one parent has perpetrated spousal or child abuse or child neglect

, An experienced family law attorney is an invaluable asset during a divorce or a parental responsibility proceeding. The attorney can help you work with the other parent to come to an agreement on a parenting plan or help you strategize if you and the other parent cannot agree.
 If you are seeking parental responsibilities but are not on the birth certificate as the father, then you will need to establish your paternity first. The court uses the results of a DNA test to make paternity determinations.If the mother was married at the time of birth, the husband is presumed to be the father.
You should download the Instructions to Establish Paternity which will walk you through the process.
 You have the option of seeking an independent evaluation. In this process, a qualified evaluator meets with the parents and children. The evaluator then talks to them and watches them interact. Psychological assessments may also be made.At the end of the process, the evaluator makes a recommendation to the court as to how parental responsibilities should be allocated. The court is not required to follow the recommendation but will give it weight.
Evaluations typically take 90 days to complete.You have to pay for the evaluation yourselves; the state will not pay for it.Evaluators are expensive: in El Paso County, an evaluator costs between $3,500-5,500., You need credible evidence depending on the reason and type of custody being sought. Credible evidence must be “believable.”In particular, you need to provide evidence of how parenting decisions were made in the past and why you can or cannot continue to make decisions in the same manner.


For instance, assume the other parent wants sole parental time and decision-making. She then accuses you of having an alcohol problem and argues you are unfit. You must then show credible evidence that this accusation is false. As proof, you should supply a clean driving record, evidence that you have not missed work for unexplained reasons or shown up to work intoxicated, and have negative blood and urine tests.Relatedly, if you want to accuse your spouse of alcoholism, financial irresponsibility, or abuse, you need credible evidence supporting that claim. Police reports, financial records (such as bank statements or credit card statements), or testimony from witnesses who saw abuse can all bolster your claim.
You should never rely on bare assertion of any fact. If you believe that the children do not enjoy spending time with the other parent, you need evidence. For example, day care workers may have repeatedly seen your child express fear of the other parent. You would need an affidavit or testimony from the daycare workers to that effect.
The judge is looking for a pattern of truth, in your behavior and how others view you.Your credibility throughout the process is critical. Never stretch the truth to score points.
 Once you have identified what custody you are seeking and why, you should go about collecting evidence to support your assertions. If you and the other parent agree to a parenting plan, then you will probably not need evidence of any sort (other than the plan itself and your testimony to abide by it). However, if you and the other parent cannot agree, then you need evidence to support your arguments as to why you should be awarded the parental responsibilities you request.


If you want sole decision-making authority for medical care, get evidence that you have made those decisions in the past: doctor’s records that show you brought the child to the doctor, affidavits from health care providers that you are the parent who makes health care decisions, etc.
If you want to be the primary caregiver, then you will need proof that you have met most of the child’s needs in the past. Accordingly, you should get affidavits from family and friends, any proof that the other parent is often away (because of work or travel), and write a detailed description of your day-to-day parenting responsibilities.
If the other parent has been abusive or neglectful, you should find copies of police reports or other documentation of abuse, such as photographs or journal entries. If a restraining order has been filed against a parent within the past 90 days, you must notify the court of it., Decide how much time you can realistically spend with your children. Will you live near the other parent? You cannot know what to ask for until you consider the parental responsibilities you can handle.


Use your relationship up to this point as a guide. If you have not been involved with the children’s lives, then it is unlikely that should you divorce that the amount of time you have to devote to your children will increase.
Do not seek sole custody out of spite. A court can revisit a parenting plan every two years, so any victory over your ex could be temporary.
 You have the option of coming up with a parenting plan that works for you. The court must ultimately approve the plan, but if you and the other parent can agree to a plan, then you can avoid a lengthy legal process. If you cannot agree to a parenting plan, then the court will create its own.As part of your plan, you can also agree on how to handle future disputes. For example, you could agree to use a mediator or parenting coordinator.You should make time to sit down with the other parent and see if you can come to an agreement around parenting time and decision-making responsibilities.
 A judge will look to see that a parenting plan covers certain issues, so you should talk about them ahead of time and make sure that they are part of your plan. These issues include:where each parent will live and the amount of parenting time each parent will have
the child’s education, after school classes, or daycare
the child’s religious upbringing
the child’s health care
how the child will be provided for financially
how holidays and vacations will be spent
any other factor related to the well-being of the child

, A workable parenting plan must consider the age and developmental abilities of the children. A judge will need to see that your plan is age-appropriate:For a child under one year, you should create predictable patterns of parenting time for the parent who is not the primary caregiver. The parenting time should consist of frequent, short visits.
For a child one to three years old, parenting time should be as frequent as possible. Visits that last one to three hours are ideal. Once a child reaches age three, you can incorporate overnight stays.
From three to five, children need routine parenting time. This time may include overnights, weekends, and sometimes a whole week.
For a child age six to eight, the parenting time should be regular and frequent, with overnights and weekends included. Parents need to pay close attention to how they communicate with each other at this stage, and the parenting plan should incorporate how the parents will communicate.
When the child is nine to twelve, parenting time needs to become flexible so that the child can begin to build his or her own life of friends, activities, etc.
When children are teenagers, they can become involved in planning parenting time (though they should not make the final decisions). Children will need praise and firm boundaries.
 A parenting plan is simply a written statement of your arrangements. It may be simple or complex. Courts recommend that the plan be more detailed if you and the other parent disagree often. In those situations, the plan should be sufficiently detailed to resolve the conflicts.For example, a parenting plan should discuss how the children will be transported: who picks up the children and who transports them back home. It should also include who will pay for gas and lodging (should the parents live far apart). If you and the other parent have a combative relationship, then the parenting plan needs this level of detail so that minor disputes do not crop up repeatedly in the future.
A parenting plan form can be found here. As the form advises, it does not cover every conceivable situation.Instead, you can use it as a guide when typing up your own plan.
 You need to sign any parenting plan in front of a notary. Notaries can be found in large banks and at courthouses.


Attach a notary block to your document, if you drafted your own parenting plan. Sample notary blocks can be found here.
Be sure to bring sufficient personal identification to the notary. A valid driver’s license or passport should be sufficient.
 If you and the other parent agree to a parenting plan, then you probably do not need an attorney. Instead, you can get the forms from the Colorado website. You will submit the parenting plan you have come up with to the court.


However, if parental responsibilities are contested, then you should seek the assistance of an attorney. An attorney will help you draft the petition and also handle the hearing. Because custody is so critical, you are strongly urged to get legal help.
You can reduce the costs of an attorney by giving the attorney the evidence you gathered to help support your claims.

