 Just like any electronic device, the processor is the brain of a gaming PC. Therefore, it’s essential that you pick the right one.


The two most common processors used in PCs are Intel and AMD, each having an array of model to choose from.
As a rule of thumb, the more cores a processor has, the better performance it can give.
Good gaming processors range from $200 up to $1000.;
, If the processor acts as the brain, the motherboard serves as its nervous system, distributing all the commands the processor sends to all the components.


To ensure fast response rate, a motherboard should be able to handle the load of the games being played.
You can buy a good motherboard starting around $100.
Common motherboard brands are ASUS, MSI and Gigabyte.
 Video games require intense memory processing. That’s why in order to help your processor do the work, you need a considerably large RAM module.


Typical RAM capacity for gaming PC is around 4 GB to 16 GB. Check your owner’s manual to know what frequency of RAM/Memory module is compatible with your motherboard.
RAM modules costs around $20 a piece, depending on its size.
 Since everything about gaming is visual, a high-performance graphics card is a must. The higher the capacity of the card, the better the visual it can produce.


Video cards, just like RAM modules, vary in sizes. Intense gaming graphics require at least 1 GB of video memory to produce at least an acceptable display.
You can buy a decent, mid-level graphics card for at least $100, but the high-end ones will cost you at least $500-$1,000.
Common video cards used for gaming PCs are NVidia and ATI, each have its own various models you can choose from.
 PC peripherals designed for gaming requires a lot of power to do all the important processes. Choosing a high-wattage power supply will ensure your rig gets the right amount of electricity it needs to run.


Mid-range gaming PCs will need around 500 watts while high-performance ones can eat power up to 1,000 watts.
Prices of power supplies depend on the wattage rating. You can buy a 500-watt PSU for around $50 to $200.
 Because a gaming PC needs a lot of power to work, it will tend to generate large amount of heat. Choosing the right CPU tower/casing will prevent your rig from overheating.


Decent cases start from $50.
You can also attach fans or water-cooling systems to help improve the ventilation system.
 Large display monitors, gaming mice and keyboard, and headsets are the common accessories you’ll need with your gaming PC.


Although these items are not completely necessary, it adds to the overall gaming experience and performance of the rig.

