 Each state typically has worksheets you can print and use to calculate a custody and child support plan that meets all applicable legal guidelines.You can print as many copies of the forms as you like and use them to draft alternate parenting plans. In some jurisdictions, these forms also must be filed with the court once you and the other parent have finalized your agreed parenting plan.The parenting plan describes how you and the other parent will divide your responsibilities for taking care of and spending time with the child. It may include a general schedule as well as special accommodations for holidays and vacations.;
, Use your work schedule along with other activities and family obligations to create a basic schedule for the year.


In addition to your own schedule, include school holidays and events or activities in which your child participates.For example, if your child just made the all-star soccer team, you don't want to schedule time with the other parent who lives 100 miles away on the weekend of one of her games.
You also want to include a basic daily schedule, both for school days and for weekends.For example, your daily schedule might include the hours you work each day, while your child's daily schedule includes both school hours and the hours he spends in baseball practice after school.
 Use your schedule to determine your ideal plan for your child to spend time with you and the other parent.


In anticipation of negotiating a compromise with the other parent, try to anticipate any potential areas of contention and develop alternative plans as well as your ideal. This way you aren't scrambling at mediation when the other parent has a problem with your first plan.
Consider special circumstances such as holidays and birthdays separately. For example, it's likely that both you and the other parent will want to spend time with your child on her birthday. If that would be feasible, you may want to plan different arrangements for that day in particular.Make sure you have objective reasons for your plan as a whole as well as any specific arrangements you want to make.For example, if the other parent is living with a partner who abuses your child, this might be a good reason to create a time-sharing plan does not include the child staying overnight with the other parent. Police reports (if the person was arrested or has a history of child abuse) or statements from your child's therapist could be used to back up this reason.
Since you want to be flexible in negotiations, prepare at least three or four different parenting plans that you would be okay with. Although you won't necessarily present all of these plans to the mediator, they can help you prepare for your child custody mediation., Once you've determined how much time the child will be spending with you and how much time she will be spending with the other parent, figure out how much child support should be paid.


Most states have a child support calculator you can use to find a rough estimate of the amount of child support that must be paid. You generally can find the official worksheet at the clerk of court's office or on the court's website. A basic calculator for informational purposes, based on each state's statutory guidelines, can be found at http://www.alllaw.com/calculators/childsupport.
Typically the parent with primary custody of the child does not have to pay child support to the other parent while the child is spending time with him.Child support agreements can't be changed unilaterally. This means you can't withhold visitation because the other parent refuses to pay child support, and the other parent can't withhold child support claiming he bought the child items or otherwise spent additional money on the child., Include documentation for any financial information or scheduling information you've used in your parenting plan.


You also want to gather and make copies of other documents related to the child's life that have relevance to your custody and child support plans, including any reports from your child's doctors or therapists or school report cards.Since the mediator also will be trying to get a good idea of your relationship with the other parent and the relationship both of you have with your child, gather other documents related to these things. You might want to make a brief outline of your relationship that includes significant events, as well as a similar outline that covers your relationship with the child., Each state has its own rules regarding the mediation process and the qualifications for mediators.


Some states require mediation for all contested divorce or child custody cases. If you're involved in court-ordered mediation, there may be forms or notices you must file with the court, regardless of whether you and the other parent come to an agreement during the process.
Although discussions that occur in mediation typically remain confidential, some states give mediators the authority to report back to the court certain types of conduct, such as refusal to participate, intimidation, or threats of physical violence.Many states require continuous training for mediators, particularly those who work with divorce and child custody issues in high conflict situations. Although your mediator isn't there to be your counselor, she typically will have extensive training in psychology, working with people in abusive relationships, communication, and conflict resolution., Although you don't need an attorney to represent you in mediation, an experienced family law attorney can help you better understand the process.


An attorney also can help you identify important legal interests, define the legal standard of "best interests of the child" as applied in your state, and help you avoid common mistakes.An experienced attorney has completed many parenting plans, while you've potentially only created one. Often she can point out holes in your plan that you wouldn't have recognized on your own until it was too late.
If you're worried about your ability to afford an attorney, consider checking at your local legal aid or family law clinic to see if you qualify for free or reduced-fee representation.
 Reconciling your personal goals with the capabilities of mediation can help you focus on the best result for your child.


Mediation provides an opportunity for parents to work together to develop a time-sharing plan that suits both of their schedules and needs. However, the best interest of your child should remain your focus.
Keep in mind that your mediation appointment is about your child – not an opportunity to insult the other parent or rehash old problems between the two of you.
 If you have the opportunity to do so, consider visiting the mediator's office beforehand so you can become more familiar with the location and the facility.


If you and the other parent have a contentious history that includes mental or physical abuse or violence, contact the mediator before your scheduled appointment and alert him of those issues – don't count on the court to tell him, even if your mediation is court ordered.
Some mediators use a pre-screening process to determine whether mediation would even be helpful. If your mediator has such a process in place, he will evaluate your situation and determine whether mediation would do more harm than good., Some states such as California require parents to complete a parenting class before they attend mediation.


The class provides guidance on parenting during divorce as well as information about the divorce and child custody mediation process., When you and the other parent arrive for your mediation appointment, the first thing you'll do is meet with the mediator who will be working with you on your case.The mediator will introduce herself and briefly explain mediation and her role in the process., Show your worksheets and documents to the mediator and explain how you arrived at the time-sharing plan you believe is the best for your child.


Some mediators may request this information in advance of your appointment so they have the opportunity to familiarize themselves somewhat with your case before you and the other parent arrive.
Above all, strive to present yourself as open-minded and flexible. Maintaining that attitude will help ensure that you get the most out of the mediation process., The mediator will assist you in comparing your time-sharing plan with the plan developed by the other parent to determine where you disagree.The mediator will help you organize the issues in your case, and prioritize them in terms of time and importance. She then will often suggest an order in which you should tackle these issues during the mediation session.Often the best strategy is to work on the simplest issues first. If you're able to come to an agreement on those things, you're more likely to have a more cooperative attitude when you move on to more difficult matters.If you have any questions or concerns about the other parent's parenting, bring these up with the mediator. If there are things the other parent could do to help alleviate your concerns, it can be helpful to mention those as well. You may be able to make these conditions a part of the parenting plan.For example, you might be concerned that the other parent is in a bowling league where he drinks copious amounts of beer and comes home after midnight; however, it might alleviate those concerns if he agreed not to go to bowling night when the child was staying with him.
 Maintain your willingness to compromise and focus on the best interests of your child rather than what you want or your personal feelings about the other parent.While your mediator is neutral, and doesn't represent either you or the other parent, she wants the two of you to come to an agreement. During the mediation, she may offer advice or ideas that you hadn't thought about. Take those ideas into consideration and evaluate how they might fit into your situation.
Keep in mind that any issues you can't resolve in mediation will be decided by a judge in court. If you find yourself feeling stubborn or emotionally heated, it might help you calm down to remind yourself that if you can't come to an agreement, you may end up with something you like even less than the option the other parent is presenting.Mediation can be particularly stressful if you and the other parent have a history of abuse or other communication issues. The mediator may assist by using strategies such as keeping you apart and passing information along.If you have any such difficulties or are afraid of the other parent, make sure you let the mediator know in advance.
 When the mediator prepares your agreement, read it carefully and make sure what's on paper accurately reflects the decisions you and the other parent have made.If you have an attorney, make sure she goes over the agreement with you before it's submitted to the court for approval., Your signature indicates that you have read and understood the document, and agree to abide by its terms.


Some jurisdictions may require you to sign your agreement in front of a notary public. Check with the clerk of court before you sign to make sure you've followed proper procedures.
After you've signed your agreement, make at least one copy for yourself and the other parent – the clerk will keep the original for the court's files.
 Before your agreed parenting plan can go into effect, you must file it with the clerk of the same court where your original divorce or custody action is filed so the judge can approve it.


You must pay fees to have your agreement filed and approved by the court. If you worry you won't be able to afford the fees, ask the clerk if you can have an application for a waiver. If you meet the court's income and asset requirements, the judge will approve your application and you won't have to pay any court costs for your case., Some judges may schedule a hearing to ask you questions about the agreement and make sure that you understand its terms.


Typically if both parents agree to the parenting plan, the judge will approve it. However, she may want to talk to you first and make sure both of you understand the terms of the plan and agree to follow it.