 Applying an ice pack or a cool cloth is an easy way to help to soothe a rash.Try wrapping an ice pack in a paper towel an holding it on the rash for up to 20 minutes. Then, give your skin a break for about an hour or so before applying another ice pack.


You can also hold a clean washcloth under cold running water for a few minutes and wring out the excess water. Then apply the cool cloth to your rash.
Use a new paper towel or cloth every time to avoid spreading the rash.;
, If you think the rash is the result of contact with poison ivy or poison oak, you should rinse the area right away with warm, soapy water and let it air dry so you do not irritate it by scrubbing it with a towel or cloth. This will prevent the spread of the rash, as once the urushiol is washed off your skin, you cannot give anyone else the poison ivy or the poison oak.If the rash develops due to an allergic reaction, you can take a bath or shower in cold water with non-drying soap and let your skin air dry. This can help to soothe any redness or discomfort.
Change into some loose clothing when you are dry. Tight clothing may irritate a rash further, so it is important to switch to loose fitting clothing if you are dealing with a rash. Opt for lightweight, natural fiber materials, such as a 100% cotton t-shirt or a pair of loose fitting linen pants.
 Colloidal oatmeal baths have been used to soothe rashes and itchy skin for centuries. The gluten in the oatmeal has moisturizing properties and it coats your skin when you bathe in it. This protective coating may help to soothe the rash and reduce itchiness.You can find colloidal oatmeal bath packets in drug stores.
Mix a packet of oatmeal with warm water in your bathtub and soak in the solution for about 20 minutes.
 Adding baking soda to bath water may also help to soothe a rash. If you don't have colloidal oatmeal or if you are sensitive to oatmeal, then you can try taking a bath in a baking soda solution.Try adding one cup of baking soda to a bathtub of warm water and soak in the solution for about 20 minutes.
 Chamomile tea is known for its soothing properties. You can drink chamomile tea or apply it to your skin. Chamomile tea has also been shown to help reduce skin irritation, so it may help with a rash.To make a chamomile compress, steep two to three teaspoons of chamomile flowers in one cup of boiling water for about five minutes.
Then, strain the flowers out of the water and allow the tea to cool to room temperature.
When the tea has cooled, soak a clean cotton cloth in the tea and wring out some of the excess tea from the cloth.
Apply the cloth to your rash. Leave the cloth in place for about 10 minutes.
 An arnica ointment can also help to soothe a rash when applied to your skin. This natural remedy has been used for centuries to treat irritation from bug bites, acne, and blisters.Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use.


Make sure that the ointment contains no more than 15% arnica oil or it may irritate your skin.
You can find arnica ointment in health food stores or in the natural section of some large grocery stores.
 Tea tree extract has been shown to be effective against a wide range of microorganisms, such as candida and staphylococcus aureus. This treatment option might work best for a rash from a mild fungal infection.If you have a rash caused by a fungal infection, such as jock itch, athlete's foot, or ring worm, then using a tea tree oil ointment might help.


Try using a 10% tea tree oil cream on your rash to see if it helps. If it does not seem to be helping after a few days, then see your doctor.
Keep in mind that tea tree oil has not been shown to be as effective as some other prescription and over-the-counter topical treatments.
 If you have been exposed to extreme heat and have developed an inflamed, hot rash on your body, as well as lightheadedness and fatigue, you may have heat rash. If you suspect you have heat rash, get out of the sun right away and sit in a cool, air conditioned area. You should then remove any sweaty or damp clothing and take a cool shower to lower your body temperature.


You should also drink plenty of cool water to stay hydrated and to help your body recover from heat exposure.
Avoid touching or squeezing any blisters or bumps due to heat rash.
Seek medical care if your heat rash does not improve after two to three days, or if you experience severe symptoms like vomiting, headaches, dizziness, and nausea.

