 One of the best ways you can strengthen the tendons in your legs is through a workout that includes a healthy dose of squats. To perform a squat, stand up straight with your feet flat and shoulder-width apart and your toes pointed slightly out. Slowly bend your knees and lower yourself as though your were attempting to sit in a chair. You want to lower yourself until your hips are situated lower than your knees.Hold this position for ten seconds before rising. You may need to lift your arms out in front of you to act as a counterbalance.









You can vary and add complexity to squats in many ways. Try doing the squats facing down an incline such as on a ramp, or try doing one-legged squats while holding onto a bar for support.;
, If standard squats are already a large part of your routine, you can increase the weight you squat by doing barbell or dumbbell squats where the weight is held on the shoulders and a limited range of movement is used.Use a power rack to set the barbell height just below shoulder level, brace the bar across the shoulders behind your neck, lift off the rack by pushing with your heels and straightening your torso, then do a partial squat starting at only about 4 inches (10.2 cm).








Barbell and dumbbell squats are considered advanced technique exercises, so it’s a good idea to have a trainer around before attempting.
You may also want to wear knee wraps for additional support., Heel drops are easy exercises that require little time and no gym equipment at all, and they’re great for strengthening Achilles tendons. Stand on a raised surface such as a step with the balls of your feet on and your heels off. Raise all the way up on your toes, and then slowly lower your heels as far as you can and hold this bottom position before rising again.








You can perform this exercise with your knees either straight or slightly bent. The different stance will work different muscles, but both are great for your tendons.You can add variety and complexity to this exercise by doing single-leg heel drops or even by adding weight from holding a dumbbell.Three sets of fifteen reps each is enough to see and feel results., This is a great exercise for strengthening tricep and shoulder girdle tendons.Use a power rack to bring a loaded barbell onto the shoulders as with as barbell squat. With your feet directly under your hips, bend at the knees just a few inches, and then reverse direction with power to straighten out and lift the barbell to full extension above your head.Use your legs to absorb the impact as you return to the starting position with the barbell resting on your shoulders.This exercise can lead to injury with improper form, especially in one’s rotator cuffs, so practice form with a trainer with regard to weight and reps., This is another great exercise for tricep tendons.Lay down on your back on a workout bench. Lift the loaded barbell with an overhand grip straight up at full extension—perpendicular to your torso and the floor—with your elbows tucked in.Keep your upper arms stationary and bend at the elbows, so you bring the bar down until it nearly touches your forehead before returning to the starting position.Many people find an E-Z curl bar more comfortable for lying tricep presses.
 In addition to targeted exercises, you can target tendons even further with partial reps.A partial rep focuses on a limited range of motion. By limiting the range of motion to only a few inches, you will be able either to use more weight or to perform more repetitions, which helps to strengthen tendons.








For a barbell squat for instance, try only squatting only about four inches instead of bringing yourself further down.Since half or quarter reps allow for more weight, you should make use of a power rack to avoid injury., For instance, on Monday you may work out your shoulders, on Tuesday you may work out your chest, rest on Wednesday, work out your thighs and legs on Thursday and work out your arms on Friday.









Consistently working all core muscle groups also means consistently working all of your core tendons, which will not only add to strength but also tendon flexibility, which is important in avoiding injury in any fitness regimen.