 Pour your desired measurement of rice into your pressure cooker. Add water according to the type and quantity of rice you are using. One cup of white rice, for instance, needs 1.5 cups of water.Substitute all or part of the water with a liquid for flavoring if you wish, such as chicken broth, vegetable broth, or prepared bouillion.
Never fill the pressure cooker more than halfway with the rice and liquid.
Add a teaspoon of butter, olive oil, or an oil of your choice to the rice for flavor if you like.;
, Close and lock the lid on your pressure cooker by fastening the handle of the cover to the handle for the body of the pot, or however your model is intended to close according to the instruction manual. Place the cooker on a burner of your stove.


If you are using an electric pressure cooker, plug it into an outlet and turn it on.
 Set the burner on your stove to high heat until your pressure cooker indicates high pressure, then lower the heat to maintain this pressure for three minutes. Check your specific instruction manual for how to properly read the pressure on your cooker.


If you are using an electric pressure cooker, set it to high pressure for three minutes. The cooker will take a few minutes to pressure up before the three minutes of cooking time.Lower the heat right away after your cooker reaches high pressure, otherwise your rice can become quickly overcooked., When the three minutes cooking time is up, take the pressure cooker off the burner for a 10-minute natural pressure release, meaning the pressure built up inside releases naturally when taken off of heat. The rice will continue to cook while the pressure is slowly released.


For an electric cooker, turn it off when the timer beeps and set it to a natural pressure release for 10 minutes., After 10 minutes of natural release, do a quick release on your pressure cooker to open the lid. Tilt the cooker away from you when opening the lid to avoid the hot steam.Fluff the rice with a fork and serve.

