 Your child may develop or have throbbing pain with a migraine. It may be on one or both sides of your child’s head.Giving your child an over-the-counter, (OTC) or prescribed pain medication may relieve your child’s migraine pain. Treating a migraine with a pain reliever as early as possible may also stop other symptoms such as nausea and aura.Give your child acetaminophen or ibuprofen. Make sure to follow dosing or your doctor’s instructions.Avoid giving your child aspirin unless instructed by a doctor because it can increase the risk of Reye’s Syndrome.Follow your doctor’s instructions on any prescription migraine pain relievers. Many medications prescribed for adults are not suitable for children.However, your child’s doctor may prescribe approved medications such as sumatriptan (Imigran) nasal spray.;
, Sleep can relieve the extreme migraine pain.Have your child take a nap if they are suffering from a migraine. Keep the environment comfortable by controlling the temperature and darkness. This can help your child sleep more easily, which may relieve migraine pain.If your child is having difficulty sleeping, your child's pediatrician may prescribe a sedative or a medication that can help your child rest.
Keep the bedroom temperature between 60-75 degrees Fahrenheit (15.5-24 degrees Celsius). This temperature range is optimal for sleeping.Turn off any computers, devices, and TVs from your child’s room. The stimulation of the light may not only make it more difficult to sleep but may also exacerbate the migraine.Ensure that the room is dark enough to help your child sleep, especially if one the other symptoms of their migraine is sensitivity to light.Turn off lights, draw curtains, or give your child an eye mask.Limit the amount of noise in the room, which can make it difficult to sleep or your child’s migraine worse.
 Temperature therapy can help relax your child and may relieve the pain of a migraine. Have your child sit in a warm bath, stand in the shower, or use heat packs if they have a migraine. This may help treat the migraine.Draw a bath with water between 36 and 40 degrees Celsius (or 95 to 105 degrees Fahrenheit) to prevent burning or scalding. Use a thermometer to check the temperature.Place a hot pack or heating pad on your child’s neck or head to relax tense muscles. Leave it on for up to 20 minutes., Just like heat therapy, the cold can also help treat a migraine. Cool or ice packs can numb or dull the pain your child has. Place a cool compress on your child’s head and neck. You can also do this in conjunction with other migraine treatments.Apply an ice compact as often as necessary for 20 minutes at a time.Consider using a bag of frozen vegetables. The bag conforms to the shape of your child’s neck and may be more comfortable than an ice pack.
Wrap the cool or ice pack in a clean towel to prevent frostbite. If your child gets too cold or their skin gets numb, remove the pack.
 Your child may be in a lot of pain and feel tension through their body. Giving them a massage may relieve migraine pain and any associated muscle spasms or tension. Regular massage may also help prevent migraines.Rub your child’s face, temples, ears, and shoulders to further soothe their migraine.Consider taking your child to a qualified massage therapist. Ask your child’s doctor for recommendations or locate one online.

