 website.

BOT libre is a website that provide free chat bot creation and hosting. It supports chat bots that learn as they talk with you, and other users. You can create public or private bots, and can control who access them, and who they learn from.;
, You can browse and chat with public bots anonymously, but to create your own bot you must create an account by clicking Sign Up.


Creating an account is free and easy. To create an account you only need to enter a unique user id and a password. Your name and email are optional, if you wish to remain anonymous, you may do so.
 To create a new bot, click Create from the top banner.


You can give your bot a name and description. The name must be unique and can contain spaces, special characters, and is case sensitive.
You can create a bot from the default template, or select one of the other predefined templates. Your bot will start as a clone of the template bot, and replicate its entire memory (brain). You can also allow your bot to be 'forked' and used as a template to other bots, or you can browse other public bots and choose to fork your bot from them.
You can add a category and tags to your bot, to help classify it, and help other users find it. Some relevant tags include 'fun', 'business', 'help', and 'avatar'. The tags are entered as a comma separated list.
You can create either a public bot that will be accessible to anyone, or a private bot that will be accessible only by you.
 You can train your bot simple by chatting with it. Your bot will learn from your responses, in context. You can use the Correction check box to correct your bot's response while chatting. You can also train your bot from its Admin pages. The learning page control who your bot learns from, and who can correct your bot.


The training page lets you set your bot's greeting, and default responses to use when it does not know a response. You can also add question/answer responses.
The chat logs page lets you review your bot's conversations with other people, and correct its responses. You can also upload chat logs or AIML scripts for your bot to learn from.
If you know a little programming you can add program scripts in Self or AIML to your bot from the Program page.
 You can choose to share your bot with everyone, only your friends, or only yourself. You can embed your bot on your own website, blog, or mobile app. Embedding your bot is easy, just go to your bot's Embed page from Admin, and copy the embedding code, and paste it in your webpage.
