

Wild Relicanth can be found underwater around Sootopolis City. All you need to do is dive underwater and look in the patches of seaweed. Finding Relicanth might take a while because Clamperl mostly appear, but after a few encounters one will be sure to show up. Using a Dive Ball or a Net Ball would be best because Relicanth has such a low catch rate with other Pokeballs.



 

;
,

Encountering a wild Wailord in the wild is very rare so it would be best to level up Wailmer to level 40. They can be caught with a Super Rod around Dewford Town, etc. Using a Net Ball would be best, also.
 Use Surf and find the area where the currents start. Ride the currents around until you get to a diving spot around Route 134. Use Dive there. You will come to a cave entrance. Go in there and you will find a cave with slabs of rock with Braille on them. Go to the far end of the cave and stand in front of the middle Braille. You need a Pokémon that knows Dig. Now put Wailord in the front of your party and Relicanth last. Have your Dig Pokémon use Dig. An earthquake should occur next.
 Regirock's tomb is located south in the desert. Go inside. Now go to the back wall of the cave. After that, walk two steps left, then two steps down. Now use Rock Smash. The wall should now open. Inside a level 40 Regirock is waiting for you.
 Fly to Petalburg City or Dewford Town and go to Route 105. Regice's cave is located there. Once inside, do a clockwise lap around the cave, staying by the wall the entire time. The door will open. Regice is waiting to be caught inside at the usual level 40.
 It's the hardest one to catch of the three. It's home cave is located on Route 120 so Fly to Fortree City. Once inside, go to the center of the cave and use Flash. The door will now open. Registeel will be inside waiting to be challenged. It is as the usual level 40.
 If you own a Diamond, Pearl, or Platinum version of Pokémon, you can migrate the Trio through Pal Park and catch Regigigas! (Note! Pal Park is only open after you have completed the main story and seen every Pokémon in Sinnoh.)

