 Some breeds are natural born swimmers, like Labrador Retrievers, while other breeds are less adept in the water. Before you take your dog to the beach, where water conditions will be rougher and less predictable than a pool or shallow pond, you should know your dog’s swimming skills.If your dog enjoys swimming but is not a strong swimmer, consider purchasing a dog life vest to help them float. A life vest does not replace supervision and attention.
Even if your dog does not enjoy swimming, they may still enjoy being with you on the beach and exploring away from the water.;
, Whether you are on vacation or live close to a beach, you will need to make sure the beach allows dogs. If they do not allow dogs, respect that rule and find a different beach to go to. Check the website of the town or county that you'll be in to see whether the beach is designated as a dog-friendly area.


Websites like PetFriendlyTravel compile lists of dog-friendly beaches in different states across the United States. Search the Internet for "dog-friendly beach (insert the name of your location" to see local results.Some local ordinances require that dogs be on a leash at all times, be mindful of this as well.
 Check the local weather to see whether there are storms or rain expected in the area. Some beaches have rougher water than others, have strong currents, or tides that change dramatically. While you should expect some waves, calmer water is generally safer for your dog to play in.


Dogs that enjoy swimming or playing in the water at the beach are at risk of being hurt by rough waves.
If weather or water conditions are poor, consider rescheduling your beach trip for another day.
 Fill a beach cooler with plenty of fresh water both for you and for your dog. Dogs can easily become dehydrated in hot weather and need to drink water frequently to stay cool.


A lightweight and collapsible bowl is a good alternative to having your dog drink from a water bottle.
Access to fresh water can also help prevent your dog from drinking too much salt water. A few gulps of salt water will not be harmful for your dog but it will dehydrate them if they continue to drink it rather than fresh water.
 While you’ve probably already thought through the beach gear that you and your family will need for your outing, there are also a few essentials that will make your trip smooth and enjoyable for your pet. These include:


Treats. Pack a handful of treats in a re-sealable bag for your dog to enjoy. These can be particularly useful to entice a wandering dog to come back to your area and to reward good behavior. Pick treats that don’t melt easily in heat or moisture.
Leash. Even if the beach allows dogs to be off-leash, you will need a leash to safely walk your dog from the parking lot or street to the beach. If the beach does require leashes, consider bringing one regular leash and one extra long leash so your dog can have some independence.
Toys. Toys are a great way to make the beach trip even more enjoyable. Pack toys that can be used in water, like buoyant rubber balls, and can be easily cleaned. Leave the plush toys at home since they will get sandy and wet quickly.
Disposable plastic bags. You will need to clean up after your dog so bring along a few disposable plastic bags or the waste bags that you typically use.
 In hot weather, dogs need breaks from the sun. Playing, swimming, and running dogs can become overheated and dehydrated easily, especially in hot temperatures. Use a sun umbrella or a beach tent that is large enough for you, your dog, and whoever else might be joining you to sit together comfortably.Some beaches have natural shaded areas but you won’t know whether those areas are already occupied until you’ve already arrived at the beach.
 Regardless of whether the beach requires dogs to be on leashes or not, your dog should always be wearing a collar with identification tags. It is illegal in many areas for dogs to be without identification, and identification is absolutely necessary if your dog is playing off leash. Before you leave, check your dog's identification tags to make sure they are legible and up to date.
 If this is your dog’s first trip to the beach, let them take their time adjusting to the currents and waves. Even for strong swimmers, waves can easily knock dogs down and pull them out to sea.


Never throw your dog into the water, this can be a frightening experience and a frightened dog will struggle to swim.Start in shallow water where they can stand and coax them in with a treat or toy. Stay within arm’s reach of your dog so you are always in a position to help them if they need it.
 Sand gets hot very quickly and the pads of your dog’s feet are sensitive to these extreme temperatures. Test the sand for yourself, if it is too hot to walk on barefoot it’s too hot for your dog.


Dog booties add a layer between your dog’s paw and the hot sand below. Not all dogs are used to wearing booties so they will take some getting used too. You can find dog booties at large retailers, pet stores, and online. They may be marketed as snow booties but can also be used at the beach.
Apply a paw wax product that protects your dog’s paws feet from hot surfaces. You can find a paw wax at pet stores and online through manufacturers' websites., Like humans, dogs can get sunburns. Dogs that have light colored coats, are shaved, or have pink noses and skin are at a greater risk of becoming sunburnt. Apply dog sunscreen to areas that are not protected by fur, like their noses, tips of ears, bellies, and any hairless bald spots.Sunscreens designed for sensitive skin, babies, and dogs are usually fine to use as long as they do not contain zinc oxide, which is toxic to dogs. Check with your veterinarian if you are concerned about the sunscreen you’re using on your dog or if you need a recommendation.
Reapply your dog's sunscreen every hour to ensure that they stay protected throughout the day.
 Especially during the summer, it is easy for your dog to become overheated after running and playing along the beach. Dogs can become easily overheated in hot weather, especially those with long coats, dark colored fur, thick coats, or are overweight.Signs of heat stroke in dogs include rapid panting, a bright red tongue, weakness, vomiting, and thick saliva. If you suspect your dog has heat stroke move them to a shaded area and apply cool (not cold) water all over their body to gradual lower their temperature. Let them drink small amounts of water and apply ice packs or cool towels to their head, neck and chest. Take them to the nearest vet if symptoms persist.
 Dogs can get overwhelmed by the sight, smell, and sounds of the beach. If you intend to keep your dog off leash, make sure they stay in an area where they can still hear you when you call for them. The beach can be a dangerous place and dogs need careful supervision.Avoid areas that have potential dangers, like fishing docks that may have hooks buried in the sand, broken glass, or rock outcroppings.
When your dog is swimming, you should also be in the water or at the water's edge so you are close enough to intervene if your dog begins to struggle to swim.
 Not all beachgoers want to interact with your dog and may be upset if your pet becomes an unwelcome guest to their beach picnic or tent. Dogs that are left out of sight and are free to roam can easily become a nuisance to others.


This is especially true with families that have young children. If the family does not have a dog with them you should assume that the children are wary of dogs and that the parents do not want an unwelcome four-legged guest.
 Tide pools are shallow pools of water where plants and sea creatures like crabs live. They are often surrounded by rocky areas that can cut the pads of your dog’s feet.


As a general rule, keep your dog away from rock outcroppings. These can become very slippery and can easily cut your pet.
 This refers to the animals and birds that make the beach their home. Dogs can destroy wildlife nests and injure birds in the matter of seconds.


If there any protected wildlife areas near the beach, keep your dog away from these.
Sick or injured beach wildlife may carry diseases as well.
Some wildlife also can pose a threat to your dog. Keep your dog away from any seals or sea lions and flocks of seabirds.
 It is common courtesy to pick up and dispose of your dog’s waste while on the beach. Bring disposable plastic bags to clean up after your dog.


Likewise, remember to bring any toys or items that you’ve brought home with you.
 Sand has a reputation for getting everywhere, and most dogs love to dig and roll around in it. You will not be able to get rid of all of the sand in your dog’s coat but a quick rinse with fresh water can help to remove large clumps.


Line your car seat with a durable material that is easy to clean., Before you leave the beach and head home, you will need to dry your dog off. Seawater will start to smell even an hour after you leave the beach. Dry off your dog with thick towels to help avoid the smell lingering in your car as you leave the beach.


Saltwater can also begin to irritate your dog’s skin after prolonged contact. Dried salt will also begin to itch so your dog will be grateful for the rub down!, Even though you’ve provided plenty of fresh water for your dog to drink while you were at the beach, they will need to continue to rehydrate after you leave.


Make sure they have plenty of water to drink after you leave and when you return home.
This is especially true if your dog has been very active and has been spending hours playing.
 Dogs that are prone to ear infections need their ears wiped out and dried after they leave the beach. Water can easily get trapped in the inner ear and salt water can cause irritation to the skin.


Use a soft and absorbent gauze to dry their ears since paper and cotton towels can leave behind fibers. You can also use a soft cotton tipped stick to clean the folds of your dog's ears, but never use these to clean the ear canal.
 Once you return home, you may want to bathe your dog. This is your best option to remove remaining sand and to get rid of any lingering seawater smell.


Salt and minerals can also damage your dog’s coat. A thorough bath is the best way to remove these from their coat and avoid damage to the hair follicles.
Use a conditioner to reintroduce moisture into your dog's coat.

