 When you stop taking amphetamines, you may experience withdrawal symptoms and strong cravings for the drug.Prepare for these issues in advance by preparing a safe environment for detoxification. Ideally, you want to stay someplace where amphetamines are not available, where you cannot access the drug easily, and where you are unlikely to encounter any friends or relatives who use the drug.


Consider choosing a major change of scenery. If possible, go to a supportive friend’s or relative’s house, rather than staying at your own place. It can be easier to break the cycle of addiction if you are in unfamiliar surroundings.
Consider going to a drug treatment facility or rehab program.
 Know, in advance, who will support you when you have withdrawal symptoms or strong cravings. Professionals – doctors and therapists – fall into this category, as do members of support groups, close relatives, and good friends, as long as none of these people are using drugs.


It may be helpful to make a list of all of the people you can contact during your detox. Make sure you have emergency phone numbers available, as well as doctor’s contact information, and your closest hospital address.
 As your body adjusts to the absence of any amphetamine, you will begin to experience withdrawal symptoms, the most severe being within the first 24 hours. Then, the severity will typically taper off in about 2-3 weeks.Common withdrawal symptoms include: increased sleeping and eating, depressed mood, concentration issues, irritability, feelings of anxiety, fatigue, vivid or unpleasant dreams, and cravings.Expect these withdrawal symptoms, and try to spin them in as positive a light as you can by thinking thoughts such as, “This is my body getting clean; these are the obstacles I have to face to get to the other side. I am strong enough to get through it.”

, If you are working with a physician or treatment center, ask about medications to help you manage your withdrawal symptoms. These medications may not completely eliminate the withdrawal symptoms, but they can reduce them. One medication that may help to reduce amphetamine withdrawal symptoms is Reboxetine (Edronax).If you are prescribed medication, take it as scheduled, and follow up regularly with your doctor.
 Having structure to your day and keeping busy can help you manage withdrawal symptoms. The less time you sit around thinking about amphetamines and focusing on how terrible withdrawal feels, the better.


Eat and sleep on a regular schedule. Make sure you are eating healthfully (plenty of fruits, vegetables, and protein). Sleep at least 8 hours per day, but try not to sleep more than 10 hours.
Have a plan to fill the other hours, too. Make a to-do-list or a schedule for your day. Take this time to complete tasks that you normally don't get to (cleaning out a closet or sending emails you've been avoiding).
 During the initial withdrawal period, you may experience very strong drug cravings. Develop coping mechanisms to reduce the likelihood of giving in.


If your craving is very strong and you fear you might give in, try telling yourself to wait just an hour. Then try for another. Breaking up withdrawal into shorter, more manageable periods of time may help you cope. Be strong, and know that it will get easier with time.
Distract yourself, try to think about something else, and be proud of whatever self-control you can manage to exert.
Try prayer or meditation. The initial withdrawal period can be very difficult. You might find that prayer or meditation helps you stay calm and feel stronger and more at peace.
 As the strong physical symptoms of withdrawal begin to subside, turn your energies to healthy habits.


Try relaxing activities like reading and gardening.
Engage in positive physical activities such as exercise and cooking.
Focus on whatever activities keep you occupied without exposing you to people and places you associate with your amphetamine use.

