 As a music attorney, you will represent musicians in the music industry. You will be responsible for drafting agreements and facilitating contract negotiations, and you will also work with other musicians, record labels, event promoters, and other industry parties who want to employ your client. You should also be well versed in copyright protection and intellectual property law.You may be hired for a one-time contract negotiation or you can be on retainer to a particular artist, label, or other music industry party.
As of 2013, the median income for an entertainment lawyer was $131,990. You will likely be paid on an hourly basis.;
, In addition to your law degree and board certification, you should have intimate knowledge of the music industry and a strong network within the music industry to be a successful music attorney. In fact, many music attorneys have a background in music before practicing law. You may have previous experience managing and booking bands or artists, or you may have experience as a musician, giving you first hand experience on how to become successful in the industry. To best represent your music clients, it helps if you are aware of the legal issues they may have to deal with in the industry and how to negotiate the best deal for your client.You can get real-world experience by volunteering at local music events, or offering to represent a friend’s band or act. You should try to seek out mentors within the music industry, especially when you are first considering a career in entertainment law.
 An undergraduate degree in a related field, such as Business with a specialization in Music, Media Production, or Public Relations can help you apply for internships in the music industry. Doing this will also help you prepare for your courses in entertainment law while in law school.
 You will need to attend law school and earn your Juris Doctor degree. You will then need to pass your state’s bar exam to practice law in your state. Most state bar exams require extensive knowledge of the legal system, with written examinations covering both the law and ethics. You may also need to demonstrate moral character in some states in order to practice, such as a clean background check and good references of character.Consider law schools in areas with a strong music industry. The business of music is still predominantly located in places like New York City, Los Angeles, and Nashville. You may want to consider schools in these towns or schools that have strong entertainment law programs. Look for areas where there is a concentration of music labels or music agents.
While at law school, you should take specialty courses in entertainment law. These courses will focus on specific areas of the legal process in relation to the entertainment industry. You should also take courses like music industry law, arts law, as well as taxation and intellectual property law.
 Many law school programs will have internship or mentorship programs where you can learn from current music attorneys. Setting up informational interviews with music attorneys is often best done when you are still a student and cannot poach clients from other attorneys.Speak to your advisor at your law school for more information on possible internships or mentorships during your degree. If you have already graduated from law school and have passed the bar exam, reach out to your former professors or peers for potential internship or mentorship opportunities in your state or area.
 Widen your circle of contacts in the industry by networking at music industry events in your area, town or city. The major hubs for the music industry are located in Los Angeles, Nashville, and New York, so if you live close to any of these cities, consider attending music events or conferences to network in these areas.You can also attend music industry festivals like SXSW in Austin, Texas, where industry insiders and other music attorneys can get together and network amongst each other, as well as among emerging artists and musicians.
 It can be difficult to land a job at a law firm straight out of law school. Many firms look for candidates that have gained experience in the field through internships or mentorships. It will also help your application if you can use a networking contact at a firm to act as a reference. Cold calling, or sending out applications without any contacts in that particular firm, can lead to a position, however, you will need to be persistent and patient.


Informational interviewing is an important way to break into this field. Set up meetings with people who work at firms that interest you to begin building your network.
It's also important to pay attention to any opportunities that could lead to your first client or an additional client to add to your client base. One well known entertainment lawyer landed his first client by reading an interview with a hip hop artist's wife, who was upset about outstanding royalty payments. The lawyer then reached out via email and offered his services. The hip hop artist became his first client and led to a position at an established law firm., These programs, called CLE programs, can help you connect to other music lawyers in your area. Try to bond with a more senior attorney and get her to view you as a colleague. The senior attorney may help you retain clients, hire you to do contract work, and offer you guidance as you start your career.Most continuing legal education courses are sponsored by your state’s bar association. Contact your state’s bar association to find out more about CLE programs offered in your area.

