 A measuring tape is necessary in order to accurately measure your bust size. The flexibility of the measuring tape will allow you to measure the circumference of your bust. You can go to your local pharmacy, like Walgreens or CVS, or a fabric store to find a measuring tape. You can also try visiting a Target or a Walmart; both stores have sewing sections.;
, Measure across the bottom of your band, directly under the bust and across your ribcage, by bringing the measuring tape around your back to the front. Make sure the measuring tape is level and close to your body. Round to the nearest whole number. If your measurement is an even number, add four inches. If it is odd, then add five inches. The band size is the sum of this calculation. For example, if you measured 32 inches (81.3 cm), then your band size is 36. If you measured 29 inches (73.7 cm), then your band size is 34., Wrap the measuring tape loosely around the fullest part of your chest, i.e., nipple level. Round to the nearest whole number. , Subtract your band size (the first measurement) from your cup size (the second measurement). The difference determines your bra size, where each inch represents a cup size. For example, if your band measurement is 34 and your cup measurement is 36, the difference is 2. Therefore your cup size is a B cup. As a whole, your bra size would be 34B, where 34 refers to the size of your band. , If you do not want to or do not have the time to calculate your own bra size, most lingerie stores can calculate it for you.


Visit a lingerie store, like Victoria’s Secret, at your nearest mall, outlet, or shopping center. They can professionally measure your bra size for you.
 Aim for quality when selecting your bra. You want a bra that will support your bust and make you feel comfortable. Features that provide support and stability are:


Silicone lining: look for silicone beading that follows the contour of the cups. Silicone lining is “self-adhesive” and will help the bra stick to your body. Elastic bands: in non-corset style bras, the wide band of elastic that runs under the bust is the main source of support. If you have a big bust, get a bra with a wider band for more support. Underwire: underwire provides shape and support. A bra whose underwire pokes into the breast is too small, while a bra whose underwire pokes into the armpit is too big. Boning: boning provides a lot of support and is a great choice for full-figured women. A high quality bustier or corset will have steel-wire boning as opposed to plastic or PVC. , If you are an A cup size, or an A cup pushing a B cup size, try this version of strapless bras. It is the only strapless bra without cups., If you would like to accentuate the fullness of your breasts with strapless tops or dresses, look into this type of bra. If your top or dress has a low neckline, try getting the strapless plunge bra. It is similar to the push-up bra except that it is especially designed for tops and dresses with a low neckline. , If your top or dress has a low back, consider getting a backless, strapless bra. These bras are similar to corsets in that the strap that goes around the back is more at your waistline. , If you are a full-figured woman with a size C, D, or DD cup, look into getting this type of strapless bra. The corset feature of the bustier provides shape and support from the bust to the waist. By conforming to the shape of the body, the bustier prevents the bra from slipping down the waist.The larger your chest is, the wider you want your band to be for additional support. If the wider band still isn’t enough, try a longline style. This style will give you reinforcement from below your chest. If your cup size is larger than a DD, try checking out specialty lingerie stores—they have so many options to chose from.
 While choosing your strapless bras, choose at least one bra that is one band size smaller than your original measurement. Because a strapless bra does not have straps, you need to compensate for the lost support. You can compensate for this by having a tighter fitting bra, but it should not be so tight that it is uncomfortable. , Assess if your bra fits correctly by examining the placement of the bra on your body's frame in the mirror. Your bra should center and lift your bust where it is midway between your shoulders and elbows. There should also be one inch of definition between your breasts. Move around the fitting room and see if the bra stays in place. You don't want to buy a bra that you will be having to constantly readjust.
 You can ensure that the bra you choose fits the top or dress that you will be wearing with it by making a pattern or bringing a similar top with you.


You can make a pattern by drawing the outline of the top or dress that you will be wearing with a pencil on a tank top you have at home. When you are in the fitting room, try on the bra over the tank top with the pencil marks. If the bra goes over the boundaries made by the marks, then that bra will not work. You can also bring a top or dress that is similar to the one that you will be wearing. Try it on with the bras that you have picked out to ensure that everything is covered.

