 While some iTunes emails are legitimate (the weekly music updates, etc.), you can be suspicious the moment these emails begin to contain messages about "problems" with your iTunes account.


Look for poor spelling or grammar, or a number of spelling errors, demanding language (e.g., "you should... or else"), and anything that strikes you as out of the ordinary. Trust your instincts.;
, If there is a need to check out something, go to the iTunes site using your bookmark or through a search, then start looking for the supposed link on the iTunes site. It will be very unlikely that it is there, in which case, you'll quickly realize that you have sidestepped a scam.


Always look at the the URL in the body of the email if it is available. That should tell you a lot. If there is only a hyperlink, do not click on it under any circumstances. Hover over it, and in a bottem-left (sometimes right) corner it will show you the URL.
 Check them online regularly for any unauthorized transactions to iTunes. If you spot anything unusual, respond quickly (see what to do below). It is a good idea to check more regularly than looking at your once-a-month statement if you are using online electronic transactions, whether it's iTunes, or any other online stores.
 If they're too cheap to be true, trust that there is something fishy going on. Some low-cost codes have expiry times within 24 hours – surely that should send up your radar that someone is trying to get something out of you!, That way, if it's compromised, you won't lose an enormous amount.


Alternatively, if you like getting rewards on your credit card purchases, go to a store where they sell iTunes gift vouchers, buy them up on your credit card (double bonus if you get other reward points for shopping at that store), then use the vouchers for downloading. This approach might be slightly more effort but it does offer you a good buffer from phishing scams, provided you do not succumb to passing around any passwords!






For more information, see wikiHow's article Redeem an iTunes Gift Card.
 If they are not sure, suggest they wait until you are free to check out the issue.
 Unless advised by a media release or appropriate adviser, avoid contacting Apple as it is not likely to speed up the process of recouping your lost costs, and Apple will usually only tell you it's your personal responsibility. Instead:


Contact your financial institution immediately and ask for a hold to be placed on your credit card.
Contact Paypal if relevant.
In both cases, ask if chargeback is available, to recoup your losses.
Change your iTunes password immediately. If you have used the same password for anything else, change those as well.

