 The term "paranormal" covers a wide range of topics, from ghosts and spirits to mediums and ESP. It would be difficult to become an "expert" in all of these fields, so pick one (or two!) that get you really excited and pursue the topic (just like a scientist might specialize in botany).;
, In a world dominated more and more by the internet, we sometimes forget the benefits of those good old paper books! So don't be afraid to open a book (it won't bite!). The library can be a very useful place to find books that you might read just once or to see if you are interested in a particular topic.
 The internet can be a very useful tool in learning about any topic, especially the paranormal. There are hundreds of paranormal-related websites where you can interact with fellow paranormal enthusiasts and share your ideas and opinions. You can also use the internet to find local clubs or other groups that share your interests.
 Many paranormal/metaphysics-related stores, groups, and societies offer classes and workshops for a minimal fee. These can also be excellent places to get hands-on experience on your topic and information from people who have spent years researching an aspect of the paranormal.
 With the rise of paranormal-related television, the subject has gained more acceptance in the general public. Nearly everyone has a good ghost story or strange encounter to tell. Don't be afraid to ask people you know (friends, family, co-workers, etc.) about your topic. You'll never know who else might share your interests if you keep them to yourself.
 Unfortunately, there any many people who attempt to fake evidence and spread accounts of false paranormal encounters across the community. Be wary of everything you read online and in books and never accept any photo of a ghost outright. Always maintain a healthy level of skepticism. Remember: if a claim seems too outrageous to be true, there's a good chance it is.
 The women in white, the gray ladies, and the screaming ghosts: perhaps you've heard of them. Be wary of locations that claim to have the "classic" signs of paranormal activity, as they may just be stories or attempts to promote someone's business.
 While you are unlikely actually to encounter a ghost on a ghost tour, this is a great way to learn more about the history of a location in a fun and entertaining way.
 Don't become stressed, upset, or overly emotional. The point is to expand your knowledge and have a little adventure along the way.
 Show your expertise by posting articles and messages online or even submit articles to printed publications. There is always someone new to the paranormal world, and maybe you can give them a head start!

, You never know where your interests will lead you, so go along for the ride! Maybe you'll find a way to become a columnist specializing in paranormal events in your town or a paranormal author. The field is always looking for new blood and ideas, and maybe you have something special to bring to the table.

