 You probably have a pretty good idea of what's not very badass. Here's a reminder:


Cosmopolitans or any drink that ends in the word "drop." Avoid like the plague.
Crossing your legs when you sit down. It bunches up instead of airs out.
Manicures and pedicures. Who cares what the forums and neighbors say? Getting your nails done is a badass no-no.
Attempting to Impress people. A real badass doesn't try to fit in with anything in any group. Try to think as little as you can about what people think of you, while holding a respectful attitude.
 Don't tell people where you're going unless it's absolutely necessary. Be mysteriously late and nonchalant about it. Don't go yodeling your entire life's story. Instead, let people guess about it.
 What separates the badass from the rest of the pack is their maverick nature; a badass is the lone wolf who gets expelled from the pack for being too awesome, and who succeeds even more in the face of failure. Badasses do only what they choose to do.


Ask yourself what actions you've been lulled into doing mindlessly, and rethink why and how you do it. You might end up sticking to your current course, but at least it's one you chose. Then do it more confidently than before.
 A badass doesn't go out sniffing for altercation, but he's unafraid to lay people out when there's no other option or when respect is seriously challenged. In order to get fit enough to fit should the occasion warrant it, try:


Boxing. Boxing is really badass. It's mortal against mortal, mano a mano, in a fight with nothing more than gloves and two giant pairs of cojones. Boxing is grueling, gritty, and grotesque; very appropriate for the burgeoning badass.
Wrestling. Wrestlers don't get enough respect. Like boxers, they battle in a test of wit and brawn, repeatedly honing their bodies until they are efficient machines of ruthless power. Nothing sissy about that.
Rugby. Football is a prance in the park compared to rugby. It's not that football is puny (it's not), it's just that rugby is seriously rough. Rugby dudes run around in next to no pads, routinely break noses and dislocate fingers, and keep going like nothing is the matter.
Kung-fu. Among the most badass martial arts indeed. Kung Fu is the best way to learn to defend yourself from people who want to start a fight. Nothing says badass like some good old asian fighting sport so people know who they're dealing with.
 Avoid making anyone's day needlessly worse or alienating people. There’s a difference between being a badass and being an asshole. People respect the former, but despise the latter. The most revered badasses are the ones who manage to put on a tough image while still managing to be kind and understanding on the sly.


Think Han Solo, a rascal who ends up fighting for the Rebel cause. Or James Bond, a variation on the badass with class and finesse who can fight fearlessly in any situation, always for the good of Britain. Another example is Samurai Jack, a noble warrior who independently fights armies of bounty hunters on a regular basis, while putting other people's life before his own, and is also a man of kindness, honor and acceptance.
Some people mistake being a badass with being rude, disrespectful, egocentric or arrogant. That is incorrect. The definition of a true badass is: One of respect, courage, humility, charisma, and a burning passion for their dreams and goals.
Cultivating small and large acts of kindness will ensure that you’re the kind of badass that people root for. Keep your good side mysterious and don't brag about it. Badassery, here you come!

