 Known by the “fever tree” and “blue gum tree” pseudonyms, the eucalyptus tree is primarily exported from Australia, and its oil serves not only as an insect repellent, but also a natural insecticide.While OLE is not recommended by the CDC because it lacks the extensive testing required for commercial repellents and synthesized materials, the efficacy of OLE as a mosquito and deer tick repellent is widely recognized.One example of an OLE-based insect repellent is to mix 2 tablespoons of witch hazel (relives skin irritation), 2 tablespoons of a carrier oil like almond or olive, a half teaspoon of vodka, and 100 drops of OLE. Shake it in a spray bottle, apply it to the skin, and reapply every few hours.A simpler approach would be to just blend 1 part OLE with 10 parts witch hazel (sunflower oil as a substitute) and apply it directly to the skin.;
, The oil from citronella comes from a grass indigenous to some Asian countries, and is extracted via steam distillation. Aside from various benefits like being an antibacterial and antiseptic, the insect repellent properties work on mosquitoes that carry Yellow Fever, lice, and fleas.Citronella oil may evaporate quickly, requiring frequent reapplication. Apply minimal amounts of pure citronella oil to your forearms for up to two hours of protection.



Mix citronella oil with some vanillin then moderately apply it on your skin to get brief protection., Lavender oil is extracted from the flowers of the lavender plant via steam distillation, and has been known as a soothing fragrance for quite some time. Whether applied directly or as part of a formula you've concocted at home, it can also be used as an insect repellent.A liquid soap can be created by adding 10-15 drops of lavender essential oil to some Castile soap, a plant oil-based soap made without animal fats.You may also dilute it into a carrier oil like olive oil, or put it in some apple cider vinegar.Create a potent mix by using 10-25 drops of lavender oil with a couple tablespoons of olive oil. Stir the contents until blended and dab on your skin when applicable.Try a heavier lavender based option by using 25 drops of the essential oil and a quarter cup apple cider vinegar. Mix together well and apply as necessary.
Combine 15 drops of lavender oil, a few tablespoons of vanilla extract, 1/4 cup of lemon juice, and some distilled water. Shake up the combo and spray it on exposed skin., In some tests, the use of undiluted clove oil repelled three species of mosquitoes for up to four hours, which outperformed diluted oils by up to two hours, and similar undiluted oils like citronella and patchouli, against three species of mosquitoes.Clove plants can also be placed around the yard to repel insects before they even get to you.Mixing equal parts clove oil with some makaen oil mixture and applying approximately 0.1g for every 3x10 cm of exposed skin has shown a repellency of over 95% efficacy for up to 5 hours.Try 6 drops of clove oil mixed with patchouli, grapefruit, lavender oil, and carrier oil for a easy to use spray.