 You should think about what type of photos you want before setting up a session with a photographer. Consider if you would like staged or candid photos. Candid photos are great if you want a light and fun look to your photos. Staged photos are most common and are usually better for photos that will be framed.You could have a mix of staged and candid photos during your session.
Think about how many locations you would like to use for the shoot.;
, How formal or casual you want the photos to be depends on what type of couple you are. It also depends on what the photos will be used for. You may want to take some casual photos for yourselves and social media. Then, take some formal photos to be framed and sent out for announcements., Once you have decided what type of photos you’d like, begin to consider a theme. A wintry theme is an easy and excellent choice because there is so much to choose from within that category. You could base the photos on the holiday you celebrate, or you could simply stand in front of a wintry scene.You can find ideas for a wintry theme by looking up winter engagement photos on social media and through search engines.
 Ask for recommendations, or search the internet and social media for a photographer in your area. Check out the photographer’s portfolio to make sure you and your partner like their quality and style. Call the photographer to ask about rates and set up a date.You can choose a photographer just for the engagement photos, or you can ask the photographer for an engagement and wedding package.
 Ideally, it is best to set up a photography session soon after your engagement. Factor in what you will be using the photos for. For example, consider if you will be using the photos for sending out announcements, or putting an announcement in the paper. Aim for the photography session to happen at least three months before the wedding. Consider the fact that the photographer will need some time to edit the photos when planning the session.
 You and your partner could simply stand in front of a snowy scene. Or, you could be active and make snow angels in the snow. If being outside in the cold isn’t your thing, you could have photos taken inside in front of windows showing a wintry scene.If you’re going to get lay or play in the snow, plan those shots for last since your clothing will get wet.
 Winter is a season full of holidays and festivities. If you celebrate Christmas, have the photographer take a picture of you and your partner picking out a tree. If you celebrate another holiday, take a photo of a moment that is a special part of that holiday for you.You can also plan photos for non-holiday festivities, such as ice skating and building a snowman.
 You don’t have to get cold to take wintry photos. Cuddle up with your partner in front of a fireplace. Go to a local café and grab a cup of coffee. You could also have photos taken of you and your partner baking holiday cookies., Cities often provide a great backdrop for winter engagement photos. If it is snowing the day of your session, simply have photos taken of you and your partner standing in front of the falling snow in a pretty part of the city. Or, you could go to a place decorated with holiday lights and other props., The country can provide just as pretty of a background, if not prettier, than the city. Go to a location near you that is especially beautiful, no matter what time of year it is. Or, travel to a cozy cabin or ski lodge out in the country., Make your photos fun and full of action by having photos taken of you and your partner engaging in a snowball fight. You don’t have to really hit each other with the snowballs—it’s okay to simply act out the scene. You can also invite friends and family to partake in the activity., Skiing may be an activity that you enjoy with your partner, or you may have grown up doing it with your family. Consider having a few photos of you and your partner dressed up in skiing gear. If skiing isn’t your thing, sledding can also make for fun photos., Hot chocolate is a classic winter drink. Hold up two mugs of hot chocolate for a few photos. You can use your favorite mugs, or use mugs with you and your partner’s initials on them., Choose a few quotes from your favorite winter movie or song. Write the quote on a chalkboard, or paint the quote onto a sign. Hold or place the sign in front of you and your partner.For example, hold a sign that says “Baby, it’s cold outside.”

, Hang mistletoe from a branch or doorway. You can also have the taller partner hold the mistletoe over your heads. Have the photographer take a few shots of you and your partner kissing beneath the mistletoe., You can wear formal festive clothing, like a glittery dress or sequined shirt. Or, you can wear fun and silly festive clothing. For example, wear tacky holiday sweaters for a few photos., Be sure to bundle up in warm clothing if you’re taking photos outside. Choose your most stylish winter clothing. For instance, wear your favorite winter jacket and boots. If you’re taking photos inside, choose a cute and comfortable sweater., Keep warm by adding accessories to your outfit. You and your partner could wear items things such as a scarf, gloves, and a headband. If you have a wintry hat, like a beanie or knitted hat, wear that for outdoor photos. You could also wear items like a faux-fur vest., Winter is a popular time for holiday and cocktail parties. If you’re taking photos inside, dress up in your best cocktail attire. You could wear a suit, or a dress with a pair of tights.