 To admit one's fault and to understand a need God's help and healing, you must have humility. People with too much pride often bypass forgiveness because they must humble themselves to apologize.

Ask God to forgive you. Pray to him like you would talk to a friend --- God is your friend! Be yourself as you pray; God loves everybody and doesn't care how you pray to him. Just be respectful.



 


Proverbs 3:5, "Trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding;"
1 John 1:9, "If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness.";
, If you can, meet the person face-to-face, but if they live too far away, write them a sincere card or call them on the phone. Even if the person who hurts you never apologizes to you, you still should forgive them.


James 5:16, "Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed."

, Restitution describes the act of restoration, making amends and correcting a wrong act that was done. Restitution clears the conscience by clearing away guilt. This act gives freedom to ones mind and conscience. Restitution is unconditional. It must take place whether the offended party is receptive of any restitution done not. We have to recognize human individuality and uniqueness in responding to situations. Sometimes even the offender refuses to ask forgiveness to us, we should forgive them inside our hearts.


Matthew 5:23-24, “Therefore, if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother or sister has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled to them; then come and offer your gift."

, Remember that sinning or messing up is the fact of life. God will forgive us --- and never remember it again. Face your life and keeping on going, despite your stumblings and shortcomings.


Hebrew 10:17, "Then he adds: 'Their sins and lawless acts I will remember no more.'"
Jeremiah 31:34, "No longer will they teach their neighbor, or say to one another, ‘Know the LORD,’ because they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest,” declares the LORD. “For I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins no more.”

, Finding healing through forgiveness is a process. Memories flash back, pain floods in and sometimes they bring back the same reactions one has had at the moment when the pain was inflicted. It seems forgiveness isn't taking place and we lose faith. Forgiveness takes place when we choose to release forgiveness each time we remember and ask for forgiveness each time the devil berates us with contempt over and over again.
 Life is just great when we see beauty around us. When we get to appreciate the essence of simple things and learn the grandest wisdom in every life's situation.

