 How you treat your bay at the very beginning of his life matters a lot and can have a lasting effect on his development and mental health. From the very start, concentrate on loving and being very gentle with your child.


Give your baby lots of love and physical affection. The soothing warmth from a parent's touch can instill positive feelings in your child and reduce distress. Physical affection includes hugs, kisses, and snuggles.
Never be rough or scream at your child.;
, Give your baby your full attention especially during the first years. Positive and attentiveness can promote self-esteem, well-being, and positive social behaviors.Unfortunately, children that are neglected can end up with low self-esteem and depression which can also result in negative behaviors such as aggression toward others.Spend quality time with your child whenever you can. Ensure that he has his basic needs met such as enough food, physical safety, and play time.
Never ignore your child unless he is misbehaving. If your child comes up to you and wants to engage with you make sure you are available as much as you can be. If you are busy, set clear boundaries and ensure that you give appropriate attention at a later time.
 Laughter can be a powerful coping resource for dealing with stress, anxiety, and depression. This means encouraging your child to laugh at his mistakes (instead of taking them too seriously) and getting joy out of funny things like impersonations and making silly faces. Discourage an unhealthy sense of humor that involves making fun of others, or putting down others in a hurtful way.


Make sure you teach him about appropriate humor. You may find a toddler saying a "bad" word really funny, but many people in public would not. It is best to avoid teaching your child behaviors that could cause him trouble later, even if you personally find them humorous.Also encourage him to not use humor as a defense instead of dealing with his problems. For example, discourage him from joking around when you talk to him about negative behaviors. This type of defensive humor can keep children and adults from tackling the reality of a situation., Lack of warmth may increase a child’s aggressive behaviors.However, feelings of belonging and love can increase a child’s positive behaviors and reduce negative behaviors.Have empathy for your child’s feelings and needs. Try to put yourself in your child's shoes and mind, and experience the world from his point of view.
Hug and kiss your child often. How you model affection can have a lasting effect on your child and give him a sense of being loved.
Avoid punishment or punitive interactions. These types of behaviors can actually increase a child’s behavior problems.