 Go to the official website of your bank. If you haven’t yet, you’ll have to connect your account information to a User ID and password. Use these to log into the website. Your account summary will be listed prominently on the page., Most banks now have official applications for banking on the go. For example, Huntington Bank has Huntington Mobile and Ally Bank has Ally Mobile. Log into the application using the same User ID and password you use to access the bank’s website, or register for one if you haven’t already.
 Any ATM should work, since they’re all linked to the financial system. Simply put your card in the machine, enter your pin number, and navigate to the balance option.


Any ATMs not affiliated with your card issuer may charge a fee for usage.
 Many banks will send you text messages to signify changes to your account, such as deposits and withdrawals. You will have to log into your account through the website or application, then sign up for the messages. Follow the text prompts to see your balance.Many banks also allow you to send these alerts to your email address instead of your phone.
When using text messages, message and data rates still apply as determined by your phone carrier.
 When you go into the bank, the teller will be able to help you. Speak to them about getting your balance or an account statement. They can provide you with the detailed information you get on statements sent to you by snail mail or email once a month.


For some prepaid cards, such as the U.S. Bank ReliaCard, the teller most likely won’t be able to see your balance., Check your bank’s website or on official mail from the bank to find their phone number. Your bank may have an automated system in place where you can follow the system’s prompts to navigate to your balance. However, the system will also tell you that you can press a number, often 0, to speak to a bank representative.The bank representative will require personal identification, such as the last four digits of your social security number, before accessing your account.

