 The FCRA is a federal law that governs how credit reporting agencies manage your credit information. Its goal is to protect individuals’ privacy and identity. It also protects your right to access and correct any inaccuracies in your credit report.Finally, it specifies who may or may not obtain a credit report on someone else.


Under the FCRA, you can obtain others’ credit reports only if you need it to qualify them for a job, insurance, government benefits or tenancy. Also, having power of attorney makes it legal for your to view that person’s credit report.
 According to CNN.com, in 2010, nearly 60 percent of employers ran credit checks on potential new hires. They see it as an important part of the hiring process, like checking someone’s references.Some employers check applicants’ credit because of the nature of the job for which they are applying. For example, banks, brokerages, the government and other financial institutions want to hire people with a proven ability to manage their personal finances.
Other employers use credit histories as a way of weeding out weak applicants. They see the existence of high debt or credit delinquencies as a possible distraction that may affect job performance.
Federal law allows employers to see a modified credit report for job applicants or employees. This is sometimes referred to as a credit header. It omits account numbers to protect privacy. If an employer decides not to hire someone based on a credit report, the applicant must be given a copy of the credit report and told of their right to challenge it under the FCRA., As a landlord, you want tenants who pay their rent and take care of the property as if it were their own. Landlords check potential tenants’ credit reports as a way of assessing their ability to do this. One way landlords avoid renting to deadbeats is by checking potential renters' credit. They can run the credit report themselves, or they can hire a services to run a credit and background checks., A person’s identity is especially susceptible to theft in the months following death. According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the problem is increasing because identity information about the recently deceased is so easy to get.The government publishes the names and social security numbers of the recently deceased on the Social Security Administration’s website in order to prevent welfare fraud. But identity thieves need only to download this Excel file from the website.
Some genealogy websites publish social security numbers and maiden names of the deceased.
It can take up to a year to settle the affairs of a person who has died. During this time, bills continue to come in and creditors are notified of the death. Identity thieves think a few extra credit card bills in the person’s name are not likely to get noticed.
 If your child is receiving credit card solicitations in the mail, then you might want to check for fraud. Identity thieves target minors because they think it won’t get noticed. Also, if you and your child share the same name, it is possible for some of your credit information to get reported on his credit report. You want to check your child’s credit report and address any problems before he turns 18 and begins applying for student loans or a credit card account.Typically you cannot pull a minor’s credit report online. You must call the credit reporting agency directly.
 Senior citizens are often targets of fraud. Look for unusually high balances on credit cards or lines of credit for which they did not sign. Thieves sometimes convince the elderly to cosign on loans. When the loan doesn’t get paid, the cosigner becomes responsible for the debt, and this can negatively affect a credit score. Also, if an elderly person is suffering from dementia, he may randomly apply for credit or use credit irresponsibly.You will need power of attorney or a court-appointed guardianship to obtain a parent’s credit report.

