 When you are being yourself in your videos, you begin to become comfortable with yourself.


The danger of not being yourself is destroying trust with your subscribers. If you try to be someone else in your videos, that means you'll be acting in front of the camera every day. That can become tiring and un-fun.;
, Are you reaching out to the younger people? Older people? What are you going to be vlogging about? Consider these questions before making your way onto YouTube.
 Vlogging is like your diary. You show your emotions and tell your audience how you feel. Don't get on camera and act happy when you know you are feeling bad. Tell your viewers how you're feeling.
 Allow people into your life only if they are there to motivate you, not bring you down. When people are always criticizing you, sometimes that can effect your day and potentially ruin your mood. Talk things through with your family. See if they want to be in your vlogs. Ask them questions and see if they are okay with you letting them on the vlogs.
 Sometimes, putting your life on the internet may not always be suitable for your partner. Talk it through with your partner and see if it's okay!


There are dangers of vlogging your life on YouTube when you are in a relationship, because viewers are prone to criticizing it whether or not they know it. It will sometimes make you doubt your relationship.
Another danger is "not knowing." Sometimes, having a relationship with a person while on camera can become confusing. You will end up trying to figure out if you really love that person, or if your love for that person is only for the camera. Consider your relationship before making the step to become a vlogger.



Technically, when you first get on YouTube, you're probably like, "Oh my gosh, I'm going to be famous now!" This isn't really true. It takes years to gain that many subscribers, and once you realize that you don't have as many subscribers as you intended, you get frustrated easily.
Set realistic goals for yourself. Maybe in one video, try to get just five views on that video. Then on the next video, try to get ten views. Improve yourself and gradually build your views and subscribers.



First of all, it took those YouTubers years to get to their current position. Even they were limited in supplies when they first started YouTube. But they stuck around and continued to set realistic goals for themselves.
 Don't be in it for the money. Because when you realize that your vlogs aren't getting you money, you can get pretty upset.

