 Spa baskets need to have a “clean” appearance, and the use of a metal or plastic basket can accomplish that more effectively than a traditional wicker or wooden basket. Metal and plastic won't absorb moisture, so the recipient should be able to carry the entire packed basket into the bathroom without worry.


If you aren't sure where to get a metal or plastic basket, try looking in a home goods store for a shower caddy. Choose one with very few compartments, though, since it can be difficult to fill if there are too many small sections.
 As such, you should include a variety of both common and uncommon bath products.


Common bath products include anything that most people regularly stock in their bathrooms: shampoo, conditioner, body wash, body lotion, and face wash. Uncommon, luxurious bath products include things that most people may only treat themselves to on rare occasions: bubble bath, effervescent bath tablets, exfoliating body scrubs, and body spray.
You can also transform common bath products into luxurious items by splurging and purchasing higher quality versions, homemade products, or organic products.
Pick a scent. The products don't need to smell the exact same, but they should all fit within a similar scent family so that the recipient can use all of the products during a single “spa day.” Choose the recipient's favorite fragrance, if you know it, or opt for something that popular like rose, lavender, or vanilla.
 Think of ways to enhance the “spa day” experience beyond the bathtub, and consider accenting the basket with a few other small items to that effect.


For instance, scented candles can create a warm, cozy, and romantic ambiance for the recipient during a bath. Similarly, a small nail care set can help the recipient groom herself or himself further, enhancing the recipient's “spa day” glow even more.
Avoid including edible accompaniments, though. Many soaps or effervescent tablets can look like food, and you don't want the recipient to accidentally toss the chocolates into the bath water while biting down on the chocolate-shaped soap.

