 Look for painted lines on the roadway that indicate a safe crosswalk that allows pedestrians to cross the street. In the United States, these will always be painted in white and perpendicular to the street. If you are in another country, you may have a different system in place; check with your local transportation department for more information.


Some crosswalks use several rectangular “blocks” of paint to indicate where you should walk across, while others use two parallel lines to designate the crossing area.
You will typically find crosswalks at an intersection with another street, or sometimes in the middle of a block in very high foot traffic areas.;
, Look for a button to press near a crosswalk that signals the WALK/DON’T WALK pedestrian lights to change. When available, these buttons are necessary to use in order to cross safely.


Once you’ve pressed the button to initiate the pedestrian signals, wait patiently on the sidewalk or curb for the signal to change to WALK, or whatever symbol is used in your area to indicate it is safe to cross.
If there is no pedestrian-initiated button, cross with extra caution when the regular traffic light turns to green, or when vehicles at stop signs see you and allow you to cross.
 Cross the street only when the pedestrian signal changes to white letters that say WALK, a white symbol of a person walking, or another symbol used in your area to indicate “walk.” Look both ways down the street to further ensure that it is safe to cross.


Always look to your left, then your right, then your left again before crossing any street. In the U.S., this helps you see the immediately oncoming traffic in the lane you will walk into first. In countries where traffic is on the left side of the street, you should look right-left-right.
Pay attention to the pedestrian signals, not the traffic lights for vehicles, if both are available. Just because you see a green traffic light does not necessarily mean it is safe for you to cross as a pedestrian.An orange hand symbol, the words DON’T WALK, or another symbol will begin flashing, or a countdown will begin, when your time to cross is running out. Do not cross when you see the static DON’T WALK signal.
Make eye contact with drivers at the intersection that you are crossing in front of, to make sure they see you and you see them if they signal at you in any way. This is especially important for crossing a street with stop signs rather than stop lights.
 When there are no WALK/DON’T WALK signals for you to cross a street, use extra caution. Stay in the crosswalk and proceed whenever a traffic light turns green or cars at a stop sign see you crossing.


When at a traffic light intersection, wait till the lights turn green for the vehicles going in the same direction as you. Look both ways and pay attention to any drivers that could be turning into your path.When at a stop sign intersection, take special care to make eye contact with the drivers on either side of the street you’re crossing when they are stopped at a stop sign. You may see them “wave you on” or make any other indication that they see you and want you to proceed.
 If there is no crosswalk available in a rural area, go to the nearest intersection or most well-lit area and proceed to cross with extra caution when there are no oncoming cars.Ensure that there is no traffic in either direction, or vehicles are very far away, before crossing. Look left and right several times before you make your move to cross, even in a rural or low-traffic area.
Note that it is not safe to cross a high-speed or high-traffic street, like the frontage road for a highway, without a crosswalk at an intersection. In this case, you must walk on the sidewalk to an intersection where there are stop signs, stop lights, or crosswalks. Do not attempt to cross without the assistance of road markings and signals.

