 Go to different stores of different foods. An average store is going to carry Hershey's, for sure, and probably Abuela's Authentic Mexican Chocolate.


White Chocolate. White chocolate is made with different ingredients than regular chocolate. It is made from the white pulp inside of a Cocoa Bean called Cocoa Butter. Some think it has more of a sweeter taste, and isn't as strong as regular chocolate. Go to a local grocery store and read the ingredients carefully! White chocolate is a bit more expensive than regular chocolate, because there is less pulp in a Cocoa Bean, therefore the price must be raised. The replacement is usually sugar, corn syrup, chocolate flavoring etc. Eat white chocolate properly by taking small pieces and slowly chew, enjoying the sensual flavor of a genuine white chocolate bar.

Milk Chocolate is your standard chocolate, used to coat candy-bars and for use as chocolate chips. However, if you look, it is available in a variety of formulations, from mixes so soft and sweet they are practically white chocolate, to vintages that might be called a dark chocolate by some.

Mexican Chocolate does not taste like normal chocolate. It's very hard, and has more of a spicy-sweet taste. It is parted into thick, round "disks," a gourmet term for the specially shaped chocolate. To cut Mexican Chocolate, take a sharp knife and start at the middle, sawing back and forth until the piece is cut. The pieces should be cut into triangles.

German Chocolate. German Chocolate is a type of dark chocolate, but it's sweeter than your typical bitter-sweet dark chocolate. It was created by Sam German, which is a reason why people get it mixed up as a chocolate from the country Germany. You can find in a popular cake called German Chocolate Cake. Top it on your favorite ice cream for an extra sweet delight!

Dark Chocolate. Set apart by it's high cocoa (and thus low sugar and fat) content, dark chocolate is not very sweet - indeed, sometimes bitter - but it exhibits the flavor and complexity of the beans very powerfully. Eat it slowly, and in small portions; not only does it take a while to properly melt on the palate, it is very rich and filling. There is some evidence that, in small amounts, the antioxidants in dark chocolate may outweigh the damage wrought by the sugar and fat .

Cocoa Bean Nibs are minimally processed cocoa beans; they have simply been fermented and hulled, not ground or mixed with other ingredients.

Unusual Flavored Chocolates. There are all sorts of flavors just waiting for you to try! Rose petals, lavender, margarita flavoring, and so much more is now available in different chocolates! You'd be surprised how many tastes good!

Chocolate Syrup is used for a variety of things. Milk, ice cream, recipes of all kinds! Serve it as an enhancer, not a replacement.
