 The thicker or stronger the fabric, the longer the bag will last but it might be harder to stitch. Also consider the end use for your purse or bag, as you might need it to carry light or heavy items and perhaps to be slightly water-resistant; use this to guide your fabric choice. Cotton is a great option. You can recycle fabric too. Use an old tee shirt if you wish, or any other fabric.


Scrap fabric is great for turning into a drawstring purse.
You could have different fabric for each side of the purse or bag. It's entirely up to you.;
, You can use a piece of string, ribbon or cord. Or, find anything that is similar and will hold together well when pulled and tied. A strip of flexible leather would work, or a thin rope like twine.
 They must be of exactly the same size, although the finished size of the purse or bag is entirely up to you. To reduce the amount of seeing, cut out a rectangular of fabric twice as deep as you want you finished bag to be. This way you only have to see the sides and not the bottom of the bag.
 Fold down about a centimetre of fabric at the top of your fabric to make a hem or channel. Do this to both pieces if you have two or on both sides if you have on piece you are folding in half. Pin the hem. Stitch along the hem at the bottom. Your drawstring will be passed through this hem when you bag is nearly finished. Use small, neat stitches as the will show when your bag is completed., Pin together both prices of fabric or fold your fabric. You can pin these together if it helps you but this is not essential. Stitch together along the sides and bottom, or stitch the two sides if you are using the folded fabric method. Ensure you leave the hemmed edge open for the drawstring opening. When stitched together, turn the bag out right side out.
 You now have a pouch. Next you'll add the drawstring element.
, Get the string, ribbon or cord piece. Using a darning needle, thread your ribbon, yarn, twine or whatever into the hem or channel you sewed at the beginning. Your drawstring needs to be about twice as long as the opening of your bag. Make sure you don't pull it right the way through! You need some of the draw string on either side of your bag's opening. Once you have threaded the drawstring right the way through both hems, tie the two ends of the drawstring into a knot or bow.
 You can tie it closed.
 You've created a drawstring purse. It can be used for carrying your usual daily items, or it can hold things for storing or safekeeping.

