 With a soft-bristle broom, go along the floor, removing any debris. You can also use a vacuum with a brush attachment to get between the crevices. Remember that slate is soft and easily damaged, so you want to choose a brush that is clean and as soft as possible.;
, Choose a clean dust mop that is not oil-based. Run the mop in one direction over the floor to pick up debris and dust. Avoid moving back and forth, as this will move the dust back onto the slate and cause damage when you clean later., In a bucket, combine about a gallon of warm water with ¼ a cup of detergent. The detergent should be gentle to avoid abrading the floor. Choose a detergent for delicate clothing or a gentle dish soap.


Specialized slate cleaners are also an option. These should be non-acidic. Follow the directions on the container.
 Wring out the mop before you start and make smooth strokes. Go slow. Rinse your mop and wring it out often to avoid any debris clinging to it and getting worked into the porous slate.


Steam mops are also an option. Check the hardware store. These mops pick up extra condensation and dirt.Anytime the mop appears to be leaving streaks or debris on the floor, dump out your water and make the water and detergent mixture again.
 Choose a soft cloth that won’t scrape the slate, then wipe off as much water as possible. This will prevent the water from seeping into the pores. Afterwards, let the floor air dry.
 Once the surface has dried, apply a thin layer of teak oil with a soft cloth. A small amount of oil will ensure a deeper cleaning, but don’t apply enough that the slate begins to absorb it.Slate oil is also a good choice, but tends to be much more expensive than teak oil.
 Slate is a very delicate material, so your floor benefits from getting a soap and water wash every few months. This removes grime and prevents stains and the need to perform deeper, more difficult cleaning later.
 Stone and tile sealers are available at flooring retailers and hardware stores. Follow the directions on the label. Use a clean cotton mop to spread the sealer evenly across the floor. This will prevent stains by blocking the pores from spills., Tackle spills as soon as they happen to avoid any substance getting into the porous surface. Use a soft cloth or towel., Choose a clean sponge or a scrub brush with soft, non-metal bristles. Also avoid using any acidic or abrasive cleaners. You can use the warm, soapy water from mopping to scrub the stains.
 For floors with non-colored grout only, mix an equal amount of water and hydrogen peroxide into a spray bottle. Spray the mixture on, let it sit for ten minutes, then scrub it off with a soft pad or brush.This is a bleach mixture, so it will take the color out of colored grout.
 For stubborn stains, mix small amounts of peroxide and baking soda to form a paste. Wait for the bubbles to stop, then put the paste on the stains. Let it set for a few minutes, then wipe it clean with a soft cloth or towel., Apply the shaving cream to the stains, let it sit for 15 minutes, then remove it with warm water and a soft towel.Remember to try the shaving cream in an inconspicuous spot to make sure it doesn’t discolor the grout.
 Try absorbent materials such as kitty litter. Cover the stain with the material and leave it for ten minutes for a new stain or several hours for an old stain. Carefully vacuum it up when done.If repeated attempts don’t remove the stain, mix equal amounts of baking soda and water, cover the stain with the resulting paste, and leave the paste on the stain to dry.
If baking soda doesn’t work, pour mineral spirits on the stain, leave it for half an hour, scrub with a stiff brush, then soak with newspaper and wash the area.
If that doesn’t work, spray brake oil on the stain then try the absorbent material again.

