 Your feelings are a practically limitless source of inspiration for journal writing. During pregnancy, you may experience dramatic mood swings. You may become more sensitive and possibly more nervous than usual. Write about these feelings:


What made you happy?
Why are you crying?
What annoys you?

, Your body will definitely go through some changes during pregnancy. You might enjoy some of these changes, or you might be concerned about your body weight. Write about what is happening so you can reflect on it after your pregnancy is over.


Has your belly grown?
Do you have swollen feet, hands?
Does it seem that your nose is bigger?
What about your breasts?
Do you feel nauseous?

, Writing about changes in your life may help you process or prioritize your daily routine. Because getting pregnant directly forces you to alter your schedule for another human being, reflect on how you have accommodated the needs of the baby and your body.


How do you balance your work and pregnancy?
Have you changed your diet?
Have you given up cigarettes?
Are you more tired than usual?

, It's quite common to experience some fear when you become pregnant. Write about your fears and thoughts about childbirth, or your child's health. Processing these fears through writing can help you determine whether or not they are valid, or merely irrational thoughts.


Are you afraid of how your pregnancy will progress?
Are you afraid that your child will be born unhealthy?
Do you wonder whether or not you'll be a good parent?

, Writing about your expectations will allow you to realize whether or not they are worth holding. Many parents have unspoken expectations of their parenthood, ranging from the gender to the looks of the child.


If you do not know the sex of the child, do you expect that you will give birth to a boy or a girl?
Which parent will the child look like?
Do you expect to have a peaceful or wild child?

, Dreams can lend powerful insight into your subconscious. Many people believe that dreams accurately reflect the thoughts and feelings that are not readily accessible by your conscious thoughts during the waking hours of the day. Note your subconscious messages and try to interpret them.


See if any of your dreams come true or have real bearing on your life.
 Writing a letter to your child can be a great way to express your feelings about your impending motherhood. This exercise can help you anticipate and feel good about your future child.


Be open and honest.
Write to them about your thoughts and feelings.
Try talking about how much you look forward to their arrival, how much you are afraid, and more.
 If you haven't yet decided on a name for your baby, find inspiration for name ideas in your daily life, literature, art, or baby name books. Writing about your baby's name will help you decide on a good name, by letting your reason and feel through the different aspects of each name. If you have already chosen a name, write about that.


How did you choose the name? Who chose it?
Is the child named after someone and why?

