 Financial newspapers are the traditional way to read up on the movements of stocks on the market. These may have been superseded by the more immediately updated information on the internet, but they can still provide a useful guide when researching stocks. The presentation may vary, but in general a stock quote chart should have around twelve columns.The name of the stock will often be shortened version of the name of the company.
One column will show the ticker name for each stock.
 The first two columns on the chart should be labelled “52W Low” and “52W High,” or something similar. The figures in these columns record the highest and lowest price at which the stock been traded in the last 52 weeks, or a year. This will be kept up-to-date, but in general will not include the trading from the day before.This information gives you a useful picture of the longer term price history of a stock.
It can indicate a general pattern or trend, but should be supplemented by further research.
 The price to earnings ratio is an important piece of information that you can get from the chart. The column for this will typically be headed something like P/E, or P/E Ratio. This is a ratio used for valuing companies by measuring current share price in relation to per-share earnings. It is sometimes known as a multiple.


Basically, this ratio indicates how many dollars an investor must invest in company to receive a dollar return.
If a stock had a P/E or multiple of 20, it would indicate that investors would be willing to pay $20 for $1 of current earnings. In a chart, the P/E is determined by dividing the current stock price, by the earnings per share from the previous four financial quarters., The daily information of the stock will tell you the volume traded the previous day, the starting and closing price, along with the net change. The chart will also show you the highest and lowest prices at which the stock was traded on the previous day.


If the stock closed either up or down by more than 5%, that stock will be shown as bold in the chart.
This is an easy way to pick up the stocks that made the biggest moves, up or down, in the previous day’s trading.
Keep in mind that, even after the markets close, stock prices continue to fluctuate.This is because shares of stock are traded in other markets around the world 24/7.

