 Some of the most effective methods of acquiring inspiration and ideas come from a little research. It is imperative that builders choose a project (however large or small). For example, if a builder chooses to build a Medieval Village, it would be wise to research what Medieval Villages entitle. In the specified example, some of the attributes of a village include: farms, commoner's houses, noble's houses, shops, and a city wall. Even just a little research can inspire you to create something amazing!;
, Once you've found a reasonable project and goal, the next objective is to brainstorm with an ambition of a tiger looking for its afternoon meal. Ask yourself these fundamental questions:


How long do I expect this project to take me?
What kind of materials will I use?
How do I plan to illustrate my plan of action?
Do I have the ambition to complete it?

, If you can answer, "heck yes!" to all of the questions in Step Two, then you're ready to brainstorm on paper. Get out some paper and pencils (be sure to bring lots of erasers), it's time to draw! On your piece of paper, draw out a very rough sketch of what the "big picture" is. Let's refer back to the Medieval Village example used in step one. A good start would be to draw out a rough city plan, making little notes of where the houses, the farms and where the city walls would stand. Remember, there is no "wrong" sketch! Any drawing is an exceptional masterpiece if you can understand what you've drawn, the drawings will (hopefully) serve as a reference when constructing your project in-game.
 In reference to your preliminary sketch of your project, now is the time to evaluate the logistics of your project. Ask yourself:


Does my sketch provide reasonable parameters for what I plan to accomplish?
Who is my audience? (Friends, family, -- maybe yourself, he-he).
What are my inspirations from researching in Step One and how do they take part in the project I'm planning?
Does my sketch provide ample (this is a subjective definition -- you decide what it means!) information on how the project is going to be completed?

, If you can answer all of the questions above with confidence and determination, you're one step closer to bringing your project to life! Now is the time to put your imagination to the limit. Get out your blueprint (your first sketch), put your thinking cap on, and start building your creation.


Building is a complicated and lengthy process (in most cases) and your first structures may take a long time to build, which is completely normal! It's important to be satisfied with what you've built and use all available resources to help you build your best structure yet. Going back to the Medieval Village example, if you get stuck on building a house, you can look up related term items on the internet like, "medieval house ideas" or "how to build a medieval house".
 Remember that getting demotivated and lacking ideas is completely normal! Take a break; take a 2-3 hour break in between building.


Going back to the Medieval castle example, you might have rough idea of how you want to build it on paper, but when it comes to putting my imagination to the block, you go blank! After a prolonged break and searching up new inspirations and castle-building tutorials, little by little you can create a castle and be satisfied with the final product. Sometimes, inspiration is all you need!

, You've read all the steps without smashing your computer at my lack of verbiage and the repetitive use of the Medieval Village example, congrats!

