 No matter what they do, how they look and how much they earn, your parents are the reason why you are loved, fed, clothed and warm. They chose to love you, be gentle and kind towards you, spend sleepless nights as you cried busting their sleep but still kissed your nose before they left for work while you slept contently tucked in. They chose to fret over every sickness and problem you faced. They read out stories to you and taught you the lessons of life along with the moral, values and ethics that eventually decide who you will be. They fulfilled every wish and desire you had, even if it meant changing important plans or breaking the budget, without you ever knowing the things that went behind getting the favourite toy or dress you liked. They did all this only for your smile and your happiness. So respect them for who they are. They will only want the best for you.;
, They have oddly around 30 years of experience of life more than you, so it's quite obvious why your parents will make many important decisions in your early life. These will range from your name to which school you attend, and in some cases and cultures, what job you choose or even the choice of your life partner.


There are some choices you cannot do much about, when you are actually too young to make any correct one. But as you grow up there are many other things where they include you in the discussion. This does not mean that you nod to whatever they say but rather try to understand their reason and put forward your own thoughts regarding that topic. Again, do not be as stubborn as a mule but still be respectful in sharing your reasons and opinions. It's very frustrating to be listening to someone 20 years younger than you, raise their voice at you. Avoid doing that. Your parents understand your individuality is the basis of your interpretation of the lessons you learnt from them and your own experiences and they respect it. Be attentive to them and take their wisdom and knowledge in the right intent.
 This is easy. It comes naturally to most of us. But as time goes on and we grow older, caught up in the hassles and entertainments of our own age, we lose the importance of spending time with our parents. On their part, they understand and quietly ignore it, being happy in the knowledge that you are happy.


It's difficult to make time but then that again is up to you. Is that movie really important to watch? Or that football match really important enough to go to? Can't you enjoy watching it from home where you can watch your dad turn into a teen again as he enjoys it with you? Can you not go out for an evening with your parents, taking them to some of the places you liked eating at with your friends?

, It may feel a little odd but just let yourself go and remember how you hugged them as a kid, because that's what you will always remain for them. Kiss your mum on the cheek before you leave for college. You don't know she might be missing it. Tell them how much you love them whenever you get the chance or when you feel it. And mean every single thing you say, because they always know when you are lying.
 Clean your room and do your laundry. Don't add on extra work for your mum. Help your dad with the car, the lawn, the pool, the fence and other chores. Take out the garbage. Go the bank and do the simple tasks. All these will teach you many things and help free your parents time.
 When was the last time you saw your mum sit back and relax while the food cooked itself? Chances are never. If she is not in the kitchen she will be tidying up some other room, cleaning up behind you. Help her out over weekends. Do the dishes and the vegetables. Talk to her all the while, tell her your college pranks and about the girls you like (depending on how cool your mum is with it.. haha.. ). Make her laugh. Help your dad out with his work. Confide in him, ask him what he used to do when he was your age, the pranks he played and how he met your mum. Play an indoor or outdoor game with them on weekends. Give them massages when their body aches. Take care of them when they fall sick in the same way they did when you were sick. Drive your dad to work if you are free. When he comes back home get him some water to drink before he asks for it. He has had a tiring day. Understand that. Save your pocket money and buy gifts for them for their anniversaries and birthdays. Make time for them, because that is what they crave for more than anything else - your time.
 Make them your best confidantes and you will never have to worry about your secrets leaking out. They really are the best keepers of secrets. And what do you know, they might just help you out with their experience.
 They grow old every single day as you do. But for many of us we do not notice the fine wrinkles and grey hair that slowly creeped into their institutions until we actually sit next to them. They grow old right in front of our eyes. Sometimes, they don't even need us. They are strong. But still we should look after them and care for them. They don't need many things - only our love and affection in the purest form.


So take care of them when old age knocks at their door, just as they cared for us and were tolerant with us when we were babies and errant youths, because the first people who truly ever wanted you to succeed and were joyful at the first step you took may need you in their last steps. Be with them, love them, respect them and support them. Always.
 They come in all sizes and shapes but most of us have their best memories growing up along with their siblings. They are mad, fun and completely crazy to hang out with. They may have different friends, groups, choices and likes/dislikes but all of them under one roof is one recipe for a fun-riot. Love them unconditionally and cherish them. They will be the ones who will always understand you.
 The more siblings you have the more choices you will have. All it means is some inputs may be valuable and some just to make you laugh. Also, if you are providing inputs, be careful about what you say and how you say it. It is possible that a true fact may upset your brother/sister but the way you say it will make the difference whether you are empathizing or having a laugh at their expense.
 Cultivate the habit of keeping secrets. This builds trust. Even if there are differences between you, be united and support each other when they need you. This will build a strength in your family that no one will be able to break.
 Help them when they need it. Even if they don't ask. Offer to help them and don't talk down to them. Motivate them to work hard be it sports, studies or whatever they like and appreciate every achievement heartily. Be proud of their achievements and don't be shy to push them harder. Nothing revs someone up more than the word of someone who loves and trusts you.
 Everyone likes to be surprised. Buy them gifts and the things they need. You don't have to wait for a birthday to gift your siblings. Or take them out for a spin or some trendy cool place you hang out at. Bowling and snooker are fun with siblings so are amusement parks and football matches. Plan some weekends together and have a refreshing blast. Because those who laugh together live together.

