 In order to have a great Christmas you need to start as early as possible. Right after American Thanksgiving or the beginning of December are both good times. You should begin by doing things like making Christmas cards, buying an advent calender and starting your wish list. If you do everything at the beginning you'll be sick of Christmas before the day even comes!;
, You should have a few basic guidelines for the season. For instance, you should do things like go enjoy the snow as much as possible (if possible)., Honestly, it will put you in a much more festive mood if you're baking cookies with your family while watching Rudolph instead of playing video games alone.
 They give off a Christmas vibe that helps people be merry. If they're not up quite yet try to encourage the decorating.
 If you don't want to participate in commercialism than try singing your own songs while gathering around the fireplace.
 Christmas is about being together, not watching separate shows in separate rooms.
 Wake up as early as you can on the 24th. This will cause you to be very sleepy, allowing you to get to bed on Christmas Eve.
 Some suggested activities are watching a Christmas movie, tracking Santa on NORAD or going for a winter walk. Nothings worse than waiting for the day of excitement and ending it by wishing it was over.
 You should also limit the sweets after about 3 or 4pm, we don't want a hyperactive child going to bed do we?

, Many articles have lists of activities you can do to unwind and get your mind of The Big Day, but honestly what's the point of occupying yourself with small chores when you should be dreaming of sugarplums?, The only reason you should be out is if you really have to use the washroom, and if you do, resist the urge to peek at the presents. This will only increase your excitement about the morning.
 Instead of trying not to think about Christmas (which will only make the thought become front and center in your mind) just remind yourself that the sooner you fall asleep the sooner morning will come, the sooner you get to open presents and the sooner you get to see what St.Nick left you.
 Once morning arrives you are free to enjoy your gifts! Spend the day admiring that new toy you got, or sitting with your family playing that new board game Santa delivered. After all this is what you have been waiting for, so enjoy it!

