 This light and creamy soup makes a refreshing summer side dish. To get started, heat one tablespoon coconut oil in a large saucepan.Add three minced garlic cloves and one tablespoon grated ginger. Saute for one minute.
Add one Thai chile and fry for one minute.
Pour two cups coconut meat, two cups coconut water, and one cup chicken stock into the pan. Bring to a simmer, then cover for 20 minutes.
Add one teaspoon fish sauce, one tablespoon basil, and one tablespoon cilantro. Simmer for five more minutes.
Pour the soup into a blender and blend until smooth. Return the blended soup to the pan and simmer. Add salt and pepper to taste.
Bring a large saucepan of water to a boil and add 36 small clams. After five to 10 minutes, the clams should open. Discard clams that do not open, and add opened clams to the soup.
Serve and enjoy.
 Coconut gravy is a spicy mixture that pairs perfectly with tender vegetables. This side dish tastes great over rice or quinoa. To get started, blend 1.25 cups coconut water, ½ cup coconut meat, and one tablespoon corn flour on high until smooth.Combine ½ cup chopped French beans, ½ cup chopped carrots, ¼ cup peas, and ½ cup of water in a microwave safe dish. Microwave on high for four minutes. Set aside.
Microwave one tablespoon coconut oil for 20 seconds, then add ½ teaspoon cumin seeds and microwave for 60 more seconds.
Grind ½ tablespoon chopped green chilies, ½ cup chopped onions, and ½ teaspoon of chopped ginger into a paste. Add the paste to the oil and cumin. Microwave for one minute.
Add the coconut water mixture, stir, and microwave for 90 seconds.
Add the vegetables, stir, and microwave for two minutes.
 Coconut rice is a slightly-sweet fluffy rice prepared with both coconut milk and coconut water. Just mix one teaspoon salt, one cup unsweetened coconut milk, 1.5 cups coconut water, and two cups of brown rice in a medium pot. Bring the pot to a boil, then stir the contents and reduce heat to its lowest setting. Cover the pot with the lid. Simmer for about 15 minutes.The result pairs great with mango chunks, diced sweet potato and raisins, or pineapple chunks.

