 You can get Webkinz at toy stores, department stores and from online sales. Choose one that you know you will love and want to adopt.;
, This is where you name your pet and care for it online. You can name it names like another person would be called, like Allison or Gigi. Or give it a cute name like Whiskers or Misty.


Print a birth certificate for your pet to remember its birthday and the day you got it.
 Every pet needs a home! Your pet's home can be fancy as a glass made house especially made for your pet, or it can be as simple as a shoebox with a blanket. Your pet won't care as long as you give it lots of love!

, You don't have to buy actual Webkinz clothes but they look cool. You could make your own clothes if you want.
 Enroll it to Webkinz Academy online!

, Make sure you hug and kiss it good-night. Read it a story and make sure you make your Webkinz feel loved.
 Constantly say I Love You, celebrate it's birthday, the day you adopted it. Or, if you want to, make it a certain day. For example, let's say you adopted it on August 17th but you decide to make it's birthday on September 12th.
 For example, use food made out of clay. You can make this yourself at home using air dry clay.
 Taking your Webkinz everywhere makes you have a stronger friendship with your Webkinz. You can take it on Vacations, that way you build memories with your Webkinz.
 When you go traveling put it in your backpack or right in your lap! When you go to the store, buy $1.00 - $5.00 things for it. Nobody likes a plain toy.
 Online play games at the arcade or apply for a job if your pet is old enough. Offline play games like Dr. or just go play outside. They love it if you have a treehouse! They also love slides. Different animals like different things.
, You can learn how to make stuff for your Webkinz from the book.
 Pencil cases with zippers and are made of fabric work best for their suitcases. You could put the pet's clothes and stuff like that in there. Make sure to include your pet's name, and address, phone# on the tag so if they get lost the person that finds it will be able to track you down and give you your pet.

