 This powerful roundhouse kick variation uses a different stance than you'd use for an ordinary kick. Take a step forward with your non-kicking foot, then turn your body so your feet are roughly shoulder-width apart. Turn the toes of your rear foot out to the side. Stand up straight with your weight on the balls of your feet and your fists clenched in front of your chest or chin.


For muay thai kicks, try to put a little more weight on the back foot than on the front foot. This gives you stability as you react to your opponent's moves and try to set up your kick. When you make your kick, you'll transfer your weight to the other foot for additional power.
 To begin your kick, pivot on the ball of your front foot, turning your toes outwards and your heel towards your opponent. As you do this, raise your leg up and around your body in a smooth arc, putting a bend in your knee as you do so. Try to raise your leg to at least the level of your opponent's waist — your knee should be pointing at or near the center of your opponent's body by the point you start to deliver your kick.









At the end of the swing, the hip of your kicking leg should be stacked directly above the hip of your standing leg. Most of the stability and power for the kick will come from this solid pillar of support.
 Snap your leg forward as normal, aiming to connect just at or before the point your leg fully extends. As you do this, introduce greater power and speed to your kick by throwing the arm on your kicking side down in a synchronized motion with your kick.









Note that this motion leaves you slightly more vulnerable to a counterattack because your swinging arm can't block attacks, so make sure to keep your other hand up to protect your head and face while you make this movement.
 Connect with your opponent's torso or head at your shin or the top of your foot. Try to hit your opponent like a baseball bat, coming in from the side (around his guard) rather than straight on. Once you have made impact, withdraw your leg as quickly as possible for maximum striking power (just as you would for the kicking styles above).









As directed above, follow your kick up with another kick or return to your starting position, pivoting your standing foot back around as you do so. Whichever option you use, be sure to return your kicking arm back to its guard position as quickly as possible to protect against a counterattack.

