 Start out by threading a needle. You'll want a fairly sturdy needle, but you don't want one so thick that you'll have a hard time pulling it through. Use a thick thread or double thread it for extra strength. Knot the end of the thread so it won't pull through the fabric.To double thread a needle, smooth two pieces of thread together. Cut the end so the pieces are even. Push both pieces of thread through the eye of the needle at the same time. Leave at least 4 or 5 inches of tail so that the needle doesn't come unthreaded.
An easy way to knot the thread is to find the end of the thread. Hold it up against the needle so that the needle is facing towards the length of the thread, not the end. While holding the end of the thread against the needle near the eye, wrap the thread around the sharp end of the needle three times. Put your fingers over where you wrapped the thread, and pull the needle through. Still holding the loops with your fingers, let the length of the thread go through the loops until it knots at the end. Cut off any extra thread.
 Find the place the wire is sticking out. Push it all the way back in. Gather the the two edges of the fabric that surround the hole by pulling up a bit on each edge and holding them together so that the edges meet, sticking up towards you., With the edges together, start sewing on one end of the hole. Pull the needle through both edges. Loop the thread over the edges, and start on the same side again. Push the needle through again. Keep making this stitch (a whip stitch) until you reach the other edge of the hole. Knot the thread off.Make sure to make your stitches close together to keep the wire from escaping. Also, it's probably a good idea to sew a little bit farther than you think you should on each side to help reinforce it., Use a bit of nail polish or fabric glue to reinforce what you've done. Simply paint or spread a bit of the substance over the stitching. Make sure to work it into the stitches if you can. Let the substance dry, and you're done.You can also use superglue for this step.