 Most beehives do not house "Africanized honey bees" and therefore will not be a danger. Bees come in many types and are vital to the food and flora production of the world. If you don’t discover a hive or nest in an area that you frequent, and no one in your home is allergic, they likely don't need to be killed.Africanized honey bees are slightly smaller than their European counterparts. They can be distinguished by their golden-brown color, thin coating of fur on their bodies and bulbous, striped tail sections.Despite the uniformity of their appearance, it usually requires an expert eye to tell the difference between a normal honey bee and a dangerous killer bee.;
, If you can't find a bee removal company in the phone book, try contacting your local county extension agent or fire department. They will be able to refer you to bee removal services in your area, including commercial businesses and your city's animal control department. You may also have a city, county, or state beekeeper association—many beekeepers will remove the hive without charge.Professional bee removal services may be costly, but are the safest way to get rid of an infestation.
Not all commercial pest control services may be equipped to deal with killer bee infestations. Call the company and ask if this is within their capability.
 Work with the bee removal experts to inspect the rest of your property for signs of infestation. If any part of the hive is left behind, it will be a signal to other bees that your home is a good place to build. A good bee removal expert will dispose of the hive first, then kill or capture the remaining bees.While bees can be killed with sprays and other remote means, the hive usually has to be removed manually.
 Pick up any stray buckets, boxes or other containers lying around your property that bees might build a nest in. Most bees prefer to live in cool, dark spaces, so pay particular attention to your garage, basement, work shed, garbage bins and any covered areas around your home. Fill large gaps in brick or concrete walls to keep bees from nesting there.Keep an eye out for where bees are coming from and returning to. By tracking their movements, you can often locate their nest.

