 Pair a mini-skirt with an oversized sweater.Or, rock a pencil skirt with bare legs or ankle socks. Skirts in black, neutrals, or plaid team up well with loafers.Loafers aren’t typically worn with skirts so long that the shoes can’t be seen. However, if you want to wear your loafers with a maxi skirt (for example, if your loafers are just plain comfy), go for it!Try wearing a black and white swing skirt with black suede loafers. Or, wear a red plaid miniskirt with black tights and loafers.
 Loafers look great with short dresses, as well as those that leave at least a few inches between your ankles and the hemline. Try wrap dresses, belted dresses, and dresses that fall just above or below the knee.


For example, pair a neutral wrap dress with a white blazer and metallic loafers.Try a floral or denim dress with a cinched or belted waist, and black or brown loafers.
 If you haven’t already chosen a plaid skirt, consider a plaid blazer. Plaid and loafers pull an outfit together well. Another option is to add a plaid scarf.Try plaid cropped pants, or a plaid poncho.
 Dark denim is sleek with high-heeled loafers. Adding a fitted or oversized blazer can make even ripped skinny jeans look dressier. Add a trench coat, scarf, and/or an oversized handbag.A loose-fitting sweater or a tucked-in blouse is harmonious with skinny jeans and loafers.
 Pick pants that are cropped a couple of inches above the ankle. High-waisted pants are good for this look, but aren’t a necessity. Stick with classic colors and shades for your pants.


For example, pair white denim pants with a navy blazer for a preppy look. Or, pick blue denim for a more casual look., Try a power suit that is tailored to your figure. Your blouse can be plain, striped or patterned. Or, mix and match suit pieces.


Try matching the color of your loafers to your blazer and belt. Wear a tucked-in, collared shirt with neutral dress pants, such as gray.
Instead of a tailored suit, you can opt for a baggy blazer over a tucked-in blouse and tapered pants.
 If your shoes are a stand-out color – for example, a sunny yellow – tone the rest of your look down. For instance, you could pair them with rolled-up jeans and a white tank top.Try wearing white pants with a soft beige blazer. Add a dark-colored handbag and matching loafers., Loafers tend to go well with dressy hats like fedoras, oversized leather purses, and minimal jewelry. Try wearing retro shades and a simple long necklace. If you’re going for the sockless look, consider wearing invisible socks to protect your shoes and feet.

