 Get a butcher to grind chuck beef for you with a 15% fat content. If you use more fat and it will just drip off the meat and cause fire flare-ups; less and the burgers will be dry. If possible, buy the meat the day you’re going to cook it.


Ask the butcher to grind the meat twice, once in the coarse plate of the grinder and then through the fine plate.;
, You'll add the other ingredients to it when you're ready.
 Put them in a bowl and mix them together until combined.
 This includes the Worcestershire sauce, ketchup, mustard, and the chopped herbs. These ingredients are optional, but they can add a special flavor to the meat.
 Season one egg yolk with salt and pepper and mix everything together. It is easier to start mixing with a spoon; then use your clean hands to thoroughly combine the ingredients.
 Handle the meat as little as possible, so you don’t squeeze out the juices.


Shape the mixture into 6 equal-sized balls using your hands.
Press the balls down to make flat burger shapes about ½ inch (1.27cm) thick. Make a small indentation in the center of the burger with your thumb. This prevents the center from swelling, leading to uneven cooking.
 Cover them with plastic wrap or wax paper. Chill for 30 minutes to a few hours to make the burgers firmer and easier to cook. Burger meat is best cooked cold.
 The homemade burgers can be cooked with a broiler or grill, fried in the skillet or frying pan, or barbecued. They can also be baked. The method used depends on what you have available and what you prefer by way of taste and texture. Whichever method you choose, after taking the patties out of the fridge, spritz them with a little cooking oil or brush them with some melted butter before cooking. Here are the different methods you can use:



Broiler/grill: Preheat the broiler (upper level grill) to medium heat. Line a broiler pan with foil, for easier cleanup after cooking. Place the burgers in the broiler pan. Broil them for 6-7 minutes on each side or until thoroughly cooked.

Frying pan or skillet: Add oil or butter to the pan and fry the burgers well. Be sure to use low heat and a long cook to properly cook the burgers the whole way through.
Place the burgers on the barbecue grill. Cook as usual for hamburgers on the barbecue.

Bake: Place in the oven on 350ºF/180ºC for 15 to 30 minutes, depending on thickness. You may like to flip them over halfway, testing doneness regularly.
 You can choose to use whatever toppings you like, but here's what you can do to prepare traditional toppings for the burger:


Wash the lettuce and tomatoes.
Halve the burger buns, then thinly slice the tomatoes.
Place the ketchup and mayonnaise on the table for diners to make their own choice.
 Once the burgers are cooked to each diner's liking, serve the burgers. Place inside the bun with the toppings and deliver to the table.


Alternatively, place the burger on a plate with other food such as rice, chips, mashed potato, or salad.
 Everyone loves this classic hamburger which tastes delicious with American cheese and pickles.
 This delicious hamburger is twice the fun -- with two meat patties!

, This delicious hamburger is made with beer, onion soup mix, and a dash of Tabasco sauce.
 Just add mozzarella cheese and spaghetti sauce to your burger to add an Italian spin to your favorite burger.
 Love bacon? Love peanut butter? Then why not add them to a burger?

,