 Open the app on your iOS device and log in by entering your registered email address and password. Tap “Sign in” to continue. If you used your Facebook account to sign in, you can tap “Login with Facebook” instead.


If you don’t have a Spotify account yet, you can always sign up. Just tap the “Sign up” link both on the login screen of the app, fill up the necessary information, and tap “Sign up” to instantly get an account.;
, From the left panel, tap “Your Music” to access all the options for your selected music, including existing playlists.
 Tap “+ New Playlist” in the Playlist section. Name the playlist in the pop-up that appears, and tap “Create.” SoundHound will add search results to this playlist.
 Locate the app icon on your home screen and tap to launch the app. The icon is orange with a bold “S” on it.
 Tap “Sign in” and enter your registered email address and password into the fields provided. Tap “Sign in” to continue.


If you used your Facebook account to sign up for SoundHound, tap “Facebook” instead.
 Do this by tapping “Profile” from the bottom left of the screen.
 There’s a gear icon at the top right of your profile page. Tap it to open the Settings menu.
 In the Settings menu, locate “Spotify.” A “Connect” button will be next to it; tap this. SoundHound will verify your Spotify account, displaying the account you’ve logged in to. If this is the account you want to connect, in the Permissions pop-up, press “Allow” to connect SoundHound with Spotify.
 SoundHound will display “Listening.” Sing, hum, or have SoundHound listen to the song you want to search. A line or two will be enough. When done, tap the logo again.


Alternatively, if you know the song title already and just want to add it to your Spotify playlist, you can enter it in the search bar at the top.
 SoundHound will display a list of song titles that match the line(s) or song you had it listen at the bottom part of the screen.
 Select the song and tap the the SoundHound button on the song page. Tap “Add to Spotify playlist” from the drop-down menu. You can use the playlist you have created earlier.
 If you find tapping “Add to Spotify” each time you make a search tedious, you can actually add all your search results in SoundHound automatically to the playlist in Spotify. To do this, open the Settings menu and tap the “Auto-add to Playlist” option next to Spotify.