 As you are completing your training or education, make sure to be thinking about which type of training job you would like to pursue. Are you interested in working with ordinary dog owners who want to have a more obedient pet? Then consider joining a business that focuses on typical obedience methods.If you are interested in a more specialized training career, make sure that you live in the right area. For example, military and police dogs are only trained in certain cities. Are you willing to relocate? These are the types of questions you should ask yourself as you think about your career path.
 Once you decide which type of trainer you want to be, it is time to start actively searching for a job. You should make sure that your resume is updated to reflect your most current level of education and all of your relevant experience. You should also ask several people if they are willing to serve as professional references. Great people to ask are former employers, co-workers, and instructors/professors.Make sure that you have a professional cover letter ready to send out with your resume. It should indicate why you are applying for that particular job and highlight your strengths as a dog trainer.
 You can use job search sites to help you locate places that you might want to work. These are particularly useful because a lot of companies with job openings regularly update their information. If you know where you want to work, you can contact that business directly to see if they have any openings that might be right for you.When you are just starting out, you might consider trying to get a job at a chain pet store. These businesses often have many opportunities for new trainers. There could also be lots of room for advancement.
Use your professional network to learn about potential jobs. Ask people you know in the field and former classmates if they are aware of any openings. Networking is one of the best ways to find a new job.
Ask local dog trainers if they are looking for a partner. Working as part of a small team can be a great way to hone your skills.
 If you start your own business, you can enjoy several perks, such as setting your own hours and being your own boss. When you start a dog training company, make sure you have a clear business plan. Make sure to consider your start up costs, how much you will need to make, and how much to charge clients. Market yourself. Make sure to set aside a portion of your start-up funds for advertising. You might want to print flyers to hang in your neighborhood or buy advertising space on a website.
Use social media. The internet is a powerful tool, and you can use it to your benefit. Get the word out about your new business using sites such as Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn. Ask your friends to make sure to "like" and share your posts.
 Networking is one of the best ways to either find a job or increase your business. Take time to get to know other members of your professional community. Attend social events and continuing education programs. By spending time with other trainers, you will begin to develop important professional connections.


Join the National Association of Dog Obedience Instructors (www.nadoi.org), the International Association of Canine Professionals (www.canineprofessionals.com) and/or the Association of Pet Dog Trainers (www.apdt.com) where you can network with other trainers online, attend conferences, and continue your education even if you are not a professional trainer just yet.

