 If your home has a fireplace, make sure you know how to use it safely. When a winter storm warning is issued, bring enough firewood inside to last for a few days.


If you have a generator, be sure to have enough fuel to keep it running for a few days. Keep the generator completely outdoors, not in a garage. Running a generator indoors can cause carbon monoxide poisoning and death.;
, Fill up water bottles and jugs when a storm warning is issued. Have a well-stocked cupboard of non-perishable foods that do not require preparation. Keep a first aid kit and a week's supply of necessary medications., Downed power lines and your emergency heat source both raise the risk of fire. Keep a fire extinguisher in your home. Make sure your home's smoke detectors are working., Keep a battery-powered radio in your home, as well as at least one flashlight per person. Make sure to have multiple extra batteries for each. Have enough warm blankets, sleeping bags, and clean clothes for everyone in your household., Cold weather can reduce your battery's power. If you are stuck in your car during a blizzard, it is vital that your battery is strong enough to start your engine in order to keep you warm. Look for any signs of corrosion or wear of your battery's cables, tray, and hold-down brackets. If your car's battery is four years old or older, it may be time to replace it. Make sure to do this early on in the season, not right before a blizzard hits., Make sure your car is well-prepared for cold weather.


Check your tire's treads. If they're worn down, consider replacing them. If winter storms are frequent in your area, you may also want to invest in snow tires. You will need much more grip when driving on ice.Change your oil and replace it with a less viscous oil meant for cold weather. Cold weather will slow oil's ability to flow.Make sure your cooling system is well-prepared. If necessary, flush your system and refill it with a 50/50 mixture of antifreeze and distilled water. Even in freezing temperatures, your engine can overheat enough to suffer significant damage., If you can, keep this kit in your car's backseat rather than your trunk. You want the kit to be as easily accessible as possible in case of emergency. The components of the kit are:


Insulation to keep yourself warm: blankets or a sleeping bag, a change of clothes, and a set of warm outer garments (a coat, mittens, ski cap, scarf, etc...).
Fuel for your body: bottled water, non-perishable and high calorie foods such as meal replacement bars, and an emergency supply of necessary medications.
Tools to keep your car running: booster cables, a tow rope, a tool kit, and a shovel.
Methods of alerting rescuers: road flares, an extra charged phone battery, and a transistor radio with spare batteries.
Other survival gear: a knife, a first-aid kit, a small can for melting snow for drinking water, water-proof matches, a flashlight, and a large sealable plastic bucket to use as a toilet., Do your best to get home before the blizzard begins. No matter how well-prepared your car may be, you will be safer in a building. Road conditions can deteriorate swiftly, leading to unsafe driving conditions and crashes.