 Resting the affected shoulder can help to manage shoulder pain. Strained and tensed muscles need rest to recover and repair damaged tissues.


Avoid doing any activities that involve using your affected shoulder. Avoid lifting heavy objects and using repetitive movements while resting. This helps to reduce inflammation.
However, prolonged rest is not advisable as mobilization of the joints and muscles is important to promote good blood circulation. Do not take more than 24 hours of rest.;
, Cold packs are best used on muscle injuries and muscle strains. This helps to ease the pain and control inflammation.


Cold temperatures cause the blood vessels to narrow, which can help to control muscle inflammation in the shoulder. By minimizing inflammation, further damage to the shoulder can be prevented.
Apply cold packs on the affected muscle for 15 to 20 minutes, several times per day. However, cold packs are only beneficial for the first 24 to 48 hours after an injury.
 After applying cold packs for the first 24 to 48 hours, the next step is to apply warm packs.


Warm temperatures help to dilate blood vessels and improve blood circulation to the shoulder, minimizing inflammation and damage.
You can apply a warm pack for 15 to 20 minutes several times a day, but be careful that the warm packs are not too hot, otherwise they can burn your skin.
 You can do self-massage to relieve pain and relax tensed muscles. Using your fingers, apply minimal to moderate pressure on the shoulder muscle using a circular motion. This encourages blood flow and helps to relieve pain.


Massage can be performed several times daily or as needed. You can also seek the services of a professional massage therapist to treat your shoulder pain.
 You can use several pillows to prop up your injured shoulder. Elevation helps with inflammation, as the effects of gravity help to pull down excessive fluid and blood that are lodged in a certain area, thus promoting proper circulation.


When lying in bed, it is best to elevate your back at a 45-degree angle.
 Tobacco products contain a lot of harmful chemicals, including nicotine. Cigarettes are to be avoided as they cause a delay in muscle healing and repair. They also make the blood viscous, which interferes with proper blood circulation and results in decreased blood supply, thus delaying healing.
 Pain medications are used to alleviate pain and inflammation of certain muscles. Pain medication acts by inhibiting the synthesis of prostaglandins in the body tissues, by inhibiting 2 Cyclooxygenase (COX) isoenzymes (COX-1 and COX-2) which are responsible for pain and inflammation. Some of the most commonly used painkillers are as follows:


Ibuprofen (Advil). This is available in 200 mg tablets to be taken every 4 to 6 hours, not exceeding a dose of 1.2g per day.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol). This is available in 325 mg tablets to be taken every 4 to 6 hours or as needed. Do not exceed 4 g per day.
Mefenamic acid. This is available in 250 mg and 500 mg tablets. 500 mg is to be taken initially, followed by 250 mg every 4 to 6 hours or as needed.
Naproxen. This is available in 250 mg and 500 mg tablets . 500 mg is to be taken initially followed by 250 mg every 6 to 8 hours or as needed. Do not exceed 1250 mg/day.
 Pain occurs as a result of inflammation. In order to control pain, inflammation needs be treated first. Muscle inflammation is treated using corticosteroids, which are the drugs of choice for treating any kind of inflammation.


They control inflammation by controlling the rate of protein synthesis, which suppresses the migration of leukocytes (also called white blood cells, which are responsible for the body’s immunity) and fibroblasts (a type of cell responsible for synthesizing extracellular matrix and collagen, which plays a role in wound healing).
The most common corticosteroid prescribed by doctors is prednisone 5 mg, which is usually prescribed to treat mild to moderate forms of inflammation.
 Cortisone is another type of steroid which manages inflammation. Synthetic cortisone acts for a longer period of time but it controls only the inflammation, not the pain itself.


A cortisone injection is injected by your doctor into the inflamed area - in this case, your shoulder. When inflammation is diminished, pain is also reduced.
 If you experience severe pain, redness, and inflammation of your shoulder or you are unable to move your shoulder, go to the nearest hospital, as the radiating pain may be a sign of an impending heart attack.


If this is the case, it can be very serious so do not delay and seek medical help immediately. Other joint and muscle symptoms which should prompt you to get professional help are:
Swelling that surrounds your shoulder, severe pain that is not being relieved by home-care and self-care treatments, and stiffness which is caused by inflammation in the shoulder capsule and freezes shoulder movements.
 These can help to stretch the muscles and tissues, thus easing the pain. After resting the shoulder, stretching exercises should be done to promote blood circulation to the shoulders. Below are some examples of different kinds of shoulder stretches.
 Slide it down to the right side of your body then raise your left shoulder as your right shoulder goes down. Hold the position for 10 seconds, then repeat with your opposite shoulder.
 Interlock the fingers on both your hands and stretch them upwards, as high as you can, and hold for 10 seconds.
 Loosen your back muscle by crossing both arms and reaching behind your back slowly and as far as possible for 10 seconds. It will look like you’re hugging yourself tightly.
 Bend your right arm over your head and bend your left arm around the back of your head. Interlock the fingertips of both hands and hold for 10 seconds. Repeat on the opposite side.
 Clasp your hands behind your back, so the thumbs are facing downwards. Extend your arms backwards while leaning your body forwards. Hold for 10 seconds.
 Place your right hand at the back of your left shoulder then apply minimal pressure on the right elbow using your left hand. Hold that position for 20 seconds, then repeat on the opposite side.

