 Lay the bandana on a flat surface. Spread the edges outward until the bandana is a large square. Smooth any folds so that the bandana lies flat.


Turn the bandana so that one corner is facing you. This will make it easier to fold into a bracelet.;
, Take the bottom corner of the bandana in your fingers and bring it to meet the top corner. Smooth the center fold and you should have a nice triangle shape.









If you don't want your bracelet to be as thick you can cut your bandana across the fold line to create two triangles.Once folded, the half bandana will look very similar but it will feel a lot less bulky.
 Take a couple inches of fabric from the top corner and fold it down over the rest of the bandana. You can fold the section slightly larger or smaller depending the width you want your bracelet to be. Continue to fold over the width of the bandana until you reach the folded part of the triangle you made.
 Start by placing the folded bandana on your wrist. Leave a little more length hanging on the left side than the right, if wearing it on your right hand. Take the right side and wrap in under your wrist, then pull it over the top of your wrist.









If you have a flat surface to work on, you can also lay your wrist on the folded bandana. Leave a little more of the length of the bandana on your right side. Fold the right end over your wrist. Then, fold the right end underneath your wrist again so the end is sticking out on the right side again.
 Hold the part that went over your wrist with the hand that is wearing the bandana. Then grab the left piece with your free hand. Wrap the left end of the bandana under your wrist, then over the top of the wrist.
 Hold on to the left end with your left hand. Use your fingers on your right hand to grab the right end. If you have to, use your teeth to grab it and move it to where your fingers can hold the end in place by pressing it to your palm.


If you're with a friend, have your friend grab the ends and tie them for you.
 Bring the left end over the right end, then wrap it underneath. Pull the left end down while holding the right end in place to tighten the knot.









Knot the ends twice to help keep your bracelet from coming undone too easily. Adding a second knot may make difficult to untie, and you may have to even cut it off to remove it. If you want to keep the bracelet on permanently, adjust the bracelet to a comfortable size and tie a second knot. Wrap the left end around the right again and pull the end through the loop, then pull both ends until tight.
You could also use a hair pin, safety pins, or rubber bands to hold your bracelet ends in place. Put a pin through the left end, then through the right end and fasten the pin to keep them together. Or wrap a rubber band around the left and right ends to keep them held together. Either of these methods will work if you have such items handy.
 Take the remaining tips of fabric sticking out from the knot or pins and tuck them underneath the bracelet. You can also trim off the ends with scissors if you prefer.








