 Ask your child what he or she thinks and feels when it's dark. Reassure your child that their worries are normal, and will be less as they grow. Be respectful. Avoid saying that their fears are silly. This may make them feel guilty or ashamed, and it’s important that you show support.
Communicating about fears will help your child learn to be open with you. This builds trust over time.
Consider saying, "I know it feels scary right now, and that's normal, but it will get better" or "Tell me what makes you feel afraid. How can I help?";
, Feeling afraid of the dark is a primal, evolutionary fear. Sleeping alone in separate bedrooms is a modern way of life. This practice will take time for your child to understand. Be loving, comforting, and supportive. Reassure them they are safe with you.Be a role model and show confidence that they are safe. Be calm and sensitive to your child's needs.
Avoid the desire to overprotect them. If you show anxiety about their safety, then they may respond by being more anxious.
Consider saying, "No need to worry. You are safe here at home."

, If your child is fearful of monsters under the bed or elsewhere in the home, don't reinforce these fears by playing along. Children have imaginative fears that they may believe is real to them. Young children under the age of 5 have difficulty in distinguishing fantasy from reality. Don't inadvertently reinforce fears by scaring your child with scary stories of "things that go bump in the night."
Use reason and logic to help your child learn about their fears.
 It is important to teach your child how to face their fears and addressing a fear of the dark is a good opportunity. You can do this by modeling how to face your fears and comforting your child during the process of confronting a fear.


For example, if your child fears that there is something under the bed, then go check it out together. Turn on the lights and have your child hold their favorite stuffed animal or your hand for comfort. Then, look under the bed for your child. Name what you see under the bed, such as some dust, a box of clothes, an old toy, and no monsters.
Keep in mind that you may have to repeat this process over and over as your child learns how to face their fears and becomes more self-assured.
 Get a nightlight for your child's bedroom. Nightlights give just enough light, helping your child feel more relaxed.Nightlights can also be placed in the hallways and bathrooms to help ease fears if walking outside of the room in the dark.
If a nightlight isn't available or disrupts your child's sleep, leave the hall light on and the child's bedroom door open. This allows a little light to still enter. It may make your child feel less isolated with the door ajar.
 Your child may feel more secure with something to ease his or her fears. Consider finding a special object for your child's security as they learn to sleep on their own. Consider these:


A large stuffed animal. This can provide comfort to soothe fears or anxiety.
A special blanket or other object to provide security. This may make your child feel more protected.
A pet, such as a dog or cat, that your child enjoys sleeping with.
 Use tools to help them learn that bedtime can be a rewarding experience. For small children, it could be a sticker program that leads to small prizes. It helps to teach you child that they will be rewarded for good behavior. Teach them about how to be brave like you with encouragement.After the lights are out, consider saying something like, “You’re doing such a good job of staying in bed.”
Listen to your child if their fears continue to persist despite these techniques. Talk with them in the morning about their experiences.
 You cannot be there all night to provide positive reinforcement and reassurance to your child. Therefore, it is a good idea to teach your child how to do this for themselves.


Try teaching your child to speak reassuring phrases to themselves, such as, “I am safe, I am brave, and I'm going to be ok."
You can also teach your child to do something like rubbing their feet or hands together as a tactile soothing method or humming a comfort tune to feel safer as they fall asleep.
Your child can also repeat out loud what they found under the bed, such as by saying, "I looked under the bed and I know there is only some dust and an old toy under there."

, Exposing small children to frightening things that may seem tame to you should be avoided in the evenings. This can include passive exposure, while you or an older child watch scary movies or TV.Think about how your child may not be able to verbalize fears about the evening news, movies with violence, or TV shows with monsters.
Make sure that your young children are away from the TV at least 1-2 hours before bedtime. Frightening TV, stories, or imagery can disrupt sleep patterns.
 After turning out the lights, stay with them until their eyes adjust to the dark. Sit and talk with them casually in the dark. Show them that being in the dark can be fun and relaxing.


Have fun playing in the dark. Make it seem like doing things in the dark is natural.
Make up a game of flashlight tag. Use flashlights to help identify things in the room that you see. Identify things in the room that comfort your children and make them feel happy.
Create a starry sky on the bedroom ceiling. Put glow-in-the-dark stars on the walls and ceiling. Your children will feel like they're explorers in the outdoors, sleeping under the stars.
 Make your child's bedroom feel homey and reassuring. Place cheerful pictures up of people and places. Make this a time to wind down with a bedtime story or a warm bath before bed. Sit quietly with your child to help them transition to sleeping.Help your child get ready for bed with a bath.
Sing a quiet song or lullaby.
Read books that help both to teach and act as sleeping aids.
Hug and kiss your child. Make them feel loved.

