 Unfortunately, alcohol helps to dilate all those surface blood vessels and flood even more histamine release into those already inflamed eyes and mucous membranes.Better to stay of the sauce until you are in the clear.;
, Local honey is best, but honestly any honey will do. This is because honey contains remnants of pollen, which is high in anti-inflammatory flavonoids. By consuming local honey, you may also benefit from oral tolerance which is basically how your body learns to become immunologically non-reactive to the innocuous things that it is exposed to. While individuals have reported allergy relief from consuming honey, scientific reports haven't found a definitive effect on allergy symptoms., These help to loosen congestion and keep you hydrated.
 These work very well to rinse the offending pollen out of your mucus membranes- especially after returning from the great outdoors.Those familiar with the use of neti pots may use these. Saline sprays can be found at most pharmacies.
 Dried extracts of stinging nettles have been used traditionally as a treatment for respiratory allergies/hay fever.They not only contain components which help to block the histamine response, but research shows they also curb inflammation and congestion. Some people find nettles only somewhat helpful in practice unless part of a combination- so it's advised to use it in tandem with herb regimens that pack more punch and they work very well. But you need to find a professional knowledgeable in botanical medicine to guide you in their use.
 Flavonoids are constituents of plants which exhibit a range of bioactive behaviors- including modification of inflammatory responses.There are a few select foods which contain extraordinary quantities of the specific flavonoids shown to have anti-allergic effects. These include: buckwheat, capers, parsley, onions, peppermint, thyme, spinach, broccoli, cabbage, carrots, and peppers. Here's an example of great flavonoid-packed, cleansing "allergy season" smoothie.
 Their actions have a critical role in the development and maintenance of immune functions in the body. The natural ecology of the intestines can be upset by events such as intestinal infections and antibiotic use. Research shows that supplementing with probiotics may significantly improve the symptoms of seasonal allergies., You may therefore gain additional relief by cutting out foods such as bananas, peaches, kiwi fruit, melons, sunflower seeds and hazelnuts during the height of allergy season.


It is also wise to avoid foods that have been cooked with vegetable oils at high heat, including deep fried foods, donuts, pastries and cakes. These types of foods promote an increase in inflammatory reactions throughout the body.
 "Cleanses" can be simple or fancy, cheap or expensive. At it's foundation, a cleanse means you eat and generally live simply for a period of time, at least a week or so. Give up all added sugars, junk foods, and eat small meals with lots of fresh fruits and vegetables- eliminate or at least limit all animal-derived foods for a little while. You may go for vegetable broths and lots of vegan smoothies. Drink tea and water. Get plenty of sleep, fresh air, and some movement each day.

