 As soon as the dog is moved to safety, check to see if it is breathing. To do so, watch its chest to see if it is rising and falling. If there is no movement, it is not breathing and you should perform artificial respiration, which is where you assist the dog in breathing.You may also need to perform artificial respiration if the dog has labored breathing, is unconscious, or shows other signs of respiratory suppression, like blue or pale-colored gums, or a staring expression., To perform artificial respiration, first lay the dog on its side on a flat surface, pulling the neck and head forward (as long as the dog has no neck or back injuries)., Next, open the dog’s mouth and pull its tongue forward with your fingers. Clear any debris from the dog’s mouth that may be preventing it from breathing or causing it to choke. Once you have removed any debris, close the dog’s mouth.


You may need to remove the muzzle for this step. Be careful even if the dog is unconscious, as it could wake up at any moment. Put the muzzle back on once you have cleared its mouth of debris., After reapplying the muzzle, inhale and place your mouth over the dog’s nose, forming an airtight seal around it. Exhale into the dog’s nose.Exhale just enough so that the chest expands. You will have to exhale harder for larger dogs and more gently for smaller dogs. Lift the dog’s chin while you are doing this so its throat is straight., Remove your mouth from the dog’s nose after you exhale and allow the dog’s chest to deflate., After the dog’s chest deflates, check to see if it has a pulse. The dog’s heart can still be beating even if it is not breathing. If you cannot find a pulse, you should start chest compressions immediately.Check for a pulse by placing two fingers on the inside of the dog’s rear thigh., If there is another person present, have them help you resuscitate the dog—one of you will perform chest compressions while the other continues artificial respiration. Have one person perform three chest compressions after every time you exhale into the dog’s nose. If you are alone, do five chest compressions for every breath. Use the following procedures to perform chest compressions:


For small dogs (30 pounds or less): Lay the dog on its side on a flat surface. Place one hand on top of the other, interlocking your fingers. Place the palm of the bottom hand on the rib cage, over the dog’s heart. Press down, compressing the chest about one inch. Squeeze and release this hold steadily at a rate of 80 to 100 compressions per minute.
For large dogs (over 30 pounds): Lay the dog on its side on a flat surface. Place one hand on top of the other, interlocking your fingers. Place the bottom hand over the widest part of the dog’s rib cage (not necessarily over the heart). Push down on the rib cage, keeping your arms straight. Compress the chest about one quarter of its width. Continue to squeeze and release rhythmically at a rate of around 80 compressions per minute., You may need to repeat this process 15 to 20 times per minute (or one breath every three seconds, on average) to get the dog breathing normally. When the dog starts to fight the process or you notice its gums are returning to their normal color, the dog’s breathing is improving and you can stop artificial respiration.