 If you plan to sell your instrument in the future, it is wise to protect it now. Perform regular cleaning, oiling, and maintenance of your instruments to ensure longevity. If you have a large instrument like a piano, keep it in a climate controlled space. Large fluctuations in temperature or humidity can harm your instrument.Always shut all the latches on instrument cases so your instrument doesn’t fall out.For brass instruments, do not set your instrument on its bell. Instead lay it on its side with the valve side facing upwards.Clean brass mouthpieces weekly with a mild soap and mouthpiece brush.Oil brass valves and lead pipes weekly.Bathe brass instruments two to three times yearly.Oil the insides and outsides of wooden instruments.Keep drinks off any instrument with a wood finish.Clean wooden instruments with a dry or damp cloth. Swab woodwind instruments after each use, to remove moisture from condensation.
 Have an expert inspect your instrument periodically for any defects or problems. Think of this as a regular check-up. Also bring your instrument to a specialist if you notice it is sounding differently. If you damage any part of the instrument, bring it in for service.


Service your pianos two to four times per year., If you have an instrument, play it. While this might seem simple, it is essential. You will notice problems with your instruments sooner if you are using them. Particularly for brass and woodwinds, regular playing and maintenance will keep your instruments fitter.


If you no longer play your instrument, consider loaning it to a neighborhood child or giving it to an instrument drive (if it is not extremely valuable).
 If you must store instruments for a long period of time, cover any larger instruments like pianos with cloths. Place instruments in their intended cases if applicable. Cover instruments with protective cloths or blankets. Look for a storage space with a constant temperature. Avoid direct sunlight.Store violins in rooms with medium humidity and a constant temperature.Avoid storing instruments in damp basements or hot attics.
Remove mouthpieces from woodwinds or brass instruments.

