 Flyaway hair is caused by dry hair, too much product build-up, or chemical damage. As hair gets drier, it produces more friction and static electricity. A silicone-based hair serum works for most kinds of hair, keeping it moisturized, shiny and flexible. But if you want to get serious about taming flyaway hairs, you'd consider what kind of hair you have and use product that's specifically designed with your hair in mind:


Hairspray designed to combat flyaways is best for fine to medium hair. A quick spritz should get the job done without sacrificing any naturalness your hair usually has.Lightweight pomades designed to trap moisture is best for thicker hair. The trick with pomades is applying only a little; it goes a long way! Make sure you spread the pomade over your hands and coat evenly before applying to flyaways.;
, That's what dryer sheets are for! you're thinking. Yep! They're excellent at controlling static electricity, and if you don't have any scruples about rubbing your hair with an anti-static sheet, they're very effective at taming flyaways. Perfect for when you're on the fly.
 Okay, so you won't be able to do this once you've gotten to class or the office, but this method works if you're still at home when you get the Medusa hair. Just take an ice cube and run it over any hair that's acting up, i.e. hair that's too dry. Cold water helps your hair retain moisture and help control it.
 The operating term here is non-greasy. As with the dryer sheet, you probably don't associate moisturizing lotion with your hair. But dab a little bit in your hands, spread it out, and work it into your hair, concentrating on the problem areas. Remember that flyaway hair is dry hair, and infusing it with some moisture-trapping lotion can go a long way.


Only do this method if you have medium to thick hair texture.
 Running your fingers through your hair will reduce the amount of friction on your hair, while using a brush can increase it. The more friction and static electricity, the more flyaway hairs.
 A couple things to note about using shampoo and conditioner to control flyaways:



You don't have to shampoo your hair every day. Shampooing every day is a recipe for dried-out hair. Unless you work in a greasy, sweaty, or dirty place — or your hair desperately needs to be cleaned every day — try to only wash it once every two or three days.But when you do shampoo, choose an anti-frizz or moisturizing shampoo. Anti-frizz and moisturizing shampoos are packed with moisturizing agents like aloe vera, essentially providing extra safeguards against dryness. When shampooing, focus most of your energy on cleaning your scalp, not drying out your ends.
Choose a shampoo that is made for your hair type. For example, if you have curly hair, choose a shampoo that is labeled as curly.

Every time you shampoo, condition. Conditioning your hair helps keep it from drying out and breaking into flyaways and split ends. When you condition, focus mainly on your ends.
 If you use many styling products in your hair, the build-up over time can cause flyaways. To combat this, use a clarifying shampoo at least once a month. Be sure to condition your hair afterwards., Look for products that have the words "quat" or "amine" in them, as they do a better job of conducting electricity than silicone- or alcohol-based products. Products that conduct electricity better mean fewer flyaways.
 Hair with too much breakage can cause flyaways as well. It is easier to prevent hair breakage than treat it. Handle your hair gently. Some ways you can prevent hair breakage include:

Using silk pillow cases
Putting heat tools such as hairdryers and curling irons on low settings
Reducing chemical treatments
Choosing cloth elastic bands

, Remember that taming flyaways is all about keeping moisture locked in your hair. If you shampoo and condition the right way, use the right products, and control any flyaway frizz that crops up with anti-static cheats, you'll be golden.

