


Before you even look at that closet, hit the shower.;
,,


Your face should be clean-shaven and your sideburns clean cut, unless you can pull off the mop top.
Acne should be kept under control, birth marks can't be helped but some Oxy pads or Clearasil will be more than enough.


Lean into the mirror, consider the probability that girls will be talking to you from less than two feet away.
Use a nose hair trimmer even if you don't think you need to.

Your unibrow should be kept in check (read NO UNIBROW).


Comb your hair. Your hair should be styled, or at the very least not messy or grungy. If you can pull off the bald look (not many can), go for it.
Sport facial hair at your own discretion, but mustaches aren't exactly what's hip right now (coming from a white guy).
,


Not brushing, flossing, and using a little bit of mouthwash is a cardinal sin in her eyes, and unpardonable.
,,, Your clothes should be in good shape (stains and holes are a BIG turnoff), and not wrinkly. If you have to, iron your pants or shirt.


Trying to go out in a button-down while attempting to hide a missing button, whether at the bottom of the shirt or on the cuffs, is a classic mistake.
Girls are very keen on minuscule discrepancies like these and will be the first ones to notice.
, This also goes without saying, but consider where you're going tonight and remember Carmine Lupertazzi's dictum: A Don doesn't wear shorts!


Unless you're going to a summer night barbecue, pants or jeans are the way to go. Dockers and slacks work best, but if you have the moxie to wear khaki's then have at it.
Faded jeans with modestly sized holes is what's hot in the streets nowadays, but if you decide to go down this road, don't look like you're ready to go to a Grunge concert.
Your pants should go down past your shoes and at the back of the heel stop before the rubber sole.
, You can't go wrong with a polo, button-down, or long-sleeve shirt, but wear a T-shirt at your own peril, and avoid shirt pockets!

, If you must wear jewelry, try something like low keyed.
,,


Unless you're over 35, a leather watch-strap is more often than not inferior to a metal band (non-expandable).
 You're probably not going to a millionaire summit meeting, so try not to wear more than two or three rings, if any. Find a piece that is unique to you, it's a good icebreaker and many girls will compliment your trinket of individuality!

,


Is everything in place?
Are your pants congruent with your shirt?
Does your jewelry clash with your outfit?
Are your shoes stylish without being tacky?
Is your collar shaped around your neck correctly?

,,,,


Whether at a casual dinner, bar, club, lounge, or hangout spot, your clothes are only as good looking as you carry them. Now go out there and do some work, son!

,