 The National Association of Professional Organizers provides information on how to start a home organization business as well as lists of organizers in your area. Check out what organizing services others are offering already to find a specialty with low competition. You could choose to specialize in a specific area, like garage, home office or closet organization.;
, If friends and family always ask you to help them get organized, offer your services for free, and be sure to take before and after photographs. Volunteer your services at local retirement homes and other agencies. This is a good way to get used to working with others, which is a lot different than doing organization projects in your own home.
 Your volunteer work will uncover some areas you need to work on. In addition, learn to use a computer, keep records and basic budgeting and accounting skills.
 Read journals and books and take classes to learn how to start a home organization business and run it successfully.
 Working as an administrative assistant, event coordinator, or any job that requires organizing people and resources will lend credibility to your experience.
 Blogs about organizing are very popular. Once you start a blog, comment on other blogs and participate in organizing challenges to get more traffic and show off your skills. Make some extra money by selling organizing products on your blog or website.
 Have clients send photos and descriptions of their problem areas. Recommend steps to get the organizing projects done on their own, as well as organizing products to fit their needs and budget.
 Look for different alternatives to fit your clients' styles and budgets. Baskets, boxes, bins and files are just some of the products you will need. Seek wholesale opportunities that will give you enough stock for your projects as well as some items that you can sell at a profit. Develop a system for ordering supplies and equipment quickly as needed.
 You'll need to satisfy educational and work experience requirements and pay a fee. Membership benefits include training, resources, and listing in the directory.
 Your local Small Business Administration office provides mentoring and advice.

