 Make a list of what you'd like in a pet. For instance, would you like to take an animal on walks? Do you want a guard animal? Are you looking for a pet that can sit in your lap and cuddle? All of your desires should be considered when thinking about what type of pet to get.


Some types of pets you could consider include: dogs, cats, rabbits, and birds, such as parakeets and cockatiels.
When thinking about what type of pet to get, you can be as specific or general as is necessary. It may be that you figure out that you want a dog but you are OK with a wide variety of breeds. On the other hand, it may be that you want a very specific breed and you need it to be a certain age as well.;
, Depending on the size of the shelter in your area, you may be able to make an appointment to talk to a pet counselor there. Bring a list of your desires for a pet with you. A pet counselor can guide you in selecting the right type and breed of animal to best meet your needs.


Not all shelters will have a designated pet counselor. However, many shelter employees are good at discussing the needs of specific pets and what it takes to care for them properly.
 You can look at the websites of large shelter organizations for lists of available pets. There are also websites on the internet that smaller shelter and rescue organizations use to advertise their available pets. Doing an online search that includes the type of pet you want, the city you live in, and the words "shelter" or "rescue" will usually provide some hits., If you don't find potential pets online, you can contact a shelter directly and tell them what you are looking for. In some cases, if you tell a shelter what type of pet you are looking for, they will keep a lookout for you and contact you if one comes in.Even if a shelter doesn't have the type of pet you are looking for right now, it may have one tomorrow!

, Pet adoption may take time, but you want to be sure to select the right animal. Give yourself plenty of time to choose the right animal when you adopt a pet and ask shelter staff about the personalities and histories of potential pets in order to help with your decision.Sometimes, cats are kept in a communal room where you can go in and socialize with them. This can help you figure out what cats have the type of personality you are looking for.
Often, you may take dogs on walks to get to know them better.
 When you adopt a pet, you are making a commitment to take care of it for the rest of their life. You will need to begin this commitment by buying all the items that your pet will need. In general, all pets need food, water, toys, and bedding. You will need to buy these ahead of time, and the containers that are used to supply them to your pet.

Cats will also require a scratching post and a cat litter box.
Dogs will need a collar and a leash so you can take them outside to go to the bathroom and on outings.
 Pet-proof your home by putting away items that could be hazardous to your pet, such as toxic cleaning chemicals. You should also set up a special area for your new pet, with either a bed or a cage that will house the pet.


Having your house all set up before you bring your pet home will help ease the transition your pet will make. It will allow you to focus your attention on the pet, instead of the logistics of setting up its area.
 Shelters want to make sure that they are adopting their animals to a family that will provide a good home. Find out what type of paperwork the animal shelter requires and bring all required documentation.Bring a picture ID with your present address.
If you live in a rental apartment or house, provide proof that you have your landlord's permission to own a pet, such as a lease agreement or letter.
There may also be questions about your work habits, schedule, pet care philosophy, and financial ability to care for a pet.
 Have a check, credit card or cash ready to adopt a pet. Animal shelter adoption fees may cost less than purchasing an animal from a breeder or a store but prices vary. In many cases, fees for more popular types of pets, such as kittens, will be higher than those for less popular pets, such as old or disabled animals.There may be times of year or periods at each shelter when fees are reduced. For instance, black cats may cost less to adopt during Halloween time.
Before paying, ask about what the fee covers and whether you can return the pet under certain circumstances. In some cases, adoption fees will cover spaying or neutering and some preliminary veterinary care.
 Once you have finished your paperwork and have paid any adoption fees, you will be free to take your pet home. Depending on the type of pet, you will use different ways to transport it home. A dog will need to go into a carrier or be strapped into a harness in the car. A cat will need to go into a carrier. A smaller pet, like a hamster or mouse, will be transported in a small travel cage.

Many shelters will provide small travel cages for little pets. However, you will need to purchase a travel carrier to bring home a cat or dog.
 Have its health assessed, make sure it is up to date on vaccinations, and schedule any veterinary procedures that your pet may need in the future. Sometimes a free vet visit, including vaccinations, is included with the pet adoption.


Animal shelters are working to solve the pet overpopulation problem. If the animal is not neutered, you may have to sign an agreement stating that you will have the pet altered when you adopt it. Make an appointment to get your animal fixed when you take it to be seen by a veterinarian., Animal shelters usually have a 7 to 10 day grace period, so that if the new pet doesn't work out, you can bring it back and exchange it for another animal or get your money back. However, you should give your new pet some time to adjust to its new home before making any decisions like this.Some shelters offer dog training and taking care of pet classes for little or no cost. If your new pet is having behavior issues, try classes before choosing to bring it back to a shelter.
 When thinking about adopting a pet from a shelter, you need to think about whether you have time to take care of a pet properly. Your pet, whatever it is, will need food, water, exercise, and attention every day. Thinking about this can help you decide whether or not to get a pet but it can also help you to decide what type of pet to get. Some pets, such as cats, require less day to day work to take care of than other pets, such as dogs.Pet adoption is a big responsibility that should not be taken lightly. The shelter staff will likely ask you about your schedule to determine if you have time for a pet. You will need to commit yourself fully to providing a good home for the animal.
When thinking about whether you have time to take care of a pet, think about the reality of your life now, not what you want it to be. For instance, don't get a dog because you want to start running daily and you envision taking a dog with you on your daily runs. Unless this is already a part of your daily routine, don't let it sway you towards pet ownership.
 If you are a renter, you should get approval to have a pet from your landlord. First, look at your lease or rental agreement and see if it addresses whether pets are allowed in your home. Then, if the agreement doesn't restrict pet ownership, contact your landlord and tell them that you are considering getting a pet and you need verification in writing that it is OK with them if you have one.Most shelters will require approval in writing if you are a renter, as not getting approval can result in returned or abandoned pets when people have to choose between their housing and their pets.
If you own your home, you will not need approval. However, you may need to provide documents that prove you own your home.
 Even if you have the time to care for a pet and your landlord is OK with it, you may not have the money needed to care for a pet properly. Pets can be expensive to care for, especially big dogs that eat a lot of food. Look at your finances and assess whether you reliably have extra income every month that can go towards pet expenses. Some monthly expenses to think about when assessing your finances include:Food
Pet insurance
Veterinary expenses
Training classes
One time or occasional costs - such as a bed, food dishes, collar, leash, and toys

