 For a good goalie stance, stand with your feet a little more than shoulder width apart. Bend your knees slightly, stay on the balls of your feet, and try not to lean forward.Grip the stick with your dominant hand at the top. Cradle the stick between your thumb and pointer finger. Keep the grip firm, but make sure you can rotate the stick. Place your bottom hand about a forearm's length below your top hand. The bottom hand should be loose enough to slide the stick up and down as needed.Hold your stick out in front of you, keeping your dominant hand even with your shoulder. Keep the stick in front of your helmet to protect your head., Try to empty your mind when you're playing goalie. The only thing you should focus on is seeing the ball.One way to help clear your mind is to only focus on the area 3 feet in front of you. Relax and clear your mind of everything going on around you. When someone shoots on you, focus on the ball and where it is going. This will train you to catch the ball, rather than guess where it is going., The "shot menu" in lacrosse refers to the 7 places on the field that a shot can come from. If you want to be a successful goalie, it's a good idea to practice saving shots from each of these angles.Shots can come from high, middle, and low angles, and from both sides of the goal. Some shooters even try bounce shots, which can be unpredictable.Have a teammate give you a variety of shots so you can get used to saving from multiple angles.
 Playing goalie can be dangerous. At some point you will definitely get hit by the ball. If you want to keep playing, then you should invest in good equipment to keep you safe.It is possible to get concussions playing lacrosse, so make sure you have a good helmet. Invest in a throat guard as well. The last thing you want is to get hit in the throat by a speeding ball.Get proper padding, such as gloves, shin guards, a chest protector, and a cup. While you want to stay protected, make sure you can still move in your gear. It isn't necessary to cover your shoulders and arms. You may get some bruises, but it won't hurt as bad as getting hit in the chest., You have a unique perspective of the game as a goalie. You should be able to watch your teammates and figure out their needs. Communicate with your team throughout the game to help them play better.Don't yell at your teammates, but you should use a strong voice when you make calls. Make sure you know everyone's name. If they have a nickname they prefer to go by, use that.If your teammates make mistakes, don't bring them down. Support your teammates and encourage everyone to work together.

