 Cook your rice separately in a pot of water. Remember to use a 1:2 rice to water ratio when steaming your rice. When following this recipe, use 1 1/4 cups (250 g) to 2 1/2 cups (591.471 ml) of water. You can also use leftover rice or purchase instant rice if you're in a rush.
 Simmer your bacon in a pan over medium-high heat for 5 minutes or until it becomes crispy on one side. Once your bacon is crispy, flip it over and continue to cook it for another 3-5 minutes. Once you’re done cooking the bacon, set it aside and chop it into half inch (1.27 cm) pieces.


You can also use tempeh bacon or grilled mushrooms as a non-meat alternative to bacon.
 Clean the bacon grease from your skillet or use a new pan to heat 4 teaspoons of extra-virgin olive oil. Heat the olive oil over medium-high heat for five minutes, or until it lightly smokes.
 Once your oil is hot, add the onions and other ingredients to the pan. Continue to mix and cook the ingredients on high heat for two minutes. Lower your burner to low-medium heat until they become fragrant and the bell pepper becomes tender. This should take anywhere from 5 to 8 minutes., As your vegetables are cooking, you can start to make the sauce. Stir the ingredients together thoroughly so that they are well incorporated. Make sure to get out any lumps of brown sugar that remain in the mixture., Combine your cooked rice and chopped pineapple your pan of vegetables. Continue to cook everything over medium-high heat for 5-7 minutes or until the ingredients are heated through. You will know this when they begin to steam., Slowly and carefully pour the soy sauce mixture to the pan and stir the ingredients together with a large spoon and reduce the heat to medium. The rice should begin to brown along with the other ingredients. Continue to cook for another 3-5 minutes, reduce the heat to low, and cover the rice., Add a teaspoon (4.92 mL) of olive oil or melted butter to a skillet or pan. Crack the egg over the pan and cook it. Keep it on the heat for 2-5 minutes, or until it’s cooked to your preferences. If you like a runnier egg, keep it on the heat for less time. Gently poke the yolk to determine if it’s cooked enough.Make sure that all egg whites have cooked before removing your egg from the heat.
 Take your cooked egg and lay it over the top of your rice. You can also add sriracha, salt, pepper, or red pepper flakes to enhance the taste of your fried rice. When cooking for more than one person, divide the rice up and place a fried egg on each portion of rice.