 Senior cats tend to get dehydrated easily and this can lead to behavioral issues like anxiety, stress, or irritation. Keep the older cat calm and healthy by giving it wet food instead of dry food. Wet food is more hydrating than dry food. It will ensure the senior cat gets enough moisture and water in its diet.If you cannot afford to switch your cat to only wet food, you can give the cat some wet food and some dry food as part of its diet. You may give the cat wet food in the morning, for example, and dry food at night.;
, Older cats can get territorial over their food bowls and may become aggressive during feeding time if they have to share a food bowl. If there is more than one cat in your household, make sure each cat gets their own food bowls. Place the food bowls in different areas of the kitchen so each cat has space while they eat.


Keep the food bowls clean so the cats are more excited to eat from them. Wash the food bowls once a day so they do not collect bacteria or germs.
 Older cats sometimes struggle with using the litter box or start soiling in other spots inside besides the litter box. Prevent this from happening by cleaning the cat’s litter box regularly. Scoop out the litter box when the cat goes to the bathroom and dispose of any waste right away. Empty the litter box once a week and rinse it down to clean and disinfect it. Then, replace the litter with fresh, clean litter.You can try sprinkling baking soda in the litter box and then add the litter on top. The baking soda will help to reduce odor in the litter box.
 Senior cats are not as agile as they once were and can struggle to make it to a litter box in another area of the house. Put out multiple litter boxes so the cat has access to them as it needs it. If your house has two floors, you may put a litter box on the lower floor and the upper floor for the cat to use. Having more than one litter box in your home can prevent accidents by your cat and encourage it to use the litter box.Having multiple litter boxes is also a good idea if you have more than one cat in your home. This way, each cat will have access to a litter box as needed.

