 Pink looks great, but it can sometimes be difficult to pair it with other colors. Choosing one pink statement piece, such as a shirt, a nice pair of pink pants, or even a pink jacket will look great if you pair it with a more neutral color like white, black, or khaki.For example, wearing a light pink jacket with a white dress or skirt will look mature and elegant.
If you wear a pink outfit, try accessorizing with different colors. Gold, black, brown, and silver all look great with pink.;
, While wearing pink with neutral colors is great when you want to look refined and elegant, pairing pink with a nice contrasting color can look great for a night out on the town.


For example, colors such as silver, orange, and yellow all contrast with pink without clashing.
 Pink dresses are a great way to wear pink because you can give yourself a different style based on the cut of the dress, the shade of pink you choose, and the accessories you layer on top. If you want to look feminine and elegant, go for lighter shades of pinks and pastels. On the other hand, if you want a more edgy look, go for a brighter, more bold shade of pink.If you want a really edgy look, try layering a black leather jacket on top of a hot pink dress.
 When wearing a color like pink, try to remember that less is more. If you wear a pink top, don’t wear pink pants, shorts, skirts, etc. in the same color. If you do want to make your whole outfit pink, but don’t want to wear a dress, try choosing different shades of pink to make your outfit more interesting.For example, you could pair a dark pink shirt with a more magenta-hued skirt without looking overwhelming., If you have olive or darker skin, brighter pinks will be most flattering for your skin. If you have a fair complexion, pale pinks will be a good choice. If you are somewhere in the middle, you can probably get away with just about any shade, but try to choose shades that are not too light and not too bold.If you notice that you are getting lots of compliments when you wear a certain shade of pink, you’ve probably found your best match.

