 Go to the apps menu of your mobile device and tap the Google Docs icon to open the app. If you do not have the app installed on your phone, visit your respective store and download the app for free.
 When the app is started, it directs you to the screen having all your Google documents. Scroll through the list, and tap the document you want to open. The document will expand and open up.
 This button is represented by a pencil icon. Tap this button to edit the document. When you tap it, the keypad of your mobile device pops up, allowing you to make changes.
 Tap the point where you want to make the changes and edit your document appropriately. There are many editing tools you can use, which have been outlined further in the next section. The changes you make are saved automatically. When done, tap the back button of your device to go back to your Google Docs home screen.
 To add content to a Google Doc, tap the location you want to edit. Once you tap on the location, your device’s keyboard will appear. Use it to type new text or edit existing text.


To delete content from a Google Doc, tap the exact location you want to delete, then tap on the backspace key on your phone keypad to delete that particular information.
 Long-press on your screen till options pop up. Tap “Select all” to have the characters of the document selected. Tap the menu tab found at the top right of the screen and is represented by three short lines. You will now be directed to a screen with more options for editing the document.


Changing the font type—Tap the font option from the list and choose your preferred font type by tapping it. Popular Fonts here include Times New Roman, Arial, Verdana, and Calibri.
Changing the font size—Tap the size option then select your favorite font size from the options that are listed. Font size of at least 12 is recommended for official documents.
 Select all characters on the document then open the Menu tab at the top.


Go to the “Line spacing” option. To increase spacing, tap the arrow pointing upward, and to reduce, tap the other arrow that is pointing downward.
 Position your cursor at the start of the text you want to add bullets by tapping the exact location on the document. Open the Menu tab at the top.


Tap the bullets icon, represented by three dots with lines coming out of each one, to add bullets to the selected area.
 Position your cursor at the start of the text you want to add bullets by tapping the exact location on the document. Then open the Menu tab at the top.


Tap the numbering icon, represented by the numbers 1, 2, and 3 with lines coming out of each, to add numbering to the document.
 Long-press the text you want to change on to highlight it then open the Menu tab at the top.


To bold text, tap the Bold icon that is represented by a B.
To italicize text, tap the Italics icon that is represented by an I.
To underline text, tap the Underline icon that is represented by a U.

