 This section will show you how to make a simple ring-based canopy using an embroidery hoop, some ribbon, and a set of sheet curtains. Here's a list of what you will need:1 large embroidery hoop
Acrylic paint (optional)
1 set of sheer curtains
1 ceiling screw hook

, Most of your hoop will be covered, but what shows from beneath the fabric may detract from the overall appearance. To paint the hoop, simply take it apart and paint both pieces using acrylic paint and a paintbrush or foam brush. You can also spray paint both pieces instead. Allow the paint to dry fully before proceeding.


You can paint the hoop the same color as your fabric. This will make it less visible.
You can also paint your hoop in a contrasting color. For example, if your fabric is white, then paint your hoop a bright color, such as teal or pink.
 Unscrew the hoop, and set both the screw and nut aside. Take the inner hoop out and set it aside as well.
 The curtains should have a a casing along the top for the curtain rod; slide the hoop through those casings. Make sure that the wrong side of the fabric is facing the inside of the hoop. The right side of the fabric should be facing the outside of the hoop.
 Try to space them as evenly as you can. The ribbons need to be long enough so that when you hang the hoop from your ceiling, the bottom hem of the curtains brushes against your floor.


You can also use clear fishing line instead.
 Make sure that each ribbon is the same length. If one ribbon is too long or too short, your canopy won't balance right., Move the curtains around on the ring so that they are evenly spaced. There should be no gaps.
 Slip the screw back through the metal holes on the opening of your outer hoop. Place the nut on the end of the screw. Keep twisting the nut until the outer hoop is closed tightly around the inner hoop.
 Some types of ceilings are very soft, and might need a plastic drywall screw first, in order to hold the hook.
 The bottom hem of the curtains should be brushing against your floor. You can pull open the curtains at the front, and drape each panel over the left and right side of your bed. The back part of the curtains should rest behind your headboard.