 Carefully lay out the parts so they are easily accessible.





;
, Find your home's circuit breaker or fuse box and turn off power to the room or area of the house where you'll be installing the light.








Failure to turn off the power before beginning work may result in serious electrical shock.
 Unless you are installing your pendant light in a new or recently remodeled house, you'll probably need to remove an old light fixture.








Detach the fixture. This process will depend on the type of fixture you previously had installed. If possible, have someone hold it up while you detach it from the ceiling to decrease the likelihood of dropping it.
Remove the old wire connectors. These are the small plastic caps covering the connections between the fixture wires and the house wiring. Usually they can be removed by twisting them counterclockwise until loose.
Before disconnecting the wires, it's a good idea use a voltage checker to make sure the wires have no electricity running through them.
Finally, disconnect the wires and remove any remaining parts of the old fixture that are still attached to the ceiling, such as a base or trim., Make sure your installation location is structurally sound.Your electrical junction box should be supported by a beam or other support system, not simply screwed into drywall.









If the electrical box and light fixture are not adequately supported, it may fall. Further, this is likely a building code violation. If there is not adequate support to hold your fixture up, do not proceed with the installation.
 Make sure the screws holding the electrical box in place are tight and the box is secure. Tighten screws if necessary, but do not over-tighten.
 Have an assistant hold the light fixture up to the ceiling while you connect the wires from the light fixture to those hanging out of the junction box.









Connect wires according to the directions provided with the light. Usually, this means connecting black to black and white to white. Wrap the exposed ends of the wires together.If there is not enough exposed surface on each wire, you may need to use wire strippers to peel back some of the wire insulation.Screw on wire nuts/connectors to cover the exposed connections and secure them tightly.These should be provided with the fixture, but if not, can be purchased cheaply at any hardware store.
 Find the ground wire on the pendant light. Depending on your wiring, you'll either wrap it around a ground screw located in the junction box or attach it to a protruding ground wire. 








The ground wire is usually either a green wire or a bare copper wire.If you have a ground screw, tighten the screw to hold the wire in place.
 Push or fold the wiring up into the junction box, making sure that all wires remain secured together with the wire nuts.
 Follow the manufacturers instructions.
 Attach the canopy of or base of your light to the mounting screws or bracket.This process will also vary depending on the style of pendant light you are installing, so it's a good idea to check your directions before you start.









In some cases, the process is as aligning your mounting screws with some small holes in the fixture, and turning the fixture about a quarter turn.In other cases, you'll have to screw the fixture into a mounting bracket., Screw a light bulb of the correct voltage and size into the pendant light fixture.
 Your light should now be functional.








If your light does not function, turn the power back off and check your wiring., If your fixture has a trim, a cover, or any other remaining parts that still need to be installed, install them now, and make any final adjustments to the light's height.







