 Insert the hook into the first stitch you plan to work over.


The right side of the work should face up and the yarn should be behind the original piece.
There should be no yarn on the hook at this time.
 Tie the yarn onto the hook using a slip knot.


The slipknot should be positioned near the tip of the hook and at the back of the original piece.
 Yarn over the hook from back to front, then pull that yarn-over through the loop on your hook to complete one chain stitch.


At the same time or immediately after completing the stitch, bring the hook and the yarn on your hook back through to the front of the original piece.
 Insert the tip of the hook into the stitch behind your first stitch, working in the opposite direction you would usually work in.


If you're right-handed, you will need to insert the hook into the next stitch to the right.
If you're left-handed, you will need to insert the hook into the next stitch to the left.
This step begins your first official crab stitch.
 Yarn over the tip of the hook from back to front, then pull the yarn-over back through to the front of the work, creating a loop in the process.


There should be two loops on your hook after this step.
 Wrap the yarn over the hook from back to front, then pull this yarn-over through both loops on your hook.


This step completes one crab stitch. Note that another name for this stitch is the "reverse single crochet."

, Repeat the crab stitch across the original work until you have completed your desired edging or design.


To complete each crab stitch:

Insert the hook into the reverse next stitch.
Yarn over, then draw up a loop to the front of the work.
Yarn over, then draw it through both loops on your hook.


Work in the same direction for the entire line of crab stitches. When completed correctly, you should be left with a ridged line.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the final loop on your hook to fasten off your surface stitching.


Pull the excess tail of yarn through to the back of the work and weave it into the stitches along the back. This further secures the line of crab stitches while also hiding the tail.

