 This version is easier than normal solitaire because you can see the cards in each pile (since they are all face up. The object is still to make a stack for each suit in descending order.


When laying out the cards, deal 10 rows of cards with four cards in each pile, all face up.
You can only move the top card of each row at a time. There are four spaces above the rows that can be used as holding cells. You can put the top card of one of the rows into a holding cell so that you can get at one of the cards below it.
Play the cards in the reserve deck at the same time, but you can only flip one over (not three at a time.)

, This is one of the hardest versions of solitaire. It challenges your skill and mental power more than regular solitaire does because there is no reserve deck to work with. The object is still to make a stack for each suit in descending order. Deal out all of the cards into eight piles--four of the piles should have seven cards in them, and four of the piles should have six cards in them. All of the cards should be face up.
Do not use any cards for a reserve deck. All of the cards should be dealt out into the piles.
Like Forty Thieves, there are four spaces placed above the rows that are used as reserve spaces. You can only play the top card of each pile, but you can place the top card into one of the reserve spaces so that you can play a card beneath it.
 This is a variation of solitaire where the object is to play all of the cards placed face up in the seven piles, rather than create four suit stacks.


Deal out seven piles with five cards in each. All of the cards should be face up. All of the other cards should be placed face down in the reserve deck.
Flip over the top card of the reserve deck. You will then try to play any of the face up cards from the seven piles on the card you have flipped from the reserve deck. When you cannot play any more cards, flip the next reserve deck card over and play any face up cards you can off of this new card. Continue playing until you have either played all of the face up cards or you cannot make any more moves.
 The object of the game is to remove all of the cards in the pyramid and reserve pile and place them in the discard pile by creating pairs that equal 13 in point value.Deal out 28 cards into the shape of a pyramid, face up. It should be stacked so that the rows are made of one card, then two cards, then three cards, etc. until all 28 cards have been placed in the pyramid. Each row should overlap the row above it. Note that some people play that you only use 21 cards to make the pyramid.
Create a reserve pile with the left over cards.
Remove cards one at a time or in pairs. You can only remove cards that have a value of 13. Kings are 13 points, queens 12, jacks 11 and the rest of the cards represent their face values (aces are 1.) For example, you could remove a king; you could also remove an 8 and 5, because they add up to 13. The top card of the reserve deck can also be used to make 13.
If no cards can be made into pairs, the next reserve card is flipped over. Once all of the reserve cards have run out, you can take them from the discard pile and return them to the reserve pile so you can keep removing cards from the pyramid.
 You must use two decks to play spider solitaire.Make 10 piles, four piles should have six cards each, and six piles should have five cards each. Only the top card of each pile should be facing up. The rest of the cards are placed in the reserve deck.
The goal is to creating descending card sequences of the same suit from King to Ace within the 10 piles. Once you have completed one descending pile, you can place it in one of the eight foundation squares. You must make a descending order stack eight times. You cannot use the foundation squares as holding spaces for cards.
You can create mini stacks (such as 9, 8, 7 of spades) and place them on a 10 of hearts or any other suit while you make other small stacks.
The game ends when all eight foundation squares are filled.

