 Diabetic ketoacidosis can be a life-threatening condition. If you are experiencing symptoms like your blood sugar not lowering, you should immediately call emergency services or visit the emergency room.Symptoms that require you to call emergency services include severe nausea, being nauseous for four or more hours, vomiting, being unable to fluids down, inability to get your blood sugar levels down, or high levels of ketones in your urine.Leaving DKA untreated can lead to irreparable damage and even death. It is important to seek medical care as soon as you suspect you are having a problem.;
, Ketoacidosis is usually treated in the hospital. You may be admitted to a regular room or treated in ICU depending on the severity of your symptoms. During the first hours you are there, the doctors will work on getting your fluids and electrolytes back up, then they will focus on other symptoms. Most of the time, patients remain in the hospital until they are ready to return to their normal insulin regimen.Often, patients will have to spend the first 24 to 48 hours in ICU.The doctor will monitor you for any other conditions that may cause complications, like infection, heart attack, brain problems, sepsis, or blood clots in deep veins.
 One of the first things that will be done to treat your diabetic ketoacidosis is to replace fluids. This can be in the hospital, a doctor’s office, or home. If you are receiving medical care, they will give you an IV. At home, you can drink fluids by mouth.Fluids are lost through frequent urination and must be replaced.
Replacing fluids helps balance out the sugar levels in your blood.
 Electrolytes, such as sodium, potassium, and chloride, are important to keep your body functioning properly. During diabetic ketoacidosis, your body doesn’t produce enough insulin. Low levels of insulin in the body reduces the amount of electrolytes, which can interfere with your body functions.Generally, electrolytes are given to you intravenously.
 Insulin helps reverse diabetic ketoacidosis. Insulin helps reduce the acid in your blood and balance your blood sugar level. This therapy is usually given intravenously by a medical professional.Insulin therapy is commonly stopped when the blood sugar levels reach below 240 mg/dL.
 Many times, diabetic ketoacidosis is triggered by a condition or situation. Your doctor may want to test you after your body has returned to normal to see if they can find a possible cause of the condition.Sometimes, DKA is the first sign that someone has diabetes.
For example, you may have a bacterial infection, pneumonia, or a urinary tract infection. Some illnesses or infections can produce hormones like adrenaline and cortisol, which can block the effects of insulin.
Missing treatments of insulin can also trigger diabetic ketoacidosis.
Some medications or alcohol and drug abuse may also trigger the condition.

