 The goal of narrative therapy is not to provide answers to your problems, but to show you that you already possess the skills to take control of your life. During the process, your therapist will guide you towards greater self-sufficiency by highlighting your abilities and helping your incorporate your successes and positive traits into your personal stories.During the first meeting, your therapist may simply try to build rapport with you.This may include explaining the goals of narrative therapy, discussing your expectations for the process, and easing any concerns you have about therapy.
Now is a good time to ask your therapist any questions you have, such as "How does narrative therapy work?" "What will be expected of me?" and "How long does the process take?";
, Your narrative therapist will frame your problems within a larger context of your life. To do this, he or she has to have a thorough understanding of the meaning and interpretations you assign to various life experiences. Your background has a major influence on how you understand the things that happen to you. So, your therapist will want to learn more.


Answer questions about your past, culture, and personal beliefs so that your narrative therapist can gain a better understanding of why you see things the way you do and how they can best help you re-interpret problems.For example, you may be asked to "Describe your childhood," "Tell me about something that happened in your life that frightened you," or "How has your culture influenced who you are as a person?"
Answer questions as openly and honestly as possible to reap the benefits of narrative therapy.



Be flexible and open to receiving feedback and guidance. If you have an issue with something your therapist suggests, speak up. Say, "I don't feel comfortable with this" or "I don't understand why we're doing this."

, Any type of therapy can be unsettling initially--narrative therapy is no different. Although the therapist is focused on making you feel comfortable and safe, the reality is, some people will have trouble adjusting to the therapeutic relationship. This may make you want to leave or find a new therapist.


Try to resist the initial urge to leave the therapy relationship. Give it time. It's true that not every therapist will work with you. So, leaving may be necessary in the end. Still, try to work out your differences with your therapist before deciding to see a new one or give up altogether. Your therapist may be able to modify their style or approach to suit you.