 Getting the right hair cut can make your hair look thicker and obscure thinning spots. It will be worth it to go to a hair stylist who will personalize your haircut to conceal your thinning hair and/or bald spots and will teach you how to style it. Ask your stylist to add layers to your hair instead of keeping it all one length. Layers create more volume and add fullness, which will hide thinning spots., These brushes are more gentle than synthetic brushes and will help prevent breakage, which is important for thinning hair. Boar-bristles also distribute the hair's natural oils throughout the hair shaft, keeping hair healthy and shiny. The healthier your hair, the less thin it will look., Changing your hair color so that there is less contrast between your hair and scalp will help conceal thinning hair. Go for a lighter shade if the color of your scalp is lighter. If you have a darker skin complexion, use a darker hair color shade, such as dark brown or black. While you can dye your hair yourself using home dye kits, if you have your hair stylist do your hair, you can have the dye customized to your skin color and thinning hair needs., Wearing a hat or a pretty scarf can hide baldness or thinning hair very effectively. There are many stylish hats for women, including fedoras and sun hats, and pretty scarves worn over the hair are also fashionable. Wearing a hat or scarf also has the benefit of protecting your head from the sun., Wigs are the best option when thinning hair around the temples or on the forehead becomes too visible or if you are completely bald. Wigs are a great way to increase self-esteem and feel more normal, especially for women whose hair loss is due to cancer treatments or other medical conditions.There are two types of wigs: full wigs that cover the entire scalp, and partial hair pieces that only cover certain spots. If you are completely bald or have very short, very thin hair, a wig made of human hair is your best option. You can have your stylist style it for you and show you how to wear it. If you only have some thinning spots, then a hair piece made of real human hair may be a more convenient, cheaper option, Have your hair stylist insert the hair piece to cover your thin spots.
You will have many choices, including wig/hair piece length, color, texture (real human hair or synthetic), quality/price, and application (clip-on, interlocking, combs/clips, and weaving/bonding). Discuss your options with your hair stylist to choose the best option for you.
Although synthetic hair is cheaper, only real human hair looks completely natural.

