 The person could be your partner, someone you are dating, or someone you are having sex with. Ask them if they have time to have a conversation, and find a time that works for both of you.


Talk before the heat of the moment; it will be easier to express yourself clearly when you are clear headed. This conversation may end up clearing up tension between you two. Perhaps your partner has also wanted to talk to you about sex.
 The space should be comfortable and free from distractions. Turn off any televisions or computers that you are watching. Put away your phone and put your full attention on the conversation.
 Your partner should respect the fact that you want to be responsible and communicate about sex. It will ultimately improve your relationship if you are good communicators about sex.


You can start by asking them about how they feel about your sex life. You want them to know that their feelings matter and that you are interested in hearing them out.
Explain that this conversation is not a rejection.
You may also want to explain that this conversation is not a negotiation of what you will do sexually.
Explain that this conversation should be a mutual exchange of boundaries, solutions and communication needs. , Do not be embarrassed about using sex vocabulary with your partner to talk about sex. You can laugh about it, but the communication is the important part. So push through the awkwardness and say what you need to say about your boundaries. , You can ask the person to wait for a yes before going further when you are being physical. Also, tell the person to wait before acting after they ask. Adding this element of communication to your physical relationship can also make the intimacy more exciting as well as safe. Ask them if they have any suggestions for ways that you can respect each others' boundaries.
 If this person is your partner, you can tell them the things you appreciate about them physically or that you like about your physical relationship. This will help them feel better about the boundaries that you are creating. It will also clear any confusion they may have about this conversation being a rejection.
 If one person is not in the mood to have sex they should say so, and explain their no. For example, you can say “I don’t want to have sex tonight/today” or “I don’t want to have sex here and/or now.” You may want to have sex later on in the night or under different circumstances, but you do not feel comfortable having sex at the moment. Talking about why you don’t want to have sex will help clear the air.


You can establish a better time when you will want to have sex. It can be exciting when you both know when you will have sex later.

