 But you can react to the judgmental comments or behavior differently. And you can even go so far as to point out how detrimental some judgmental behavior is, such as when it lacks compassion, is prejudiced or hateful.
 Learn the types of judgmental behavior outlined above. Also realize that whenever you feel that someone is trying to control you, force you to accept their view of things against your own view or they simply don't like you, see this as a red flag for protecting yourself. You may be forced to hear what they have to say but you are never obliged to take it as gospel. Let what such people have to say fall right off you, like the proverbial water off a duck's back. Do not let it settle inside you. Which leads to the next step.
 A judgmental person may irritate the skin off you but that's no reason to invite them to live inside your head. Churning whatever he or she said, commented on or inferred over and over in your head gives that person free space in your mind, when that space could be better used doing something productive and self-nurturing. Kick them out, they can be who they want outside of your head.


You are nobody's scapegoat. Remind yourself that the judgmental person is trying to offload his or her personal issues onto you.
Value judgments are not valid reflections of who you are or what you stand for. They are phony judgments, projected from the dark place inside the other person, in an attempt to belittle you or to hold you back.
Many value judgments are lies. They may seem real enough to the person stating them but they are based on personal deceptions that serve that person's needs but not yours. Their dishonesty doesn't belong in your head.
 The tit-for-tat, retaliatory approach leads to a never-ending argument about who is right. In all likelihood, there is no "right", just a disagreement about the best way to live/be/appear, etc. Fighting about it won't change anything but it will leave you both feeling angry, more set in your ways and upset. Ultimately, fighting will leave the issues unresolved and leaves harm in its wake.


Learn to sidestep or deflect nasty or insinuating comments. For example, if someone suggests that you aren't capable or that you're inferior, you can respond with something like: "It's disappointing that you feel that way about me. I don't have the same negative feelings about my ability though. I know I've worked long and hard on this, I've looked at all the angles and I am still going to do this as I've promised." Don't put the other person down but equally, show that person that you're unwilling to allow them to try to do that to you.

