 The first thing you'll need to do is fill up a pot with clean water. As the water boils, the steam will rise through the stovetop basket and steam your vegetables. How much water you use will vary, depending on how many vegetables you're cooking and how soft you want them.


For a smaller batch or firmer veggies, fill the pot with about a half inch to an inch (approximately 1.25 centimeters) of water.For a larger batch of vegetables or for softer veggies, fill the pot about halfway full.Make sure the bottom of your strainer is not touching the water. Otherwise, your veggies might simply boil in the water.
 It's generally recommended that you wait until the water has already started boiling before you add the vegetables.However, some people recommend putting the vegetables in before the water starts to boil.This is largely a matter of preference. Adding the vegetables too soon will not ruin the meal, but it won't accomplish much, as the water will not be producing much steam yet.









Once the water has come to a boil, lower the heat so that the water simmers and lightly bubbles.
You don't want a full bubbling boil, or you may steam off most of your water before the veggies have cooked.
 If you haven't already placed your vegetables in the basket before the water started to boil, you should do so once it's boiling. The timing is largely a matter of preference, and it's best to go with what you feel works well for your cooking methods.









Try to limit the number of vegetables you put in the basket. A single layer is ideal, as anything on top won't receive as much steam and may not cook uniformly.Once the vegetables are in and the water is at a gentle boil, you'll need to cover up the pot with a loose-fitting lid. This is to keep the bulk of the steam inside so that your vegetables cook properly.
 The steam time for vegetables will vary considerably, depending on how thick they are and how large or small you cut them. As a general rule, though, most vegetables will be steamed in approximately 3 to 10 minutes.Most veggies will have a brighter, more vivid coloration after steaming, which lets you know that they're ready.








Asparagus spears that are thin should steam in about four minutes. Thicker spears may take around five to six minutes.
Broccoli will steam in about five minutes. You should be able to visually tell when broccoli is ready, as it will get darker in color.
Brussels sprouts will take about 10 minutes to steam.
Carrots sliced 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) thick will steam in approximately six to eight minutes.
Cauliflower florets will steam in about six minutes.
Green beans will be steamed in approximately five minutes.
Peas steam rather quickly. They generally only need about three minutes on the stovetop.
Zucchini slices should steam in about six or seven minutes, depending on how thinly they're sliced.
 Once the vegetables look their brightest and most vivid, they're ready to eat. Turn off the stovetop, remove the basket of freshly-steamed veggies, and serve them while they're warm.







