 Similar to the Grants.gov website in the United States, the European Union created a centralized website where users could search for grants and public contracts. Grants are used to co-finance specific projects or missions and usually hold open calls for proposals.The grant website is located at http://ec.europa.eu/contracts_grants/grants_en.htm.


Rather than providing a keyword search function, the European Commission created categories for grants such as “Culture, Education and Youth,” and Employment and Social Rights.
After clicking on the link identified above, you will be redirected to the grant category list. Identify the category that most closely relates to your business or project and click on the category name.
You will be redirected to open grants, also referred to as call for proposals. This page will show you all of the available grants under the selected category.
 Select each grant under the subheading and closely read the materials related to the grant to determine whether your project or business meets the grant’s requirements.


Closely read the document entitled “call for proposals” (CFP). Occasionally, there will be multiple CFPs and you should review each one, paying particular attention to the most recent.
CFPs will outline the grant application process. Your proposal must address each grant requirement in order to be considered.
 All EU grants are a form of complementary financing, meaning that they do not finance projects up to 100%. Only projects taking place outside the European Union have the possibility to be financed in full.


The purpose of EU grants is to allow grant beneficiaries to break-even financially and they are not meant to help generate a profit.
Typically, grants are awarded to public or private organizations, and on rare occasions they are awarded to individuals.
 There are a variety of agencies that manage grants and each grant has different application policies and procedures. An organization that intends to apply for grants should consider the following:.


You must identify the agency or E.U. State that is managing a particular grant. Each agency publishes information about the grant programs that they offer and it is important to review these materials. You can locate a list of managing agencies through a search option at: http://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/index.cfm/en/atlas/managing-authorities/.
You must determine whether there are regional limitations to funding by determining which agency manages grants in your region and then contact them to receive specific information about the grants for which you are interested. You can locate contact information for managing agencies through the above link.Once you have determined that you are eligible, follow the specific grant instructions for applying and include all requested information.

