 You may be suffering from chubby cheeks because your body is retaining too much water because you're not drinking enough of it. When your body worries that you're not drinking enough water, it stores excess water in your cheeks and eyes, making your face look puffy. Drinking at least nine 8-ounce glasses of water a day will keep your body from being dehydrated and will make your cheeks look less chubby., If you include too much salt and refined sugar in your diet, then your body is more likely to retain water. Just like not drinking enough water, this will keep your face and cheeks looking puffy from all of that retained water. Though you can't give up on salt and sugar completely, try cutting salty or sugary foods out of your diet and eating foods that are low in salt or sugar.Instead of salty meats, go for lean meats.
If you're craving sweets, enjoy the natural sweetness of ripe fruit instead of the sugar in a cookie or cupcake.
 Avoiding alcohol can have a number of health benefits in addition to helping you lose weight from your cheeks, such as raising your energy levels and lowering soreness and helping avoid headaches. Drinking alcohol can make you dehydrated, which can lead to water retention and facial puffiness. It can also make you gain weight all over your body, which will make you gain weight in your cheeks.Drinking alcohol makes you take in many empty, sugar-filled calories. Replace the alcoholic beverages you drink with natural fruit smoothies or herbal teas.
 Not only will adding more fruits and vegetables to your diet help you maintain more healthy eating habits, but it will also help you lose weight from your cheeks. Fruits and vegetables are full of water, which means that they will help you hydrate and will keep you from retaining water in your cheeks. They're also high in fiber, so they will make you feel full and less likely to crave unhealthy snacks., Consuming more calcium from dairy sources such as milk or yogurt can actually help you lose weight. Eating more calcium can also help you retain less water in your face, so you won't have those puffy cheeks. Instead of eating a carb-heavy meal like buttery pasta or pizza, reach for a low-fat cottage cheese .

