 Sometimes adult birds simply need a moment to recover after running into something. Let the bird try to recover before you attempt to catch it. You may only injure it further as it tries to get away.Similarly, baby birds that have their feathers are often learning to fly, which is why they are out of the nest. Their parents are likely nearby, keeping an eye out, and they should be left alone unless they are injured.If you think a baby bird has been abandoned, call a wildlife rehabilitator. You can find one through your local veterinarian or wildlife agency. Humane societies can also help you find one. Once you call, the rehabilitator should be able to tell you what to do with the bird, such as leave it alone or bring it in., Birds carry diseases, mites, and bacteria. They can also injure you as you try to catch one. Putting on a sturdy pair of gardening gloves is a safe bet to help protect your hands.If you are helping a bird of prey, upgrade to sturdy leather gloves., If possible, come up out of sight of the bird. Birds can fly away even with injuries, so you can startle it into flight by coming from the front.Another method is to use a piece of cloth, such as a pillowcase. Come up behind the bird and drape the cloth over it.When you do pick up the bird, pick it up with the cloth around it., Use a small cardboard box. A shoebox works fine for this purpose. Poke holes in the top, and place something soft inside, such as a washcloth., Hold small birds in one hand and big birds in two. With one hand, the bird's head should come between the first and middle finger. Wrap the rest of your hand around the bird's body. Rest one hand on either side of the body. Hold the bird firmly, but don't squeeze too tightly., Set the bird gently in the box and quickly put the lid in. Put the box in a quiet, dark area until you can call a wildlife rehabilitator., They will have information about finding a local rehabilitator. Rehabilitators are trained to care for injured birds, so once you call one in your area, she can share information on what to do next.