 The whelping box is the space in which your dog gives birth to its puppies. It is also the space to which all puppies should return after their mother has completed birthing its litter. You can buy a whelping box commercially or construct one from wood or a cardboard box.If you think your dog will become pregnant again, you might as well invest in a sturdier commercially-made whelping box. These are readily available at most pet stores.
If you don’t foresee your dog bearing more pups, you can make your own whelping box and then simply discard it once it is no longer useful. If you’re handy you could construct one of wood. If you’re less handy, you could simply take the top off a cardboard box that could accommodate your dog (for large breed dogs, you’ll need an area of at least one square meter, or nine square feet).
For large breed dogs, you’ll need a large whelping box. If you construct your own whelping box, ensure that it is large enough for the dog to lie down and turn around comfortably.
The sides of the whelping box should be tall enough that puppies cannot escape, but low enough that your dog can hop in and out comfortably. For instance, your box might have three sides that are 15 inches high (38 centimeters) and one side that is 4 inches (10 centimeters) high.
Since you have a large breed dog, there will be enough space in the whelping box for you or another caretaker to sit with your dog and comfort it during labor.;
, Your whelping box needs to be soft and cozy inside for your new puppies and your large breed dog. Place a large plastic bag in the bottom of the box. Place layers of newspaper and/or a few cozy blankets or sheets over the bag.Never add wood shavings, sand, or other particulate to the whelping box.
 The lamp should be suspended over one corner of the whelping box so that pups can move toward or away from it depending on their temperature preference. Newborn pups have a lower core body temperature than adult dogs and are extremely sensitive to temperature changes.Aim for a whelping box temperature of 85 degree Fahrenheit.

