 An evening gown should be made from silk or satin, and touch the ground while you're walking normally.


High-class fabrics like satin, silk or velvet are perfect for a formal event.Because of the dressy nature of an evening gown, it's often a good idea to take a second, more comfortable dress along with you. That way, you'll be able to dance more fluidly during the ceremony's afterparty.
 Aim for makeup tones that are glamorous without being outlandish. Go to a hairdresser or makeup stylist prior to the wedding and have it done professionally if you're in doubt.


Off the shoulder curls are a perfect choice of hairstyle for an ultra-formal wedding ceremony.Makeup should be glamorous, but not overly showy. Aim for red lipsticks, dark mascaras and eyeshadows. Fancy or playful colors should be avoided.
 A "white tie" event is often seen as even more formal than a black tie affair.A black dress tailcoat is expected for a white tie wedding. However, due to the specificity of a white tie event, there may be special instructions listed in the invitation, which may require you to buy a set of white clothing. Because white clothing stains easily and usually needs to be purchased specifically for the event, these events tend to be rare.
 Bowties are typically seen as a fancier alternative to regular "business" ties. Proper bowties can be purchased at a proper dress store. According to the name of the dress code itself, your tie should be white, in contrast with your black overcoat. A bowtie may be seen as the male equivalent to jewelry.


Although you can buy simple clip-on bowties, it's usually seen as better form to put on one that requires manual effort.
 Striped black trousers are the expected form of legwear for men. While a single satin stripe is the norm in the US, two stripes are usually expected in Europe.Your trousers should be made of the same fabric as your coat., Underneath your overcoat, you should have a white pique vest. These may be purchased usually the same outlet you'll buy your overcoat from. Iron out the vest beforehand to smooth out the creases.


Pique is a fancy knit fabric with a honeycomb-shaped look.Underneath the vest, a white undershirt is helpful for catching sweat.
 Gloves should be white, to coincide with the white tie. Gloves tend to be expected in the case of dancing.


Fancy jewelry is also a great way to add uniqueness to your look.

