 If you regularly attend self-help groups with others who are recovering from problem-drinking, it might help to go to several meetings during the week prior to NYE. You can also attend a meeting on New Year’s Day to help ward off any triggers you might have experienced the night before. If you don’t usually attend meetings, or will be out of town, look up an Alcoholics Anonymous groups near you.Getting a healthy dose of recovery material and encouragement could help you fight urges that arise during end-of-the-year gatherings.
If you feel comfortable doing so, directly address the issues you have with New Year’s Eve in the meeting so that the group can support you.
 One of the most guaranteed ways to stay sober on New Year’s Eve is by bringing in reinforcements. Know of a friend who doesn’t drink or has had a successful and well-established recovery? Ask them to accompany you at the festivities, or at the very least, to call you and check in as specified times.”Hey, Paul, you have been such an inspiration during my recovery. Ten years of sobriety is such an accomplishment! If you’re free, would you like to join me at an event on New Year’s Eve? I could use some support.” More than likely, your acquaintance will be happy to assist you.
 If at any point during this celebratory evening you start to feel pressured or uncomfortable, make your exit. For this reason, it might be better to drive yourself or arrange another form of independent transportation so you don’t have to rely on someone else to be able to leave. It’s better to risk being slightly rude to friends and having to explain later than jeopardizing your recovery.Let’s say someone keeps bugging you about drinking, you learn that people are spiking others’ drinks, or any other compromising behavior is taking place. Get out right away.
You can tell the host “The environment is too risky for my sobriety, so I’m leaving,” or you can simply find the nearest exit. Better safe than sorry.
 If you mess up and have a drink, try not to panic. Beating yourself up can lead to you becoming depressed, and further complicate your recovery. Instead, contact your self-help group sponsor, sober buddy, or counselor for help.Keep in mind that this is when many people tend to avoid their support team. However, if they are doing their job right, then they will be supportive and not nasty to you.


Say, “Hi, Dr. Tracy, I went out on New Year’s Eve and got drunk. I’ve ruined my recovery! I need to come in as soon as possible.”
In addition to seeking professional guidance, it is also necessary to be honest with yourself to assess what happened. Did you have trouble resisting peer pressure? Did you hang out with bad influences? Answering these questions will help you prevent relapse next time.

