 There is a world of app, programs, sites and web communities specifically devoted to music identification. As it turns out, you're in great company if you are looking to identify a song.


Online music finders like Midomi and WatZatSong are great places to meet people with experience and interest in identifying music. Virtual piano keyboards are available to identify melodies on several sites online, most notably Folk Tune Finder and Musipedia.If you have formal music training, inputting the notes via notation (C, C#, D etc.) is also an option on sites like JC ABC Tune Finder and Themefinder. ;
, If you're somewhere the mystery song is being played somewhere around you, you can use the Shazam app to identify it for you.Download the app, and aim your phone towards the music for several seconds. In the majority of cases, the app will be able to tell you exactly which song and artist are playing at the moment.


Soundhound is another great music-recognition app. With it, you can get the song you're looking for by briefly humming into a mic. It's far from perfect, but could be a quick fix if you've got a melody on your mind.Most times a music-recognition app fails, it's because there is too much background noise for the app to get a clear reading of the music. If that happens, wait until it becomes more quiet, or find another area where you're get a more direct feed of the music.
 Once you're settled, record yourself humming or singing the melody. You won't need anything more than a basic webcam mic to suit your recording purposes. Take care to sing it as clearly and as accurately as possible, as this will be all the database or online community has to help you with.


If you've chosen to input the melody via a virtual keyboard, take care to make sure the rhythm and notes are as accurate as you can make them.
 If the program or site you're using offers a text box, you should use it to fill in as much information as you know about the song.The most help details should include the probable genre of the music, and the setting you first heard it. While this doesn't apply to automated databases, it could mean the different between a community member pinpointing it or not for you.
 Most will require you to start an account; this shouldn't take more than a couple of minutes to wade through. From there, it should be a straightforward process of putting up your post and waiting for the answers to start rolling in.
 The communities on sites like Midomi are passionate and helpful, and should be quick to help you out with your query. If you get different answers as to what song it is, it's recommended you check all of them. When you're finally hearing the song you've been looking for, it should click in immediately. There's a great feeling of relief and satisfaction in identifying a song you were looking for, so bask in the glory!


YouTube is an extensive and ubiquitous way of hearing music. No matter how obscure or recent, there should be a streaming video with the song you're looking to hear.

