 See your health professional and work out an appropriate exercise regime together. It must suit the condition that you are currently in and your body shape. It can be something that changes over time, as in you may not be able to lift weights now but this might become your goal for a few months' time. Walking briskly, swimming, mild gym work might all be good starters. Find something that is fun for you, so you don't dread exercising. Yoga tones your body, helps you lose weight, and increases your mental state, and some poses are very simple, others more complex.;
, By eating fruits, veggies, whole-grain breads and pasta, and taking in limited portions of fats and sugars, you will be resetting your everyday food consumption toward a more healthy regime. Again, this should be worked out in careful consultation with a health professional, such as a nutritionist. If you are on a budget, there are still opportunities to see a nutritionist for little or no cost. Inquire at your doctor's. In fact, your local doctor can also assist you in planning a healthy eating regime. Look online for healthy eating charts to also get a good idea yourself.
 Water is really healthy and much needed by the body. Choose it over sugared drinks and even diet drinks. Diet drinks carry their own problems even if they are low on calories. They do not retrain you to eat more healthily. Water also assists in making you feel full. If you don't like water by itself, add a slice of lemon, try a flavored water (watch out for extra calories!) or unsweetened herbal teas.
 Both meals are very important and will help to stop cravings for unhealthy foods. Have a large breakfast and a medium lunch. Make dinner the smallest meal of the day. Good lunch ideas include fruits, veggies, and a veggie wrap or a sandwich and a small treat.
 Get out of the rut and rearrange things. Make the house look different, buy new clothes as you lose pounds and get out there and do things. Volunteer, walk to work or bike with the kids on the weekend. Do the things you have been neglecting and you will feel yourself more invigorated and wanting to change.
 Get a friend or spouse who wants to lose pounds to join you. It is a great source of motivation and you can help one another out when it gets crazy and praise one another when it's great!

, Set small goals and reward yourself with things other than food when you reach them, like a day at a spa, a movie night, taking classes in an interesting subject (like sewing, oriental dance, pottery, or yoga), shopping, or a mani-pedi. Ask your partner to make up rewards for you, like a subscription to a magazine you love but usually wouldn't buy, a coupon for a night of romance or a half-hour massage. It can work wonders in motivation and you will look better and feel more attractive with every goal you reach.
 If you are not willing you will quit sooner or later. But as it says before, make sure that there is someone to help you and share your burden.

