 Are you goth? You probably wear a lot of darker make-up and darker clothing. Are you preppy? Three words: Ralph Lauren Polo. Are you athletic? Sweats and a hoodie is the perfect outfit for you. Or are you a girly flirt? You may love skirts, smiles, and flower patterns.Maybe you are a "smart chic", pretty glasses, straight hair, and <3 for dresses!? Whatever you are, no matter how embarrassing you think it is, you can make it work. Read some fashion magazines. Stores like Hollister, Abercrombie, Aeropostale, American Eagle, Wet Seal, Forever 21, and H&M are really in style, although beware of looking like an advertisement. But don't think it has to be limited to those stores. Kohls, JCPenney's, Target, and even Walmart can have some cute clothing and shoes.If you are a little younger, try maybe Justice and even Sears!;
, If you're a bit heavy, don't go for two sizes too small. But if you're skinny, don't go for bigger sizes. If you're a size 5, buy a 6. Clothing can shrink. Also, different brands have different sizes. A size 3 might not fit you in some sizes. Be comfortable with your weight and size.
 Layering is very popular. Try a tank top under a shirt and then let the bottom of the tank top stick out. Target and Walmart are great for cheap tank tops.
 If all you have in your closet is a shirt and some jeans, add some stuff in. A cute belt, some funky earrings, and an awesome necklace are great to make your outfit look perfect.
 Don't wear 10 belts and three necklaces, plus 3 shirts and shorts over jeans. It's too much! Simple and stylish is what you're aiming for.
 Just because everyone at your school wears t-shirts and jeans, doesn't mean you have to.
 If you are into the goth look, get used to what you are wearing. If all else fails, change your look. You can still wear black, but go a bit easier on the make-up.
 So, you aren't preppy, but you aren't goth. You aren't into athletics, but you aren't a couch potato. That's fine! Wear what you think is cute and like it. Don't take insults personally. The people who insult you are most likely jealous that they don't (or can't!) wear what you're wearing.
 Wearing a halter top and short-shorts to school might be cute, but isn't allowed. Know what you can wear and create a look off of it. By the way, wearing a white shirt and black bra or white pants and a black thong isn't cool. It's lame.
 Who wants to have ripped, worn panties or ugly, unsupportive bras? You need to know that under all those clothing, you still look good. Have the right size panties and bra so you can be comfortable and look clean, stylish, and appropriate.
 Don't be afraid to mix two or three random colors, or wear a cute tank top with sweats that look good. If you mess up, it's only one day of clothing.

