 There are many online vendors that sell mass produced and custom made clothing, apparel, and accessories for dogs. Online vendors will often have customer reviews available for you to read so that you can gauge how well made and affordable their products are. There are blogs specifically devoted to purchasing apparel and accessories for dogs that can offer advice and recommendations.


Try looking at blogs, like pupstyle, for apparel and costume reviews and recommendations., Many pet stores will offer some apparel and accessories for dogs. Most pet stores can also provide you with information regarding how popular the products are and if they can provide custom orders. Although not the most comprehensive vendor, pet stores can show what generic dog apparel looks like and which materials are most often used.


Go to your local pet store and ask questions like “I’m looking for some apparel for my dog, what do you recommend?” “Are there any popular dog costume brands?” or “What would you recommend my dog wear during cold weather?”

, Asking other dog owners where they have purchased their dog’s apparel is a great way to get specific feedback and recommendations. Most dog owners who have purchased apparel or accessories for their dog will be able to provide you with information regarding where to find vendors and what to look out for.


Ask questions like “I love your dog’s vest, where did you get it?” or “Where did your purchase your dog’s costume?”

, Ask your vet for recommendations on purchasing apparel for your dog. Although your vet may not have extensive knowledge of dog apparel or costume vendors, they will be able to provide you with information about what materials to avoid or what might be best for your dog specifically. Your vet will also know which accessories may potentially be harmful or cause anxiety.


Ask your vet questions, like “I’d like to purchase a costume for my dog, are there any materials I should avoid?” or “How should I go about avoiding choking hazards when dressing my dog?”

