 Heat a heavy skillet over medium heat on the stove. Add the dried guajillo chiles to the skillet and cook for about 5 minutes, or until they turn puffy and change color.Do not add any oil, butter, or margarine to the pan before toasting the chiles.
Turn the chiles occasionally as they cook.
When done, set the chiles aside for a couple of minutes until they are cool enough to touch. Once cool, you need to remove the stems, seeds, and veins.
Wear food-grade plastic gloves when handling chiles to protect your skin and eyes.
 Place the toasted and deveined chiles in a small bowl and pour boiling water on top of them. Cover the bowl with a lid or plastic wrap, and let the chiles soak for a full 1 hour.
 Add the cumin and cloves to the hot skillet used for your chiles. Toast, stirring frequently, until the cumin seeds just begin to pop.


Remove the toasted seeds from the heat as soon as they are ready.
Note that this step can be done while you are waiting for the chiles to cool, or it can be done afterward. Regardless, the pan should be both hot and dry when you add the cumin and cloves to it.
 Place them in spice grinder or coffee grinder and grind them into a powder.


If using a coffee grinder, make sure that it has been thoroughly cleaned before use and is thoroughly cleaned after use. Otherwise, you could end up with coffee-flavored sauce or cumin and clove tainted coffee.
 Place the cumin powder, clove powder, ancho chile powder, onion, garlic, oregano, thyme, vinegar, and lime juice in a blender. Remove the chiles from the water and add them as well, along with 3 Tbsp (45 ml) of the chile-infused water. Cover and blend at a medium to high speed until a smooth paste forms.


A food processor could be used instead of a blender, but either way, you need to produce a smooth paste when done.
Stop the blender occasionally and scrape the sides down with a spatula before continuing to blend.
 Place the beef into a large mixing bowl and cover it with the marinade paste. Cover the bowl securely using plastic wrap, then put it in the refrigerator 6 hours to overnight for marinating purposes.


For best results, turn the beef several times before you sealing off the bowl. Coat all sides of the beef in the sauce as you turn the roast.
 Prepare a large roasting pan by lightly spraying it with nonstick cooking spray.


Wait until the oven has completely finished preheating before moving on to the next step.
 Transfer the beef roast to the roasting pan. Pour the marinade over it, and place the bay leaf on top. Cover the whole thing with an oven-safe lid or aluminum foil and cook until the meat becomes very tender.
 Remove the finished beef barbacoa out of the oven. Allow it to rest on the counter for roughly 45 to 60 minutes. When done, shred the beef with two forks.


Keep the cover on the roasting pan while the beef rests.
This resting period allows the beef to finish cooking and forces the juices to distribute themselves more easily. It also gives the beef a little time to cool to a more comfortable, easier to eat temperature.
Discard the bay leaf before shredding the beef.
 The beef barbacoa is ready to eat at this point. It is usually served warm with tortillas and various toppings, like chopped onions or cilantro.

