 You can prune the tree while it is dormant in winter or in summer. Dormant pruning is pruning the tree during the late winter, when no new growth is happening and the tree doesn't have any leaves. Pruning while the tree is dormant encourages vibrant growth come spring, and it's less likely to cause damage to the tree than summer pruning. Summer pruning can be used to slow the growth of a tree that is getting too big and to thin new growth that is overcrowding.









Prune as late in the winter as possible before new growth occurs, since heavy freezes after pruning could damage the tree.
Save some pruning for the summer. Pruning too much in late winter can lead to vegetative overgrowth and reduced fruit production.;
, It's important to prune a young tree during its first dormant season to encourage good growth and a suitable shape. As soon as possible after planting, cut it down so that it's only about 30 inches (76.2 cm) high.Make the cut just above a bud.









New growth will occur where you make each cut.
Use loppers to make clean, sharp cuts. Gouges and jagged edges leave the tree vulnerable to pests and disease.
After this first pruning, you might wish to paint the tree with white latex paint to keep it from getting sunburned and protect it from pests.
 Choose four branches evenly spaced around the tree to serve as the tree's "scaffold whorl." These branches provide structure and keep the tree's shape balanced. Cut each of the four branches back so that each one has just 1 or 2 buds. Make the cuts just above the buds. Cut the remaining side shoots and branches flush against the trunk.









For the first two years of the tree's life, prune only during the dormant season and keep the scaffold whorl cut back to 10 inches (25.4 cm).
 By year 3, the tree will have produced another set of strong lateral shoots. Create more sets of scaffold whorls that are evenly spaced around the tree. Cut the whorls closer to the top of the tree back to 1 bud, and leave the whorls closer to the bottom 2 buds. The plum tree should take on a vase or Christmas-tree shape, which allows sunlight to filter through and encourage healthy growth.
 Cut back the trunk by a foot or two each year to control the height of the tree and encourage bushy growth toward the bottom. Prune it so that a bud is left at the tip.
 For the first 3-5 years of the tree's life, continue creating new scaffold whorls and cutting back the trunk during the tree's dormant period. When you're happy with the tree's height, move on to pruning techniques suitable for older trees.








