 Often people who experience nausea or generalized abdominal pain are simply in need of a bowel movement. Before you try anything else, then, try sitting on the toilet for a few minutes while leaning forward with your knees drawn up to your chest. This position naturally encourages bowel movement without undue stress.Don’t try to force a bowel movement by straining or pushing. Undue force can cause serious complications such as hemorrhoids.
If you have blood in your bowel or your stool you should seek medical attention immediately, this is call hematochezia and hematemesis, respectively.;
, Warming your stomach area can help to relax your muscles and reduce any tightness or cramps.Use a hot-water bottle, microwaveable compress, or electric heating blanket and place it over your stomach for several minutes.


If you don’t have any of the instruments listed above, fill a pillowcase or clean sock with some rice and microwave it for a minute or two.
 Mild indigestion can often by fixed by releasing some of the gas stored in your stomach and intestines. You can help your body do this by touching your toes and performing other, similarly simple exercises.


For example, lie on your back with your legs and feet elevated, or crunch your knees to your chest while rocking gently. Elevating your feet will reduce pressure on the abdominal region, release pent-up gas, and relieve discomfort., If you’re seriously nauseated, your body might be telling you that it needs to vomit. This unpleasant action may seem like the worst case scenario, but in fact it’s your body’s way of expelling ingested bacteria, viruses, or food which are causing irritation. Just be sure to visit the doctor if you continue to to vomit over several days, as it could indicate a serious underlying condition.


If you’re nauseated but can’t vomit, try nibbling on some soda crackers or slipping on some anti-nausea magnetic bracelets to ease your queasiness.
Vomiting can cause dehydration quickly, so drink electrolyte-supplemented sports drinks if you’re purging more than once. These replenish the sodium and potassium in your body which it needs in order to fight illness.
 Immersing yourself in warm water will increase your circulation and relax your muscles. This can mitigate abdominal pain and also help to relieve any stress you’re experiencing. Stay in the bath for 15-20 minutes at least and add one or two cups of Epsom salt to help draw out inflammation., Stomach cramping may be caused by muscle constriction. You can lessen this by giving yourself a gentle massage: apply light pressure to different areas of your stomach and back. Focus on parts that feel particularly sore but don’t overdo it and push or rub too hard.While massaging, focus on breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth. Deep breathing can help relax your muscles and distract you from the pain.
 There are many over-the-counter medications available for run-of-the-mill nausea, indigestion, and cramping. You don’t want to rely on these meds on a consistent basis, but moderate use is generally safe and effective. Follow dosage instructions carefully and ask your pharmacist for additional tips or warnings which apply to the specific medicine you're thinking of purchasing.


For indigestion, look for medications containing bismuth or calcium carbonate, as they coat the stomach lining and reduce pain and nausea with little to no side effects or contraindications.If pain persists after taking bismuth, try a medication with a low dose of acetaminophen rather than aspirin or ibuprofen. Just be sure not to overuse this drug, as it can eventually lead to liver damage.