 This is probably one of the most important steps in this article. You need to arrive 2 hours before you are due to fly. Even if you know you are delayed, arrive before the time stated on your booking confirmation.;
, Now, before you head for check in, you should have to hand: - Your passport, your flight ticket, your booking confirmation (in case of a problem).
 At most UK Airports these will be signposted. Generally, each flight will have 2-3 check in desks to keep queues down.
 If you are unsure, ask an airport attendant.
, NB: Most airlines charge for checking in baggage so please, to help yourself, check before you go. If it says 15kg, stick to 15kg. If it says 20kg, stick to 20kg or you may need to pay extra at check-in!

,,,, They will help you meet the requirements of that specific airport. However, 2 rules which are followed at all airports are: your carry-on baggage weighs no more than the specified weight (your airline will tell you once you have booked online), and that if you are taking liquids in your hand baggage, you place them in a resealable plastic bag, with only 100ml or less containers, making sure the bag is not to full. Take your coat off and if you have steel toe cap shoes take them off and put them through the X-ray. If you have a laptop or any other electronic items with you, take them and your liquids out of your bag and place them in a tray. Then when you are called to go through the scanner walk through at a steady pace. If it bleeps, you will be asked to step to the side and be metal detected and searched.
 Then check your boarding card which will show the time that you should be at the gate. It will also tell you which gate you should be at. If it doesn't, refer to the computer screens in security and the departures lounge which will tell you which gate to proceed to at what time (like the ones that told you which check-in desk. It usually says things like 'Wait in lounge' and 'Proceed to gate' or nothing usually until the run up to your flight.
 For special tax-free discounts, you will need to show your boarding card. (Please bear in mind that it can take up to 60 minutes to walk from one side of the airport to another depending on how large/busy it may be.) There may be shuttle services and there will be boards telling you where to go.
 There may or may not be a queue, so when you are asked to come forward, hand over your passport and boarding card, have them checked, and board the flight.
 Place any hand baggage in the correct overhead locker, or under the seat in front of you (under the seat in front of you is usually more convenient)

,, When asked to do so, pay close attention to the in-flight safety demonstration (this may be in-person or on a film). If you fall asleep keep your seat belt on and keep it visible at all times.
