 Make sure to shampoo and repeat, condition, body wash, and face cleanse. Make sure to remove all the make-up you had on before to reapply it later. For silkier hair, brush/ comb your hair before the shower, and leave the conditioner in for 5-10 minutes or just use a leave-in conditioner if you have one.;
, Towel Dry for a while, then air dry. If you want to straighten or curl your hair with an iron/ blow-out then make sure you partially dried your hair and it is still damp when you start. Go from bottom to top, while holding the parts you're not straightening/curling with a clip. Add tangle-spray to make your hair easy to deal with, and at the end you can add a little hairspray. Decide if you want your hair up or down. Most girls prefer down, which shows off the hair, but up shows off the face and makes you look taller with bigger eyes and skinnier face.
 Don't exaggerate, most boys hate that. For eyes, which are most important, mascara and eyeliner/eye pencil work best. You can play a little with the colors, but black looks most classic. The whole point of make-up is to make you look better and hide the things you don't like, so if you want more attention on your lips don't over-exaggerate on your eyes and so on. Don't put an inch of foundation on your face, and make sure you put the make-up on after everything, and fifteen minutes before you leave the door so it has time to dry.
 Plan before everything what you're going to wear. Things you need to worry about (in order) are:


Whether your outfit is appropriate for the place and occasion you're going to. (Don't exaggerate or under-go, and dress for the weather.)
If it flatters your body (Too small or too big on you, enhances the butt, cleavage too big, color makes you look sick...)
If it's you and you feel good in it.
If it's comfortable.
If you think it's pretty and you like it.
 Walk around the house if you're not sure if they're comfortable or aren't used to them yet. Make sure they match the outfit, and that they're not too big or too small. If you're going with heels, practice walking in them so you don't trip. Ask a friend for a second opinion if you're unsure.
 Of course this depends what you're wearing and where you're going, but usually just 1-3 accessories is more than enough. Bracelets, brooches, pins, necklaces, earrings, piercings... Make sure you match it too the outfit, and that it doesn't look like you went to buy it all in one dollar.
 This is something you can go crazy with. It doesn't have to match the outfit, but you could match it. If you can, go to a nail salon before, but if you're doing this at home make sure you do it right after the shower and don't try to multitask or move until 10 minutes later.
 Inside should be a cellphone, iPod (iPhone), lip gloss, all the make-up you used before you left the house just in case, gum, tissues, Purell and deodorant. Don't overdo it with things you bring though, and make sure the bag matches the outfit. Bring tampons/pads if you need, but hide them well.
 Boys hate when you wear too much perfume, but a little on the wrists and neck is fine. Try a VS perfume. Roll on also works quite well. Go for something more orange or vanilla scented. Apply deodorant and put it in your bag. Brush and floss your teeth, and mouthwash right before you leave. Wash your hands and feet carefully in the shower. ==

