 This refreshing cube will add a small refreshing hint of cucumber and basil to your drink.


Peel and dice one large cucumber. Makes sure the entire peel has been removed so the cucumber’s essence permeates the ice cube.
Dice two or three sprigs of fresh basil. Never used dried basil and make sure you finely chop the basil.
Combine the cucumber and basil in a bowl. Mix well as you will want to get an equal amount of basil and cucumber in each ice cube.
Place ½ teaspoon of the mixture in each ice cube tray. Add water and freeze overnight or under completely frozen.;
, This type of cube works well with hot apple cider, ginger beer or bourbon.


Dice and quarter fresh figs, leaving skin in tact. To fill a full ice cube tray, you’ll need approximately three to four medium sized fresh figs.
Remove sprigs of rosemary from its stem until you can fill ¼ of a cup. Make sure you opt for fresh rosemary instead of dried to get the full flavor.
Combine figs and rosemary and place ½ teaspoon of the mixture into ice cube tray. Add water and freeze.



Cut limes into quarters and then remove the skin. Use a sharp paring knife to carefully cut the skin away from the lime. Also remove any remaining seeds.
Dice ½ cup of fresh mint. Finely dice mint so that you have small slivers--the smaller the better.
Combine the mint and lime in a separate bowl and the place one lime sliver along with ¼ teaspoon of the mint in each ice cube tray. Add water and freeze.
 These cubes may also be tasty to enjoy on their own when you have a cold.


Chop one to two large fresh lemons. Create tiny lemon wedges and keep the peel on.
Place two to three lemon wedges in each ice cube tray and then add a few squirts of honey. Consider adding a squirt or two of lemon juice for an extra tangy cube. Add water and freeze.
 This no dicing or cutting recipe is about as easy (and delicious) as it can be.


Wash a small pint of blackberries and raspberries. Look for berries that are on the smaller side so you can pack more berries into each cube.
Place two to three berries in each ice cube tray and cover with water. Freeze and voila.
