 A plank exercise will target your back and core muscles, and it strengthens the muscles that hold your stomach in. Start by lying on your stomach and then prop yourself up using your forearms and your toes. Your elbow should be at a 90 degree angle. Straighten your legs and keep your abs tight. Hold for at least 5 to 10 seconds and repeat 8 to 10 times. Increase the amount of time you hold the position as your abs get stronger.Keep your back straight and look at the floor.
If this is too difficult for you, keep your knees on the floor.
 Lie on your back with your knees bent and feet flat on the floor. Your knees should be hip width apart. Put your hands on your thighs, behind your ears, or across your chest. Tighten your abs as you raise your head and shoulders off the floor. Hold for a few seconds and then slowly go back to your starting position.
 Standing ab exercises are helpful if being on the floor is uncomfortable for you. Stand with your feet a slightly wider than hip-width. Put your weight on your right leg, and then extend your left arm above your head like you are stretching. Crunch your torso to the left and bring your left elbow and knee together. Do 10 to 15 repetitions and then switch sides.You can hold a weight or a dumbbell on the same side that you are performing the crunch to make the exercise more challenging.
Anyone with sciatica or other low back pain should avoid this move.
 Stand with your feet slightly wider than shoulder-width apart with your toes facing forward. Put your hands on your hips, and contract your abs like you are trying to make your belly button touch your spine. Then, bring your chest and shoulders forward similar to how you would with a standard lying crunch. This movement will help strengthen the lower back muscles which will improve your posture and help prevent the pot-belly appearance. Return to the starting position. Repeat this 10 to 15 times and do 2 to 3 sets.Keep your abs tight as you do this.
 Don't slouch while walking or sitting. Keep your chin up and your stomach tight. Having good posture engages your muscular system and makes your stomach look flatter. Poor posture causes your abdominal muscles to weaken. Strong stomach muscles make your stomach look tighter.