 Believe it or not, flirting is scientifically effective. In fact, studies show that the most successful people are not necessarily the most physically attractive, but those who shows their availability through confidence and basic flirting techniques like smiling and eye contact.For men, the most successful flirting techniques are quick glances as well as “space maximization” postures – i.e. sitting with an arm extended across the back of a nearby chair. These moves show interest, but also social confidence.
 If you genuinely like the girl, let her know it through your behavior. Don’t just flirt. Notice her. Notice what she wears. Notice what she says, what she likes and dislikes, and what interests her. In short, listen to her.You might be surprised how much these small things matter. If she likes you, remembering that your mystery girl loves to watch Gilmour Girls or has a side interest in astrophysics can go along way.
Ask her questions. Without being intrusive, show interest in her by asking about her likes and dislikes, her interests, or just how she is doing.
Give her a compliment on what she’s wearing. Try something simple like, “Wow, is that a new skirt? You look very pretty in it.” This signals two things: you noticed her appearance and approve of it.
 At a certain point you will need to press the issue to clarify whether or not she is really into you. Ask her out! Yes, this will be stressful, but the worst she can do is turn you down. Then, you will know that she was indeed messing with you.The response that your invitation gets should give you an answer. A yes is obvious: she likes you!
If your mystery girl starts acting weird or stops talking to you, most likely someone else is on her mind and she feels uncomfortable. If she continues your current relationship without any change, on the other hand, it could be that she is simply messing with you.
Give her some space to sort things out if she appears hesitant. An evasive reply may mean that she is uncertain – she may be starting to have feelings for you but is not sure. All you can do is give her some time and space.
 Gracefully accept whatever response you get. It will do no good to continue to pursue her after a clear rejection. She was probably just flirting and didn’t consider you dating material.


In case of a rejection, avoid being obnoxious and move on. Resist the temptation to stick it out. She wasn’t interested and time will probably not change that.
Try to find a girl who is really interested in you. Keep all of the advice here in mind and continuing looking for that special mystery lady.

