 Performing regular weight-bearing exercise is a good way to build bone mass and prevent bone loss as well. Weight-bearing exercises include walking, dancing, jogging, and dancing. Non-weight bearing exercises include biking and swimming.Try going for a 30 minute walk most days of the week to get in some weigh-bearing exercise and help prevent bone loss.
 The best way to get your daily dose of vitamin D is to spend about 15–20 minutes in the sun without sunblock every day. Exposure to the sun allows your body to produce its own vitamin D. Since this may not always be possible, especially during the winter in some places, supplementing with vitamin D is still advised., One serious problem with osteoporosis is that it can be symptomless. Many women will not know that they have osteoporosis until after a bone fracture. That is why it is a good idea to have a bone mineral density (BMD) test if you are at risk of osteoporosis. This test is often called a DEXA (Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry) and can help your healthcare professional to diagnose osteoporosis. Women over the age of 65 are at higher risk of developing osteoporosis, but other women under the age of 65 may be affected as well. Ask your doctor about getting a DEXA scan if you have:broken a bone from doing something that should not have caused a broken bone, like falling from a standing position
A chronic condition such as rheumatoid arthritis, kidney disease, or an eating disorder
Early onset menopause
Undergone hormone treatments, such as for prostate or breast cancer
Lost a noticeable amount of height
A history of smoking or currently smoke
Family members who have had osteoporosis
Been taking certain medications, such as corticosteroid or thyroid hormone replacement medications
A tendency to drink three or more alcoholic beverages most days

, The results of a DEXA scan are known as a “T-score” and a “ Z-score” though for most people, the T-score is most important. In both the T-scores and the Z-scores, a negative number indicates that your bones are thinner or more porous than they should be. A higher negative number means that you have a higher risk of a bone fracture.If your T-score is between 0 and -1.0, this is considered normal. A T-score between -1 and -2.5 indicates that you have early osteoporosis, known as osteopenia. A T-score of less than -2.5 indicates osteoporosis.