 Insufficient water levels may decrease the pressure inside your arteries, which can then limit how much blood gets into the lining around your brain. This can cause migraines in some people.Any time you exercise, try to drink water while working out, or at least be sure to rehydrate as soon as you get back from your run to help get blood flowing back to your brain.The amount of water you drink depends on how much you exercised and how much you sweat. As a general rule, your urine should be clear or almost clear when you are sufficiently hydrated. Dark urine is a sign of dehydration.Stay hydrated before exercising to prevent dehydration during your workout., Certain nutritional factors have been shown to trigger headaches and migraines in some individuals.


In general, it's best to avoid consuming alcohol or caffeine if you are prone to exercise headaches or migraines.Avoid processed, fermented, pickled, or marinated foods if you are prone to migraines, as these foods may cause headaches in some individuals.Do not skip meals if you know you are prone to exercise headaches or migraines. Skipping meals has been shown to cause headaches in some individuals., Hypoglycemia, or low sugar levels in the blood, can cause headaches in some individuals. If you have low blood sugar and are experiencing a headache after a run, try bringing your blood sugar up by consuming carbohydrates like:Fruits, including apples and bananas
Candies and sweets, in moderation
Fruit juice

, Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can be taken for quick pain relief. NSAIDs block a chemical in your body that can cause inflammation and pain.However, try not to take these over-the-counter medications on an empty stomach, as they may cause stomach irritation. Common NSAIDs include:Ibuprofen ( Advil, Midol, Motrin, etc.)
Acetaminophen (Tylenol)
Naproxen (Aleve)

, Some common migraine treatment methods may be effective in alleviating pain caused by exercise headaches.Try a hot or cold compress. Applying a hot or cold compress to the head or neck effectively treats migraines in some individuals.
Lie down in a dark, quiet room.
Some people find massages and small quantities of caffeine helpful in alleviating migraines.
 Rebound headaches happen in some people who take prescription and over-the-counter headache medications on a regular basis.The only way to stop rebound headaches from occurring is to restrict your use of pain medication.
Headaches will typically get worse after restricting medication use before they get better.
Hospitalization or cognitive behavioral therapy may be necessary for some individuals with severe reactions to discontinuing long-term medications.
Avoid caffeine if you are experiencing rebound headaches. Caffeine is known to trigger rebound headaches in some people.

