 Understand that children can incur stress over any of a number of things that you, as an adult, may not consider stressful. Therefore, it is important to know what to look for in order to help reduce children's stress:


Physical symptoms include stomachaches, bedwetting, respiratory infection, racing heartbeat, excessive sleepiness and increased anxiety.
Behavioral changes may include anything that is outside of the child's character. For example, if the child is normally quiet and shy, then acting out and making a scene would be outside of that child's character and could be a sign of stress. Conversely, an extroverted child may become detached and withdrawn in response to stress.;
, This can reduce stress by helping children learn how to recognize how stress is affecting them so that they can employ coping methods to counter it. No matter the child's age, being able to identify emotions like sadness, fear, apprehension and anxiety is the first step toward reducing stress.
 When children display physical and behavioral signs of stress, the most effective way to reduce children's stress is to address the stress itself, rather than attempt to correct the symptoms. For example, if a child becomes especially argumentative, you should avoid harsh reprimands in favor of finding the underlying root of the problem.
 If you notice that certain conditions are likely to cause stress in children, do what you can to reduce the occurrence of those conditions.
 Back those up with explicitly stated consequences. Children rely on predictability and routine, and a great way to reduce children's stress is to be very clear about policies and procedures.
 Children should be encouraged to be their most authentic selves, express themselves freely and engage in open inquiry in regards to their feelings. Provide verbal and physical reassurance that the children are accepted and valued.
 Make sure children get plenty of exercise and subscribe to a healthy diet in order to counteract some of the negative effects of stress in children.
 When you employ techniques to reduce stress in your own life, you provide a frame of reference for the children who look up to you. The best way to teach coping skills to children is to actively use them yourself.
 Children do not have the self-awareness that adults have, nor do they necessarily have the ability to articulate what they are feeling. When you engage children in story-time, you enable them to relate to complex concepts by communicating on their level. To reduce stress, use therapeutic books with characters children can connect with.
 Try to come up with suggestions to how they can cope with their stress. But...avoid yelling at them or becoming stressed out yourself! It will make the person feel worse.

