 Great! Managed to overcome the urge to purge or binge? Excellent! Taking note of such seemingly “small” victories is important for your long-term success.


After a victory, give yourself the proverbial pat on the back. Treat yourself to a movie or an hour of reading. Or, simply dance around your room like a crazy person. Just don’t celebrate with foods or triggering behaviors.;
, Most people with disordered eating have a specific trigger that sets them down a destructive path. Put a finger on yours and develop an alternative plan for dealing with these triggers.For example, maybe summertime rouses your unhealthy eating behaviors. You worry about how you will look in a bathing suit or in cut-off shorts. If this is a trigger for you, you must make an extra special effort to come up with a plan to avoid relapse. Maybe you could alert your therapist and he/she could go over strategies for dealing with this trigger.
 Without question, you are bound to encounter situations in life that leave you feeling sad or stressed. As a result, recovering individuals may turn to food or stop eating during these times. Prepare a go-to list of healthy actions you can take when you are facing negative emotions. Some examples include:


Writing in a journal about why maintaining healthy behaviors is important
Going outside and tossing around a Frisbee or walking your dog
Calling a supportive friend
Listening to soothing music
Watching a TV show or movie that makes you laugh

, Refrain from weighing yourself at home. You only need to obtain an accurate weight to ensure that you are within a healthy range. Therefore, the only time you should see a scale is at the doctor’s office.


Declare your freedom from a weight-obsessed world here.
 They don’t work anyway, research shows. Many studies have proven that, while you may lose a fair amount from diets, the weight loss is not sustainable long-term. Most of the time people regain the weight they lost, plus more.Rather than restricting calories or certain food groups focus on eating a balanced diet. This includes a range of proteins, healthy fats, complex carbohydrates - think fruits, veggies, and whole grains – and a reduction in salt, sugar, and processed foods.