 For those that suffer from social anxiety, it might be therapeutic to meet new people. However, expectations can create additional stress because you’re striving for an expected outcome.

Instead of ruminating on the things you need to do when you go out, try to stay loose and have fun. Concentrate on your own happiness, not approaching women.

For some people, hyper-social situations like bars or clubs overwhelm them. If you are like this, then try joining a hiking group or a local sports club before diving into the bar scene.
Never expect to get intimate when going out and meeting girls.
 Not everyone will want to talk to you, and that’s a reality that you need to embrace. Extenuating circumstances like an existing significant other, may cause the woman to not want to speak with you.You must also realize that rejection is typically not a reflection of who you are as a person., Even though it’s tempting to pretend, women can pick up on whether someone is genuine or confident. Don’t try to compensate for your personality by talking about things that aren’t true, and be confident in who you are, whether it’s positive or negative.


Having positive thinking and keeping a positive self image will help you build confidence. If you don’t think you’re a great person, just think about all the things that you’ve done to bring happiness to other people.
Breathing slower and relaxing your neck and shoulder muscles can also help you with your confidence., There will be some nights where no women you approach will be receptive to talking to you. In these cases, don't get desperate and start going for whoever is in front of you. Instead, relax, and realize that you won't be successful every single night.


Instead of getting upset, go home and do something you really like or get take-out at your favorite restaurant.
Never insult anyone if you're having a hard time talking to women. This will only make you come off as a jerk, and will likely ruin your chances of talking to a woman for the rest of the night.
 If you don’t have the money to spend, you’re not going to feel confident throughout the night and you’re going to be stressed about spending money. If you don’t have the cash, then just figure out another social event you can do that doesn’t require funds.


You can meet people at the grocery store, park, or school if you have a limited budget.
Don’t spend your money on the bar if you have responsibilities you’re struggling to maintain like rent or loan payments.

