 Teacher enjoy answering your questions about the day’s lesson because it shows you were paying attention. If you ask questions, you will better understand what’s going on in class. If you don't know the answer to a question, ask! It shows that you are engaged in the material.If you’re uncomfortable speaking up in class, talk to your teacher after class about something that you thought was interesting or was confusing. This will clarify the issue in your mind and allow for the teacher to explain the concept to you privately.
Try to preface your question with direct quotations from the assigned reading. The more specific the question, the better it will be. For example, when Dickens writes “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times” at the beginning of A Tale of Two Cities, is he referring specifically to London and Paris in that order? Or does he mean it was the best and worst of times in both places?

, Support your opinions with quotes from the book, or make connections to other books the class has read. Most teachers give participation grades, and these can really help to bring up your final grade.
 Cutting class will lower your grade. You will miss out on valuable class material and will be behind when you decide to return to class. It’s also inconsiderate to your teacher.
 Ignoring directions on an assignment will usually hurt your grade. At minimum, it will annoy your teacher. For example, if he or she assigns a 3 page paper, don’t hand in a 2 page paper with extra large font and margins. Take pride in your work and take care to fulfill the assignment or paper requirements.
 Skipping assignments is a sure way to get a low grade in any class. Be sure to turn in all assignments, even if you think you didn't do your best work. Getting at least some points on a paper or other assignment is far better than earning zero points.
 For example, Charles Dickens’ David Copperfield is often assigned in high school English classes. It is one of the most studied novels of the nineteenth century. You might ask your teacher if there are particular studies or interpretations of the novel that they recommend?


You might also ask if the teacher has any recommendations by a particular author If you enjoyed one of their texts in class. If you liked David Copperfield, for example, your teacher might suggest Oliver Twist or Great Expectations as further Dickens readings for you. Asking about further reading shows the teacher that you genuinely are interested in the subject matter and the class.
 Remember that teachers are busy, too. You don’t have to be the “teacher’s pet” to win over your teacher. All you need to do is to be attentive, hardworking, and interested. Work hard on your assignments and participate constructively in class, and your teacher will be impressed.

