 Search for a petition asking state or local government officials to pass a law that more closely regulates sex trafficking, or provides greater punishments for sex trafficking convictions.Check local or national rules to determine what guidelines you must follow to make sure your petition is legitimate. For example, if you want a government body to take action on a particular piece of pending legislation, you probably must make sure that all signatures are made by adults who are residents of the area., A protest can be a powerful means of raising public awareness about sex trafficking in your own community, particularly if you place demonstrators in the location where victims of sex trafficking often are found.


For example, if there is a hotel where sex traffickers have been observed operating, you might consider having demonstrators encircle the hotel to draw attention to the activities and make it difficult for sex traffickers to operate without being seen by the demonstrators.
Check with your local government and find out what permits you need to secure before you schedule the demonstration, as well as any legal restrictions you must follow while conducting the demonstration.
Restrictions typically revolve around ensuring you don't block the flow of traffic or unduly disturb people in the area.For example, if you wanted to hold a demonstration in a residential area, you probably would be restricted from blasting loud music or using bullhorns in the evening when people were at home or sleeping.
 Speaking to your representative directly can increase government activity to reduce sex trafficking as well as signal to your representative that sex trafficking is an issue of concern among his constituents.


Consider sending a written letter or email if you want to make sure you communicate all the points you need the government official to know. The other benefit of a letter is that once you've written a good letter you can send it to multiple officials, so you don't have to recreate your statement from scratch each time you talk to someone.You may find elected representatives more receptive to your calls if they are up for re-election, as they will be more interested in addressing issues of concern to local constituents during that time.
 If your local area holds regular town hall meetings, prepare a statement to make at that meeting along with educational materials.


You also can request a specific meeting or public hearing be held to discuss the issue of sex trafficking in your town. If you know when the hearing will be held, you can plan speeches and organize material to educate the public and communicate the problem, as well as galvanizing community support for victims of sex trafficking in your area.
Check with the city government ahead of time and see if you need to get on the agenda before the meeting is held, or if there is a period of time in which the floor is open for general comments from residents., Educational programs at schools and in other youth programs can empower young women and keep girls from falling victim to sex traffickers out of fear or desperation.If the local schools don't yet have any programs that address the dangers of sex trafficking, encourage teachers and school administrators to include the issue in their curriculum, and provide educational materials to assist them., If you can get a letter published in your local paper, you can raise awareness of the issue of sex trafficking in your town.


In your letter, include tips on what people can do to help reduce sex trafficking, and provide phone numbers or websites that provide additional resources.Make it a point to stress that sex trafficking is not just a faraway problem happening on the other side of the world, but is something that happens every day all over the U.S. and may be happening in your town as well.Keep your letter concise, but write with passion and grab the reader's attention. Use your letter to educate the public about sex trafficking in your area as well as providing information on actions people can take to reduce sex trafficking.