 Setting running goals is important because it allows you to plan the most beneficial routine depending on your physique or desired running method. For example, if you are overweight and want to run to reduce body fat, you may want to begin with a steady walking pace or slow jog; whereas if you want to focus on cardiovascular exercise, you may want to run at quick paces to increase your heart rate. When setting goals, you may want to work with a professional coach or athletic trainer to determine the safest running routine that is aligned appropriately with your goals.;
, Since certain health problems may hinder your ability to run effectively or cause injuries, you may want to meet with a doctor or professional trainer beforehand. For example, people with asthma or breathing problems may want to consult with a professional before running to prevent injuries, as well as those with osteoporosis, arthritis, and other degenerative joint diseases.
 Warming up and stretching before you run is important because it will increase the blood flow to your muscles during your run. Stretching after running will also reduce soreness by removing lactic acid from your muscles, promoting better flexibility and helping you to relax. Just like running, warming up and stretching must be done properly to avoid injuries. Failing to stretch may result in injuries such as Achilles Tendinitis, which is marked by early morning stiffness, pain on the back of your tendon, or calf tightness, and Plantar Fasciitis, which is inflammation of your plantar fascia, the thick, fibrous band of tissue on the bottom of your foot.


Refrain from bouncing while you stretch. Bouncing may pull or tear the muscle you are trying to stretch or relax. To prevent injuries while stretching, stretch slowly and hold your stretch for about 30 to 40 seconds. By stretching slowly you will avoid a contraction reflex that occurs from stretching too quickly, allowing your muscle tension to decrease so you can stretch the muscle further. You must also stop stretching when you begin to feel tightness or pain to prevent injury.
 When easing into your running pace, begin at a brisk walk or slower jog for between 5 and 10 minutes to continue to warm up your muscles and joints. Doing so will make your body more pliable and help prevent injuries.
 By wearing appropriate running attire, you can regulate body heat and protect yourself against hazardous weather elements. Wear light, breathable clothing that prevents perspiration from building up and wear hats or ear covers to shield yourself from the sun or freezing weather to prevent frostbite. Running socks or thick socks are also very important to prevent your feet from getting blisters or experiencing irritation.
 Proper running shoes should always be comfortable with good support arches that fit your feet and should always be in good condition. Replace your running shoes every 2 to 3 months if you run regularly and if they have been worn too thin or are angled. Wearing tight, loose, or worn shoes may result in injuries such as twisted ankles or shin splints.
 Prevent injuries by avoiding steep hills and hard surfaces like pavement, which may cause shin splints. Instead, run on all-purpose track surfaces such as those found at schools or on treadmills.
 Running outdoors in high humidity or in temperatures over 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32.2 degrees Celsius) may cause heat illnesses such as sunburn, dehydration and exhaustion, whereas running in cold or freezing temperatures may cause frostbite. If weather conditions are too harsh outside, run indoors or at a gym to prevent injuries.

