 To trade Pokémon in Pokémon World Online, you must register a five-digit password to allow trading in Pokémon Center Union Rooms. You can register your password in one of two places in the game world:

Celadon City (located in Kanto District)
Olivine City (located in Johto District)
Your password should not begin with a zero, as this may cause the game to not recognize that the password has been entered (in such cases, you'll need to create a new password that begins with a digit other than 0).
If you forget your password, you can get a reminder by going to your Playerdex and selecting the My Settings and Status tabs.
 In Pokémon World Online, the Pokémon Centers that allow trading are located in two cities:

Saffron City (located in Kanto District)
Goldenrod City (located in Johto District)
Your trading partner's character must be in the same city as your character.
 Union Rooms are located on the second floor of the Pokémon Center., You can do this either by right-clicking on your partner's character and selecting "Trade" or by typing the word "Trade" and your trading partner's name in the chat box. If successful, your chat screen should display a message that the trade request was sent.

The recipient of the trade request will see a message in the chat box and on his or her screen. The recipient has to either click "Yes" or type the trade initiator's name to accept the request.
If the recipient has disabled trade requests, he or she will see the request only in the chat box and can only accept the request by typing the initiator's name (trade requests are disabled by checking the Disable Trades box below Options).
Once the trade is accepted, the trade window will appear.
 Your Pokémon will appear at the bottom of the trade screen; click on the Pokémon you wish to trade. Its name and level will appear mid-screen in the first window.

You may trade more than one Pokémon at a time.
You may also trade Pokedollars in place of or in addition to the Pokémon being offered for the Pokémon you wish to obtain. To do so, click the Pokedollars box in the upper right, enter the amount you're offering, and press Enter on your keyboard.
 You can review the Pokémon's statistics by moving your mouse cursor over its name., Both trading partners must click this button for the trade to take place.

If you're conducting a trade to evolve a Pokémon, put this Pokémon at the head of your party before conducting the trade. Do not trade this Pokémon away, or it will not evolve. You may make an empty trade to trigger the evolution process.

