 Here's what you'll need to make about four cups of royal icing with egg whites:









3 cups (700 mL) powdered sugar, plus additional as necessary
2 egg whites
1 tsp (5 mL) lemon juice;
, Sifting is not necessary but will help keep your icing from getting lumpy.
 Crack an egg and then turn it crack-side up. As you gently open it, use half of the shell to catch the yolk. Allow white to drain by transferring yolk from one half of the shell to the other several times.









Consider saving the yolk for homemade mayonnaise or Hollandaise sauce.
 You don't have to whisk much or for long. Whisking for 20 seconds will help break up the egg whites and combine it with the lemon juice.
 Start with 1 1/2 cups or 2 cups of sugar, and gradually add the rest while the mixer is on its medium setting. Mix until shiny and opaque, about 5 minutes.









Hand mixers also do the trick just fine if you do not have a stand mixer. In a pinch, a little bit of old-fashioned hard work will work as well, although you'll be getting a considerable workout.
For edible construction projects like gingerbread houses, a thicker, more peanut-buttery consistency will provide extra stability.
 Soft peaks are contoured without being firm; when you dip your whisk into the icing and turn it upside down, the peaks move back in on themselves.








To make your own icing tube, simply put the icing in a Ziploc bag and snip off one of the bottom corners. Start by cutting off very little of the corner to keep your icing lines thinner and more manageable. You can always snip more away as you go.
 If you want firm peaks for your icing, continue adding sugar a little bit at a time while the mixer is still beating. The additional sugar will create a stiffer icing.
 You probably have a good idea of how you want your icing to turn out. However, sometimes, things don't happen according to plan. If you need to change the consistency of your icing — it's too stiff, for example — don't fret. Here's how you adjust the consistency of your icing:









If your icing is too runny, add more sugar. A little bit at a time works best.
If your icing is too stiff, add more egg white. Again, a little goes a long way.
If you want to runny icing, add water, a couple drops at a time, to the icing.Whisk the icing and wait for the peaks to break up. Since this process causes air-bubbles to form, rest runny icing for up to 30 minutes before using to allow time for the air bubbles to dissipate.
 Royal icing hardens very quickly if not properly stored.








