 Seemingly harmless over the counter medications, supplements and vitamins can affect the blood thinners such as warfarin/coumadin as well as other drugs.
 If you have suffered from any condition or ailment that requires a blood thinner, your doctor will likely prescribe you an anticoagulant, which are medications that target clotting factors. Your doctor may prescribe you a coumarin-based medication, such as coumadin or warfarin. These work to reduce the formation of vitamin K dependent clotting factors in the blood. It is generally taken by mouth once a day, at the same time every day, with or without food.


General side effects include gas, abdominal pain, and some hair loss., If you are on warfarin therapy, you need to be monitored very closely because warfarin is known to cause internal bleeding. You will need weekly blood tests and your dosages will be adjusted based on your results.


Keep your diet consistent when taking warfarin because increased levels of vitamin K can affect your warfarin therapy, make the drug less effective and not able to prevent clots.-- Warfarin also has many drug interactions so tell you doctor every kind of medication or supplement you take.
When on warfarin, avoid eating large or varying amounts of green vegetables, vitamin K rich foods such as broccoli, cauliflower, brussel sprouts, cabbage, kale, spinach, green beans, green tea, liver, and some cheeses. Talk to your healthcare professional about keeping your diet consistent in amount and steadiness with warfarin., Your doctor may prescribe you such oral anticoagulants that are gaining popularity. The advantage with these is that you do not need weekly monitoring and vitamin K intake does not affect their effectiveness. But also vitamin K nor any other product can stop bleeding with the new kinds of blood thinners. If bleeding does occur, unlike warfarin, there is no simple way to reverse bleeding or hemorrhaging. Cauterizing for sealing injuries, and icing for several days that contracts the blood vessels of the injury.


Your doctor may prescribe Pradaxa, which is usually taken by mouth, with or without food, twice a day. Major side effects of Pradaxa include gastrointestinal symptoms such as upset stomach and nausea. Other serious side effects may include hemorrhage, or allergic reaction.Or, you may be prescribed Xarelto. Depending on your particular circumstance, you may be instructed to take this once or twice a day by mouth with food. Side effects of Xarelto include allergic reaction to the medication, bleeding or throwing up blood, dizziness, burning, numbness, tingling, muscle weakness, confusion, and headache.Your doctor may instead prescribe Eliquis, which is usually taken twice a day by mouth, with or without food. Caution should be taken if you notice an allergic reaction, signs of bleeding, dizziness, confusion, headache, joint pain or swelling, chest pain, or wheezing.Another kind of medication is Plavix (clopidogrel) an anti-platelet prescription. It makes blood less sticky and lowers the amount of the "sticky" coagulant platelets (which dangerously would stick together to cause clotting and can also cause blockages in blood vessels). There are some common side effects of Plavix: head pain, muscle and joint pain. You may experience some less frequent side effects of Plavix including danger of bleeding, hemorrhage, nosebleeds, etc.