 Clicking on the Create an Account it allows you to fill in your personal details of your accounts name, email address and password. You must make sure you have done this correctly, because this is what you will be using to sing into your account and need to be able to remember this, if there are spelling mistakes it may be difficult to access your account.


Important: “After you have created your Skype Name, you cannot change it so make sure you’re happy with it.” (1);
, A box will appear with random letters and numbers this must be written successfully to verify that you are a real person. Once this is done read the terms and conditions and click I Agree.
 To do this you must click on Save to save the file when the download file appears on screen. Once the open file has appeared click Run. The final part of downloading our Skype service is “Select your language, read the Skype End User License Agreement and the Skype Privacy Statement, and then click I agree – next”. (1)

, To do this type in your Skype name and password, this will open your new account with Skype. Once in it your can change your profile picture in your account settings. You can successfully now start using Skype.
 Then type it in the search box which is allocated or clicking the Add Contact button will allow you to do so. Pictures are usually provided with each contact sop you are able to see if the suggestion that has come up is the person you want. Once you have found the person you want to add. Click on Add to Contacts. This then sends the friend request; all you need to do now is waiting for their acceptance.
 This then requires you to choose the country from the flag menu drop-down list, then type in your contact’s phone number. Once you have done this click on Add to Contacts, enter the contacts name and click Save. “In your contact list, a phone icon appears next to the newly created contact.” (2)


Important: “You'll need a little Skype Credit or a subscription to call mobiles or landlines.” (2)

,, This will allow you to go through your contacts and select the person you want to make a video call with. You have to make sure this person is also online otherwise it will not allow you to make this call.


You will see this icon if they are online

,, This will then send the call request to your contact then you will have to wait for them to accept your video call.
,, From the Contacts tab, click a contact you wish to add to the group video call and drag it into the Empty group area. Repeat this for each contact you would like to add to the call by clicking Add People when In the Add people screen, select who you want to add and click Select and then Add.
