 Call her when you have some free time. If you’re both busy and it’s difficult for you to both make time, schedule a time to talk. You can also stay in touch via text or email. Send her articles that you think she might enjoy, or things that remind you of her. Ask her how significant people are doing. These will all show that you care about her and the important things in her life.
 When you talk to her, you’ll have something specific to ask her about. When appropriate, comment on and like her posts on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, etc. Be careful not to overdo it, you don’t want to make her uncomfortable or seem clingy. A good example of using social media to make her feel special:


She posts a picture of her going skiing. The next time you talk, tell her you saw her post and ask her if she had fun. Did she go with friends or family? This will show her that you are thinking about her, and that you want to learn more about her.
 If you don’t get to see her often, but know she’s looking for friends where she lives, think about other friends you have in her area. If someone comes to mind, introduce the two of them. In addition to showing that you’re thinking about her, this will also demonstrate that you care about her happiness even outside of your relationship with her.


When you introduce your two friends, tell a fun fact about them to give both of them something to talk about and make them feel good. Example: “Emily, this is my friend Olivia, we played on the same soccer team in high school, and she was by far the best defender on the team. Olivia, Emily and I were both chemistry majors in college and took a lot of classes together, we made class really fun together.” Now they both have context for your friendships, and have a few easy topics to start a conversation.
 Whether it’s tomorrow or next month, setting time aside in advance will show that it is a priority for you to see her. Planning ahead will also help you, in case you need to save up money or vacation time to see your special person. Ask her what she wants to do, and suggest things that you know she’ll like.


If the two of you have mutual friends or know her good friends, try to include them on the plans. This is an easy way to show her that you’re paying attention to the important people in her life.
 Backing out of plans will make her feel like you don’t care about her and can undo a lot of the work you’ve done to make her feel special. If you make plans, don’t flake! To prevent this from happening, mark your next event in your calendar and set reminders if you need to. Put post-it notes on your desk or bathroom mirror, or come up with your own way to ensure you don’t make other plans on the same day and time.

