 Ask the court clerk or the bailiff in the courtroom how the judge prefers to be addressed.


Usually, the bailiff will be available before the judge arrives, and he or she will probably be in the courtroom where you are assigned.
If you wait until the judge is in the courtroom, you likely will not be allowed to approach the court staff.
 This is another way to be respectful to the judge.If you must call for the judge’s attention, wait until you can do so without interrupting anyone. Then stand and politely ask the judge, "Your Honor, may I be heard?"If you are not acknowledged, sit down.
You may not approach the judge outside of the courtroom., Do not eat, drink, laugh, talk, chew gum or tobacco, smoke, or otherwise interrupt the proceedings. In some cases, you may not read materials (such as a novel or e-book) that are unrelated to the court business. If you must address other parties, such as your attorney, do not use their first name.Keep your body language polite and respectful at all times.Some judges are stricter than others about courtroom behavior. Always err on the side of respectfulness, especially if you don't know what the judge permits.
When in court, you should stay as still and quiet as you can. Don't nod or shake your head when others are speaking or when you are being spoken to. Do not put your feet up on tables or chairs. Do not cross your arms over your chest or put your elbows on the table. It is acceptable to take notes, but don't doodle or draw on your notepad. This can appear as disrespect.Do not communicate with spectators via gestures. Do not roll your eyes or make comments or gestures towards the other parties in the courtroom, including the jury or opposing attorney.Any of these can be grounds for the judge to have you removed from the courtroom by the bailiff.
 Many courts enforce a total ban on cell phone use.Judges are known to have defendants and lawyers who check their phones during a proceeding removed from the court.


Even if your cell phone is allowed, keep it silenced and out of sight. You do not want to come across as disrespectful or distracted.
 If you have friends or relatives in the audience, caution them against calling out, talking amongst themselves, or taking pictures, either inside the courtroom or outside.The judge can have the bailiff remove them as well.


For example, one judge had a spectator removed from the Michael Jackson trial for taking pictures of jurors, even though he was outside the courtroom.Judges can also give spectators warnings, hold them in contempt, or even have them arrested in rare cases.If you have friends or family members who wish to address the judge, consult your lawyer about having them speak as witnesses.
 If you hear something you disagree with, write it down so that you can address it when it is your turn to speak. Never speak in a hearing until you have been invited to do so.Do not make comments to yourself, even under your breath. You may be dismissed from the courtroom if you do so.

