 If you have a scarf that isn’t too long or with fringed ends, doing a plain wrap-and-knot is a great option. Drape the scarf around your neck, and tug the ends so that one is hanging down about twice as long as the other. Take the long end of the scarf and wrap it around your neck, bringing the tail end back to the front; it should be even with the other tail end. You can now leave the ends dangling, or tie them together in a regular knot, leaving the ends to dangle.;
, Possibly the most common way of tying a scarf, the hacking knot works well for scarves that are a bit on the longer side. Take your scarf and fold it in half, so that you have two tail ends together and a loop on the other end. Wrap this around your neck, and pull the two tail ends through the loop. Adjust the ends and the loop to your like, and you’re done.
 If you’re wanting to showcase your scarf in the front, this is a great tying option. Wrap the scarf around your neck so that both the ends are hanging down the front. Then, tie them together in a loose knot near your chest. Tie the ends together in a second knot, leaving it loose. The ends should dangle down the front, and you’re finished.
 Wrap your scarf around your neck, and tie a loose knot near your collarbone. Then, just as you would with shoe-laces, tie the ends of the scarf together in a big floppy bow. Adjust the bow so that it lays how you like, and move it so that it is either off to the side or directly in front. Your scarf-bow is finished!

, If you have a square silk scarf (commonly found vintage), you can create an ascot-style scarf. Fold your scarf in half to form a large rectangle. Place the downward point on your back, and bring the two even points to the front. Tie the two ends together in a double knot very near your neck.
 You can create a voluminous neck-tie by pleating your scarf prior to wrapping it. Lay it out flat on a table, and then accordion-fold it to create a folded stack of fabric. Hold the pleats in place, and wrap the scarf around your neck. Tie the ends together in the front, and let the pleats go. The ends should maintain some of the original folding, appearing full and fluffy in the front. Adjust to your liking, and you’re finished.
 Lay your scarf out flat on a countertop, and then fold it in half so that the ends are lined up. Tie the corners of the scarf together, creating a large loop. Place this loop around your neck with the ties at the back, and then loop it around your neck a second time. Adjust the fabric so that the infinity scarf is sitting correctly, and you’re done.
 Similar to tying an infinity scarf, creating a long-flowing loop of fabric allows you to showcase the print of your scarf. Lay your scarf out on a flat surface, and tie the corners together to form a loop. Place this loop around your neck with the tied ends at the back. This style looks good when the bottom portion of the loop is tucked behind a wide waist belt and paired with a matching cardigan or jacket.
 Start by folding your scarf in half so that you have a loop on one end and the tail ends on the other; wrap this around your neck so the loop and ends are even. Pull one of the tail ends (not both) through the loop. Then, twist the loop 180 degrees, and pull the second tail end through the loop. Twist the loop below the second tail 180 degrees again, and then repeat the process until the ends are too short to braid., This style of knot works best for square scarves made of silk, although it can be done on others. Lay your scarf out flat, and fold it in half diagonally to form a triangle. Place the scarf so that the triangle is in your front, covering up your chest. Then, wrap the two triangle ends around the back of your neck and back to the front, tying them in a knot. Tuck the tied ends of the knot under the triangle of fabric, and you’re finished.
 Another style that works well with a long scarf, tying a sliding knot is relatively simple and an attractive way to style your scarf. Wrap your scarf around your neck so that the two ends are hanging evenly on either side of your body. On one end of the scarf, tie it in a knot onto itself, but leave it slightly loose. Pull the end of the second tail through the center of this knot, and you’re done! Slide the knot up or down the scarf to put it in your preferred location.

