 In order to better distinguish your Instagram account from others, it's a good idea to customize your account's details.


You can also add this information when initially setting up your account on mobile.
 If you already have a profile photo, this option will be entitled "Change Profile Photo". You have several options for uploading your profile photo:


Import from Facebook - Select a photo from your Facebook media. Your Facebook account and Instagram account must be linked.
Import from Twitter - Select a photo from your Twitter media. Your Twitter account and Instagram account must be linked.
Take Photo - Take a photo to use for your profile.
Choose from Library - Select a photo from your camera roll.
 This will lend a distinct image or face to your Instagram account, making it more recognizable than an account without a profile picture.


This is a good place to upload a logo if your Instagram is dedicated to a brand or business.
 This spot is usually reserved for your full name, but Instagram allows users to add a single name (e.g., a first or a last name).


If you're using this account for work, consider placing your business' name here in lieu of your own.
 This is how you will appear to others on Instagram. For maximum user accessibility, try to make your username something related to your Instagram's predominant content.


If your preferred username is currently being used, Instagram will prompt you to choose a different username.
 If you have a dedicated website (e.g., for personal content, for photography, or for your business), putting its URL link in this field will display it below your profile information when other users visit your page. This is a good way for you to promote your work or life outside of Instagram without paying for advertising.
 This should be information related to your Instagram content and/or your intentions; for example, if your Instagram is primarily a nature-based photography collection, mention that in the bio box.


You can also put relevant hashtags in this field, which can make your account easier to find for users searching for similar content.
 This is at the bottom of the page; only you can see this information, as it pertains to your Instagram account's registration. From here, you can change the following items:


Your registered email address.
Your registered phone number.
Your gender preference.
 This will save your changes!

