 Plan ahead with your herbicide or pesticide so that you’re only filling the tank with as much of the liquid as you need. Spray plants a second time if you need to use up excess herbicide since almost all herbicides are approved to be sprayed twice., Contact your local health department or environmental agency to find a safe way to dispose of this liquid. Do not empty the chemicals onto grass, near any flowers or plants, down a drain or into a water source. Doing so can harm local plants and animals.If you need to empty your sprayer quickly, find an empty plastic or glass container that you can pour the leftover chemicals into (such as the original bottle), then seal and dispose of it later.
 Do not allow the sprayer to sit with herbicide or pesticide in it, even just overnight. Residues from the chemicals you use can build up over time and make your sprayer more difficult to clean., Depending on the chemical, there may be specific instructions for how to clean the sprayer. Follow any cleaning directions on the product's container.
 Since you'll be working with harsh chemicals, make sure you wear rubber gloves and safety goggles. If you have one, wear a face shield to protect yourself from splashes., Fill the reservoir until it’s about halfway full, and then squirt the hot water through the garden sprayer until all the water in the reservoir has been used. Spray the water in a safe location, away from water sources and areas accessible to children and pets.Consider spraying next to or near where you were using the herbicide or pesticide since the chemical residue will be the same.
If you will be using the same type of chemical the next day, you can stop after a thorough flush with water and skip any further cleaning until you’re completely finished with that product., The cleaning solution should contain about 1 ounce (30 mL) of ammonia per gallon (3.8 L) of water. Fill the reservoir about halfway with this solution, and then spray the cleaning solution through the garden sprayer several times to flush the wand and the nozzle.Ammonia is effective for most herbicides, but not all. Research your particular herbicide to see if a bleach solution, powdered detergent, or kerosene solution would be better.You can also purchase a commercial tank cleaner at a hardware or home improvement store. Look for one tailored toward the type of chemical you’re using in the sprayer, and follow the directions on the packaging.
 With the reservoir about half full of cleaning solution, let it sit for several hours, preferably overnight. This will allow the solution to work into the residue in your sprayer and break it down., The next day, spray until you’ve emptied the cleaning solution from the reservoir. Since the sprayer may still contain pesticide or herbicide residue, it’s best to spray it in a safe area away from water sources and areas accessible to children and pets., Fill the reservoir about halfway with water again, and spray the hose until you’ve emptied the remaining water in the reservoir., Take the hose, wand, and nozzle apart to give them a more thorough cleaning. Rinse them with warm, soapy water, and try using an old toothbrush to scrub the small crevices.