 Many outsiders will find your relationship interesting and weird and will ask all kinds of annoying questions because of it. Be prepared to face questions that are loaded with prejudices and assumptions about what type of people you are. Prepare stock responses to the most common questions, and learn how to ignore the negative responses that you’re bound to receive.


For example, many will ask how you met and assume that you were seeking an older wealthy man or he was seeking a younger trophy wife. Try to prepare responses to questions like this. For example, you can respond by saying, “What’s in his heart is more important than what’s in his wallet” or “I love the fact that he matches my confidence and my stability like no other man has been able to.”You can always respond to negativity by being patient, calm, and trying to explain your perspective to those who will listen.You can also grow thick skin and learn to respond to negative responses by ignoring them and showering more love on your relationship.
 While it is a stereotype, it is also true that some older men only seek younger women for their looks. Not only does it stroke their ego, but it also makes them feel younger. Avoid jumping into a sexual relationship too soon so you can focus on building a solid foundation for a relationship.Be clear about your intentions. If you are seeking a long-term relationship be clear about that from the beginning. If he realizes that you are looking for more than he’s willing to give, he may stop pursuing you and save you some time and energy.
Be honest about the status of your relationship. Living in a condo in his name, driving a car he’s paid for, and going on shopping sprees with his credit card all sound great, but if he’s only coming by for sex, then the dynamic of your relationship needs to be reevaluated.
 The longer you live the more experiences and baggage you accumulate. For older men, it could mean more sexual partners, an ex-wife (or two), and children who are close to your age. You have to be prepared to accept his past, and to also face with it occasionally.


The first step is to determine if it is something you are willing to accept. If you said you never wanted children and he has a gaggle of them, you’ll have to reconsider your priorities.
Realize that baggage can also be seen in a positive light. Think of it as a past, a commitment, or a lesson learned that has helped him grow into a better person., When there is a significant age difference in relationships, there are also typically age differences among groups of friends. That often makes it difficult to do group activities because it tends to lead to bored partners or awkward exchanges among friends.Realize that it is okay to not include your mate in all your plans and vice versa. Otherwise, be prepared for uncomfortable interactions each time.


Pick and choose your events. For example, instead of inviting your mate to a double keg house party, try inviting him to a night of bar hopping instead.
You can also learn to compromise or meet in the middle.
Don’t avoid hanging out with your friends just because your mate doesn’t fit in. There are always ways to divide your time among them.
 If you’re in the relationship for the long-haul, thinking about life in the future is necessary because you and your spouse will be at different stages in your life. Consider late-life changes such as retirement, caregiving, failing health, and drops in sexual drive. Prepare for these inevitable changes by having open and honest discussions with your mate.


Before having a conversation with your mate, be honest with yourself and determine whether or not you are willing to stick with your mate through all of these changes. If you cannot see yourself accepting these lifestyle adjustments, then you may want to reconsider your relationship.

