 This should leave you with four really thin strips and one larger section.


Fold the large piece of tulle in half the long way and then in half the long way again.
Pin along the folded edge of the tulle about 1.5 inches from the fold.
 Sew a straight seam 1″ from the fold along the entire 4 yard (3.7 m) length removing pins as you go. You may want to hold the fabric taut front to back so it doesn’t gather as it runs under the foot. If it bunches a bit, it’s ok.


You will have 2 single layers and 1 double (looped) layer of skirt. Separate the top (single) layer of skirt from the rest and line up the foot of your machine 1″ from the bottom edge. Lay one of the 2″ strips of tulle on top, aligned with the bottom edge of the skirt. Sew down the middle of the strip, pinching the strip to gather as you sew through it and through the skirt. You will use 2 of the 2″ x 4 yard (3.7 m) strips to complete one ruffle along the entire length.
Now lay your third 2″ x 4 yard (3.7 m) strip centered 3″ from the bottom hem, so the 2 ruffles will touch slightly. Sew down the middle of the strip, pinching the strip to gather as you sew through it and through the skirt. You will also use two 2″ x 4 yard (3.7 m) strips to complete the second ruffle along the entire length.
 Run it through the waistband just inside the single back layer of tulle. The 3 layers on the front of the waistband will help hide the elastic.


Be sure to pin the end of your elastic in place. If your elastic is not stiff enough to push through the tulle, you can attach a safety pin to the end of the elastic to help pull it through.
When you string it all the way through, pull the elastic out an inch or two and pin in place.
 Overlap your elastic (to the desired waist measurement) and sew through both pieces of elastic several times. Tuck the elastic ends into the waistband and evenly distribute your gathered waistband.


If your bottom “hem” is uneven, you may want to trim the underlying tulle layers (but only if it bothers you).
Sew on any embellishments you like. These may or may not be seen, since the tutu goes under the skirt.

