 Most players will want to reach level 20 before they consider exploring the worlds of PSU. At level 20, specific races will gain their basic abilities, such as the SUV Weapons for Casts and the Nanoblasts for Beasts. Other races and classes become more stable around level 20 due to the leveling of techs, skills, and the character itself.
From levels 1 to 20, players should find the Linear Line (4th floor on the Space Colony) the easiest way to gain character levels. It is also the most balanced approach to increasing all aspects of your character, from skills to type levels. Playing through these missions alone (Unsafe Passage and Fight for Food) should be done mostly on C rating, but may also be done on B rating if using ranged attacks. For parties, B rating is ideal.
After level 20, players may want to explore a bit more by heading over to Parum for Mad Creatures and Sleeping Warriors missions. Neudaiz is also good for Mizuraki Defense and Forest Islands missions, but you may want to play most of these within a party. If you get bored, System Defense and Valley of Carnage missions on Moatoob are interesting, but not necessarily as balanced for items and gaining levels.;
, Finding party members is a simple task, as PSU allows players to start missions that are open to anyone who wants to join. Making friends might be more challenging unless you're a younger gamer. Since PSU was released on console systems as well as the PC platform, there is a plethora of youth and young adults with online accounts.
Making friends in PSU may be an easy task for younger players, but becomes more difficult for mature players. Within PSU, many mature gamers may find it challenging to meet other gamers that are courteous, respectful, and friendly. Regardless of your age, you are eventually bound to find another in PSU whom you may call 'friend'. When this happens, and every time you log into PSU, expect to receive private messages requesting to do a "run".
An alternative way to find teammates and make friends is to scour areas immediately outside of popular mission starting points. Typically players will pause here while they wait for others in their team. On densely populated servers, this waiting time will attract more players seeking social interactions, party members, and friends.
 Throughout missions, you'll discover that containers may be broken open to find items, while creatures carry both items and meseta. These items may be sold to NPC shops (ie: shops on 2nd floor of Space Colony), but at a great loss compared to their actual value. If you feel inclined to sell items you've collected to purchase your next piece of equipment, sell only low level weapons, armor, and consumables (monomate, dimate, etc.). Even though you may find little use for Synthesis items (Photon, El-photon, Carlian, Hustle Berry, etc.), store them with you partner machinery (PM). When you're ready to open your own shop, you'll be glad you did.
Most Synthesis items sell very well to other players, especially photons. Photons not sold by NPC shops (ie: Ban-photon and Ray-photon) can sell for hundreds, if not thousands of meseta to other players. Compare this to the 5 - 25 meseta you'll receive when selling to NPC shops. You'll want sell these collected items in your shop once you purchase an "Open Shop" ticket.
The amount of meseta (PSU currency) you earn for each mission is a total of four factors:


Meseta dropped when a creature is killed (positive amount)
Meseta earned as a bonus when a mission is complete (positive amount)
The meseta value of Items collected from creatures and containers (positive amount)
The meseta required to recharge your weapons (negative amount)

, As mentioned above, this should be your first major purchase and your number one priority. It is the critical first step in acquiring large amounts of meseta in the shortest time possible. The player shop ("Open Shop" item), may be purchased for 15,000 meseta from the room decorations shop on the 2nd floor of the Space Colony. Take it to your PM and 'remodel' your room using the ticket.
If you've saved most of the synthesis items you found earlier in the game, you'll want to sell them now through your shop. Do some research ahead of time by visiting other player-run shops to get an idea of the PSU player-driven market. Remember that some players are only interested in price gouging. For more information on price gouging, refer to the warning "Avoid player shop gouging" below.
For now, simply sell what you find. When your PM gains enough levels (20 or more), start synthesizing your own items according to your PM's area of expertise. An example price list for photons that match the market on any specific day (what players are willing to pay in order to move items quickly) are included in the tips section.
 Your PM is the most dynamic component in the online faction of PSU. It can hold items, synthesize items, redecorate your room, and even run your shop! Still, the most challenging and time consuming part of utilizing your PM is feeding it. Your PM gains levels in relation to what items you feed it, losing points in some areas as it gains points in others. Your PM has a maximum of 100 levels it may gain, but those levels may be distributed in any area (Striking, Ranged, Technic, or Armor). Also, your PM will also morph at levels 20, 50, and 80. At level 80 (referred to as a fully-evolved PM), your PM will offer you her partner card and be able to join your party for missions.
For a striking PM (GH-410 and GH-420), start by feeding it low level restoratives such as monomates and melee weapons. For a Ranged PM (GH-430 and GH-440), use traps and ranged weapons. And for a Technic PM (GH-450), use tech discs or rods combined with low level restoratives. There currently is no known fully-evolved PM for just Armor. But, there are shoes that are sold for 1000 meseta at the clothing shop in Moatoob which are gold stars and will increase ur PM's armor rating by a whopping 22 in armor. As you earn more meseta, you will want to feed your PM more expensive items. This is especially helpful if you're in a rush to get a full-evolved PM, with plenty of time to play PSU. It is helpful to use most of your shop's income to fund the task of feeding your PM. Once your PM is fully-evolved, it will be able to synthesize the more expensive weapons, line shields, and items. Doing so will allow you to make an even greater profit from your shop.

