 Narfi is located in Ivarstead near an abandoned shack. Wait until 6:00 PM until Narfi enters the shack for the night. Enter the shack and kill Narfi to avoid being caught. You will receive 400-750 septims.;
, You can find Beitild near the Iron-Breaker Mines in Dawnstar, close to the guards. There are many different methods of killing Beitild, however the easiest is talking to her and claiming you are part of the Dark Brotherhood. She will then attempt to attack you. Run out of the town and make sure she follows you, then kill her outside of town. 400-750 septims will be rewarded to you for completing this contract.


You can reverse pickpocket her with poison to kill her.
Breaking into Beitild’s house at night and killing her when she is alone is a great way to not get caught.
The next best option is to sneak-kill her with a bow. The best position is on top of a building on the roof. Make sure Beitild and the guards are unable to detect you, then shoot her with your bow.
 Ennodius is located just west along the river close to Anga’s Mill in Windhelm. He can be seen alone beside his camp site, a perfect place to take him out with no witnesses. Once killed, you will be rewarded 400-750 septims.
 Hern is a vampire located at Half-Moon Mill. Killing Hern isn’t a problem unless you want to prevent his wife, Hert, from attacking you as well.


Catching Hern in his house while Hert is not home is a quick and easy way to go undetected. You can do this by waiting for Hert to leave the house. You can stop Hern from exiting as well by starting a conversation with him.
If you possess The Master of the Mind perk available at level 100 Illusion, you can make Hert frenzied and have her kill Hern for you.
 You can find Lurbuk at the Moorside Inn in the city of Morthal, in the main room. To remain undetected while killing him, wait until he goes to sleep (2:00AM to 4:30AM) and use a sneak attack to avoid a bounty.


If you possess the sneak perk “Backstab” or Assassin’s Blade, you can kill him by sneaking behind the chair and killing him with a dagger.
It is possible to order your follower to kill him. Remaining undetected will ensure the guards don’t see you. resulting in no bounty.
 Deekus can be found northeast of Dawnstar at Hela’s Folly. If he runs into the water, you will need to use ranged weapons such as the bow or magic to kill him. You are rewarded 400-750 septims for killing Deekus.
 Ma'randru-jo and his caravan can be found outside of major cities or randomly alongside a road. For completing this contract, you are rewarded 400-750 septims.


Killing Ma'randru-jo will cause his entire caravan to become hostile unless you are stealthy.
One of the benefits of being a Khajiit is you will have the option to say "You are a disgrace to our kind! I spit on your fur!" causing Ma'randru-jo to turn hostile. This will prevent you from getting a bounty from the guards or turning the caravan hostile., Located in Whiterun, Anoriath follows a pattern. At night he is sleeping in The Drunken Huntsmen in Whiterun. During the day he is located at the market, selling food items. He has the chance of taking a hunting trip from time to time. 400-750 septims are awarded.


Attempting to kill Anoriath at night can be tricky due to Elrindir (The co-owner of the Drunken Huntsmen) following you and preventing a stealth kill. He begins to follow you can soon as you enter the room that Anoriath is sleeping. If you are quick enough, you can kill Anoriath before Elrindir has a chance of seeing what you are up to.
The most straight-forward way to kill Anoriath is when he is at his food stall. There is a stream flowing alongside the steps next to his stall. Follow the right side of the stream up to where it begins. This allows you to face Anoriath and perform a stealth kill.
Speaking with Anoriath and choosing the option "I am the predator and you are my prey" has a chance of making him hostile. However this doesn’t always work and he may just remark how “disturbing” you are to him. If he does become hostile, the guards will not attack you., Agnis can be found at Fort Greymoor. Depending on whether you completed the Civil War storyline, the fort will be filled with bandits or whichever faction you chose to side with. Sometimes she can be found alone in a small room, allowing for a stealth kill. You are rewarded 400-750 septims for this kill.
 Maluril can be found southwest of Dawnstar, in Mzinchaleft. If you have a high sneak skill, it is possible to go in from the northwest side of the ruins and then go down towards the quest marker. This allows you to avoid bandits hiding out in the ruins. You are rewarded 400-750 septims for this contract.
 Helvard is located in Jarl’s Longhouse in the Falkreath Hold. Helvard will go to sleep at night alone in his room and allow you to kill him without alerting anyone else. Another 400-750 septims are awarded for this contract.


If the Dark Brotherhood dialogue option is available, you can cause Helvard to become hostile first and allow you to kill him without having the guards attack you.
 She can be located on her pirate ship, the Red Wave. If the ship is in port, it can be found docked north of Solitude. The ship has the chance of being out at sea for days at a time. Safia can be seen walking on the lower level of the ship or found alone on parts of the ship. This offer’s for a stealth kill when she is alone. You are awarded 400-750 septims with a 35% increase.


You have the option to start a brawl with Safia when talking to her and avoid the shipmates to become hostile.

