 This step is primordial if you want to win. Your principles will guide you through and keep you focused. Your originality will make you stand out. Your independent thinking will bring some reason into your speech.;
, Never be tempted to start a competition to get attention, fame or status. This is achieved after proper time to reflect on the reasons why you signed up for the competition in the first place.
 If you are serious about winning, you need to find someone who can coach you. Practicing on your own without feedback is tempting, but a mentor will help you perfect fine details of your delivery and speech content. The mentor may be a tutor or a friend you deem has the ability to coach you.
 This can be done by reading extensively to master the language you speak. This helps you find the right words for your speech. When you are in front of a crowd, you might naturally get self-conscious about the way you look. That is why you should always make sure you have dressed smart and that you are looking good before going up on stage.
 The more the audience can identify themselves with your speech, the more attention you will get. You can easily beat the majority of opponents just by the choice of your speech.
 The best of speeches are often those which are written in just a couple of minutes. However, you should revise and edit your speech, always thinking in terms of how the audience will respond. You should not use the opportunity to solely show off your personal knowledge and interests. Public speaking is about tailoring your information to please the audience. The audience is pleased when they understand what you are talking about.
 When they laugh, they listen more attentively because some sort of fun is sensed in your speech. Yet, do not make abuse of humor as it might undermine seriousness.
 It eliminates stage fright and makes you confident. You can practice in front of a group of friends and tutors. The more you practise, the better. It also allows you to get some feedback. You might then wish to modify certain portions of your speech.
 They will appear confident and deliver good speeches. You might start comparing yourself to them, but that is a mistake. You should forget them completely, and do not try to analyze how well they did.
 You should visualize yourself as being very charismatic and it will translate in the way you behave.
 Look at every single person in the room. People feel secretly flattered when you look at them: they think you intentionally looked at them because they are special in some way. Genuinely try to scan the entire audience with your eyes.
 You should realize that you become the center of attention and people are watching you all the time. You should also not forget to appear physically confident before and after speaking.
 A good public speaker must be able to speak without a microphone. This immediately draws attention and it is a sign of your commitment to passing on your message. Most of your opponents will forget this important aspect and the jury might not even hear their speeches properly.
 Your preparation is what counts.

