 This ratio is determined by figuring out who is looking at the other person’s eyes more, and who is looking away more.


Your visual dominance ratio helps determine where you stand on social dominance hierarchy compared to the other person in the conversation. People who spend most of the time looking away have a relatively low amount of social dominance. People who are less likely to look away are probably the boss. People who look downward display helplessness because they seem like they are trying to avoid criticism or any conflict.
 The eyes are the windows to the soul, as the cliché goes. You can learn a lot about a person by paying attention to how they use their eyes.


Avoiding eye contact at all, or looking downward with the eyes a lot, are both indications of defensiveness. Eye contact will be more continuous if a person is trying to listen to you, rather than speak. Looking away from the other person can also be an indication the person doing the speaking isn’t ready to stop and listen yet.
Looking at a person can be an indication of attraction. People who are interested in someone show strong eye contact and lean forward toward the other person in the conversation.
Depending on the context, making eye contact with another person can be used to show respect. For example, when you’re giving a presentation to a room full of people, divide the room into thirds. Address comments to one side, and then the other side, and then the middle. Pick out a person in each section to address comments to. The people who are sitting around them will think you are having direct contact with them, and this will make them rate you higher as a speaker. , Pay close attention to facial expressions that convey emotion, especially if they conflict with the words a person is uttering. They can help you figure out a person’s true emotions.


Regulators are facial expressions that provide feedback during conversations, such as nodding the head, and expressions of interest or boredom. Regulators allow the other person to assess level of interest or agreement. Essentially, they provide feedback. You can show empathy towards another person by using affirmative movements, such as nodding your head and smiling. These gestures, used when another person is speaking, give them positive reinforcement and show you like what they are saying.
 Certain body language gestures, including facial expressions, communicate defensiveness, not confidence. Thus, they make you seem less in control.


Limited facial expressions and small, close to the body hand/arm gestures are indications of defensiveness.
Turning the body away from the other person or crossing your arms in front of your body are other indications of defensiveness. , If you are giving a presentation, you want people to be engaged. If you are the person watching the presentation, you want to seem engaged. There are signs you can look for that indicate engagement or a lack thereof.


Heads tilted downward and eyes gazing elsewhere indicate disengagement.
Slumping in a chair is a sign of disengagement. Similarly, fiddling, doodling, or writing, are signs that a person is disengaged.

