 Broadly, wine can be categorized as either dry or sweet. Dry wines have very few residual sugars in them, while sweeter wines have a higher sugar content. As wine cooks, its sweetness intensifies as the alcohol and water portions evaporate, leaving a higher concentration of sugar behind. Because of this, dry wines (whether red or white) generally work the best when preparing savory dishes. Sweeter wines can lend a cloying sweetness to a dish, and are best suited for dessert applications.;
, Both white and red wines, either light- or full-bodied, can be used in cooking. Assess the qualities of your dish to determine which wine would work best.


In general, white wines work well with mild-flavored dishes featuring fish or chicken. The bright, lively acidity of light-bodied whites accentuates the mild flavor of the meats without overpowering them. Sauvignon Blanc and Pinot Grigio are both excellent choices for this type of cooking.
Heavier dishes featuring beef or any highly-seasoned meat work well with a full-bodied red wine. The tannins in these wines can provide a pleasant palate-cleansing effect when paired with hearty dishes; in lighter dishes, these tannins can yield an unpleasant bitterness. Zinfandel, Pinot Noir, and Cabernet Sauvignon pair well with heavier dishes.
 If you are planning on serving the dish alongside a glass of wine, consider how the wine in the dish will interact with the wine in the glass. Using the same wine for both cooking and serving is an excellent technique that allows the food and wine to reinforce each other's flavor notes. If you want to use a different wine, taste the 2 alongside each other first to determine whether or not they clash.


There is a common adage that you should only cook with wine that you'd want to drink. This assertion doesn't generally bear out; in truth, when wine is cooked nearly all of its subtle complexity is lost, leaving only a rough template of its original flavor profile. The levels of tannins, sugars, acids, and overall body are the characteristics that will remain in the cooked dish.
 Some French or Italian dishes call for a specific type of wine, often referred to by its origin or specific appellation. For example, most coq au vin recipes call for Burgundy wine, but an American Pinot Noir could be easily substituted.

