 Combine 1 Tbs white vinegar, a 175 ml tub of plain yogurt, 6 whole cloves, 2 sticks cinnamon, 2 tsp ground coriander, 1 ½ tsp ground turmeric, 3 coriander leaves and salt and pepper to taste in a bowl or ziplock bag.


If you are unable to find these ingredients at your grocery store, try a specialty market that offers imported foods.
Stir ingredients with a spoon so that the spices and the yogurt are well mixed.;
, If you purchased meat that was not pre-cut into slices or cubes, cut up your beef into smaller pieces. Braising steak is a good choice for a higher quality cut, or stew meat is an option for a less expensive meal.Remember to use a designated knife and cutting board to slice meat.
Do not use the same surface to cut vegetables or other prepared foods.
Wash both the board and the knife thoroughly with hot soapy water after you have finished cutting the meat., Place the beef and the marinade in a sealed container, such as a ziplock bag, plastic box, or glass dish covered in plastic wrap. The beef should marinate for at least two hours, or as long as overnight.


Always marinate meat in the refrigerator, not on the counter which would encourage bacteria to multiply.
Turn the beef occasionally to ensure that the marinade covers it evenly.
Place marinating beef on the bottom shelf of the refrigerator to prevent possible dripping onto other foods., Cut off the top of the onion and remove the papery skin. Slice the onion in half from top to bottom. Place the flat edge on your cutting board to keep it stable. Make slices ¼ inch apart in one direction, then repeat the same process in the other direction.


By slicing in perpendicular lines you create pieces that are roughly even in size, which will allow for even cooking time.
Bend your fingers while cutting an onion, which keeps the tips of your fingers away from the blade edge., Cut or break off a piece of the ginger root. Use a paring knife or vegetable peeler to remove the outer skin and discard it. Cut the ginger into small pieces by making even cuts first in one direction, then again perpendicular to the first cut.


Your ginger root should be smooth and unblemished. When selecting your root at the store, avoid any that are wrinkled, soft to the touch, or visibly molding.
If you have leftover ginger, wrap it tightly in plastic and store it or put it in the freezer., Cut two large tomatoes into slices about ¼ inch thick. If desired, remove the skins of the tomatoes prior to slicing.


One way to easily remove tomato skins is to place the tomatoes first in a bath of boiling water for around a minute, then transferring them to a bowl filled with ice water. The peels will come off easily.
 Heat 1 tbs of cooking oil in a large, heavy saucepan. When the oil is hot, add the onions and stir regularly until they soften slightly, around 2 minutes. Add the ginger and stir to prevent sticking or burning.
 Stir so that the ingredients are spread evenly throughout the pan. Keep the temperature at medium heat until the entire mixture is bubbling slightly.


Remember to wash the spoon you used to stir the ingredients thoroughly, because it has come in contact with raw meat. Do not reuse an unwashed spoon later.
 Cover the mixture and reduce the heat to allow the mixture to simmer, around 20-30 minutes. Using a clean utensil, stir the food occasionally to ensure that it cooks evenly.
, Bring 1 ½ cups of water to boil in a saucepan. If desired, add a pinch of salt. When water is boiling, add ¾ cup of rice. Stir gently to ensure that it is evenly distributed. Cover the pot and return the water to a boil. When the water returns to a boil, turn down the temperature to simmer. Keep the pot tightly sealed. Allow the rice to cook for 15-20 minutes.The rice is done when all the water is absorbed.
Once the rice is done, remove it from the pot to stop the cooking process from continuing.
 Rinse ½ cup of brown or green lentils in a strainer under running water, removing any that are shriveled. Place in a pan with 1 ½ C of water and put on medium-high heat. When water begins a rapid simmer, reduce heat and cook for 20-30 minutes.


The bubbles should be gentle, causing the lentils to move only slightly while cooking
If necessary add water, to ensure that the lentils are always covered.When cooking is complete, drain the water.
 In a large bowl mix the rice and lentils to form an even mixture.
 Spread half of the rice and lentils across the bottom of the dish. Layer one of the sliced tomatoes on top of the rice. Ladle half of the meat mixture on top of the tomatoes. Repeat the process with the second half of the ingredients.
 Remember to use oven mitts when removing the dish from the oven to prevent burns.


Place the casserole on a trivet or hot pad to avoid burning the table.



Remember to place any leftovers in the fridge quickly after the meal to prevent bacterial growth.

