 The warm water will help unclog the pores and the face wash will help dissolve any dirt or oil. This will make the pimples easier to manage.


Consider using a face wash formulated for acne. Avoid anything alcohol-based, as it can dry out your skin and lead to breakouts.
Avoid using anything with exfoliants or alcohol, as this can irritate or dry out your skin. If your skin becomes too dry, your body will produce extra oils, which will lead to even more acne.;
, Use a soft towel, and gently pat your skin dry. Do not scrub your skin, or you might agitate the pimple.
 Dirty hands may transfer bacteria to your skin, which may result in more pimples and breakouts. Before you start applying the toothpaste, wash your hands well with soap and warm water.
 Not just any type of toothpaste will get rid of pimples. A plain, white toothpaste will be the most effective, but there are a few other things you should look for as well. Here are some things to get you started:


Choose a white-colored toothpaste.
Make sure that it is a paste, and not gel.
Consider getting a toothpaste that has baking soda, hydrogen peroxide, or menthol in it.
Consider getting a toothpaste that has a minty flavor. It may have a slight cooling effect on your skin.
 Some types of toothpaste may actually do more harm to your pimple than good, while others just won't be effective at all. Here are some things to avoid when searching for the right toothpaste:


Do not use a gel toothpaste, as the ingredients in it will not be as effective and might actually worsen the pimple.
Avoid anything that is colored or has a stripe through it, or has additives, such as cavity-fighting properties, whitening agents, or extra fluorides.
Consider getting a mint-flavored. It might have a cooling effect.
 Toothpaste may help dry the pimple out, but it can make your acne worse and irritate your skin.Before your start tackling those pimples with toothpaste, consider applying toothpaste on just one pimple in an inconspicuous area on your face.
 Use no more than a pea-sized amount.
 Make sure that you cover the entire pimple in a thin layer of toothpaste. Avoid getting any toothpaste on the skin around the pimple. Because toothpaste dries out pimples, it may also dry out your skin, which may lead to further irritation and breakouts.


If you have a lot of acne, consider using a doctor or pharmacist-prescribed ointment instead. You should never apply toothpaste to your entire face or use it as a face mask.
 How long you leave the toothpaste on the pimple will depend on your skin type and the size of the pimple. The general rule of thumb is 30 minutes, but if you have sensitive skin, then you may have to leave the toothpaste on for even less time. Here are some guidelines:


For sensitive skin and small pimples, leave the toothpaste on for 5 to 10 minutes.
For regular skin or large pimples, leave the toothpaste on for 30 to 60 minutes.
Consider leaving the toothpaste on overnight. Keep in mind, however, that this may irritate your skin, especially if you have sensitive skin. It may also get messy if you tend to move around a lot in your sleep.
 Do not use any soaps or facial cleansers. You can use just water or you can use a damp washcloth, but be careful not to rub the pimple too hard, or you will irritate the skin. The pimple should be smaller and less-inflamed.
 Do not use it every single day or several times a day. If you have severe acne, then consider using a cream made specifically for treating acne. Toothpaste does not replace medical treatment.
 Plan on drinking around eight glasses of water each day. Water helps flush out your system. A clean system leads to a clear complexion.
 Some types of food are more likely to cause pimples and acne to flare up, while other types are less likely. Here are the types of food you should avoid:Sweet and sugary foods, such as candy, cookies, and soda.
Processed foods, such as chips and fries.
Starchy foods, such as bread, pasta, and potatoes.
 Fruits and vegetables are not only good for your health, but also good for your complexion. Vitamin A is especially good when it comes to clear skin, and is found in fruits and vegetables such as cantaloupes, carrots, and sweet potatoes.Other healthy and vitamin-rich foods that help maintain a clear complexion include:Salmon may be fatty, but it is full of good fats, which help give your skin a healthy glow and keep those pores clear.
Avocado, artichoke, and broccoli are full of vitamins and antioxidants that help maintain your complexion and give your skin a healthy glow.
Brown rice, nuts, and whole grains are a great replacement for starchy foods, such as white bread and white rice. They are full of nutrients and vitamins, and help you feel full longer as well.
Garlic may be smelly, but it is full of antioxidants that not only fight off acne-causing bacteria, but also other viruses as well.
 If you work or spend a lot of time in an area that has a lot of dust (such as a warehouse) or a dust of grease (such as a kitchen in a restaurant), then you will have to clean your face often so that your pores don't get clogged up. Clogged pores lead to acne and pimples.
 Do not wash your face too often. Washing your face too often may cause your skin to dry out, which may lead to your body producing extra oils to make up for it. This will lead to more breakouts., If you must wear makeup over pimples, avoid anything that contains oils, and reach for some light-weight, oil-free products instead.In general, however, try to avoid wearing too much makeup over your pimples. The less you clog up your pores, the clearer your skin will look.


Consider using some concealer over your pimple. Be sure to blend it in properly and to set it with some setting powder.
Use green-tinted concealer with care. The green may reduce the redness of your pimple, but it may also make it appear more obvious under certain lights.If you wish to use a green-tinted concealer, put it over the pimple and blend in the edges. Follow with your regular foundation and concealer, and finish with some setting powder., If you wear makeup, be sure to wash it off with makeup remover before going to bed. If you go to sleep wearing makeup, you will clog your pores, which will lead to breakouts and more pimples. Also, make sure to clean your makeup brushes once a week using soap and water; this will prevent acne-causing bacteria from building up on your brushes., Picking and popping the pimples may flush out the pus that makes them so noticeable, but it won't get rid of the redness. Picking at your pimples may also lead to further irritation, scabbing, or even scarring. If you must touch your pimple, make sure that your hands are clean.
 Sometimes, toothpaste alone will not be enough to get rid of a pimple or severe acne. In these cases, consult your doctor or pharmacist and purchase some over-the-counter benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, or sulfur and resorcinolfrom your pharmacy.
 Natural remedies can help reduce the redness and swelling of a pimple. Here are some ideas:


Hold an ice cube against your pimple for a few minutes to reduce redness and swelling. You can use ice cubes made from water or green tea.Soak a cotton ball with a drop of tea tree oil or lavender and wipe it across your pimple. The oil will reduce redness and swelling.
Disinfect the pimple by wiping it with a cotton ball soaked with apple cider vinegar or lemon juice. If you use lemon juice on your pimple, do not go out into the sun; make sure to clean the lemon juice off before doing so.Purchase a cleansing clay or mud mask from a health and vitamin store.

