 The typical cause of car doors and car locks freezing shut is ice. When icing conditions are predicted — rain near the freezing point, freezing rain, freezing fog, or rain and snow — get your vehicle under cover. Another possible cause is frigid weather, which may cause locks and car doors to freeze without a lot of moisture causing the problem. Of course, not everyone has access to a covered parking space, heated garage, or the like.

Avoid locking your doors. If possible, keep doors unlocked. This will avoid the locking mechanism from locking into place. However, leaving the doors unlocked may allow the car to be entered by a thief. Do not leave any valuables in the vehicle if you plan on leaving it unlocked.
Place duct tape over your door lock to keep it from freezing.
If your car is parked outside, a car cover or tarp minimizes the amount of moisture from snow and rain that can reach the door parts and freeze.This is especially useful during an ice storm or other icing event.



 

;
, The rubber gasket, or seal, along the edge of the car door is the area that freezes, not the metal itself. Inspect the seal on each car door and around each window. Visit an auto parts store to purchase replacements if you notice tears or gaps where water could seep in.
 Clean the entire door frame to remove road debris and other detritus that can build up over time. Water can collect around the dirt and freeze the door shut once the temperatures drop.
 Rub oil or lubricant over the rubber seals with a paper towel. This will repel water, reducing the amount that enters the seal and freezes. There is some disagreement over which oil is best to use, but here are a few options:


A rubber conditioner or rubber care product are probably the safest options for long-term care.
Silicone spray lubricant can last several weeks per application, but it can damage foam rubber seals and should be kept away from paint.WD40, another light lubricating oil, or even nonstick cooking spray are easily available options, but repeated use can dry out or disintegrate the rubber.