 How your business will operate is paramount to success. Business plans are a way to track progress from start to finish, a way to understand the path you’re on and your business success. It also can be used to lure potential backers., A description of your company should be a way to identify the nuances and reasons – like your design skills or business connections – that will make you successful in the printing business. It should also be an overview of the target market and target audience., It should thoroughly investigate potential hindrances to opening a printing business in your area. Cover all your bases as best possible to reduce your risks and predict the potential industry problems.


Industry outlook – Break down the industry, growth rate and potential, and other trends for the printing industry. Find other printing companies in the area and how you’ll compare.
Identify your target market – Focus on which customers you’ll target without casting your net too wide. Determine if your potential customers’ needs are being met, where they live, and whether or not there are seasonal trends that may impact sales.
Identify your strategy. Based upon the competitive analysis, decide which areas are vulnerable, which customers can be obtained, and where you can succeed in the future.
 Ensure your costs are outweighed by your profitability. Include material and labor costs, benefits, overhead, taxes, insurance, and any other money being spent. Analyze the supply and demand of your prices as they relate to sales, and what other printing businesses are charging for their services., The executive summary is the final item you should write in your business plan. Since you’re at the beginning stages, you’ll have to rely more on your market research and personal abilities than financial background information of industry stalwarts.Your unique skill and knowledge will make up the majority of the executive summary.
 You’ll likely have to reach out to many others and ask for their support. Consider the items required for the business, like various paper stock, printing presses, ink, design software, and cutting equipment.


Get money from the government. Many grants and loans like the 7(a) General Small Business Loan, Microloan, and Real Estate Loans are possible. You’ll have to do some research to determine if you’ll be able to get money from multiple sources.Try to attract venture capitalists. If you have the right plan and pitch, venture capitalists are great funding sources. They’re looking for a sales pitch and profitable idea, so be prepared to wow them for their money and support. Use crowdfunding. Use one of the major sites like Kickstarter or Indiegogo and try to get the money from a variety of people. People will want to contribute to original, cool ideas, so find a way to separate yourself from similar businesses.
 The name should be succinct, descriptive, and creative. Create a name with which customers will want to do business.Unless you plan on a business name that is the same as your personal name, you also need to get with your state and register the company as a Doing Business As (DBA) name. The DBA, which is the public face to your business, is necessary or the name of your business will default to your actual name.Go even further by registering with your business name with a patent or trademark., Weigh your options between a proprietorship, a partnership, or an LLC. While proprietorships and partnerships may be the cheaper way to go, especially if you have more than one person shouldering the financial load, the tax advantages and protections of an LLC – for instance, taxes are applied to members at their individual rate rather than the business rate – may be worth exploring., Depending on the volume of business, and the amount of paper products, you may need to get a federal permit for oversized vehicles carrying your product. There may also be a variety of state licenses and permits to obtain.