 Laying out your budget before you start looking for venues will save you a lot of time and stress. Venues can be expensive, and knowing how much money you have to spend on one will help you narrow down your choices and make a better decision. Keep in mind that some venues may not be available for weddings during the fall because it’s considered off-season.When you’re doing your research, call some venues to see if they have any special discounts. Some venues will give you a deal when you book a wedding off-season with them.;
, This will affect which venues you look at during your search. Ask yourself what the fall weather is like in the region the wedding will be in. If there’s a chance of snow, consider having the wedding indoors or moving the date to earlier in the fall., Make sure they’re in your budget. The internet is a great resource for finding venues in your area, and you can read online reviews for different venues you’re interested in. When you’re looking at different venues for a fall wedding, ask yourself if the venue can accommodate all your guests and if it’s easily accessible in case of inclement weather., Once you’ve done your research and secured a venue, you’ll be ready to start planning the rest of your fall wedding. Reserve a venue further in advance to ensure you get the dates you want., If you’re planning an outdoor fall wedding, start checking the weather forecast a month before the wedding date. If there’s a chance of cold weather, make the necessary preparations in advance so you’re not stressed out on the big day., With the right presentation, you can turn basic fall staples like pumpkin pie and squash into elegant appetizers and dishes for your fall wedding.


Instead of serving salad, try serving a fall-time soup like butternut squash soup. This will keep guests warm and happy, especially if you’re having an outdoor fall wedding.
Opt for darker meats like lamb or pork instead of chicken and fish for your entree. Serve the dish with a traditional fall side like mashed potatoes or glazed vegetables., Flavors like cinnamon, nutmeg, and pumpkin are fall favorites, and there are a variety of ways you can incorporate these flavors into cocktails to make fall-themed drinks. If you’re not serving alcohol at your wedding or you want a non-alcoholic drink option for guests, offer apple cider or ask the bartender to make some cocktails without alcohol.

If you plan on serving champagne at your wedding, add some pomegranate seeds to each glass to give them a fall touch.Hot toddies make a great fall wedding cocktail. You just need bourbon, honey, lemon juice, and hot water. Add a cinnamon stick for a fall-themed garnish.If you’re serving punch, add berries and cinnamon to give it a fall taste., Order a cake with fall colors like orange, red, and yellow. Ask if the bakery can add decorative leaves or fall flowers like mums made out of frosting. If you’re not serving cake or you want to offer guests more options, serve pumpkin pie and caramel apples., Finding flowers for a fall wedding can be a challenge because most popular wedding flowers are out of season during the fall. Find flowers that are in bloom in the fall that will also match your theme.


Mums, asters, and astilbe flowers are great flowers for decorating a fall wedding.Any flowers with red, orange, or yellow hues will go well with a fall theme.Don’t feel limited to using just flowers. Incorporating plants like ferns, lamb’s ear, or berry plants is a great way to work around the limited fall flower selection, and they’ll make your centerpieces pop., Nothing says fall more than pumpkins and gourds, and they’re cheap, so using them to decorate will help you save on your budget. Place them next to your centerpieces or use them to decorate the bar. Spray paint them gold or silver and place them around your wedding venue for an easy elegant decoration., Use tablecloths and napkins that are fall colors like red, orange, and yellow. If you’re having round tables, place artificial fall leaves around your centerpieces. If you’re having banquet-style tables, have a line of artificial fall leaves running down the center. Decorate each plate with a small fall-themed ornament like a crabapple or a gourd., If you’re planning an outdoor fall wedding, an elegant wedding tent will help keep guests warm. Ask the company you’re renting from if they offer tents with sides so your guests will be sheltered from any inclement weather., Rugs are a great accent to an outdoor fall wedding, and they’ll cover the fallen leaves on the ground which might get cold, wet, and slippery from snow or rain., If you’re planning an outdoor wedding and there’s a chance it will be cold, rent some portable space heaters in advance so you have them just in case. Strategically place them throughout the venue in the locations guests will be gathering., Print them on leaf-shaped paper or tie an actual fall leaf to the invitation with a red, orange, or yellow ribbon. Send them out in fall-colored envelopes., If you’re planning an outdoor fall wedding, know the weather forecast before selecting a dress. If the weather is going to be cold, choose a long-sleeve dress or prepare to have a jacket on hand for the reception.
 Look for dresses made of satin or silk, and avoid dresses in summer colors like bright pink or sky blue. Instead, opt for earth tone or light jewel tone dresses. If the weather is going to be cold and you’re having an outdoor wedding, keep that in mind when you’re doing your shopping., Textured suit jackets and pants are popular for fall weddings. If you want a unique look that goes with the wedding’s fall theme, opt for a brown or gray suit instead of the more traditional black tuxedo. If you’re planning an outdoor wedding and it’s going to be cold, have the groomsmen wear cardigans or sweaters over nice button-ups with ties.