 Meet with your child’s teacher to discuss a variety of topics with the teacher. These include effective rewards and consequences, effective homework routines, how you and the teacher will communicate on a regular basis about problems and successes, how you can mirror what the teacher is doing in the classroom for greater consistency, and so on. For some students, success will be obtained relatively easily by establishing consistent schedules, routines, and homework communication methods as well as utilizing effective organizational tools such as planners, color-coded binders, and checklists.
 Organization and consistent routines will save the day when it comes to homework, and it’s a good idea to coordinate with teachers whenever possible. Does the teacher provide a daily homework list or does the school promote the use of planners? If not, buy a planner that has plenty of space to write daily notes and show your child how to use it.

If the teacher(s) can’t or won’t commit to initialing the planner every day, ask the teacher to help find a responsible student—a homework buddy —to check the planner before dismissal each afternoon.
 Every day the planner comes home, make sure to give your child praise. Then make sure the planner back into the backpack every morning before school. Arrange for the homework buddy to give morning reminders to turn in the homework, too., Homework should be completed at the same time and same place every day. Have plenty of supplies on hand, organized in bins if you have the space.

Be sure homework doesn’t start the second your child walks in the door. Let him get rid of excess energy rising a bike or climbing trees for 20 minutes, or let him chatter and get that excess talking out of his system before telling him to do seatwork.
 Show how you would organize the work and recommend ways to prioritize the assignments. Chunk big projects and set deadlines for individual stages to be completed., Provide a brain-food snack such as peanuts as you review the assignments.
 Many children with ADHD have trouble keeping track of their belongings and struggle deciding or remembering which books to bring home each night—let alone remembering to take them back to school the next day.

Some teachers will allow students to have a “home set” of textbooks. This might be a recommendation for inclusion on an IEP as well.
 You need to provide documentation of your child’s ADHD diagnosis. Then you need to complete a special education evaluation that shows the child’s disability is interfering with his education. The school will then ask you to participate in an IEP conference. An IEP is a formalized document created by school staff and parents that spells out the academic, behavioral, and social goals of special-ed students, how results will be determined, specific interventions that will be used to achieve the goals, and so on. It lists decisions made concerning self-contained classrooms, percentage of time in mainstream classrooms, accommodations, discipline, testing, and more.

Be sure that the IEP is specific to your child and that your input is included in the form. Do not sign a completed IEP until you have reviewed it and added your input. The school is legally bound to follow the guidelines laid down in the IEP. Teachers who fail to follow the IEP can be held liable.
The school is also required to invite parents to regular IEP conferences to evaluate the progress of the child and the effectiveness of the plan. Then adjustments can be made as needed.
Once a child has an initial IEP, it becomes easier to establish special education services when changing schools or transferring to a new school district.
 Unfortunately, even with outstanding cooperation and effort by the adults, many children still will not succeed. They may require more intensive services available through the school or district special education department. In some cases, rigid teaching methods by inflexible teachers are the issue and parents must seek administrative support or look into changing teachers, changing schools, or exploring special education options. Choose the best paths for your circumstance to ensure maximum success for your child.