 Any time you're out in the world, you have a chance to build a connection with someone in the music industry. You can start small, by following producers or artists online, and work your way to meeting them in person at concerts, small venues, or even social events (as long as you've been invited). Don't force it; just take the time to grow as an artist and to get to know as many people in the industry as you can.


Always be friendly and polite. You never know who could end up helping you.
Build relationships with fans as well. If a fan wants to interview you in-person or even online, say yes. This will help get your name out there, even if it's only to a few people.
 The press kit should generate interest in you as an artist and a musician. It contains you or your band's biography, fact sheet, or brochure, promotional photos, any positive press your music has received, three song demos, and contact information. Here are some things to keep in mind as you put your press kit together:Limit the amount of background information. Don't wear out your audience.
Keep the fact sheet basic. Provide information about your hometown, the names of your band members and the instruments they play, album release information, touring dates, recording studio, producers, and contact information for your management.
Your demo CD should be of high quality and professionally made -- do not burn a CD at home. Remember that you have 30 seconds at most to grab the listener's attention so make it count.
Include a gig sheet with information about future and past gigs. This will show that you have growing popularity and that you are a great investment.
Include a few professional 8 x 10 photos that are appropriate while showing what makes you special.
 A manager is a person who will advise you and your band in every aspect of your career. You should find a manager who has worked with other artists successfully and who has many connections in the music industry and a solid reputation to boot. Use a music industry print directory to reach out to a manager, and ask any connections in the music industry if they have any recommendations.Don't send along an unsolicited press kit. Instead, get in touch with a manager to see if you can send along your material. If it doesn't work out, you'll still make a connection in the process.
 Concerts are a great way to promote your music and to connect with your fans. Whether you're opening for Green Day or playing on a tiny stage at a local bar, use the concert to sell your brand and to sing your heart out. Take the time to connect with fans before and after the concert.


Fans love free stuff. Use your concert as an opportunity to give out free t-shirts, merchandise with your band's name on it, singles, and anything else that can help get the word out there.
If other bands are performing at the concert, talk to them to build more connections. Complement their work and if you hit it off, ask if they'd mind promoting your music.

