 You save money on gas, and also save wear and tear on your vehicle. And you might save parking charges and/or cab, bus or subway fares. All you need are comfortable shoes (take your dressier shoes with you if necessary) and walk, walk, walk. Pick up the pace as you get fitter to make those short journeys even quicker and smile at all the traffic traveling bumper to bumper in the rush hour. If there’s nowhere suitable to walk in your area try mall walking (but don’t get tempted to buy stuff!)


Make use of what you can find locally and save travel costs too. You can walk in local beauty spots such as hills and beaches - you’ll often find nature trails already marked out for you.;
, If you have a little further to go and access to a bike, try cycling - it’s a great way to get about - just make sure you have all the safety gear you need and take care on the road. Of course, if you have to buy a bike and safety gear, this one isn’t free for you, but how many of us have these things at home and rarely use them? If you use a bike instead of forking out for transport costs, then you might find this way of getting fit actually works out as better than free - it will save you money.


Worth considering: How to Commute By Bicycle

If you ride your bike to the grocery store: How to Build a Bicycle Cargo Trailer


, If you already have good running shoes you can start a running program, train for a race or marathon. If you don’t have (or can’t afford) good shoes, give this one a miss as you’ll damage your joints running without them.
 Take the kids to run around in the park (or a game of football or baseball) and JOIN IN instead of watching them. If you don’t have any kids, then you probably know a parent or two who would welcome a break while you take their kids to run off steam. Flying a kite is great fun too and good exercise especially if you climb a hill to reach the best spot. Then there are obstacle courses, den building, apple bobbing, leapfrog, puddle jumping, treasure hunts and welly wanging.
 Take the dog out for exercise twice a day and run about too, instead of just throwing a ball to fetch. If you don’t have a dog, offer to walk your neighbor’s dog for free. Who knew Fido could offer all these opportunities for exercise?

, Use the bottom stair of a flight of stairs in your house as a step and step up and down to music. Or run up and down the whole flight. You can try this in an apartment or office building too (as long as your neighbors/coworkers don’t mind).
 If you’re already a member of a subscription DVD club, you can always choose a fitness DVD as one of your selections and change it each month when you get bored with it.
, Play music and dance the night (or day) away. You can try out your best moves with nobody watching and pretend you’re Madonna. Look up instructional videos on the web for various, upbeat ballroom dances like salsa and swing.
 Clean your place from top to bottom once a week for a vigorous workout. In fact, you can burn 50,000 calories a year (that’s 14lbs of fat) just from cleaning up!, If you have a yard, get your garden in shape while you get in shape yourself.


How to Double Dig a Garden
How to Dig Post Holes
How to Construct a Raised Planting Bed

, Join a conservation project where there are usually plenty of activities to get involved in such as cleaning beaches, clearing overgrown beauty spots, planting trees, building walls, etc. Or join a volunteer project for a disadvantaged group where there’s always something to be done. It's a great way of making friends, too.
 Sex burns about 4 calories a minute and promotes healthif you do it safely.

