 With any GI disorder or condition, starting a food journal can be helpful. You can record what foods you eat, the timing of foods and any symptoms you experience.


A food and symptom journal can help you or a doctor or dietitian make connections between specific foods or combinations of foods that cause symptoms.
To get accurate results, try to be as specific as you can with your food journal. Note the brands of items, portion sizes and each ingredient in mixed foods.
Also note what symptoms you experience, how long you experienced them, the severity and the time between the onset of symptoms and your last meal.
Keep your food and symptom journal up-to-date. Ideally journal at least 2 weeks of meals and show to your doctor or dietitian for further evaluation.;
, Many studies have shown that a high fiber diet has a large variety of benefits to your overall health and GI system.Even with a vague condition like leaky gut, eating adequate fiber can help keep your GI system functioning properly.


The benefits of fiber are widespread and include: normalizing bowel movements, decreases your risk for bowel diseases like diverticulitis or hemorrhoids, lowers cholesterol levels, maintains stable blood sugar levels, and can support healthy weight loss.Recent studies have also shown that fiber can help change the environment of your gut by increasing the amount of beneficial or "good" bacteria. This can positively affect your susceptibility to many chronic diseases including diabetes, colon cancer and autoimmune diseases.Include a wide variety of high fiber foods daily to help reach your minimum recommended intake. Women should consume about 25 g daily and men should consume about 38 g of fiber per day.High fiber foods include: 100% whole grains (like brown rice, quinoa or whole wheat pasta), fruits, vegetables, beans, lentils and seeds.
 Omega-3 fatty acids are heart healthy fats that can improve your digestive health.You can include them through foods or by taking a dietary supplement.


Omega 3 fats are a specific type of fatty acid that has been linked to a variety of health benefits. Recent studies have shown omega-3 fats positively impact the beneficial bacteria in your gut and may reduce your risk for GI diseases.In addition, these fats can fight inflammation, so it may help soothe the inflammation already present in your stomach and intestines.If you do not enjoy foods that are high in omega-3 fats, try taking supplements. Fish oil or flaxseed oil supplements are an easy way to get a daily dose of omega-3. Follow the label instructions to determine the best amount for your system.
Alternatively, you can obtain omega-3 naturally by eating fatty fish, like salmon, tuna or mackerel. You can also try fats like olive oil, nuts and seeds and avocados.
 Your GI system is the home to billions of different bacteria. Studies have shown that when "good" or beneficial bacteria dominate your GI system, you have reduced risk of many GI diseases and conditions.Studies have been done on both pre and probiotics and their effects on the health of the GI system. Most studies show that these types of "good bacteria" can improve the health and integrity of your gut.Probiotics are good bacteria that are added to or are formed naturally in some foods.Yogurt, kefir fermented vegetables (like pickles or kimchi), preserved fruits, and chutneys are beneficial examples of probiotics.
Probiotics can also be taken in supplemental form. Take a dose between 5 and 10 billion units a day.
 Adding foods that contain higher amounts of prebiotics while consuming foods that are fortified with probiotics can improve your gut health.


Prebiotics act as a food source for the probiotic bacteria. They are found in foods that contain indigestible carbohydrates and provide a great energy source for those good bacteria.
Include foods like: onions, garlic, bananas, honey, whole grains and artichokes., Dehydration can make it difficult for your intestines to pass waste products, causing further inflammation and increased susceptibility to other GI conditions.Maintain adequate hydration to help prevent these side effects.


Drink at least 8 glasses of water daily. However, if you have GI issues, are prone to constipation or have leaky gut syndrome, increase your water intake up to 13 glasses daily.Even though many other drinks will help hydrate you, water is the best source, especially while trying to heal yourself. Stick with plain water, flavored water or decaf coffee and tea.
Drinks that contain alcohol and caffeine should be avoided, along with those that contain high concentrations of sugar.
 Studies have shown that people that consume higher levels of refined and added sugars are more likely to have Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis.Although there hasn't been a direct correlation between sugar and these autoimmune diseases, there is a connection between the two.
Avoid foods (as much as possible) that contain "high fructose corn syrup" or "corn syrup." Those are the most common processed sugars. Refined and added sugars are highly processed, contain little to no nutritional value and are added to a variety foods during their processing.Foods that have high levels of refined and added sugars include: sweetened beverages (sodas, coffee drinks or fruit juice cocktails), cookies, cakes, candy, ice cream, pastries and other baked goods.
Limit these foods as much as possible. If you're trying to figure out a specific diagnosis or decrease symptoms, it's advised to eliminate these foods completely.
 Vitamin D is hard to find in foods, but is a very important nutrient for a variety of bodily processes including decreasing inflammation.Vitamin D is essential for bone health, immune health but also has been shown to increase the integrity of the gut and calm or soothe inflammation in your GI system.Since dietary sources of Vitamin D are scarce, its recommended to take a supplement instead. You'll need to talk to your doctor or registered dietitian prior to starting a supplement as high levels of Vitamin D are toxic.
 If you're experience chronic GI symptoms or even a sudden onset of GI symptoms, call your doctor and follow up regularly. It's important to manage these symptoms or be treated for an accurate diagnosis.


If you have not been to a GI specialist, consider making an appointment for a consult. Discuss your symptoms, their severity, how long you've been experiencing them and any other information you can provide.
Also bring your food and symptom journal. This can help your doctor judge whether or not your condition has been caused by or worsened by specific foods.
Take all medications and instructions provided by your doctor. Follow them exactly and make sure to go back in to see your doctor on a regular basis.
 Smoking cigarettes has been connected to a variety of negative side effects. In addition, smoking has been linked to a variety of GI issues.


Although smoking hasn't been linked to leaky gut specifically, smoking has been linked to the following GI issues: cancer of the mouth, esophagus, stomach, colon, liver and pancreas, GERD, peptic ulcers, liver disease, Crohn's disease, colon polyps, pancreatitis and gallstones.Quit smoking as soon as possible. If you can, try to quit cold turkey. This will immediately stop the intake of unhealthy toxins into your system.
If you're unable to quit alone or cold turkey, see your primary care physician for help. She may be able to prescribe you some medication or refer you to a smoking cessation program.
 High levels of stress can increase your susceptibility of GI disorders like leaky gut or worsen symptoms that are already present.Managing stress can reduce your risk for exacerbated symptoms.


Think about the things in your daily routine the cause stress in your life. It could a busy work schedule, long commutes, busy family life or aggravating co-workers or friends.
Try adding in some relaxing and de-stressing activities each day or several times a week. Some activities can help relieve stress quickly. Try: meditating, doing yoga, going for a walk, talking to a friend or listening to music.
If you notice your stress levels are having a significant effect on your health, consider seeing a behavioral health specialist or life coach. They may be able to guide you toward a more stress-free life.
 Antibiotics and some over-the-counter medications can be helpful to a variety of conditions, but if you struggle with a leaky gut these medications may worsen your condition.Non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are known GI irritants and can irritate the stomach when taken on a regular basis.Avoid using them as you strive to heal your GI system and pinpoint a diagnosis.
Also, consider speaking to your doctor about other pain management methods. Many people rely heavily on NSAIDs like ibuprofen and aspirin for regular pain relief (as with conditions like arthritis). Ask about other options to help decrease stomach and GI irritation.
Antibiotics can be hard on your digestive system, as well, but you should always talk to your doctor before stopping the use of a prescribed antibiotic.
 Your body's natural healing processes are strongest while your body rests during sleep. Try to get a full 7-9 hours of sleep each night, especially during your initial recovery stage.


Inadequate sleep can cause increased inflammation in your body. The increased inflammation has been linked to a variety of GI disorders including inflammatory bowel disease, cancer, GERD and liver disorders.Aim for a minimum of 7-9 hours of sleep each night. You might need to go to bed earlier or wake up later to help increase your sleeping time.Also aim to get a sound sleep. Turn off lights, phones, TVs or computers. These can impair the quality of your sleep.

