 Shampoo strips your scalp of its natural, nourishing oils. These oils are essential to the health of your locks. Decreasing the number of times you shampoo, will increase the presence of these natural oils. Apply a quarter sized amount of the product directly to your scalp 2 to 3 times per week. Massage the shampoo into a lather and rinse thoroughly., Conditioners moisturize your hair. In addition to hydrating your locks, these products produce a shinier, healthier mane that is less prone to breakage and damage. While you should always follow a shampoo with a conditioner, the number of times you condition your hair each week depends upon your hair type.If you have bleached, color treated, or excessively dry hair, apply conditioner daily.
If your hair is medium to thick, use a light conditioner every day.
If you have fine hair, apply a pre-shampoo botanical oil treatment and then wash with a clarifying shampoo. You may also choose to apply conditioner from the middle to the end of the hair shaft.If your hair is excessively dry, skip the shampoo entirely and just condition it instead. This is known as “co-washing” or “no-pooing.” When co-washing, select a cleansing conditioner specifically formulated for no-pooing., Deep conditioners will improve the look and feel of dry or damaged hair. There are two types of deep conditioning treatments, a moisturizing treatment and a protein-based treatment.


Before stepping out of the shower, rinse your hair with hot water.
Squeeze out excess water.
Apply the product to your damp hair. Start at the ends of your hair and work your way up the shaft. Avoid applying the product to your scalp.
When your hair is saturated, cover your head with a plastic cap. Activate the product with a heated plastic cap, a blow-dryer set on low, or a hood dryer set on low. Apply heat for 10 to 30 minutes. Remove the cap and rinse your hair in cold water to close the cuticles., Avoid rubbing your wet hair with a towel at all costs—this leads to frizz and split ends. Instead, wrap a towel around your hair and squeeze the excess water from your locks.When possible, leave the blow-dryer in the drawer and air dry your tresses. Use a wide tooth comb or your fingers to detangle your locks.Never use a brush to detangle your wet hair.

