 You might find it easiest to look online first. Check out Pinterest and other image aggregator sites to see what is available (search for terms such as bathing suit, swimsuit, togs, etc.). Look at swimwear stores online too. This will give you a good idea of what's out there to start with.


Are there special terms for the style you like? If so, learn them so that you can be informed when you go shopping for real.;
, Look for stores near you that have a good selection. Ask friends or even people in your online social circles for suggestions of where to look.


Go by yourself. Having someone with you can be distracting and even embarrassing.
 Try them on to see what size you are and what looks good and feels comfortable. Stretch around in front of the mirror to see if the suit moves in ways that you want it to; no good having it slip up and end up too revealing when you are active. And even if you don't find anything you like, that's good too, as it's telling you which styles to avoid from now on.


Keep all of your underwear on when trying on bathing suits.
 If you love the freedom of movement while being adequately covered up, the easiest bathing suit to get used to is the tankini. There are lots of variations - simple black tanks, halter necks with embellishments and such. Don't be afraid of trying on different things that may or may not look great on you - there's no one there to judge you!

, This combination isn't quite a swimsuit but gives you a lot of comfort. You can also purchase a pair of board shorts if you want your legs to be covered more.


You can even wear gym shorts with a wifebeater (singlet top). Don't forget to wear something under white tops, as they often become see-through when wet.
Another option is wearing a bikini top with football/board shorts.
To look more tomboyish, wear waterproof/board shorts over a bathing suit. Make sure to wear something under because if you are doing watersports or diving they could come off. Make sure they fit.
 If you haven't tried one before, you may find this a comfortable option. Give it a go, even if it looks girly––you can always choose darker colors and no prints once you've determined the right shape.


A baggy shirt or top can always be slipped over a one-piece. Or, add shorts and just let the one-piece top show.
 After you've determined a few of your favorite bathing suits, you might like to come back with a close friend or family member you trust, and ask for their opinion. The main thing, however, is that you like it and feel good in it.
 Done. Now you're all set to buy.

