 You will have one year from the time when you complete the course to apply.


Most courses cost about $100-$125. You can find information on state-approved civil process training courses, and how to register for one, on the Texas Judicial Branch Certification Commission website. Some of the organizations that offer approved courses include The Texas Process Servers Association, The Texas Association of Licensed Investigators, The Process Servers Network of Texas, The Regional Process Server’s Academy, and The Houston Young Lawyer’s Association.;
, Civil process service courses include a minimum of seven hours of instruction, held over one or more days. The courses provide instruction on:


Laws and regulations relevant to civil process serving
The historical development of the law
Practical service and return of service
Exposure to criminal liability
Special issues (such as family law)
As part of your training, you will also familiarize yourself with the Texas statutes regulating legal process servers, and the Texas Code of Conduct for Legal Process Servers., You can request a criminal history evaluation letter before taking your course if you would like to know in advance if this will pose an obstacle.You can schedule an appointment with FAST by visiting their website or calling 1-888-467-2080.Download a copy of the FAST application from the Texas Judicial Branch’s website. You will need to bring this form and state-issued identification with you to your appointment.You must be fingerprinted no more than 90 days before submitting your Application for Certification.
The fee for fingerprinting is $9.95, and the fee for a state and national (FBI) criminal background check is $31.50. You can pay these fees online with a credit card or in person with a check or money order payable to MorphoTrust.
The fingerprinting record and results of your background check will be sent directly to the Texas Judicial Branch.
), as well as the contact details you would like to be made publicly available when you are listed as a legal process server. In addition, you will sign to declare that you have completed the necessary training and background check, and that all information on the application is correct.


You can access the application form online, by fax (512-463-1117), by email (processservers@txcourts.gov), or by regular mail (Texas Judicial Branch, PO Box 12066, Austin, TX 78711-2066.The fee for a first-time applicant is $225. You can pay the fee by check, money order, or cashier’s check. Make checks payable to “The Office of Court Administration.”
Once your application is filled out, mail it along with your application fee to one of the following addresses: 1) PO Box 12066, Austin, TX 78711-2066, or 2) 205 W. 14th St., Ste. 600, Austin, TX 78701.
 It will take approximately 30 days to process your Application for Certification.If it is approved, you will receive a certification card, and will be included in the list of certified legal process servers on the website of the Texas Judicial Branch.
 There are programs in place that provide new process servers with the opportunity to see service procedures in action by accompanying experienced process servers. While it is not a required part of the certification process in Texas, a ride-along program can provide valuable practical insight and experience.


You can find a list of process servers who have signed up to serve as ride-along volunteers on the Texas Process Servers Association’s website.
 Some process servers work for law firms, but many of these positions have been outsourced to companies that provide legal support services. Some national firms that offer legal support services hire process servers as independent contractors around the country so they can provide complete coverage for their clients. Your legal process server education course may include practical information about networking and local job opportunities.
 Since many legal process servers work for themselves, consider starting your own legal process service firm. Local law firms may be particularly interested to work with local process servers rather than large national services.


The Texas Office of Economic Development and Tourism provides incentives for starting a small business in the state.Some process servers choose to become notaries to provide additional complementary services to clients., Since most process servers are either independent contractors or small business owners, you can set your own prices for process service based on prevailing fees in your local area.


Pricing is usually based on the service area: in metropolitan areas, it may begin around $65 per service, with prices going up incrementally for service in outlying areas.Rush orders typically have higher prices.Legal process servers may also charge a per-hour "sitting" or waiting fee if they have to stake out the intended recipient of the legal document (perhaps $50 per hour), as well as a fee for mileage costs (such as $0.75 per mile) incurred in a delivery., Professional legal associations relevant to legal process servers can help with networking and employment, as well as continuing education and professional practices. In Texas, legal process servers can join groups including:


The Texas Process Servers AssociationThe Texas Association of Licensed Investigators, Certification as a legal process server in Texas is good for three years, after which time you must renew your certification.Your certification will expire three years after the last day of the month in which it was approved.


If your certification expires before you renew it, your name will be removed from the list of certified process servers.
 As of September 1, 2014, civil process servers are required to complete 12 hours of approved continuing education courses for their second and subsequent renewals.,


Schedule an appointment with FAST by visiting their website or calling 1-888-467-2080.You will need to bring your FAST application form and state-issued identification with you to your appointment.
You can find a copy of the FAST application on the Texas Judicial Branch’s website.You must be fingerprinted no more than 90 days before submitting your Application for Certification.
The fee for fingerprinting is $9.95, and the fee for a state and national (FBI) criminal background check is $31.50. You can pay these fees online with a credit card or in person with a check or money order payable to MorphoTrust.
The fingerprinting record and results of your background check will be sent directly to the Texas Judicial Branch.
), as well as the contact details you would like to appear on the list of legal process servers. In addition, you will sign to declare that you have completed the necessary training and background check, and that all information on the application is correct.


Plan to apply for renewal at least 45 days before your current certification is set to expire.
You can access the application form online.You can also request a copy of the Application for Renewal of Certification by fax (512-463-1117), email (processservers@txcourts.gov), or mail (Texas Judicial Branch, PO Box 12066, Austin, TX 78711-2066.
The fee for a renewal applicant is $225. You can pay the fee by check, money order, or cashier’s check. Make checks payable to “The Office of Court Administration.”
You may renew your certification after it expires, but in this case you must include a fee of $335 (instead of the usual $225) with your Application for Renewal of Certification.Once your application is filled out, mail it along with your application fee to one of the following addresses: 1) PO Box 12066, Austin, TX 78711-2066, or 2) 205 W. 14th St., Ste. 600, Austin, TX 78701.

