 If you’re uncomfortable peeing in public one easy way to at least trick yourself into believing you’re alone is to keep an empty stall or urinal between yourself and any other bathroom users.If you’re uncomfortable peeing in front of your partner, this may simply mean that you close the door while your in the bathroom, or wait until your partner is in another part of your home.;
, Sometimes the thing that bothers people most is the sound of peeing. But if you aren’t able to hear your own peeing, you might not be so embarrassed. When in a public washroom, put your headphones on and listen to some music. Turn it up loud enough so you can’t hear anything else going on in the washroom.Consider putting a radio or Bluetooth speaker in the bathroom at home. Make it a habit of turning it on whenever you go into the bathroom. The music will help distract you from the sound of your peeing and possibly prevent your partner from hearing it.
 When some people walk into a public washroom they sometimes continue to have conversations. This tends to continue more often when men pee at urinals. If you’d prefer to do your business in private, use a stall instead of a urinal.The opposite might be possible if you’re at home with your partner. Continuing your conversation while you go to the bathroom might make the whole process seem for comfortable and ‘normal’.
 If you’re at work or a restaurant and can wait to go to the washroom, watch the bathroom door until you’re certain no one is in there and then go to the washroom. Even if it’s a public washroom you might feel more comfortable if no one else is in there. If necessary, walk out of the washroom and come back later if it’s occupied.If you don’t want to wait and come back later, take your time adjusting your clothes or make-up in the mirror, or washing your hands, until the washroom is empty.
 Many large event locations (e.g. arenas, stadiums, conference centres, malls, etc.) have maps of their buildings online that include the location of the washrooms. And some cities even have maps of all public washrooms available in city buildings, parks, etc. Before going out, research where the public washrooms are so you can be proactive about using them rather than waiting for it to be an emergency.You can also keep track of the public washrooms you use and always go back to your favourites. Some washrooms that are easier to use are those that have partitions all the way to the floor, or are single person washrooms.
 While not the most environmentally-friendly option, if you’re nervous about the sound of your peeing in a public washroom, flush the toilet while you’re going. The sound of the flush will usually drown out the sound of the peeing.Alternatively, wait until someone else has flushed a toilet or is running a tap to wash their hands.

