 Set yourself a goal for each practice session. Write down what you want to accomplish with the practice session beforehand. Keep notes on your progress in a practice log.Dedicate your practice session to achieving your goal rather than adhering to a specific amount of practice time.For example, instead of following a rule of practicing for 30 minutes, focus on achieving your musical goal for the day, whether it takes 12 minutes or 40 minutes.
An example of a goal you might set would be: “This practice session I will memorize four lines of this sheet music.”
When you accomplish goals, reward yourself. Your brain reacts to reward systems with a “habit loop” – meaning when you receive a reward for a task, your brain is inclined to repeat the successful behavior.;
, If your instrument is moveable, change the physical location where you practice. For example, if you usually practice your instrument in the dining room, try practicing in the bedroom instead – perhaps with a window view. Weather permitting, you may even be able to practice outside! Just remember to tune your instrument whenever you change rooms.If your instrument is not easily moveable, such as a piano, you may consider getting a portable version of your instrument (such as a keyboard) so that you can vary your practice location from time to time.
Move any practice accessories with you to the new location, or have duplicates of them. For instance, bring with you a music stand, a pencil, a pencil sharpener, a clean eraser, and any instrument-specific supplies such as guitar picks or reeds. Always have your supplies on-hand, wherever you practice., Individuals are psychologically wired to practice different amounts and in different ways.If you’ve been abiding by a rigid practice schedule, try abandoning it – at least temporarily. Sometimes teachers or parents encourage you to box yourself into a practice timetable that makes you feel restricted rather than inspired. Prove to yourself and others that your creative energy is enough to lead you by ditching your set practicing times and playing when you feel the impulse instead.Schedule days that are “practice-free zones,” when you are not obligated to practice unless you feel the urge to do so.
If you don’t have a practice schedule, you should implement one. Dedicate a certain time of the day to practicing your instrument., When you need to practice, plan a “force field” of sorts as a way of shutting out distractions. It could be a sign, a t-shirt, or a note stuck to your door. Let everyone else know that you’re not to be disturbed while you’re practicing.Have a designated, quiet practice area ready when you need it.Ask others to leave you alone when you practice, at least for a couple of weeks. Try saying, "I want to find out whether I have more motivation and better results alone or with an audience. Would you mind making sure I'm undisturbed during practice for the next two weeks, to see how it goes?"
If your parents, family or roommates don’t interrupt and are silent when you’re practice, it may be fine for them to be in the room.
 Think of each upcoming lesson and event as a deadline you must prepare for ahead of time.For instance, if you know that you have a concert in 10 days, and you practice 27 hours beforehand (an average of 3 hours per day), you could impress your teacher or friends and maybe even move up chairs in orchestra.Lessons are meant for learning and working on new material. The more you prepare beforehand, the more you will be able to address new concepts during your lessons.

