 Tap the . . . button at the bottom of the screen. The "block" tab on the left is selected by default. This shows you a list of all the items you have in your inventory.
 The bookshelf tab on the left takes you to the crafting interface. This shows you a list of all recipes you can craft with the items currently in your inventory.


If you don't see any recipes, try chopping down some wood, then opening your crafting screen again.
The number next to each recipe tells you how many times you can craft it with your current items. If a recipe is greyed out and has no number, you have all the ingredients, but not enough of them.
 Select the item you want to craft on the crafting screen. When you select it, the grid on the right will fill up with the items the recipe requires. To transform these items into something new, tap the button underneath the grid, next to the name of the item you are making.


For example, if wood is in your inventory, the planks recipe (a wooden cube icon) should appear in your crafting screen. Select it, and you'll see one wooden log in the grid on the right. Tap the button underneath "Planks" to turn this log into four planks.
The game has several types of wood, so the button will actually say something like "Oak Planks" or "Spruce Planks." Different wood types look different, but they all work the same way in recipes., Only a small number of recipes are available from your inventory crafting screen. To access more recipes, you need a crafting table. Make sure you have four planks in your inventory, then make the crafting table recipe. This looked like a wooden cube with a grid on top.
 Before you can use the crafting table, you'll need to put it down somewhere. You might have already figured out how to place blocks. If not, here's how:


Tap the block tab in your inventory to return to your items.
Tap the crafting table, then tap one of the hotbar slots at the bottom of the screen.
Close the inventory by tapping X.
Tap the crafting table in your hotbar, then tap a nearby, flat, solid block to put down the table.
 Just touch the crafting table while standing next to it to bring up the full crafting screen. This works exactly like the one in your inventory, but there are many more recipes available.
 The crafting screen only shows you recipes made from items you have in your inventory. To find more recipes, fill your inventory with different kinds of blocks, plus items that drop from animals and monsters. Here are a few items to gather first:


Use wood to make planks, and planks to make sticks.
Combine planks and sticks to make various tools. One of the most useful is the wooden pickaxe, which lets you mine stone blocks for cobblestone.
With cobblestone, planks, and sticks, you can make stone tools. A stone axe, pickaxe, and sword are all very useful recipes to craft early on.
Use your pickaxe to mine new blocks like coal or iron ore to discover more useful recipes. You'll need to craft a furnace out of cobblestone to melt some ores into useful metals.

