 There are a lot of structures out there, ranging from the basic 3-Act movie to the common "hero's journey." But they can all be distilled into 5 basic parts that are found in 99% of all movies, from action and drama to rom-coms and children's films. Take your idea and come up with these 5 crucial points and you will have a movie that stands a chance of getting made.



The Set-Up: Give the characters, the setting, and the world. This is the first 10% or less of your movie, and it introduces us to the movie. It should not be longer than 10 pages.

In Star Wars, George Lucas introduces the premise of space warfare, the conflict ("Help me Obi-Wan, you're my only hope"), and many central characters (Luke, Leah, Darth Vader, R2-D2, and C3-P0).



The Change of Plans/Opportunity/Conflict: Something happens that sets your conflict in motion on page 9-10 -- Erin Brockovich gets a job, the school of Superbad throws a party, Neo is introduced to The Matrix, etc. The next 10-20 pages show your characters dealing with this change.

In Star Wars, this is when Luke turns down Obi-Wan, but sees that his family has been killed. He agrees to go on the quest to save Leah.



The Point of No Return: Up until this point, the characters are working hard to make their goals a reality. But, at the halfway point of the movie, something happens to make it impossible to turn back. A Bond villain attacks again, the Gladiator arrives in Rome, Thelma and Louise rob their first store, etc.

In Star Wars, they are trapped at the Death-Star halfway into the movie. They cannot make it to Alderaan as planned, and must fight their way out.



The Major Set-Back: Since the point of no return, the stakes have gotten higher. To the characters and audience, all hope seems lost. This is when the girl and guy break-up in every romantic comedy ever made when Ron Burgundy gets fired in Anchorman, and when John McClane is beaten and bloody in Die Hard. This comes at the 75% mark.

In Star Wars, Obi-Wan has died and the Death Star is in motion. The only chance to win is a last-ditch effort to blow up the Death Star.



The Climax: The characters make one last, all-out push to reach their goals, culminating in their biggest challenge of all. This is the run through the airport moment, the final holes in Caddyshack, or the final showdown between hero and villain. Once resolved, the last 10% of the script ties up loose ends and shows the aftermath of the climax.In Star Wars, Luke makes his heroic final run on the Death Star, blowing it up despite all odds being against him.
 You want your characters to feel real, as if they are driving the story and not some writer in LA. Remember that good characters are the heart of a movie -- they are who the audience feels for, loves, and hates, and even great movie idea will fail with bad characters. This is easier said than done, but there a couple of tips that will make your characters fit into your movie idea seamlessly:


Make sure your characters are round. This means that they have multiple facets, not just an "angry man," or "strong heroine." Round characters have strengths and weaknesses, which make them relatable to the audience.
Give your characters a desire and a fear. Even if there is only one of each, a good character wants something but is unable to get it. Their ability or inability to get over their fear (of being poor, of being alone, of space aliens, of spiders, etc.) is what drives their conflict.
Make sure your characters have agency. A good character is not moved around because your script needs them to go somewhere. A good character makes choices, and the plot follows. Sometimes this is one choice that drives everything else (Llewellyn, No Country for Old Men, Luke Skywalker joining Obi-Wan in Star Wars), sometimes there are a series of good/bad choices at every turn (every character in American Hustle)., It may feel limiting to have such a rigid structure on your script, but it actually makes it easier to surprise the audience. How can you take 5-point structure and recognizable characters and make them your own? How can you make this movie original? The best way to do this -- break some rules:


What happens if, instead of succeeding in the climax, the characters fail?
What happens to your "round" character if they refuse to change? What happens if protagonist isn't really the main character, such as in Ferris Beuller's Day Off, where Ferris's friend Cameron is the real character showing growth?

, A rom-com set in NYC is nothing new, but what about one set in rural Thailand? At a bowling alley? In a nursing home?

, The most important thing to realize when coming up with ideas is that they come with practice. Your first 10, 20, or even 50 ideas may not be so good, but wading through the bad ideas will help you recognize the good. No one comes up with perfectly formed ideas every time, and you will not be the exception.


Keep a notebook you fill up with ideas as you come up with them
Try brainstorming with a friend to bounce ideas off each other twice as fast.
Work through this process with each idea -- fleshing out a movie idea into the crucial parts is how you'll know if it is an idea worth pursuing.

