 Any craft supply store will have cheap, white masks. Determine whether you want a male or female face.


This mask will not be used in the final product. It is just for a temporary base.
 Try to be as even as possible.









Scrape the cloth along the edge of the bowl to remove any excess water.

If water is pooling, use paper towels to dab it away.


Rub the fibers from each strip into each other for a smooth look -- they should seem to converge and bond.
 Do this when it is mostly dry.









If it is cold, it has not completed drying.
 Be sure it has fully dried!









If you want a slightly different shape, use the plastic mask as a guide. For a longer chin, place the cloth layer slightly above where it would naturally lie. Add more plaster cloth to the chin, extending it. For a longer forehead, do the opposite. For wide cheeks, place off to the right and left.

You may have to apply strength to adjust the mask; don't worry, everything is reversible at this stage. Bend it to your will. If something goes awry, hold it from the back and reapply.
 Cut, roll, and mold the cloth into your desired shape. Add another layer on top to smooth it out, if desired.









Carve fanciful eyebrows
Sculpt a villainous mustache
Form mischievously chubby cheeks

, Take a long strip and apply length-wise, securing the front and back.









Make sure to hold the strips straight. It should create a parallel line to the edge.
Follow the same guidelines with the eyes or any other holes to secure and prevent fraying.
 Dip a piece of plaster cloth into water, ball it up, and use the residue to fill in the holes and blend.









Don't apply the actual material -- just rub it over the mask and dispose when finished.
This process is similar to sanding.
 If the mask will be worn, you have to breathe!









Cut holes (using a box-cutter or exacto-knife) for nostrils, a mouth, and/or on the sides for attaching an elastic band.
 This includes the front and back.









Don't skip this step: Primer helps blend and smooth.
Take 15 minutes between coats.
 You may want to paint a small section, let dry, and perfect the color with blending.









Seal with polyurethane, if desired. This will make your mask appear shiny and polished.
 If the mask is to be worn, it's gotta fit!


Attach an elastic band (or whatever material you have available) through the holes on the sides.

This can be done with sewing, glue, or velcro.


Add a piece of scrap material for a chin protector, if desired.

