 In an elimination diet, you stop eating certain foods to determine whether they are contributing to your EGID.Typically, you’ll begin by removing the most common allergens (milk, soy, egg, wheat, peanuts/other nuts, and shellfish/fish) one by one. For instance, you might eliminate all soy from your diet for two weeks and observe the results. If your symptoms improve, you must continue to avoid consuming soy in order to prevent the EGID symptoms from recurring.Research shows that egg, milk, and soy are the ingredient most closely associated with EGID of the esophagus.
You might also get a skin prick testing to determine if you’re allergic to anything, though EGID patients often produces a negative result even if someone does have an allergy to a given food.If you adopt a new diet permanently, you may need supplements to ensure you are getting all the nutrients you need. Talk to an allergist or gastroenterologist if you want to continue the diet for longer than two to four weeks, or if you need help with further testing.
 This liquid diet helps reduce chances of impaction and irritation in the gut and esophagus while ensuring you receive all the proteins and other nutrients you need to stay healthy.For instance, you might be put on an elemental diet of Neocate Infant, Neocate Junior, Neocate Nutra, EO28 Splash, Elecare, or Elecare Jr. These elemental diet formulae are available in various flavors such as vanilla, chocolate, and tropical.Typically, a patient will remain on an elemental diet for about six weeks so that the esophagus and affected areas have time to heal. Then, normal food will begin to be reintroduced.
Your doctor will let you know if and when you can transition back to normal food.
Elemental formulas are allergen-free.
 Your doctor might prescribe medication to ease your symptoms. While this will not cure your EGID, it will help alleviate chest and abdominal pain, reflux, and other symptoms. Your medication will likely be a spray that you squirt toward the back of your throat or a liquid mixture. Your doctor will decide if medication might be useful in your case.Medical solutions tend to be the last resort, and are used when dietary adjustments are impossible or do not produce a positive result.They are also not a preferred treatment method because of the number of negative side effects that they can produce.Common medications prescribed include corticosteroids like prednisone and budesonide.Immunosuppressive drugs like azathioprine, and topical steroids are sometimes prescribed when low doses of corticosteroids are not sufficient.Always use medication as directed.
 The best way to combat these allergens is to dust regularly, wash clothes and bedding frequently, and install an air purifier (or two) in the main areas of your residence.Wear a facemask if you are exposed to occupational dust or mold (for instance, as a housing renovator or construction specialist).

