 Regardless of whether you are interviewing for a private school or for a university, knowing about the school's history and expectations is essential. It allows you to demonstrate your interest in the school, and show that you can respect and adhere to what the school values.


You should also know exactly what it is that the school can offer you in terms of degrees and opportunities. Find this information out by reading through the school's website and by flipping through any admissions brochures they sent you.
 Call the school's main number before going to the interview and ask for directions to the building and office you need to show up at. Also find out the name of the person conducting the interview and how to address that person.


This is especially important for college interviews, since college campuses usually have more than one building. Make sure you've mapped out your route well in advance.
 If you have already applied to the school, look over the application again to refresh your memory on what you wrote.


This is especially important if the application had essays, since you will want to be able to emphasize the vital points of your essay response during the interview.
Even if the application had no essay, reviewing the questions that were asked will allow you to understand what the school considers to be valuable information.
 The admissions officer conducting the interview may have a few questions that deal specifically with the school or with your application, but he or she will probably resort to a few standard questions, as well.


"Why do you want to go to this school?" This is your chance to show off your knowledge of the school. If the school is sports-oriented, emphasize your interest in the sports program while briefly touching on academics. Similarly, if the school is focused on service or on academics, focus your response on those areas.
"What do you plan on doing after you graduate?" Most schools will understand if you do not have your entire life mapped out yet, but at the same time, the interviewer will want to see some sense of motivation. If you are undecided about what you want to do, explain your dilemma but describe how you anticipate discovering your passion while at the school and pursuing it after leaving. If you do have an idea of what you want to do, describe it as vividly as possible.
 The admissions counselor will probably ask you if you have any of your own questions at the end of the interview. At this point, you should ask about things that cannot be conveyed through the school's promotional materials.


If you have questions about the academics, make sure to pose them here. Otherwise, ask about campus life or student resources.
 Prepare an outfit that demonstrates your seriousness as a student, even if there is no dress code at the school.


For "elite" institutions, prepare a suit or other formal business attire.
For more relaxed schools, dress conservatively in business casual clothes.

