 When you want to avoid conditions that can cause arrhythmia, conditioning your heart to be stronger is a good first step. To do this, you need to exercise for at least 30 minutes, five times per week. Heart problems are common in obese people, so exercise can help overweight people to lose and control their weight. Exercise also helps the heart to pump sufficient blood throughout the body.


Basic cardio exercises include walking, jogging, swimming and biking. These activities should be done four to five times per week, for a minimum of 30 minutes.People with pre-existing heart disease or arrhythmia are advised to see a doctor before proceeding with an exercise plan. The types of exercises you can do may be different than others. People with pre-existing conditions are usually advised to start gently and slowly increase the intensity of exercise over time.;
, Drinking alcohol may contribute to vasoconstriction, which can cause your heart to pump twice as fast. It can also affect the electrical impulses in your heart. These things may trigger arrhythmia. To avoid this, stop drinking so it doesn't cause further damage.If you are at risk for heart arrhythmia, you should not drink any alcohol. The consumption alone can cause an irregular heartbeat., Carbon monoxide may increase ventricular fibrillation (VF),in which the heart just twitches and stops pumping any blood to the brain, lungs, kidneys, or within itself. This state is lethal and will lead to death.Ask your doctor about ways to quit, such as gum, patches, lozenges, shots, medication, or group therapy.
 Coffee acts as a stimulant which increases the heart’s pumping action. This additional stress may trigger arrhythmia.This is typically true for caffeine in large doses in all people, but any caffeine can cause heart arrhythmia in those at risk.


The average person does not need to necessarily cut out caffeine completely. Instead, make sure you are consuming what is considered normal amounts for adults in one day, about 400mg., Certain over the counter and prescription medications have negative side effects that may cause arrhythmias. These medications include some cough and cold medicines, which have certain ingredients that change your heart rate. Prescription medication that do similar things include antibiotics and antifungals, drugs used in psychotherapy such as antidepressants like SSRI’s, MAOI’s, TCA’s, diuretics, and agents used to control sugar levels.Always talk to your doctor before taking any medications, as some drugs may increase your heart rate.
 High levels of stress can impact general heart health, though it may not have a direct impact on arrhythmia. Stress increases cortisol levels, which constricts the blood vessels and makes the heart pump twice as much.


Learn to cope with stressful events by sharing your worries and concerns with someone else, by going to spas or by doing yoga and meditation.
You can also avoid stress by cutting back on work, taking a vacation, and spending more time with your friends and loved ones.