 Do not get discouraged finding a job. Seek out support from others in your hunt. They can either offer you practical advice or just listen when you need someone to listen. Remember that finding a job takes time and the best thing you can do is stay patient and dedicated.
 Your resume needs to be professional and polished, and should list your qualifications. If you don't have this, your application materials probably won't get a second glance from any hiring director. Use resume formats on microsoft word that help guide you through creating a resume. There are also sources online that can help give you guidance.One great place for help can be found at http://rockportinstitute.com/resumes/. This site will help you build a strong and unique resume.
Your resume should include appropriate experiences that relate to the job you are applying for.
 A work portfolio is a great way to keep all of your stuff in one place and show off any work you have done. A portfolio is also excellent for lulls in an interview or for giving interviewers concrete answers to their questions. For example, if you're asked about experiences you have in your profession, you can pull out a report or give statistics about what you’ve done.If you're a teacher, you can include your mission statement, letters of recommendation, student work, and a sample lesson plan. Photographers putting together some of their best photos or other work is another great use for a portfolio.
 There are now more ways than ever to search for and apply to jobs. You can search on Craigslist.com, Monster.com, check your local newspaper, go directly to company websites, or apply in person. Whichever method you choose, just make sure you are always looking and always applying.


For each company you apply with, you need to send a cover letter that is catered to each job. Your cover letter should include a little bit about yourself and why you are applying to that job. You can find help with your cover letter at http://jobsearch.about.com/od/coverletters/a/aa030401a.htm.
 Many jobs that people receive are done through networking and communicating with people they meet and already know. By building positive relationships with past employers, coworkers, and friends, it can help you find work more easily in the future. Employers love using connections that current employees bring to them.


Talk to people you know and let them know what you are looking for.
Don't be afraid to ask for help. It never hurts to ask people for favors, just make sure you show your gratitude and be professional.
 Meet up with like-minded people and become friends with them online through job finding sites. The most successful job searches and career explorations are based on networking, and LinkedIn is a major outlet. Creating a profile is free and will help you discover professional opportunities, business deals, and new ventures., Because finding a new job can take some time, you shouldn't quit your current job until you are offered a new job that you want to take. Once you are ready to leave your current job, be sure to give a two weeks notice so you can keep a good relationship with that employer.


Leaving a job on a good note will allow you to use that employer as a future reference on your resume.
 You may not be qualified for the job of your dreams, yet. You need to do your homework and find out the qualifications and steps needed to get where you want to be. You can't start out as CEO, but you can start taking steps to get there.


Find out if your job needs schooling or college degrees.
Take jobs that can lead you into the job you want. Sometimes all it takes is getting your foot in the door and then you can work your way up.
Seek out a job that is in the field you are working towards. For example, if you want to be a nurse, try working as a receptionist in a doctor's office while you are earning your nursing degree to help you get a feel for the environment and pace.

