 To avoid getting stuck in the same old routine, you and your man need to put on your cowboy boots and ride off into uncharted territory. Ok, so not really -- but you should try new things that take you out of your comfort zones, which will make you learn new things and grow together in the process.


Try hiking, mountain climbing, or just exploring nature together. If your guy doesn't like hiking, find an outdoorsy activity where he can show off his skills, like camping or biking.
Try exotic foods together. Pick a restaurant that serves the cuisine of a country you've never even heard of, and indulge in the taste and unique cuisines together.
Go on an adventure. This could mean taking a vacation to a fun and crazy spot, or just going in your car and driving for two hours to check out a waterfall or a weird haunted house. You can even close your eyes and point to a map, and go wherever your finger falls. It's all about the journey here.
 If you want to keep your relationship fresh, then you have to make time for romance with your man, no matter how long you've been together. Some guys don't like the unmanly term "date night," but you should still make sure to spend at least one day each week hanging out and doing romantic things together, such as cooking a meal over candlelight, or going out to a wine bar.


If you both dress up, you'll feel like the moment is even more special.
There's no need to get too mushy during "date night" -- whatever you do together, make sure your man is actually enjoying himself, and not just doing his boyfriend-ly duty to keep you happy.
 Another way to show your man your love is to keep things fresh in the bedroom. You shouldn't have sex just because he wants to, but because you're excited to get it on with your man. Let him know how much you want to make love, and keep things fresh by always trying something new.


Make love in new positions. Don't do the same old thing you've been doing -- try something completely new. As long as it still feels good, you'll be kicking your sex life up a notch.
Make love in new places. The bed isn't the only place where you can make love. If you're in the mood, make love on your couch, on your floor, or even in a secluded location. This will make the process feel illicit and he'll see how much you love him even more.
If you really want to show your love to your boyfriend, then be respectful if he doesn't love to cuddle for hours after sex. You can spend some time in bed with him after you do the deed, but don't force him to be there until he gets so bored he falls asleep.

