 Although you should view the review section of a hotel's website, that is never enough. Of course, you should visit the hotel's testimonial page, because you can get a feel for any positive features listed, but if there are any negatives about the hotel, you will almost never find them on the hotel's own site.;
, If you Google the name of the hotel, you will surely be presented with some of the review sites. The Google Places page should be easy to find in the results. It can be identified by the "pushpin" icon that will be next to it. If it has stars next to it, it means that the hotel has been reviewed on that page. It may also say the number of Google reviews the hotel has. If there are a lot of reviews, you can generally get a better impression of hotel.



Besides Google, several other review sites are listed in the resource box at the bottom of this article. To check if the hotel you are looking for is listed with them, use the search boxes on their pages.
, Look to see if the complaint is supported by other reviews. If a hotel has many four and five-star reviews, and one one-star review, it may be because some goofball or disgruntled employee or competitor has a chip on their shoulder. Treat such situations with a grain of salt. Don't let one bad apple spoil what might be a great vacation choice for you. (You should be aware that it is possibly illegal, and certainly a violation of Internet policies, for a competing establishment to trash a business on review sites.)


If there are many negative reviews and only a few good ones, on the other hand, you should definitely be skeptical of the establishment.
 Relying solely on Google reviews would be a mistake. Use them, but make sure they're not your only resource. Make sure you check out other online hotel review sites, as well.
 If the owner of the hotel has an account with the site, s/he can respond to reviews See if the response is thoughtful and courteous. This may give you a feel for how the hotel does business.
, You can then leave your own opinion of venues that you have experience with in a review post.

