 When you hang out with people who support and value who you are as a person, life feels more manageable. Plus, hanging with negative influences often adds more trouble to your life, such as a bad reputation or failing grades. Form relationships with positive peers from school organizations, sports groups, or community organizations.


Healthy friendships involve two people who care for on another, respect each other’s boundaries, and have mutual goals and interests.Stay away from peers who bully, manipulate, lie, skip classes or use drugs and alcohol.
 When your parents give you the OK to date, you might immediately fall down a rabbit hole. You become obsessed with your date, pick up their habits, and even drop your hobbies in favor of theirs. Although it’s wonderful to want to show your partner that you sincerely care for them, it’s also smart to maintain some balance.Slow down and move at a pace you are comfortable with. Let your date know what you will and won’t accept. Don’t become physically intimate with them until you are absolutely ready.
What’s more, don’t drop your old life when you get a new relationship. Stay in touch with your friends and keep participating in your favorite hobbies. It’s important for healthy relationships to involve some space for you to pursue separate interests.
 Friendships and romantic relationships often overshadow familial bonds during the teen years because you may feel like your peers naturally understand you better. Still, it’s essential to have positive family interactions, too. Maintain a balance of peer time and family time.Sit down to meals with your family rather than eating on the go. Walk your younger siblings to school or the local park. Find a TV show you can watch with a parent for one-on-one bonding time. Offer to stay home one weekend for a family game night.
 Be open about your personal needs. Sometimes, life is just too much. Don’t feel guilty about cancelling plans or saying “no” to a new responsibility. It’s important to recognize when you need time to regroup and take it.It can help to schedule in some “me-time” each week. This may be a few hours of self-care or a full afternoon set aside to treat yourself. Nap, watch movies, read, or take a reflective walk in nature to ease your mind.

