 Shampoo and condition your hair as you normally would, using products that are volumizing and sulfate-free. Gently towel dry your hair to remove excess moisture. Scrunch a texturizing mousse product into your hair, working it thoroughly from root to tip.Sodium laureth sulfate and sodium lauryl sulfate are common ingredients in shampoos and conditioners. These chemicals can damage hair and cause frizz.;
, “Rough-drying” means to blow dry your hair using your fingers to move your hair around, rather than a hair brush. Start by lifting your hair at the roots with your fingers. Hold your blow dryer several inches away from your scalp and aim it at the roots. Turn it on and work your fingers throughout your hair, lifting and drying the roots.Drying the roots first will help to add volume and body to fine hair.
 Use your hands and fingers to tousle your hair as you move the blow dryer around your head. Don’t worry about doing this evenly or perfectly – you want to achieve a rumpled, “undone” look. As it dries, you’ll notice that your hair is fuller than usual and has a lot of texture.


Volume and texture are the key components of this look.
 Once your hair is completely dry, wrap small sections of it around a ceramic curling wand or iron. Start at the middle of your hair, not at the roots, and stop about an inch from the ends. Hold the hair around the tool for several seconds, then release. After you finish each section, drop the curl and tug at the ends gently to loosen the wave.You can achieve an extra tousled look by twisting each section of hair before curling it.
If you have short hair, use a wand or iron that has a one-inch barrel.
For longer hair, use a wider barrel.
 Once you’ve completely finished adding waves with the wand, spray a volumizing texture product all over your head. This will help to set the waves, add necessary texture and give your fine locks a little more body.Do not spray the product on your hair and continue using the heating tool – this can damage your hair.


If you want a little more volume, or if your hair begins to feel limp by midday, apply a volumizing powder or dry shampoo product to the roots and fluff with your fingers.