 For example, Patients suffering with bulimia nervosa are driven by the compulsion to hoard and eat copious amounts of food in secrecy.;
, For example, anorexic patients often spend substantial time watching television cooking programs, looking up recipes, grocery shopping, packing lunches for siblings and parents, planning and preparing menus for their families. Many patients will hoard food, but won’t eat it. They also may be overly critical of the eating habits of their friends or family members. Food is always the main topic of conversation, reading, dreams, and papers. Patients commonly will seek occupations that put them in contact with food.


A common symptom of starvation is hoarding of food. In the Minnesota starvation study, it was observed that subjects continued to be overwhelmed by persistent thoughts of food and eating. Food became a primary topic of conversation, reading, and daydreams. Patients suffering with bulimia nervosa are driven by the compulsion to hoard and eat copious amounts of food in secrecy.
 Repetitively counting calories suggests increasing preoccupation with food and eating. Most patients will continuously read recipes, food labels, count fat grams, weigh and measure food, and eventually advance to controlling the “acceptable” amount of food to be consumed. For some adolescents, when the set number is exceeded, they participate in compensatory behaviors such as purging, excessive exercise, and restriction to "un-do" the amounts consumed.
 Persistently expressing feelings of fear and distress about getting “fat” or gaining weight.
 For example, repeatedly engaging in binge eating episodes where they eat a large amount of food in a short period of time. During these episodes they will feel a loss of control over their eating and may not be able to stop even if they want to. They will also have a range of detectable eating habits. These habits can include eating very quickly, eating when they are not actually hungry and continuing to eat even when they are full, to the point where they feel uncomfortable.
 Adolescents with purging symptoms consistently use self-induced vomiting, laxatives, diuretics or other dangerous ways to control their weight or shape. They are also not significantly underweight. They typically fall within a normal weight range.
 For example, fear of certain foods may be an indicative sign of an eating disorder. As, high-fat foods may increase anxiety levels in some teens with eating disorders. When avoiding these foods, they feel that they can momentarily keep their anxiety under control. This is also known as “negative reinforcement”.
 Eating disorder behaviors come along with increased social isolation and social withdrawal, loss of interest in previously enjoyed activities and a negative impact on self-esteem. They develop a primary relationship and identity with the actual eating disorder. Consequently, making their world much smaller and not having time or energy for people or activities. Usually, as the illness progresses and symptoms deepen they tend to withdraw more. Adolescents with eating disorders will always seek to avoid eating and this includes avoiding situations where it would be expected that they eat.

