 Mix two tablespoons honey, one 32-ounce container of low-fat vanilla yogurt, 1.5 mashed bananas, and two tablespoons of peanut butter in a blender. Blend until the mixture is smooth. Add ½ cup carob chips and stir them in by hand.Pour the mixture into an ice cube tray. Freeze the mixture overnight. Transfer the cubes to resealable plastic bags.
When your dog is ready for a frosty fruit-and-nut cube, put two or three in a plastic bag and crush them with a mallet or hammer. Shake the crushed fruit-and-nut cube bits out of the bag into a bowl. Encourage your dog to eat the crushed fruit-and-nut cube flakes.
 A peanut butter popsicle is a refreshing summer treat for your good dog. Your dog will love the sweet taste. Just mix half a ripe banana, one cup of peanut butter (preferably unsweetened), and a spoonful of water in a large mixing bowl. Jam the goo into a KONG toy or an ice cube tray. If you wish to give your dog a nutritious peanut butter popsicle in the shape of a dog bone, obtain a dog bone-shaped mold you can spoon the goo into.Whatever shape or toy you choose, freeze the peanut butter popsicle for several hours or overnight until it freezes.
Feed to your dog outside on a hot summer day.
Ensure the peanut butter is xylitol-free. Xylitol is toxic to dogs.
 This tasty and nutritious blend is sure to keep your dog cool during the summer. Just mix three or four bananas, four cups of low-fat plain yogurt, and ½ cup of unsweetened peanut butter in a blender until smooth. Pour the mix into ice cube trays. Freeze the tasty mixture overnight, then store in an airtight container for up to six months., Pumpkin ice cream is a nutritious summer treat. Mix one cup of canned pumpkin, one cup of low-fat plain yogurt, and ½ cup of unsweetened peanut butter in a blender. Pour the mixture into an ice cube tray. Freeze overnight, then pop the pumpkin ice cream cubes out and place them in a resealable plastic bag.The ice cream will stay good for up to six months.
Your dog will love pumpkin ice cream.

