 This exception implies a covenant of good faith and fair dealing in all at-will employment relationships. Essentially, it means you cannot be fired except for good cause.The good faith exception effectively guts the entire concept of at-will employment. For this reason, it is recognized by only a few states.
To find out if your state is one of them, do an internet search for the name of your state followed by "good faith exception at will employment."
You should be able to figure out from the short summaries of the top search results whether this exception is recognized by your state.
Keep in mind that in many states that do recognize this exception, you must prove that your employer acted with actual malice. This means your employer terminated you because they wanted to harm you, damage your reputation, or put you at serious financial risk.
 If your state recognizes the good faith exception, your employer essentially must give some reason you were fired. Without a valid reason, you could challenge the termination in court.It can help to compare the reasons for your termination to the policies and procedures set forth in your employee handbook.
For example, you may have a stronger case that your employer violated the covenant of good faith if you were terminated for a reason that wasn't listed in your employee handbook.
If you had a progressive discipline policy at your workplace and you were fired before being given the required number of warnings, this could be a violation of the covenant of good faith.
 Even if the reason given by your employer may seem sound, it might not follow from the rest of your employment experience up to that point. A good indication of this would be that you were not expecting to be fired.If your termination seemed to come from out of the blue, look at any feedback you got from managers or supervisors before you were fired.
Good performance reviews, a recent raise, or a recent promotion all are potential indications that your employer violated the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 Chances are if your employer fired you, you think it was unfair. Describing the situation to others can help you figure out whether you have a case that your employer was objectively unfair or out to harm you.You may already have had former coworkers express surprise and disbelief at your termination. Talk to them and find out if they know anything that you don't.
Close friends and family members may not be the best people to help you assess the fairness of your situation. They will be biased towards you and may not be able to look at the situation any more objectively than you can.
Instead, talk to acquaintances or people with whom you don't have any close emotional bond. They will be more likely to look at your situation objectively. If you're embarrassed to admit to an acquaintance that you were just fired, tell them you're asking for a friend.
 An experienced employment attorney is best able to analyze your situation. Given the difficulty of grounding your wrongful termination case on the good faith exception, legal representation is essential.Many state and local bar associations have an attorney referral service on their websites. By answering a few questions about your case, this service will connect you with attorneys licensed to practice in your area who take on cases similar to yours.
Employment attorneys often give a free initial consultation. Schedule several of these so you can talk to more than one attorney to get a fuller picture of the strengths and weaknesses of your case.
Pay attention to the attorneys and take their assessments seriously. If you talk to three attorneys and they all say your chances of winning are slim to none, it may be best for you to drop the matter.
However, you might find an attorney who believes strongly in your case. If so, consider carefully whether filing a wrongful termination suit is worth the time, money, and effort.

