 When you are out running errands, keep your eyes open for flyers advertising social events that are going on. Many places around your town might offer a bulletin board where such events can be advertised such as supermarkets, libraries, universities, community centers, etc.


You can also search the internet for events in your area. Try searching for “local events in .”
Don’t be afraid to try out something new, even if you’ve never done it before. For example, if you see a flyer for free group dancing lessons, try it out! Don’t let opportunities for fun pass you by!;
, Having a hobby is a great way to do something productive and fun. If you don’t already have a hobby or are bored with your current hobby, try out something new. If you already have a hobby that is really fun for you, make time to engage yourself in that hobby.If you’re not sure what new hobby you want to try out, try sitting down with a piece of paper and writing down anything that sounds like fun to you, no matter what it is. If you could do anything right now, what would it be? Doing this will help you find things that are fun for you.
You may have something you’ve always wanted to try, but have been putting it off because you think it’s silly or simply because you haven’t made the time. Whatever the reason, there is no better time than now.
 Humans are social animals and, for the vast majority of us, spending time with other people provides us with an opportunity for fun. If you already have a group of friends, nurture those relationships by staying in contact and making time to do stuff together whenever possible. If you don’t have any friends, make some new ones! This may seem scary at first, but there are many social groups out there that are created so that people can find each other.If you feel nervous socializing at an event where you don’t know anyone yet, remind yourself that socializing is a skill, and it is pretty scary for most everyone at first. Remind yourself that if things aren’t going well, you can always leave the event and try again another time.
Spending time with others can also lead to more fun because other people may have great ideas about fun activities you hadn’t thought of.
If you are having a hard time finding social groups in your area, try visiting your local library or community center. People often advertise social events at these locations. You can also search the internet for events in your areas. Try the search terms, “social groups” plus the name of your town.
 If you enjoy socializing and dancing, then going to a party with friends is a great way to make life fun. You could throw a party at your own home (with your parent’s permission if you live with them), you could go to a party at a friend’s house, or if there is a party going on at a bar or restaurant in your town, you could go to a party there. The point of a party is to relax, get to know new people, play games, and maybe even dance.If you are old enough to consume alcohol, then please do so responsibly.
If you don’t drink don’t think this means you can’t go to parties. Many people who don’t drink go to parties and have just as much fun as anyone. If you don’t want people to ask why you aren’t drinking, just have a sparkling water with lemon in a glass, and most people won’t even notice.
 Even if you don’t consider yourself artistic, doing something creative can be great fun. It can be anything you enjoy doing, and the end result doesn’t have to look nice or pretty. The point is to do something that is fun for you.For example, it may seem childish, but many people enjoy finger painting. You can also draw, color, or do any kind of creative activity that you enjoy.
You can do this alone or with friends, whichever you prefer.
Adult coloring books have recently become very popular, and many people claim that they are a great way to relax and relieve stress., Volunteering can help you make life fun in many ways. If you can volunteer doing an activity that you enjoy doing anyway, it will be fun for you. It will make you feel fulfilled because you know you’ve done something good to help out your community, and you can also meet new people, which can lead to more fun activities.Volunteer for an activity that you will enjoy. For example, if you really love spending time with animals, volunteer at an animal shelter. If you enjoy being in nature, volunteer with a local conservation group.
 Exercise helps us to let off steam, which means that it helps us to be happier.This doesn’t have to mean going to the gym and doing hundreds of crunches. It can be whatever it is that is fun for you. For example, you can do an exercise class that involves dancing. You could go play soccer or basketball with friends, or you could go for a bike ride. If it is fun and also gets your heart rate up, go for it.


If you enjoy going for a run or you find spending an hour or two at the gym lifting weights then, by all means, do that.
 This could refer to making excuses to a friend about why you can’t go with them to see a movie or making an excuse for yourself. When we don’t really feel like doing something, but don’t have a good reason not to, we will tend to try and make up an excuse to justify why we didn’t do something. Try to be aware of this tendency, and if you notice yourself doing it, stop.For example, if you were planning to go for a swim in the afternoon, but you find yourself making an excuse about why you should go home instead, stop and think about it for a minute. Do you actually need to go home or are you just feeling a bit tired?
Remind yourself that being active and doing something will help you get past that lack of energy you are feeling.
 If you want to make life more fun, challenge yourself by saying, “Yes!” whenever someone invites you to do something (as long as it is safe to do so). Doing this will lead you to meeting new people and trying out things you might not have gotten to try otherwise.Try to make it a personal rule to say, “yes” anytime you don’t have something else going on and you can afford to do so. For example, although you may have been looking forward to going home and relaxing after school, if someone invites you to come play frisbee in the park don’t turn them down!
Remember, in most cases, you will be glad you went even if you were feeling lazy beforehand.
 If you spend all of your time trying to change yourself into something different, there won’t be much time for having fun. Though it can be difficult, learning to accept yourself will make life more fun in and of itself. If you feel comfortable with who you are, you won’t have to spend so much time feeling stressed and self-conscious.Try to challenge your inner critic. When you catch yourself thinking something negative about yourself, remind yourself of something positive about yourself.
 If you are standing around being worried about what everyone else is thinking about you, then it is unlikely that you will be having any fun. Try to remind yourself that people spend a lot less time noticing you than you think, and even if they are judging you, why should you care?For example, if someone makes fun of your dancing you can say something like, “Who really cares if I’m a good dancer? It’s just for fun anyways.” This will show them that you don’t really care too much about looking good because it doesn’t really matter, and it will also remind you that it is just for fun.
 While it is OK to plan fun things to do, don’t be afraid to be spontaneous and go with the flow. Sometimes these spontaneous things will be the most fun. If you happen to run into a friend, and you’re both free, have a coffee together or go for a walk. If you come upon a community event, go and check it out if you aren’t doing anything anyways.Often we walk past fun opportunities because we think that we can try it another day, but then we never go back. If you see an opportunity for fun, take it.
 Research has shown that people who joke around with others see themselves as better at dealing with stress and less lonely than those who do not. Fortunately, it doesn’t even matter if you are good at telling jokes or not. Telling jokes and being lighthearted will draw people to you.Don’t worry if you don’t think you are good at telling jokes. Not all of us are born comedians. Even if the joke is cheesy, you can make people smile a little if they can see that you know it’s not a funny joke, and are just trying to lighten the atmosphere.
 If you are always running around from place to place and find yourself stressed because you have too many things to do, making a schedule can help give some structure to the chaos. Whenever your week begins, take a few minutes to write down all of the things that you need to accomplish during the week, and when you will do them. Be sure to write in any appointments you have made and how long it will take you to get to each appointment so you won’t be late.Making a schedule will make you feel less stressed and will also help you identify any free time that you may have. During this free time you can do fun things that you want to do.
 If you have something you don’t really feel like doing, do it first. This will accomplish two things. It will get the task out of the way, and it will take it off your mind. That way, you don’t have to spend your time dreading it, and can move onto other things that you feel like doing.If you procrastinate and put off a task until the last minute you will feel more stressed and you may even have to miss out on something fun

, Unfortunately, there will be many things you have to do that aren’t for fun. For example, you may have to do the laundry, clean your room, or cook dinner. You could stop doing these things, but that will probably cause even bigger problems. Instead of just ignoring your responsibilities, find ways to make them more fun for yourself.For example, put on your favorite music while you’re taking care of your chores. Don’t be afraid to dance around a bit. Remember that even if you look silly no one is watching anyway, and even if they are, it will probably make them laugh to see someone having so much fun doing something mundane.
 It isn’t always easy, but maintaining a positive attitude will make life more fun. The way we think influences the way we act, and it also influences how others behave towards us. If you keep a positive attitude, people will be drawn to you, and even the most boring task will be more enjoyable than if you were complaining and grouchy about it.Maintaining a positive attitude takes practice. At first, you won’t always be aware of it if you have a bad attitude, but bringing more and more awareness to how you are behaving and the attitude you are portraying will make it easier with time.

