 When planning your trip, try to choose places to stay that have fewer mosquitoes. If possible, stay in screened quarters or quarters with air conditioning.


In general, the best areas to stay in are cooler areas away from any stagnant water. Stagnant water serves as a breeding ground for mosquitoes.
Stagnant water sources such as lakes or non-running streams are especially prone to mosquitoes.
 Mosquito nets are lightweight, tightly-woven nets that keep mosquitoes out of your tent or bed at night.Set the net up over your sleeping area each night before you go to sleep. You can also use them to cover any open windows or doors.


Since you may not be able to find a mosquito net where you're going, buy one to take with you when you travel.
Get dressed inside your mosquito net in the morning.
Make sure to check it regularly for tears. You might want to bring an extra net as a backup.
Buy mosquito nets treated with permethrin for the best protection., If possible, you should keep doors and windows tightly sealed while you're indoors.


People who sleep outside or are exposed to the outdoors at night are at much higher risk of contracting malaria.
You may not be able to close the doors and windows if you're in a very hot, muggy place. Whether you can or not, use a mosquito net over your bed for added protection., You'll reduce the number of mosquito bites you get if you wear long pants and sleeves while you're out and about during the day.


Bring high-quality lightweight clothing that will allow your body to breathe while protecting you from bites., Choose the mosquito spray that's most effective in the area where you're traveling. Talk to your doctor about your options and to get recommendations. If you have children, consult their pediatrician about what types and strengths are safe for use on children.


In almost all areas where malaria is present, DEET is the most commonly used compound. DEET is a chemical compound known as N,N-Diethyl-meta-toluamide, or just diethyltoluamide. This repellent comes in many different concentrations, from 4% to 100%. However, concentrations over 50% do not provide meaningful added protection.Apply the spray to your clothing and the room where you're staying for best results.Combining insect sprays with permethrin-treated clothing and gear offers the best protection.
The Center for Disease Control (CDC) provides guidelines for the use of DEET. Read them carefully before using this product. Improper usage can lead to health problems., Try to plan activities that permit you to be in protected areas between dusk and dawn. The mosquito that transmits malaria is most active at night.