 It is important to know basic words such as hello "hola" (oh-lah), goodbye "adiós" (ah-dee-os), and thank you "gràcies" (groh-thee-es) in order for basic communication to take place. Speaking in English is always easier, but if you intend to live like a Barcelona local (called a Barcelonan or Barcelonian) you must speak Catalan, or at least Spanish, when possible.


Learning a bit of Catalan is always a good idea. Most people growing up in Barcelona were taught both Catalan and Spanish, and speaking at least some Catalan is a form of respect, showing you are attempting to assimilate to their culture. Catalan and Spanish are closely related, but still quite distinct. Some basic words are the same, such as hello "hola" (oh-lah), but others are different, such as goodbye "adéu" (ah-do) and thank you "gràcies" (groh-thee-es).

Spanish is spoken differently in Catalonia (and much of Spain) than in Latin America. They pronounce "s" and soft "c" (a "c" is soft when it comes before "e" or "i") as "th", as in "gràcies" above.;
, On top of taking short showers, make sure to keep the bathroom neat. Most families expect and appreciate cleanliness.
 Electric and water bills are expensive in this part of the world.


Remember to turn off lights when not using them. Some host families prefer that you unplug electronic devices when not using them, to guarantee that electricity is not being used.
Showering once a day is important to maintaining a respectful relationship with your host family. The same goes for shaving and brushing your teeth. Specifically for men, when you shave your face, make sure to plug the sink and fill it with water instead of running hot water the entire time you shave. When brushing your teeth, make sure to only turn the water on when you really need it. Do not run the water while brushing your teeth.
Washing your clothes is different as well, unless you use a laundromat. Dryers are not often used in Barcelona — clothes are washed and air dried to save water and electricity — and so doing laundry is a much longer process than it is in other countries. If doing laundry is not your favorite chore, it is worth paying for a laundromat and getting it done in a few hours, or you may find yourself without clothes for days at a time.
Try to reuse clothes, although it may seem unpalatable. It is worth having clothes to wear instead of waking up and realising you have nothing to wear.
 Eating in Spanish homestays can vary between houses, but in most homes you are provided two meals a day, breakfast and dinner. It is the host family's responsibility to cook meals for you, especially dinner. If you plan on not eating dinner at home, make sure to notify someone in the family at least a few hours prior to dinner.


Make sure to eat either a big lunch or various snacks, because breakfast is not a big meal, as in other countries, but usually consists of tea, coffee, and / or a small pastry. Meals usually consist of an appetizer, a main course, and then dessert. Be ready for a lot of olives, olive oil, and ham. Spaniards generally do not use butter when cooking, but prefer olive oil, which is much healthier.
Having a meal in Barcelona is much different than having a meal elsewhere. Meals are seen as social gatherings that may last for hours, and may include long walks and bar-hopping.
The daily rhythm is different in Spain. Dinner starts around 9 PM or later, and many do not go to sleep until well after 1 AM, due to the famous siesta, or midday nap, practised throughout Spain. Businesses are often closed during the siesta, so be prepared to adjust.
 Homestay families will give you a bedroom, usually consisting of a bed, dresser, and possibly more if you are lucky, such as a desk and a lamp or two. This is usually your living space, somewhat like a dormitory.


Make sure to keep your bedroom neat and tidy, as no one appreciates messy bedrooms.

