 Eating a healthy, well-balanced diet can help you keep your rheumatoid arthritis in check. A well-balanced diet, including lean proteins, whole grains, dairy, fruits, and vegetables will give you the nutrition you need to stay healthy.Some patients have luck eliminating some foods to reduce inflammation. For instance, cutting back on sugar, saturated fats, trans fats, omega-6 fatty acids, refined carbs, MSG, and alcohol may be beneficial. Cutting gluten (in bread) and casein (in dairy) back may also help. Aspartame, as well, can cause inflammation in some people.Following a vegetarian/vegan diet or a Mediterranean diet has been beneficial for some.
 Some studies have shown that stress and worrying can increase your chances of a flare-up of arthritis. Therefore, decreasing the stress in your life may help you lessen the effects of rheumatoid arthritis on your body.Deal with stress as it comes. In the moment when you're feeling anxious, remind yourself that what you're experiencing will soon pass, both the situation and the emotion behind it. Just reminding yourself of that fact can help calm you down.Try deep breathing. When you're feeling stressed, take a moment to breathe deeply. Close your eyes, and breathe in to the count of four. Make sure you are breathing from your diaphragm. Hold your breath for four counts, then breathe out to the count of four. Keep breathing until you feel yourself calm down.
Don't forget to get the sleep you need. Get a full night's sleep (7-9 hours) can help you deal with stress better.
Try incorporating more physical activity into your life. It can help both your stress and your arthritis more directly., Hydrotherapy means doing special therapy exercises in water, usually in warmer water. Typically, you do hydrotherapy with a trained physiotherapist, who will guide you through slow, steady exercises. Some people find the movements help with rheumatoid arthritis.Some people add spa therapy to their hydrotherapy, meaning they use water that has salts and minerals. This treatment is especially common in Europe.
 Other people have good luck using exercise programs like t'ai chi and yoga. T'ai chi is a slow-moving exercise that works on improving strength and flexibility. It may help with swelling and fatigue. Yoga also helps improve flexibility and strength in general. It helps with grip strength and may help with swelling.Try to find local t'ai chi and yoga classes in your area. You can find them through your parks and rec department, local studios, or even places like the YMCA.

