 You may be carrying a lot of water weight around your midsection, and this could be keeping you from meeting your goal of toned abs. When you don't drink enough water, your body retains more of it.Make sure you're taking a multivitamin, and try to drink between 2 and 3/5 liters of water a day. It sounds like a lot, but you can do it if you get in the habit of carrying a water bottle with you wherever you go.
The urine test is the most efficient way to tell if you're drinking enough water. When you're well-hydrated, your urine will be clear.
You also want to monitor your sodium intake. Sodium can cause you to retain water, so try to limit your sodium intake to between 2,000 – 2,500 milligrams per day.
 If you're exercising three to five days a week, you'll start losing weight if you set your caloric intake to 13 calories per pound of body weight (or less). Be careful not to bring it down too low — your body needs fuel.For example, if you weigh 180 pounds, the food you eat each day should contain about 2,340 calories. You could probably go as low as 1,620 calories, or nine calories per pound of body weight, but you don't want to get much lower than that.
You may want to consume more calories on days you plan to do an intense workout, then lower the amount on rest days or days you're doing a lighter workout. This will ensure that your body is getting the fuel it needs.
 If you're on a low-calorie diet, protein is all important to build the lean muscle mass you need if you want tight, toned abdominal muscles. Protein shakes are one way to make sure you're getting the protein you need.You'll find whey protein at health food and nutrition stores, as well as at many grocery stores. Use the powder in a fruit or vegetable smoothie or shake. You can find good protein shake recipes online.
You also might look at protein snack bars or commercial protein shakes. Read the label carefully and avoid those with added sugar, or that are high in calories.
Try to include a substantial source of protein, such as lean meats, eggs, or soy, with every meal.
 When you consume fewer carbohydrates, such as pasta and bread, your body burns more fat and also retains less water. A diet that's lower in carbohydrates will help you get toned abs faster.You don't necessarily have to cut out carbs entirely. Keep in mind that your body needs carbohydrates for fuel. A carbohydrate snack 30 or 40 minutes before an intense workout will give your body the energy it needs.
You also should keep in mind that if you go too long on a low-carb diet, your metabolic rate may slow, causing your energy to plummet.
Oats and quinoa are healthy choices that are high-carb and low-fat, so they'll keep you on track to meet your ab goals. Fruits such as apples and bananas also are good sources of carbohydrates., If your goal is to tone your abs, your overall diet should be extremely low in fat. Look for sources of healthy fat, such as almonds, olive oil, and fatty fish. Only include a few grams of fat with every meal.Once you've met your goal or are feeling better about your midsection and have lost the weight you want to lose, you'll want to increase your fat intake.
Avoid fat entirely immediately before or immediately after your workout.

