 Information from our senses must be changed into a form that we can store as a memory. If we want to remember an image that we saw, for example, it can be encoded as visual information into our memory bank. The three ways that information is most often encoded are: visual (picture), acoustic (sound) or semantic (meaning).Additionally, some people can be tactile encoders.;
, Think about what works best for you to memorize details or learn information. Each person usually has a preference for how you like to remember information, whether it is visual, acoustic, tactile or semantic. Once you have determined which way you remember best, you will be able to use certain techniques to help you recall what to do without needing to write it down.


Visual encoders prefer to see information and process it into memory visually. This can include viewing pictures, diagrams, flow charts, time lines, films or demonstrations.
Auditory encoders do best when hearing information, particularly when it is explained orally by someone else. They have strong auditory processing skills.
Semantic encoders use meanings and relationships to encode and remember information.
Tactile encoders prefer to recall how something feels by touch. However, movement can be another way to encode information. Tactile and kinesthetic encoders prefer to move their bodies in order to concentrate more easily on information., If you can easily remember information presented in pictures, charts or diagrams, "see" the information you are trying to recall or visualize "movies" in your mind made up of the information you want to remember, then you will remember best using visual processing. Visual encoders also have strong visual-spatial skills and can comprehend sizes, shapes, textures, angles and 3D depths easily. You probably appreciate aesthetics as well as beauty and tend to focus on body language and facial expressions.
 Auditory encoders can often recall details about what they hear during conversations, meetings or lectures. You will usually have an extensive vocabulary, tend to be a good oral communicator and be able to clearly articulate your ideas. Learning a foreign language may be easier for an auditory encoder, and you will likely be musically inclined.
 If you are well-coordinated, can clearly recall the way something felt on your skin or work well with your hands (repairing, sculpting, using tools, ect.), then you may be a tactile or kinesthetic encoder. You are probably also prone to wiggling, tapping your feet or moving around while you are in a sitting position. Often, these kinds of encoders enjoy preforming as an athlete, actor or dancer.
 To a degree, we all make associations in order to recall information more easily. However, some people remember best if the new information they want to learn can be related in some way with existing knowledge or memories. If the new information is made more personal, such as associating it with something that is meaningful to you, then it becomes even easier to encode and remember. An example might be trying to remember what a certain part of the brain does by relating it to another object and finding characteristics that are similar (amygdala and Queen Amidala both have something to do with emotional reactions).
 Information can be stored either in STM or LTM. The majority of people can store between 5-9 items in STM at a time for 0-30 seconds, though chunking information together can allow more information to be stored per item space. LTM capacity, however, is virtually unlimited, and these memories can last all your life.The goal is to get what you need to do into your LTM.


Many memories are stored in LTM by semantic coding (meanings and associations) but can also be encoded either visually, acoustically or through tactile encoding, depending on how you encode best.
 STM items are usually stored and then retrieved in a sequence. For example, you are read a list of objects and told to recall the 5th item on the list. To do that, you think through the list as you heard it to retrieve the memory of the 5th item in your STM. LTM is stored and then retrieved most often via association.

