 Selecting a quality pet store is key to choosing a happy and healthy pet. When you walk into the pet store, take note of its neatness and cleanliness.In addition to looking at the store’s overall appearance, look at the animals’ cages and enclosures.They should be clean and neat (e.g., clean and fresh bedding, no spoiling food).


The store itself should be brightly lit.
The aisles of a quality pet store should be wide and easy to navigate.Consider asking how often the cages and aquariums are cleaned.;
, A good pet store probably will not carry all types of animals, due to the variability and expense of care. For example, general pet stores probably will not carry reptiles and amphibians, since they are high-maintenance and require more specialized, costly care.A more generalized pet store may recommend that you visit a specialty pet store that sells only reptiles and amphibians.
Specialty pet stores are more likely to be local than part of a national chain.
 The staff at a quality pet store will place a high importance on keeping the animals healthy.As you walk around the store, check to see if the animals look healthy (e.g., well fed, clean, bright and alert disposition). Although pet stores may have sick animals, you should not see them on display.Animals sold in pet stores can become sick because of disease transmission from other animals in the store. The high volume of animals coming into the store increases the likelihood of disease transmission.If you happen to see a sick animal, consider asking one of the staff about how (and if) the animal is being treated.
A pet store with a large number of sick animals on display may indicate a lack of emphasis on quality animal care.
 The staff at a quality pet store should be knowledgeable about the animals in the store, animal care, and the products sold in the store. They should also have a good understanding of disease prevention and control.Do not be afraid to ask questions—you want to be confident that the staff will be able to provide you with useful information on pet care and ownership.


Keep in mind that the employee turnover rate at national chain pet stores may be higher than that at local pet stores. This could result in employees with less in-depth knowledge on specific animals or animal care products.Make sure to ask where the pet store obtains its animals.For example, a pet store may acquire their puppies from puppy mills, which are notorious for breeding and raising dogs in deplorable conditions.Do not purchase an animal from a pet store that obtains their animals through unethical sources (e.g., puppy mills, wild caught).
There are several other questions you can ask: How often do the animals receive medical care? How often are their enclosures cleaned? How do you prevent disease transmission between the animals? Which animals are most popular?

, After you are comfortable with a particular pet store, begin to research which type of pet you would like to purchase. Buying a pet should not be a rush decision, so take your time to learn as much as you can before making the purchase. Several good resources include pet guides, a veterinarian, and neighbors and friends who are pet owners.You can also visit your local humane society or species-specific rescue groups (e.g., ferrets, guinea pigs, rabbits) to learn more information.Reputable breeders are another good source of information.
Be aware that, as knowledgeable as the pet store staff may be, their ultimate goal is to sell you a pet. This may introduce bias into your decision,so it may be a good idea to seek information from more sources than the pet store.
As you are doing research, consider all qualities of a particular animal, not just the desirable ones. For example, although cockatiels are very intelligent and sociable,the females can develop egg laying problems that could negatively affect their health., Resist the temptation to surprise someone, especially a child, with a pet. It may seem like a good idea, but buying a pet as a gift could backfire if the person is not prepared to handle the responsibilities of pet ownership.In fact, a number of pet stores do not allow pet adoptions around major holidays (e.g., Christmas, Easter).Unfortunately, many animals get returned to pet stores after the holidays because the person to whom the animal was given was unable to commit to its long-term care.If you would like to give the pet as a gift, the Humane Society of the United States and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals recommend buying the pet accessories (e.g., cage, dog bed) first and presenting those as gifts. You can then discuss pet ownership and decide if it is a good idea., When you have narrowed your search to a particular pet, ask specific questions about its care. Ask about basic animal husbandry (e.g., diet, housing, toys), required medical are, and how large the animal will get.You can also ask how long the animal is expected to live—some animals (e.g., large birds) can live for several decades, and others, such as pocket pets, live for only a few years.If you have children, consider asking which animals would be safe and manageable for children. For example, reptiles may not be a good choice for children because they are high maintenance and could transmit salmonella through their feces.You may have already come across this information during your research. However, you can further gauge the knowledge of the pet store staff by asking these questions when you are in the store.
Listen for answers that are direct and honest. You want to be sure that the staff is answering your questions in a way that provides useful information, rather than encourages a sale., Looking at the physical health and behavior of an animal is always important, whether you are buying from a pet store, breeder, or animal shelter. Although certain physical characteristics will vary between species, a healthy animal will look bright and alert in his enclosure, will look well fed, and will not have any signs of ill health (e.g., emaciation, discharge from eyes or nose, poor bone structure).


If you are considering buying a fish, healthy characteristics to look for include bright colors, a well-rounded stomach, and clear eyes.A healthy reptile will have such characteristics as a belly that is free of burns and skin that is free of scratches and bites.If you are unsure about what ‘healthy’ looks like in a particular species, ask a veterinarian or animal expert for guidance.
 After you have chosen your pet from the store, schedule an appointment with your veterinarian as soon as you can.If your veterinarian detects certain health issues with your pet, you may be able to return the pet to the store.Ask about the animal return policy before you purchase the pet. You want to make sure you understand your responsibility (and the store’s responsibility) if a health issue is detected after you purchase your pet.

