 Get out a 9-inch (23-cm) square baking pan. Dip a pastry brush in some vegetable oil and spread it along the bottom and sides of the pan. Place 1 cup (125 g) of powdered sugar into a small, fine mesh sieve. Dust enough of the powdered sugar to completely coat the pan. Tap out the powdered sugar that doesn't stick to the oil.You won't need to use all of the powdered sugar. Just set the sieve aside since you'll need to dust more powdered sugar later.
You could also spray the pan with cooking spray instead of spreading it with vegetable oil.;
, Wash 4 medium lemons (about 1 pound or 453 g). Use a vegetable peeler to peel away the zest in large strips. Avoid peeling so deeply that you also get the white pith. If you do, just use a small knife to trim away the pith. Set the lemons aside and roughly chop the strips of lemon zest., Put the chopped lemon zest into a small food processor along with 1 1/2 cups (300 g) of granulated sugar. Blitz the zest and sugar for one to two minutes. The zest should be finely ground and combined with the sugar. Set the mixture aside., Cut the 4 lemons you peeled in half and juice them. Strain the juice through a mesh sieve to remove any pulp or seeds. You'll need to get 1/2 cup (120 ml) of lemon juice. Pour the juice into a large mixing bowl., Pour 2 tablespoons of water into the bowl with the lemon juice. Sprinkle 2 ounces (56 g) of powdered unflavored gelatin over the liquids. Stir the mixture a little so all of the powder is touching the liquid. Set the lemon-gelatin mixture aside to soften.You'll probably need four envelopes (1/4-ounce each) of unflavored gelatin.
 Place a 3 to 4-quart saucepan on the stove and put the ground lemon sugar into it. Add 1 cup (323 g) of light corn syrup, 1/4 teaspoon of salt, and 1/2 cup (120 ml) of water. Stir the mixture until it's combined., Turn the heat on to medium and stir the sugar syrup until it dissolves. Once the sugar is dissolved, stop stirring and keep heating the syrup until it boils and reaches 240 degrees F (115 C) on a candy thermometer. Turn off the heat.Don't worry if the syrup foams up as it reaches temperature. You may just need to turn the temperature on the stove down a little.
 Place the bowl that has the gelatin into the base of a stand mixer and turn the mixer on to low. Slowly pour the hot syrup into the side of the bowl so it gradually mixes into the gelatin. Turn the speed up to high, add 1/4 teaspoon (about 30 drops) of yellow food coloring, and beat the mixture for about 5 minutes so it becomes marshmallow.The marshmallow will become thick and fluffy once it's finished beating. If you turn off the mixer and lift a beater up, the marshmallow should make a thick ribbon when it falls back into the bowl.
If you want a brighter yellow color, you can add more yellow food coloring.
 Scoop the marshmallow into the prepared pan. Dip your fingers in water and use them to spread the marshmallow evenly in the pan.Don't worry if the marshmallow is very sticky. You may just need to wet your fingers down a few times so you can smooth the marshmallow.
 Set the pan of lemon marshmallow aside. Keep it uncovered and let it sit at room temperature for at least four hours (or overnight). The marshmallow will dry out so it's not sticky anymore.Drying the marshmallow will make it easier to handle and cut.
Never cover the marshmallows with plastic wrap since it could fall onto the marshmallows and stick.
 Once the marshmallow is dry to the touch, dust a cutting board with some of the powdered sugar. Run a rubber spatula around the sides of the marshmallow in the pan and flip it onto the cutting board. Dust the top of the lemon marshmallow with more powdered sugar., Dip a pastry brush in vegetable oil and brush it along a long knife. Dust the knife with powdered sugar to keep it from sticking to the marshmallow. Cut the marshmallow into 8 strips. Turn the pan 90 degrees and cut another 8 strips so you end up with 64 squares.You may need to brush and powder your knife once or twice as you're cutting the marshmallows.
If you want larger marshmallows, just cut 6 strips instead of 8. You'll end up with 36 larger marshmallows.
 Dust the marshmallows with powdered sugar so they're coated on all sides. Gently shake or brush the excess powdered sugar off of each marshmallow.Coating the marshmallows will prevent them from sticking to each other.
 Lay a sheet of wax or parchment paper in the bottom of an airtight container. Place a single layer of the marshmallows on the paper and top it with another sheet of the paper. Arrange another layer of marshmallows and paper until you've stored all of the marshmallows. Store the marshmallows at room temperature for up to one month.