 It is quite normal to have fewer erections as a man ages. It is not normal, however, to be unable to have or sustain an erection, and it is not normal to lose interest in sex. Lowered testosterone levels can cause sex-related symptoms, such as:Decreased sex drive (libido) and other sexually related problems:
Erectile dysfunction (ED)
A decrease in the number and quality of erections.
Decreased sperm counts and possible infertility;
, It is quite normal for a man’s testosterone level to decrease gradually with age, but you should not see many abnormal changes in your body. Lower testosterone in men can cause some bodily changes. This includes smaller testicles and swollen or tender breasts.In adolescents or young adults who have completed puberty yet, having low testosterone may cause them to appear younger than their chronological age. These adolescents/young adults may also be void of body or facial hair.
Men with lower levels may also experience hot flashes.
Men may also experience a decrease in muscle mass leading to decreased strength and endurance, along with osteopenia (softening of the bones) and osteoporosis (decreased bone density).
Men may also experience changes in blood lipids, such as cholesterol levels.
 Men who experience low testosterone levels may experience some changes to their behavior. They may feel fatigue, difficulty sleeping, or a change in sleep patterns. Mood changes can also occur, like depression, irritability, and anxiety.Men may also suffer from problems with memory, concentration, or a sudden lack of self-confidence.
 Women can have low testosterone as well. Symptoms in women most commonly occur around menopause and can complicate any treatment of menopausal symptoms. Symptoms of low testosterone in women include:Decreased sexual desire and function
Muscle weakness
Decreased vaginal lubrication
Infertility

, Testosterone levels in both men and women normally decrease with age. In men, testosterone levels decrease about 1% each year after the age of 30.Women over 40 may have half the testosterone they did in their 20s.These lower levels are normal, however, and may not point to a problem.


However, testosterone levels may drop significantly with age. Approximately 40% of men over the age of 45 have low testosterone.Watch for symptoms or discuss with your doctor if your testosterone levels are decreasing normally or if you are at risk for low levels.
 Low level production of testosterone can be due to a problem with the pituitary or hypothalamus glands. Obesity and type 2 diabetes may put you at risk for low testosterone in connection with these glands., Low testosterone levels can be caused by a variety of the conditions. Some of the common conditions include:Injury to the testicles
Alcoholism
Medication side effects
Testicular cancer or the treatments for testicular cancer
High blood pressure or cholesterol
Other hormonal disorders
Infections, such as HIV/AIDS
Chronic liver or kidney disease
Type 2 diabetes

