 For this project, you will need wire cutters, floral wire, and floral tape. You will also need to purchase and array of silk flowers. You may choose any kind of silk flowers that you would like. Roses, baby’s breath, peonies, poppies, daisies, dahlias, and lamb’s ear are all great options!


Consider going with a seasonal theme. For example, for a Fall-themed crown, use lots of reds, oranges, and yellows. Try to include some maple leaves, sunflowers, and marigolds.
Consider going with a holiday theme. For example, if you want to create a Halloween themed crown, consider using dark purple and black flowers. Roses, mums, and dahlias.
 Unwind the spool of floral wire. Gently wrap the floral wire around your head. The end of the wire should overlap the wire by 3 to 4 inches. Remove the wire crown from your head and cut the wire. Wrap the ends of the wire around the circular frame.


Consider wrapping a piece of floral tape around the seam to hide it, and to prevent it from catching your hair.
 Grab a pair of wire and your silk flowers. Cut the heads of each flower off, leaving 3 to 4 inches of stem. Leave the greens or smaller flowers, like the baby’s breath, in bunches.









Consider saving the leaves off of some of the larger flowers. These can make great fillers.
Do not use scissors to cut the silk flower stems. Many silk flowers have wires inside the stems, which can ruin a good pair of scissors.
 Place and wrap each flower around the wire crown with floral tape one at a time. Work counter clockwise around the circle. Place the head of one flower on top of the taped stem of the attached flower. Try to make all of the flowers face in the same direction. Here are some ideas on arranging your flowers:









Place the largest flowers in the front, and use smaller flowers towards the end.
Alternate large and small flowers.
Consider looping long pieces of ribbon at the back of the crown.
 Place the crown atop your head. Enjoy the silk floral head piece for years to come!

