 Studying on your own is important, especially when you are still learning the basics. To truly a master a language, however, you need to use it in a more natural context. A great way to do this is to join a conversation group.Most cities have free conversation groups for many different languages. Joining one of these groups gives you a chance to use your new language on a regular basis in a natural, conversational way.
Search on the internet to find one of these groups. Many of them use meetup.com to organize their meetings.
 Hearing native speakers use the language is another great way to learn it. Rent some movies in the language you are learning, or check out some television shows from a country the language is spoken in.


Many countries make at least some of their content available for free online for international audiences. The website of the German American International Congress, for example, allows you to stream German television shows for free and entirely legally.Search online to see if there's an option like this for the language you are learning.
Find programs that interest you! It will make this form of studying much easier., Another great way to hear the language spoken by native speakers is by listening to music or podcasts from abroad. Again, there are often free options for this.


The website TuneInRadio lets you listen to radio programming from other countries for free. There are also pre-made playlists on Spotify for different countries that you can stream for free.There are a number of free podcasts that can be very helpful for language learners as well. For example, for many languages, you can download a podcast of the daily news, read slowly in the language of your choice. This allows you to hear native speakers pronouncing a wide variety of words correctly, but at a pace that's easier to comprehend., When you first start learning a new language, you won't be able to sit down and read the great classics of literature in that language. Start with something lighter that you still find interesting.


Many people will start by reading children's books or comic books in the language they are learning. The pictures can add context that improves your comprehension.
Simple magazine content that focuses on topics that interest you can also work well. If you are interested fashion, for example, try picking up a fashion magazine in the language you are learning.