 The earlier you get experience in marine biology, the greater your chance of landing a solid job once you have the education. Explore the natural world and spend time in the ocean or a large body of water near you.You may be able to meet people who are involved in studying or working with aquatic life or habitats. Take the opportunity to talk to professionals who work in the water. You can also research marine related clubs or camps, aquariums, or marine preserves and visit them when you're younger.


For example, Ecology Project International has programs aimed at people as young as high school., Skills like boat handling, scuba diving, and first aid are important things to know how to do if you plan on working directly with aquatic environments or marine life. It is important to have these skills if you need to solve a critical problem while at sea.While some marine biology courses provide boat handling, rigging, and scuba diving into their curriculum, others do not so you should pursue it separately from your degree., While you are getting your undergraduate degree, you should take advantage of volunteer opportunities. Search online for volunteer openings near you. Working with a professional will give you insight into how it will be to work in the field.


Organizations that offer volunteer opportunities in marine biology include, the Mamirauá Institute for Sustainable Development, The Manatee Observation and Education Center, the Earthwatch Institute, and Go! Volunteer Abroad.Look for local marine organizations that may need help in your town first.
 Try to find someone who is an expert in the type of marine biology that you want to pursue and ask them to be your mentor.Look online for the research groups or institutions that you want to work for. Visit their facilities and ask if you could intern or provide help for free.


If you show your passion and interest for marine biology your mentor will be more likely to invest time teaching you.
 During or shortly after college you should take on an internship if you are serious about becoming a marine biologist. Internships will give you the skills and experience that you need to prepare you for the job. Search online for internships at popular schools and submit an application to become an intern.Some internships are paid and can help supplement your financial needs.
Schools that offer internships in marine biology include Boston University/Marine Biological Laboratory, Virginia Institute of Marine Science, Southampton College, and the Marine Science Center at Northeastern University.Research centers that may need interns include, Hatfield Marine Science Center in Newport Oregon, Blakely Island Field Station in Washington, and the Hopkins Marine Station in California.