 Don't buy accessories and things like that, because your head and body are the most important. New users are easily spotted by the IMVU default head and skin. If you need a good head or skin, try looking at the DOC (Daily Outfit Challenge). They have many users whose AVIs look better than the default. Then you can try their clothes and other things on and save them to your wish list.;
, You will get 500 credits. Confirm your account and you will have 2000. After that, download IMVU and you will earn more when they give you a tour. Click yes to the tour in order to earn more credits. Credits are the money that helps you buy cool things like clothes, shoes, accessories, etc. You can also give them away to other people as a gift.
 There are $10, $15, $20, $25 and $50 cards. You will usually be rewarded with other stuff for buying these cards. Once you buy the card, don't scratch it off until you've reached your account, then redeem the code. Or you could mail it in and most likely they will accept it.
 This is a good idea (unless you hate people) because they can gift you. It's fun getting gifts from friends because everyone is usually broke or gives their credits away to other people for customizing their avatars, which is usually expensive. You will run into some haters and mean people, but you can't please everyone so you can just block them.
 If you have seen other people's profile and pics they look awesome, that is because their AVI pictures were either edited, their profiles are DIV layouts, etc. Search Google for DIV layouts. Websites should be listed that do them for free and already give you the code. They look difficult to read but they are not. Look up some YouTube videos for editing AVI pics. Try downloading GIMP. GIMP is used for editing AVI pics and making them look cool.
 These are things you can purchase that a guest wouldn't have. Shop Creator is another name for Developer. They have Guest removed from their name forever. Basically they are the ones who create the stuff you buy. It's not just all IMVU creating these things. Developing is hard but you will get the hang of it by watching tutorials on YouTube. Purchasing your name is when you really like your name and don't want anyone else to have it. Changing your user name because you don't want your old one anymore is usually around $12.95. AP is Access Pass and is for people who are 18 years old or older. It’s usually pointless, but you can do things a guest couldn't do like buy sexual things, poses, etc. Age Verification is basically what it sounds like: changing the age of what your profile says. VIP is Very Important People, who have different poses and other things everyone else wouldn't have, including making more than one chat room.
 You can't really get " better" at IMVU. IMVU is a chatting source, first and foremost. The IMVU avatars can surely look more "better", but you can't really get better at IMVU, the game itself. Always remember to just be yourself. Ignore all those haters who may call you a "noob", they were probably a noob (that's why they may call you a noob). Also remember that there are no "noobs", just new people with different tastes than other members who have been on IMVU for quite some time.


You are your own person; do whatever you want to do. IMVU is a fantasy universe where you can be anything or anyone, don't let some ignorant bullies destroy your IMVU experience. Be yourself, and you'll be fine. Have fun on IMVU!

