 Before you embark on your search for the perfect fishing rod, you’ll need to identify what you plan to do with it. Here are some of the factors worth considering:



Casual angler or fishing enthusiast? The amount of fishing you plan to do will have a significant impact on your choice. If you’re just looking for something you’ll use once or twice a year, it would be prudent to select a simple rod that won’t cost a lot of money and is easy to use. Someone planning a more hard-core fishing schedule should consider a more durable, higher-quality option.

Smallmouth bass or Chinook salmon? The size of the catch will also make a big difference in the rod you choose. If you’re looking to snag some bass, trout, or other reasonably sized fish, you’ll likely favor a lighter rod and thinner fishing line. Bigger catches like salmon require stronger rods and line. And if you’re after the biggest game, you will need a top-end rod and a long, strong fishing line.

Child or adult? The size of the rod will depend largely on who it is for. If you’re looking for a fishing rod suitable for a child, you’ll be seeking a shorter, lighter rod than the type an adult would use. Rods come in a wide assortment of sizes, making it easy to find one suited to whoever will be using it.

Dockside or ocean? Where you plan to fish is one of the most important factors to consider. Angling off a dock shouldn’t require anything fancy, but open ocean fishing may need heavier tackle or special jigs, depending on your quarry. Consider your target and the conditions in which you’ll be fishing - calm waters, raging seas or anything in between—and choose accordingly.;
, The majority of anglers, from beginners to pros, use one of two different reels:


The spinning reel is generally the easier of the two reels to cast and is ideal for those who are new to the sport. The spinning reel uses a lighter line, making it the preferred option when fishing for smaller game in open-water situations. Larger fish can create problems for those using a spinner reel, and the thinner line tends to tangle more easily than a heavier line would.
The baitcast reel is the favored choice among bass fishermen and those who seek bigger catches. Baitcast reels support a thicker fishing line, allowing anglers to better navigate “cover” (the term used to describe any area with weeds, rocks, or other impediments where fish like to hide). Baitcast reels are harder to cast, however, and can be an exercise in frustration for those who aren’t familiar with how they work.
 Most new rods come in two materials:



Graphite rods are ideal for the majority of anglers. These rods offer plenty of give but won’t break even if you hook a really large fish. For standard fishing excursions, a graphite rod will do the trick.

Composite rods are a combination of graphite and fiberglass, providing much of the flexibility you get with a straight graphite rod but with added durability. These rods are better for those who are interested in “crankbaiting” (using heavy flat lures that run along jagged surfaces without snagging).
 Decide what you’re willing to spend and stick to it. This will help narrow down your choices further when it comes time to choose a rod.
 User reviews are a good way to get a rough consensus on the quality of a fishing rod. Fishing websites and other online resources will also conduct product reviews on new items; these reviews are often archived and can be tracked down using a simple search.
 A quick Internet search should display all of the best available options. A fishing-specific store or outdoor sporting goods establishment will have the largest selection of fishing rods, while department stores usually have outdoor sports sections that carry a smaller cache of equipment but will offer more in the way of discount options.

