 Any post-pregnancy exercise should be okayed by a physician — this is especially true after a major procedure like a c-section, as the sutures on the incision can be compromised if the mother overexerts herself.Most new mothers need to be seen by their doctor at least once after their c-section anyway to ensure that their body is healing properly, so at this post-delivery checkup, let your OB/GYN know that you would like to start working out again and ask when it would be okay.



Note: the content of this article is not intended to replace the advice of your doctor.;
, Carrying a baby and giving birth can be traumatic for your body, even if everything goes right. For instance, a normal pregnancy can sometimes cause a condition called diastasis recti where the abdominal muscles move apart as the belly expands.On top of this, a c-section will leave you with an incision that takes time to heal. This makes relaxation during the recovery period especially crucial, even if you were in great shape before your pregnancy.


Traditionally, new mothers are advised to wait about six to eight weeks after any kind of pregnancy to resume most exercise. During this time, they are usually limited to very gentle activity like walking. Recently, doctors have begun allowing women to start exercising sooner than this.However, this does not necessarily apply to women who have had a c-section, as these women still have an incision that needs to heal.
Since different women heal at different speeds, be prepared to wait longer than this minimum time limit if your doctor advises you to do so.
 The first exercising you do after your c-section should be very gentle, even if you routinely lifted weights or ran marathons before your pregnancy. Your muscles (especially the ones in your hips and core) have been taxed by your pregnancy and the resulting lack of exercise that accompanied it, so they'll need to gradually work back up to their previous level of strength. Don't push yourself — doing too much too soon is a good way to injure yourself.



See the sections below for a selection of low-intensity strength and cardio exercises that you may want to consider trying. Your doctor or physical therapist will also be able to provide you with plenty of ideas.
 With a gentle exercise routine that gradually ramps up in intensity, you should quickly be back to your old self just a few months after your procedure. Be patient — you've just undergone a pregnancy and a major surgery, so the minor inconvenience of having to stick to a gentle exercise routine is nothing compared to your health and safety.
 As you work your way back towards your ordinary exercise routine, it's important to minimize the unnecessary stress you put on your body. Take the basic precautions below to stay safe:Take about five minutes to warm up and cool down every time you exercise.
Restrict your first few exercise sessions to about 10 minutes apiece, three times per week.
Drink plenty of fluids.
Wear a supportive bra (don't forget nursing pads if you're breastfeeding.)
Stop exercising immediately if you feel pain or get fatigued.
 One popular way to protect a c-section wound during exercise is to wear a type of clothing designed for postpartum women called a "compression garment." These sorts of clothes (which can have varying names like "recovery shorts" and so on) use gentle pressure to support c-section wounds as they heal, making them a useful aid for new mothers looking to get back into shape. While compression garments can tend to be on the expensive side (with some costing as much as almost $200 per pair), many mothers swear by them.


Note that compression garments aren't intended as shapewear, so if this is something that would bother you, you should feel no embarrassment about wearing them (which isn't to say you should be embarrassed if you do wear shapewear.)

, Exercising after a c-section can be tricky even if you're healing perfectly. You'll likely be quite busy. You'll probably get fatigued more easily than you're used to. You may even feel emotional or demotivated due to hormonal processes beyond your control.Do your best to surpass these hurdles and exercise when you can — exercising will help you feel better and give you plenty of energy to care for your new child.


If you frequently feel too tired, sad, demotivated, or "blah" after your pregnancy to start exercising, you may be suffering from postpartum depression. Talk to your doctor to find a treatment plan that works for you.

