 You might want to approach your search as a first time traveler as an adventure in and of itself. As long as you’re a fairly open-minded, easygoing person, you can pick a location using a random destination generator available online. Sites like travelsp.in, geomidpoint.com, earthroulette.com, and jauntaroo.com allow you to enter some general constraints and find a destination with the click of a button.


Only use random point generators like geomidpoint.com if cost is not a major concern. If you are on a budget, use a site like jauntaroo.com, as it takes finances and other preferences into consideration.
 If you are interested in several locations but don’t know how to whittle down your options, you can leave the final choice up to chance! Write down five to ten destinations you’re considering on slips of paper, fold them up, and shake them in a hat or basket. Pick just one at random and you’ll have your destination decision!


If you want to make the process even more exciting and unpredictable, have friends and family write down destinations they think you should visit. Choose from these crowd-sourced destinations rather than working from your own list.
 Before purchasing tickets to your spontaneous get-away, do some basic research to make sure your impromptu itinerary is a safe one. Review government travel advisory sites such as https://travel.state.gov or https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice in order to find out if there are any current environmental or social problems which could endanger your stay. You should also look into medical services so you’ll be sure that, in the case of emergency, you’ll be able to find the proper care.


Don’t forget to check out specific social customs which could single you out in particular. For example, some destinations are less safe for LGBTQ individuals or single women, so figure out beforehand if your identity could put you in jeopardy in a particular area and culture.You should also research how much of an issue property-related crimes such as pick-pocketing or mugging are. Relatively high rates of pick-pocketing don’t mean you have to rule the destination out, but you should take certain measures such as passport belts which strap on under your shirt and mobile safes to lock up your valuables.