 The best criminal defense attorneys can charge $1,000 an hour for their services and $500 an hour or so for the assistance of junior attorneys who they employ.Accordingly, if you hired the best legal team in the country for your trial, you would pay over several million dollars. Since you probably do not have that kind of money, you should focus on finding the best attorney you can afford for your situation.


You should try to figure out how much money you can commit to your defense. You should consider several factors:

The amount of time you face in jail if convicted. If you won’t face any time, or if you have a clean criminal record and are likely to get probation, then you might not want to bankrupt your family to get the best lawyer possible.
Your family resources. How much cash and liquid assets (like bonds or stock) do you have? Are there assets you can sell? You should get some sense of the absolute maximum you can spend on your defense.
How determined you are to go to trial. Preparing for trials is enormously time-consuming. Attorneys must review all of the evidence a second time, interview witnesses, prepare exhibits, and handle pre-trial motions. A lawyer could easily spend 500 hours on thorough trial preparation.

;
, If you are indigent, then you can qualify for a public defender. The United States Constitution guarantees you the right to counsel if you are charged with a crime that could subject you to more than six months in jail. However, in order to qualify for a public defender, you typically have to be poor.In order to be appointed the defender, you will need to fill out a form listing your finances. You should request the application during your first appearance before the judge. Fill it out as soon as possible and provide any relevant supporting documentation. The judge will then review your information and decide whether or not to appoint a public defender.Should you qualify for a public defender, it is unlikely that you can “choose” which defender to work with. Public defender offices are overwhelmed with work and you will be assigned to a public defender who can fit you into their schedule. If you don’t like your public defender, you can fire him or her. However, you might get only limited legal assistance, such as standby counsel or access to a law library. Or you may have to defend yourself., Many criminal defense attorneys specialize in certain crimes. For example, if you are facing a DUI, then you might want to hire a DUI attorney. Conversely, some attorneys handle only felonies, like murder or burglary. Still others specialize in sexual assault.


You should identify what charges you are facing. You may be facing a single charge, such as DUI. Alternately, you might be facing multiple charges, such as possession of drugs, aggravated assault, and burglary.
Any attorney you meet with for a consultation will want to know the extent of the charges. Look at your charging document to see what crimes you have been charged with.
 You might hope to plead guilty to the offense, in which case your expenses will be lower. The attorney you hire won’t have to prepare for trial (unless your plea bargain falls through). If you want to plea bargain, then you might have more wiggle room in terms of who to hire because you could afford a higher hourly rate.


You should also look for an attorney who is experienced in plea bargaining. Plea bargaining is a skill, which improves with experience.
 Your first source of information should be people you know: friends and family.If you feel comfortable, then you can ask if they have ever needed a criminal defense attorney or whether they know anyone who has. Then ask if they would recommend the person.


Be aware that once you ask for recommendations for a criminal defense attorney, then word will get out that you have been charged with a crime. If you don’t want anyone at work to know that fact, then don’t ask anyone affiliated with your job.
Don’t rely solely on someone’s personal recommendation. People respond to different communication styles and need different things from their lawyers.For example, some people don’t mind months going by without hearing from their lawyer. By contrast, you might want more regular updates.
Write down the names of attorneys recommended. Keep a list so that, later, you can research each lawyer.
 You can also search for criminal defense attorneys by doing an Internet search. Type “criminal defense lawyer” and your city or county in your favorite web browser. You will probably get a lot of hits. For now, simply take down names and briefly glance through the website to see if the attorney handles your type of criminal defense issue.
 You can also get referrals from your state bar association. Most states run a referral service. These services can differ, depending on the state. Some may be more helpful than others.


In some states, a person will interview you and take down relevant information, such as the offense you are charged with. This person will then connect you with an attorney. If you don’t want to hire the attorney you are connected with, then you will need to call the referral service again. You could find this process time-consuming.
In other states, you can search a database based on attorney specialty. This type of referral service can be helpful because you can get the names of several attorneys at once.
 A great source of recommendations is another lawyer. He or she should be familiar with the reputations of lawyers in the local community and can point you in the direction of a lawyer who is sufficiently qualified to handle your case. If you have ever used a lawyer for a non-criminal matter, then reconnect and ask for any recommendations., If you have the time, you can visit court and watch attorneys in action. If one of them impresses you, then you can talk to the person confidentially outside the courtroom and ask if they are willing to represent you., Once you have a list of prospective attorneys, you can begin to research them by visiting their websites.Most lawyers have websites now. Once you get to the website, pay attention to the following:


Relevant experience. Has the lawyer handled criminal cases like yours? If you have been charged with aggravated assault or bank robbery, you should look for an attorney who has handled those types of cases.Most lawyers should give a thumbnail sketch of the cases they have worked on.
Awards or recommendations. Check if the lawyer has won any awards for his or her work.
Support staff. A solo attorney might not have the resources you want. If you think you will go to trial and you have the financial resources to pay top dollar, then you might want to hire a lawyer who works in a firm with other attorneys. These other attorneys can provide critical support as you defend yourself.
Spelling and grammar. Also pay attention to the overall presentation of the website. A lawyer who is sloppy in presentation of him or herself also could be sloppy when representing you. Look for a clean, professional presentation in terms of writing style, layout, and any picture.
 Many criminal defense attorneys started out as former prosecutors. These lawyers like to sell their experience as a former prosecutor to prospective clients. Prior prosecutorial experience can be helpful, especially if the experience was recent and if you are looking for a plea deal. A lawyer who knows the prosecutor probably has insight as to how to effectively negotiate.


However, you don’t need a former prosecutor. Some of the most experienced criminal defense attorneys were never prosecutors, and criminal defense experience is more relevant than prosecutorial experience.
 Every state has a regulatory board that investigates complaints against lawyers. If the complaint has merit, then the board brings charges for an ethics violation. You can find the board for your state by searching “attorney discipline” and your state.


Once at your state board’s website, you can search individual attorneys to see if they have ever been disciplined for an ethics violation.Realize that some attorneys can be ethical but still mediocre lawyers. Accordingly, the absence of an ethics violation does not mean that the person is a great lawyer.
To find your state’s disciplinary commission, type “disciplinary board” and “attorney” along with your state into your favorite web browser. At the commission’s website, you can typically search by attorney name.
 There are many websites that now provide free business reviews, including reviews of attorneys: Avvo, Yahoo Local, and Find Law are just a few. Be aware, however, that negative reviews will probably outnumber positive reviews on these websites. Clients who are upset by the service they received are generally more motivated to leave reviews.Furthermore, every review is only one side of the story. Sometimes ethics rules prevent attorneys from effectively responding online to the complaint.
Also check to see if the attorney has earned a Martindale-Hubbell rating. "AV" is the highest ability/highest ethics rating based on the opinion of lawyers and judges who know the attorney. Only 10% of American lawyers achieve this rating.Only half of all lawyers have earned a rating, so A-B-C rated lawyers are in the top half of their field. Furthermore, you cannot have an ability rating unless you have earned the highest ethics rating (the "V" rating)., Once you have done your research, you can narrow down the list of candidates. The criteria you use is up to you. For example, you might decide that extensive experience is most important. Accordingly, you will cross off your list those with only a few years of experience.


Alternately, you might give weight to personal recommendations by friends who have just used a criminal defense lawyer. Accordingly, you might only want to talk to those attorneys.
However you narrow your list, you should make sure it is not too long. Your next step is to contact attorneys and talk to them. If you are under time constraints, then you might only want to talk to one or two. If you have more time, you can contact four or five attorneys.
 You should be prepared to ask several questions at the consultation. You might not have much time, but you should get answers to the most pressing questions that you have. Common questions people ask criminal defense attorneys include:Questions about the attorney’s experience, such as what percentage of the lawyer’s workload has been dedicated to similar cases.
How often the lawyer has worked out plea agreements.
The number of trials the attorney has handled, including what percentage go to trial.
Whether you should go to trial or plead guilty.
The lawyer’s strategy for handling your case.
 Some lawyers will offer a free consultation. At the consultation, you can tell the attorney a little bit about your case and ask questions. Other lawyers will either charge for a consultation or be too busy to meet you on short notice. In that situation, you can try to ask a few questions over the phone.


Always ask if the lawyer offers a free consultation. Some won’t, but they may charge a reduced fee, such as $50 or so.
 The attorney will want to see any documents or other evidence that is relevant to your case.If you have a copy of the indictment, then bring that with you. Also bring anything else related to the case, such as the police report, bail papers, or paperwork received when your property was searched.Also bring a list of any victims, witnesses, and co-defendants. An attorney cannot represent you if there is a conflict, e.g., the attorney is representing the victim in another case. You should share this information upfront so that an attorney with a conflict can quickly end the consultation before you share too much information.Make copies and retain the originals for your records.
 Unless you are already in prison, you should try to meet with any prospective attorney who is willing to meet with you. By meeting in person, you can gain a better sense of how well you communicate with the attorney.


Pay attention to how all of the staff in the lawyer’s office treats you. Everyone you meet should be helpful and respectful. A lawyer who hires rude staff might not be the best judge of people or value his clients that highly.
 Any information you share in the consultation will remain confidential. Accordingly, you should answer the lawyer’s questions honestly. He or she needs to know the truth in order to provide good advice.You need to be honest especially if you want a lawyer to speculate as to your chances of beating the charge. If you hide bad facts from the lawyer, then of course he or she will think you have a better chance of winning than you actually do.
It’s normal to be embarrassed to admit to transgressions or mistakes that you have made. Remember that a lawyer is not sitting there to judge you. Instead, a competent attorney wants to make sure that you get a fair trial.
 No matter what else you ask about, you need to discuss fees with any lawyer you meet. Criminal defense attorneys can use different fee arrangements, and you should discuss all of them with the lawyer. Try to get a sense of how much the total representation will cost. If you are given a range, then assume the higher number is more accurate.


Criminal defense attorneys may charge by the hour or for a fixed fee. For example, you may be quoted $250 an hour or $1,500 as a fixed fee for a DUI. With hourly billing, you could pay less if the case turns out to be simpler than the lawyer anticipated—or you could pay a lot more if the case is unexpectedly complex. With a fixed rate, you know what you will pay regardless of the case’s complexity.If you are paying an attorney a flat fee, the amount you pay will be the same whether your case goes to trial or gets settled before a preliminary hearing.
Some criminal defense attorneys might agree to an hourly rate but with a cap. Once you reach the cap, the lawyer’s work from there on is free.
Retainers. Many criminal defense attorneys want most or all of their money upfront. The amount you pay is called a “retainer.” After you pay it, the lawyer will deduct hourly fees from the retainer. You won’t pay anything until the retainer is entirely eaten up. If money is left over at the end of the representation, then the lawyer will issue a refund.
Other criminal attorneys charge you in stages. For example, your fee arrangement may dictate that you will pay the attorney X amount up until the preliminary hearing. From the preliminary hearing up until the trial you may have to pay X amount more. Finally, if your case goes to trial, your fee arrangement may require you to pay another amount on top of all the other fees.
If you cannot afford to pay a criminal defense attorney with money, they may accept property instead. While this is not usually their preference, they may accept it as payment in some situations.
Criminal defense attorneys cannot ethically represent you on contingency, so you shouldn’t bother to ask about contingency fee agreements.Although a criminal attorney cannot represent you on a contingency fee basis, attorneys that handle civil forfeitures often do work on contingency. If you are looking to hire an attorney to get back property that was seized from you by law enforcement (during a criminal investigation), you can hire that attorney on a contingency fee basis.
 After you have met or talked with a few attorneys, you should have a good enough sense to make a decision. Though you should certainly consider experience and fees, you also need to trust your “gut” instinct.Ask yourself the following:


Who did you connect with? Did you feel more comfortable talking to one attorney than another? If you don’t feel comfortable asking questions during a short consultation, then you might feel uncomfortable later on.
Who seemed most confident and assured? Or were they too optimistic and claimed that it would be an easy case? You should avoid anyone who claims a case is a “slam dunk.”Could you see yourself trusting this person with your life?
Whose office seemed orderly and well-run? Was the place a zoo, with people running in and out of offices and documents messily piled up all over the place?

, Once you pick a lawyer, you should call and tell him or her that you would like to hire them. The lawyer will probably want a retainer, which is money put upfront. Retainers can vary depending on the criminal charge you face, the attorney’s experience, and your location.Retainers for felonies usually start between $5,000 and 10,000. More serious felonies, like sexual assault or homicide, can cost $25,000 or more.The lawyer should give you a retainer agreement to read before you pay the money. Make sure that the retainer covers the entire representation, including going to trial., A competent attorney will give you an engagement letter to sign. This letter spells out the attorney-client relationship, including the scope of the representation. You should read this document carefully and raise any questions that you have before signing. For example, if you want the lawyer to agree to represent you should you need an appeal, then you would want that stated in the engagement letter. Otherwise, the lawyer could legally terminate the representation at the completion of the trial.


Fee agreements may be included in the letter or sent separately as an individual agreement. You should look those over closely as well. Be sure to bring to the lawyer’s attention anything you disagree with or are unsure about.
 An attorney can only represent you effectively if you cooperate. Be sure to get your lawyer any requested documents as soon as possible. Stay engaged in your case and ask questions.


Not all attorney-client relationships work out. If you are thinking about firing your lawyer, then read Know when to Fire Your Lawyer for tips on how to decide.

