 Depending on your age, weight, and activity level, you may need fewer or more calories for basic sustenance. Knowing how many calories you need can get you started on knowing how many calories to restrict.


Many resources can be found online or you can do the math yourself. As always, the best advice comes straight from a professional--your doctor can tell you just how many calories you need to eat for your weight goals.
If you limit yourself to 1,700 calories a day, don't forget to account for exercise. Though it may not burn as many calories as it seems it does, it does give you wiggle room for eating more. Note that this caloric restriction is only to get you on track--soon enough you won't be counting: good eating habits will be automatic.;
, Writing down everything you eat every day will bring to light your food habits and what food groups you may be missing out on. Don't forget to include drinks!


Part of what makes a food journal so useful is that it keeps you accountable and motivated. You'll be forced to take a look at what you're consuming which may be just the catalyst for change you needed. If your opinion of yourself isn't enough, have a friend be your guide. They'll go over your journal a few times a week to make sure you're on track. Knowing they'll be there to watch over you may keep you from straying off course.

As you keep this journal, note days where you made good trade-offs (a low-fat yogurt instead of those cookies) or particularly good decisions. What works for you? What doesn't? What patterns do you see emerging?



, If you enjoy sitting down to a big plate full of food, fill the gaps with a tasty salad or steamed vegetables instead, providing it does not affect your calorie control plan.


It's particularly hard to portion control at restaurants. While you certainly can order that basket of cheese fries and plate of fettuccine alfredo, eat only a serving size. For fruits, think of a tennis ball. For vegetables, a baseball. And carbs? A hockey puck.WebMD offers a pretty great portion-sizing tool for a number of foods, including mixed dishes.Whatever you order, box up the rest and take it home with you. It's softer on your budget, too!

, You have 20 minutes of chowing down before your brain realizes you're full. If you eat slowly, your calorie consumption is less when you stop. Eating leisurely literally keeps you from wanting more.Slowing down not only curbs your calorie intake, but it helps you appreciate your meal, giving you time to really concentrate on your sensory experience. Enjoy your food while you're eating it -- take efforts to savor each bite. You'll become more in tune with your satisfaction.
 A good diet isn't about concrete goals in this instance. This should be a lifelong change that becomes old habit after a few weeks. You don't want to spend your life counting calories and dreading the next weigh-in. Don't be daunted by this undertaking. Staying positive will last longer than any other motivator.


Find yourself non-food rewards. Reward yourself with a nice massage or bath instead of food or buy yourself some flowers for your home. Find ways to make exercise & dieting fun.

