 All the time. You've heard it so many times that it seems clichéd, but it's true: protecting your skin from the sun is absolutely essential to looking and feeling good as you get older. Studies have shown that roughly 90% of skin problems associated with aging (wrinkles, blotchiness, dryness, sagging) are cause by sun damage.Apply sunscreen every single day, even when it's overcast and cloudy.To maximize protection, look for broad spectrum, waterproof sunscreens with a minimum SPF 30.You can buy moisturizers or even makeup with SPF. Make sure it's broad spectrum and at least SPF 30.Find a cute, wide-brimmed hat to help shade your face from the sun.
Prevention is key: it is much easier to take a few seconds every day and apply sunscreen than it is to try and undo a lifetime of skin damage when you're older.;
, Maintaining healthy skin well into old age requires more than just staying out of the sun. Moisturize your skin daily. Wash your face twice a day with warm water and a mild cleanser (soap can be harsh and dry out your skin).If you supplement your skin care ritual with anti-aging products, look for products created for your skin type (dry, oily, sensitive), that are hypoallergenic, and doesn't cause acne (non-comedogenic or non-acnegenic).Don't assume the most expensive product is also the most effective. There are plenty of affordable anti-aging products that work just as well or better than the ones that break the bank.Exfoliate twice a week to remove dead skin cells. Don't scrub your face when you do this--use a gentle, circular motion with your fingers.Use an eye cream or serum to tighten and de-puff the delicate skin around your eyes. Be careful not to pull on this skin--gently work it into your skin with the tips of your fingers.Don't forget the skin on your lips. Use a moisturizing lip balm with SPF.See a dermatologist for professional advice on how to best care for your skin., Smoking actually speeds up the aging process by depriving your skin of oxygen and essential vitamins which leads to premature wrinkles.It also damages collagen and elastin, causing your skin to sag.Smoking is linked to serious health problems that can shorten and impair your life, like heart disease, lung disease, and cancer.
 It is easy to let your work define you, but what happens when you finally retire? To prevent withdrawing and becoming depressed, inactive, and disconnected from others, think about meaningful ways to fill your golden years. You can focus on whatever passions and interests took a back-seat to your job.Consider traveling, spending time with family, developing your spiritual life, and discovering new interests that will keep you engaged and challenged.