 This can be a daunting task- either you have a lot of ideas or none at all. However, you can find inspiration in many places.


Be creative- how can you show what you are grateful for? Examples include a cut-out of your hand on colorful paper, apple/potato stamps, a pop-up-card- but there are no limits to your ideas!
Look online on crafting forums for inspiration- even if you only find what you don't want to do!Bounce off ideas with friends or parents- good feedback is always helpful!

, Here you need to be practical and think about what's doable and what is not.


Evaluate your artistic abilities and time. What can realistically be accomplished?
Think of your teacher first- what would they like? Maybe something that you don't like would appeal to them.
 Now that you've decided on what you'd like to do, think of what you have and what you need and write it down.


Look around the house and see what you already have- old paper scraps could be re-purposed for shapes you want to glue to your card, for example.
Ask friends and family for old materials they might discard otherwise, such as textile cloths or old crayons.
Consider using different materials to layer the card, for example: markers, crayons, glitter, glue, stickers, pens, and paint.
 Your list is complete, and all you have to do is buy your materials.


Go to an arts and craft store instead of ordering materials online. The sales clerks at arts and craft stores create things everyday- they'll be happy to help and give you great tips!
Line them up in the order you will need to use them. When you are in the process, preparation will save you time and energy.
 This step takes extra time, but it will be worth it in the end. Also, if your draft looks good, you can give it to another teacher!


Put effort into the draft- it will give you ideas for the final product and tell you what works and what doesn't.
Take notes during your draft- so that you know what worked and what did not.
 This may seem silly, but it's helpful to you and later to others, should you decide to share your instructions.
 This will help you to not forget anything important.


Think about typing up your instructions and sharing them with others!

, After all the preparations, it's time to make your card. Here is what to keep in mind:


Follow your own instructions- to a t! Neatness and precision are essential when it comes to crafting a card for a teacher- it's another way of showing them that their lessons were appreciated.
Draw, glue, paint your card.
Pay attention to what you are doing- it's easy to make a mistake working with different materials.
 You're done! Now it's time to look at your card and see if you like it, and more importantly, if your teacher would like it!


Compare it with your draft- what is better, what is worse?
Consider making a second card, to have a backup.
 This is often perceived as the hardest part, as you don't want to be clichéd or trite in your words.


Be honest and creative: tell them why they are great, but tell them in your own special way: For example, write your message in a secret code and leave them a clue. Be personal: If there is a special instance when they helped you or were nice mention that. The fact that you remember shows that you pay attention and your teacher will love it.
 On to the home stretch! A beautifully delivered card underlines the content and makes your teacher happy.


Hand deliver the card.
Deliver the card when your teacher has a free moment and time to appreciate the card- that's after school most of the time.
Smile when presenting it to your teacher- this will signal your true intentions to them.
Watch your posture and enunciate your words properly- this shows confidence!

