 Some employers might try to discuss salary at the start of the interview. If possible, you should delay any discussion of salary until you’ve made your case for why you should be hired. Deflect by saying something like, “Let’s talk numbers later. I need to hear more about the job first.”Of course, you might have had to put a salary down on your application. Remember that the number you proposed is simply a starting point for discussion. Based on what you learn about the job, you can increase the amount you ask for.;
, You can’t really discuss salary until you understand in detail the job requirements. Often, employers publish job descriptions that are vague or confusing. Accordingly, use the interview to figure out exactly what the employer wants you to do in the job.


Request a job description and spend several minutes looking it over.Make sure the responsibilities align with your expectations.
Based on the interview, you might realize that your proposed salary is much too low. For example, the job might be more complex than you had anticipated. In that situation, you'll need to adjust your salary expectations.
 Ideally, delay negotiations until you know you have the job. This will put you in the strongest bargaining position. Be sure to ask, “Are you offering me the job?”


Often, it won't be possible to have a job offer in hand before negotiating. If the employer is on a very tight budget, they might try to lock you into a salary range before even offering you the job.
 Not every employer is willing to negotiate salary, so ask. If they say “no,” then you can move on to negotiate fringe benefits, which can increase your overall compensation.Depending on your job, you might also negotiate a signing bonus, performance bonus, or commission. For example, sales people are often compensated in these ways.
 Your current salary might be the starting point for discussion. You can expect the employer to ask something like, “So how much do you make in your current position?” You must always answer honestly, but you can offer an approximation: "I make mid-thirties."


If you lie, you’ll destroy your credibility. An employer can do a little research to find out what you currently make.
If your current salary is low, you can explain why. For example, “I only make $24,000, but that’s because I needed to get my foot in the door somewhere. Since starting a year ago, I’ve taken on high-level work to gain experience, so I think I’m underpaid right now.”If your current salary is higher than what the new job can offer, you need to explain why you are seeking to switch.
 When negotiating, some employers might want you to throw out the first number. This can work to your advantage. Research has shown that the first number serves as an “anchor” for the negotiation, and that it is difficult to negotiate away from the anchor.Accordingly, you should state the high end of your salary range.


Experts recommend using a precise number, such as $38,550 instead of $39,000. By using a precise number, the person on the other side will assume that you have done considerable research.However, sometimes it’s better not to throw out the first number, especially if you don’t have sufficient information. For example, the employer might not have shared a job description with you. In that situation, you can say, “You have a better idea of your compensation policy. What’s a fair salary?”

, If the employer comes in low with their counter-offer, you should reject it and make your own counter-offer. However, you also need to give reasons justifying why.


For example, you can say, “I’m sorry, that’s a little low. I think based on my twelve years of experience in the field, I’m worth more.”
If the employer proposed the first number, ask why. For example, you could say, “That sounds a little low. Can I see a job description? I might not understand what you are looking for.”
Only move down from your first number in $500-1,000 increments. If your first number is $40,000 and the employer offers $35,000, don’t move immediately to $37,500. Instead, propose $39,000.
 Fringe benefits such as health insurance and a company retirement plan can increase your overall compensation substantially. Accordingly, you might want to focus on negotiating fringe benefits if the employer cannot meet your salary expectations.Also negotiate non-cash benefits, such as flexible time to work from home or more personal/vacation days.
 You shouldn’t immediately accept a salary offer, even if you are generally pleased with it. Instead, ask for a few days to think it over, which will make you appear thoughtful.Simply say, “Thanks for the offer. Can I have a few days to think this over?”
Don’t say, “I need to talk to my spouse.” This will make you appear indecisive.
 After you accept, ask for the offer and starting salary in writing.An employer should have no problem giving you a letter laying out when you’ll start and the salary.


Never rely on verbal promises, since they are easy to break. You’ll have no tangible proof that there was even a job offer.
 There are many online salary calculators you can use to find the market rate for the job you are seeking. Remember to find the market salary for your city or state. Salaries differ significantly depending on where you live, so you want the market rate for the area where the job is located. The following salary calculators are helpful:glassdoor.com
indeed.com
salary.com
payscale.com

, Governments make their salary data public, so you can also search there.Find an equivalent job in a university or city/state government. You might not be able to find an exact match, but you can look for a job that is similar.


For example, you might be interviewing in a small town to be a case manager. You can’t find salary information, but you see that a nearby community college pays project managers about $30,000. You can use this as a rough estimate for determining the market rate.
 Some professional organizations distribute salary surveys to businesses in their industry.This data can be very helpful when deciding how much to ask for a salary. Research professional organizations and check whether they have any recent survey data.


Some survey data is posted online. However, other data might be kept private and shared only with members of the professional organization.
 Find other people who currently work in the job you are interviewing for. You can schedule a lunch or meet with them at a professional organization. Although you might be embarrassed to ask how much they make, you can ask in a roundabout way.


For example, you can discuss the market rate based on your research and ask, “Does that sound about right?”, The market rate is just an average, and you can ask for more if you have more education than the position requires. However, if you have less, then you might need to accept a salary on the lower end of the market rate.Also consider any credentials you have. For example, you might have earned a certification which is recognized in your industry.
 The more experience you have, the more efficiently you can do a job, which should result in a higher salary.Look at the market rate and then increase or decrease it based on your experience.


Make sure your experience is relevant. If you worked six years as a paralegal, that’s not relevant experience when you negotiate a salary as an attorney.
Some salary calculators will ask for how many years experience you have.
 It’s better to have a range in mind than a single number.The range should include the bare minimum you are willing to work for, as well as the most you think you can get. The midpoint should be what you think you are worth based on your research.


For example, you might be an experienced administrative assistant interviewing for a job in Buffalo, New York. Based on your research, you see the average salary is $13.65, which works out to around $28,000 a year.Because you have 10 years’ experience, you might ask for $32,000-$35,000.
In this example, $32,000 is the minimum you’ll take. If the employer can’t offer even that amount, you’ll walk unless the fringe benefits are outstanding.

