 Because their sensory needs are greater, they will need to move more in order to meet those needs. This is natural, and it will always be part of their lives. You can help them manage it, but don't expect it to go away.;
, Sports and heavy work can help release pent-up energy, helping the autistic person focus better. Here are some ideas:


Football and baseball
Trampolines
Wall push ups
Chores (let them lift the heavy stuff)
Horseback riding
Swimming
Dragging children (e.g. siblings, sons, or daughters) around on blankets

, Stimming is an easy way to fulfill their sensory needs, and it is an important coping mechanism. Don't assume that just because it doesn't look useful to you doesn't mean that it isn't useful to them.


Help them find a variety of stims to use.
Talk to them if their stimming is destructive (e.g. ripping the wallpaper) or broaching others' personal space (e.g. playing with his sister's hair without her consent). Help them find an alternative stim.
 Stress can make sensory processing more difficult, and their needs might be different from one day to the next.


Expect them to be hyposensitive to some things and hypersensitive to others. For example, maybe they need lots of touch and activity, but bright lights bother them.
Even within sections, some steps may not apply to them. Autistic people are very diverse!

, Autistic people have a large presence online, where they share tips with each other about how to handle various problems. Check out the #askanautistic and #actuallyautistic hashtags to begin.
 This will reduce hyperactivity in the long run. They can also teach useful coping techniques, such as stims and exercises.
 Sensory seeking requires a lot of time, and under stimulation can be difficult to handle. Allow them to be themselves and meet their needs.
 Put posters of favorite things and colors on the walls, and don't shy away from rainbow or bright patterns.
 Here are some things they may enjoy:


Snow globes, glitter jars, or a bottle with food coloring, water, and cooking oil (Simply shake)
Lava lamps
Mobiles
Sparkly beads and objects
Moving fans
Animated gif patterns (e.g. the "Mesmerizing Gifs" thread on reddit)

, It'll help moderate their need to stim, and it'll make your space more cheerful as a bonus.
 This may be outdoors, in a room away from everyone else, or in a place where everyone has left for now.
 This way, they can turn up the volume on their computer or TV without bothering anyone.
 Autistic people with hyposensitive hearing can be quite noisy. Meeting them partway will help both parties be happy.
 Sing along to music together. Turn kitchen pots and pans into a drumset. Chase each other around the playground, giggle, and scream. A little noisy playtime can be a great bonding experience.
 Hyposensitive autistic people may enjoy smelling the following:


Scented candles and air fresheners
Strong-smelling soap, shampoo, and body wash
Spicy or strong food
Campfires

, Some hyposensitive people will put inedible things in their mouths (necklaces, clothing, whatever they can find). When this happens, you can offer them a candy or piece of gum instead. For young children, explain why: objects are germy, and only food belongs in their mouths.


Children can be taught to ask for candy/gum when they want something to chew on.
Give them package of gum so they can get some whenever they want it.
Try buying them chewy jewelry if they do this often. These can be found at special needs stores like Stimtastic or Fun and Function.
 This way, the hyposensitive autistic person can pile it on, while others can apply a tolerable amount. (This also helps hypersensitive people who can't handle spice.)


Always have spice on the table, even if people don't usually add spice to a given meal. This way, if the autistic person refuses to eat a food because it is "bland" or "tasteless," you can offer them the spices.
 Your daughter may eat peppers like they are potato chips. (This can also be entertaining to onlookers.)

, See who can challenge the champion.
 Let them get up, run around, bounce off the walls, and do whatever they need to do. This will allow them to release their energy so they can focus again.


Stim toys, like stress balls and tangle fidgets, can also help with focusing and sitting calmly. Try keeping a box of stim toys that your loved one can grab from as needed.
 The autistic person can sit on the wedge or ball when others use chairs, allowing them to bounce and wiggle to their content while being able to focus on whatever is in front of them.


Teachers can get this as part of the student's IEP or special needs plan.
 Sometimes, autistic people may get hurt without noticing it, because their sense of pain is hyposensitive. If you notice something odd, mention it right away, in case they didn't know.


This can vary greatly—from not feeling a bug that landed on their arm to not realizing that their leg is broken.
 Due to a hyposensitivity to pain, they may not always realize that these things hurt other people. Make it clear that others have different pain thresholds, and if they need input, they should push against walls (not people).
 This provides the deep pressure they may crave, and also shows them that you love them.
 Hyposensitive autistic people may love to run into things, and it's important that they use a place that can't hurt them. Encourage the person to go land on their "crash pad" if they are getting hyper.


Try out the "crash pad" together. It may be more fun than you think!

