 To be mature, you’ll have to get a handle on the uncomfortable feelings you experience, such as anger, disappointment, or embarrassment. Cursing or shouting at others because you feel crappy won’t help you look mature. Find healthy ways to release and express your emotions instead.


First, understand why you are feeling this way. Answer three questions: what happened before, how does it feel in your body, and how would you label the feeling?
Next, decide how you can express this feeling without hurting yourself or others. You might write in a journal, burn off some steam by exercising or playing sports, or listen to some music that reflects your emotions., When you make a mistake, it won’t do you any good to blame someone else or make an excuse. Putting the fault off on others can ruin your relationships. Plus, you will never learn and grow if you don’t face consequences.Step up to the plate and take full responsibility when you make a mistake. Do this by immediately admitting your wrongdoing. This can be as simple as saying “My bad” or “That was my mistake.” If you hurt someone, apologize. Then, figure out how you can make amends.
For instance, if you left the back door open and your cat got out, admit it. You might say, “I’m sorry. I left the back door open. I’ll go ask the neighbors if they have seen the cat.”

, Maturity means thinking about the consequences of your actions. Whenever you are about to say or do something, take a couple of seconds to think about the outcome of your words or actions. Acting on impulse may feel good in the moment, but it can get you into trouble in the long run.To prevent impulse reactions, pause before making decisions or taking any action. Take a few deep breaths. Then, ask yourself why you are about to do this thing and how it might play out.
For example, a friend asks if you want to cut class. You might pause and breathe deeply. Think about why you would do this—maybe you just want to hang out. Think about what might happen if you do it: you might get caught and get in trouble with the school and your parents.
Going through this process each time you make a choice will help you make smarter decisions.
 Adults are more likely to respect and admire you when you learn to appreciate the things you have. Limit complaining about what you don't have. Instead, practice gratitude.At the end of each day, jot down in a notebook three things that went well for you that day. Spend a few moments thinking about these positive events or outcomes. Try to draw in good feelings about them.

