 Only move someone if there is imminent danger, such as a fire, car accident, or other potential surrounding hazards. If there has been a fall and the person is having neck pain or cannot move his legs or arms, do not move him at all. For a suspected spinal cord injury, leave the patient until emergency services arrive with backboards and cervical collars. Immobilize them in the position in which you find them and call for emergency help immediately.Any movement could cause paralysis, so providing reassurance to the person while you await help is the best course of action.For other fractures, such as an arm or limb, only provide first aid if emergency medical treatment is not expected soon because moving and tending to the fracture can do more harm than good. However, if treatment in a medical facility is not immediately available, you can help to stabilize the bone and relieve the pain using the following guidelines.
 If the affected limb is an upper extremity, like arm, you can create a ready-made shoulder sling easily with your shirt or sweatshirt. Carefully maneuver the uninjured arm out of the sleeve while keeping the shirt around your neck. Pull the fabric up where your elbow is bent at 90 degrees and rest your elbow in the lip of the uplifted shirt. This will safely immobilize any fracture in your shoulder, elbow, forearm, and wrist.


You can also cut a more traditional sling out of your shirt or other fabric, like a pillowcase if you have scissors or the cutting utensils. Cut the cloth into a big square (about 40 inches square) and then fold the square diagonally into a triangle. One end of the sling should go under your arm and over the shoulder. The other end should go over the other shoulder. Tie the two ends together behind the neck.A sling will not only provide significant pain relief but also keep bone fragments from moving around.
 Do not try to realign the bone.To make a splint you can use material you have on hand or can find nearby. Look for rigid material to make the splint, such as a board, stick, rolled up newspaper, and so on.Extend the splint to beyond the joint above and below the break. For instance, if the lower leg is broken, the splint should go above the knee and lower than the ankle.A cardboard box makes an excellent device to immobilize a lower extremity, like a leg. You will have to fashion it by tearing or cutting the sides, to fit the affected area. You want to place the box flush with the ground and slide it under the leg, encircling the leg with the cardboard. Secure the cardboard with tape, rope or torn cloth strips from what you are wearing. Be sure to fold an edge of the box at the bottom to support the ankle joint so that it is not freely, flopping this can extremely painful. Do not attempt to maneuver the extremity, leave it in the position of most comfort to the victim.
 Use clothing, towels, blankets, pillows or anything else that is soft that you have with you. Secure the splint to the area. You can use a belt, rope, shoelaces, anything that is handy that will keep the splint in place. Be careful when you apply the splint not to cause further injury to the body. Pad the splint well so it doesn’t add pressure to the injured area but only immobilizes it., If ice is available, such as from an ice chest or an ice pack, apply to the area to minimize swelling. In a pinch, you could really use anything cold, such as cold cans of soda.