;
, Create a file, setting your profile name if you have one and the difficulty you would like to play. Generally, it's best for new players to start on "Normal", but if you have played the previous games in the series, you may start at "Hard". Remember that the difficulty can be changed later on.
 The story may be tough to understand because none of the characters speak, but it becomes more clear later on as you see more scenes and find more trophies.
 In some matches (such as the first one), you may have less than four choices, in which case the lineup you picked will simply repeat until you are out of stock lives. Also, some fights may have you pick either side of a one-on-one match; when this happens, you can pick either side, but you must win with the character you picked.
 If you are on a single secluded stage, you must either KO normal characters by launching them off the stage, unplayable Subspace characters by doing enough damage to them, or occasionally bosses by doing a lot of damage to them. In the other type of stage, (which is most of the game) you must fight your way through rooms of enemies to the last door in the level. The enemies here do not have to be defeated, so sometimes it's best just to avoid them or jump over them to keep your damage percent low.
 The blue ones, which reappear each time you play the level, usually hold useful food or stickers while the orange ones, which hold rare items like special trophies, disappear forever once their contents have been taken. Orange boxes count toward the game's completion percentage, so they are required to beat the game with 100% completion. Keep in mind that you can always come back to a level to get ones you missed.
 Green flags represent completed levels, glowing crowns are levels where you have found every orange cube, and the level with a (!) symbol above it is the next one you must do. If you replay a previous level, you can use any character in the party at the current point in the story.
 Stickers can be put on any characters you want to make stronger. The word in brackets next to a sticker is its function, and the number is its strength. For example, a +10 sticker would make PK attacks stronger, while a +20 sticker would make you flinch less when hit.
 Always do this before you stop playing.
 After defeating the final boss, you have completed the Subspace Emissary and unlocked almost every character! If you wish, you can still play through each level, for 100% completion and the remaining characters.

