 Veggie chips are a gluten-free crispy snack that works great with dips or on their own. If you buy pre-packaged commercial chips, check the bag to make sure they're gluten-free.You also can make your own veggie chips by baking kale or other vegetables. Season to taste and bake for a few minutes on low heat until they're crispy. There are plenty of recipes online for various baked vegetable snack chips.
Experiment with seasonings to create savory or even sweeter varieties. For example, you can make chips by baking thin slices of beets or sweet potatoes and dust them with cinnamon and nutmeg for a sweeter snack.
To make veggie chips, peel and cut up some veggies (carrots, beets, zucchini, yellow squash, sweet potatoes, etc.) into slices about 1/8” thick. Season the veggie slices with 1 tsp of herbs and salt. Then place them on a lightly greased baking pan in a single layer and bake for about 1 hours at 200 degrees Fahrenheit. Then, flip the chips and bake for another 30 to 60 minutes, or until the slices are all crispy., Most dips are naturally gluten-free, but it can get more difficult if your kids have other dietary restrictions. Regardless, you can still often make healthier dips at home rather than buying commercially prepared dips.Hummus and nut butters are common gluten-free dips. If you buy pre-packaged varieties, check the labels to make sure they're gluten-free. You also can make your own at home fairly easily if you have a food processor. There are a number of relatively simple recipes online.
You also can dice whole fresh vegetables to make your own salsa at home. While many commercial salsas are too hot and spicy for young children, if you make your own you can control the flavor.
Dips can be sweet as well as salty. For example, you can make a decadent chocolate almond butter that both your and your kids will enjoy using for spreading on a rice cake or dipping fresh fruit., Rice cakes are a gluten-free alternative that you can use for full-size or finger sandwiches (look for the mini variety). They also can take the place of crackers or toast for a side at breakfast or an after-school snack.Spread hummus or a nut butter on toasted rice cakes, or put a slice of cheese on top of a rice cake along with a piece of fruit or vegetable.
For example, you might spread a thin layer of almond butter on toasted mini rice cakes, then add a thin slice of cheese cut out in the shape of a star with a half a strawberry on top.
 Commercial popcorn typically is considered junk food, but homemade popcorn can be a healthy snack if you prepare it properly and don't cover it in butter and salt.You can use store-bought popcorn or microwave popcorn if you want to save some time, but choose varieties that don't have any added salt or butter. You also may be able to find organic popcorn if you want.
Sprinkle on your own spices or use a gluten-free spice mix, and shake the popcorn in a sealed bag to distribute the spices. You can make this snack sweet or savory.
Mix in dried fruits or nuts to add variety. Spread them on a bake sheet and drizzle the entire mix with syrup or olive oil, then bake for a few minutes at a low heat to create a flavorful mix that can be eaten in clumps.
 You can make homemade gluten-free granola bars that are healthy and filling.While you can find gluten-free granola bars in most grocery stores, these may be more expensive than making them yourself, and may be packed with added sugar and preservatives.


Use oats, which are not related to grains such as wheat and barley, and are naturally gluten-free. Make sure you buy oats that are not processed in plants that also process other grains that contain gluten.They should be labeled as “gluten-free.”

