 Before you decide to replace your attorney, you need to have a good understanding of what you believe he or she is doing wrong, and what is lacking in your attorney-client relationship.Analyze the situation and try to figure out exactly what it is you're upset with. Keep in mind that replacing an attorney can be expensive, time-consuming, and stressful.
If you're merely second-guessing your attorney's choice of strategy, or angry over a court decision that didn't go your way, talking over your concerns with your attorney and coming to an understanding for the future may be a better course of action.
However, if you're upset about specific actions (or inactions) of your attorney, such as a failure to promptly return your phone calls or a lack of preparation for a key hearing, it might be time to go with someone else.
In some situations, your attorney may be doing the best they can, but lack the time, resources, or expertise necessary to litigate your case. Sometimes a case can expand to encompass additional questions or issues that your attorney did not anticipate when he or she first took on your case.
It may be helpful to discuss the situation with other attorneys to determine whether the issues you're having are actually deficiencies in your attorney's performance and not the result of your own excessive expectations.;
, If you've decided you want to terminate your relationship with your attorney and work with someone else, you should make an appointment to sit down with him or her in person and discuss the situation.When you schedule the meeting, make sure you have a significant period of time to meet with your attorney one-on-one.
As nerve-wracking as it can be, this is a conversation that needs to happen face to face rather than through email or over the phone.
If your desire to replace your attorney is motivated by a concern that he or she lacks the time or resources to litigate your case effectively, this is something you might want to mention when you schedule your meeting. An attorney who recognizes they're in over their head with your case may be relieved that you've decided to let someone else handle it.
 When you meet with your attorney, be prepared to have a frank and open discussion about the issues you have with your attorney's performance and why you want to replace him or her with someone else.Remain calm, and summarize the situation and your feelings in a straightforward manner.
Stick to the facts, and avoid making accusations or insulting the attorney personally.
You also should be willing to listen to your attorney if he or she acknowledges poor performance and wants to make efforts to improve.
However, if you've made your decision to replace your attorney, remain firm in your decision. Let your attorney know that you are looking for a replacement and will let him or her know when you've chosen somebody else.
If you're looking to replace your attorney because you believe they aren't qualified or able to handle your case, focus on keeping your comments neutral. You want your attorney to agree with you that a different attorney would best suit your interests.
Getting your attorney on board with the replacement can make the transition smoother. Your attorney may even recommend other attorneys he or she believes would be better suited.
 Since attorneys' work consists of proving allegations with evidence, having evidence to back up your reasons for wanting to replace your attorney can help you present a stronger case.For example, if your problem is that your attorney doesn't respond to your phone calls or emails promptly, you may want to bring along a log of the number of times you've attempted to contact your attorney, and how much time passed before you received any response.
 Once you and your attorney have come to an agreement on how things will proceed with your case, send him or her a letter summarizing your understanding of the agreement and what your next steps will be.In your letter, recount the problems you expressed to your attorney, and include any facts on which you both agreed.
Summarize the conversation and the ways your old attorney agreed to help with the transition, including when and how your files will be returned to you or forwarded to your new counsel, and what the general timeline will be.
If your attorney told you how much money you owe for the work completed in the case, you should include that amount.
 You generally shouldn't allow your old attorney to withdraw until you've chosen a replacement. Search online or use recommendations from friends and family to create a list of attorneys you'd like to consider hiring.If you had several recommendations or conducted interviews of multiple attorneys before hiring your present one, you might want to go back to those previous interviews you conducted.
Analyze any previous attorneys with whom you've already spoken in light of the problems you're having with your current attorney. If any of them seem better suited for you now, you might want to call them.
You also can look for other attorneys by going back to online directories or searching on your state or local bar association's website. If you find any attorneys you think might work well for you, visit their websites to review their qualifications and experience.
 In most cases you aren't going to want to go with the first attorney you can find as a possible replacement. Rather, you should interview several possibilities so you can compare and contrast their strengths and weaknesses.In the interest of saving time and effort, if you're interested in hiring an attorney you've already interviewed, you may want to call him or her first.
Keep in mind that depending how far along you are in litigating your case, it is likely that more local attorneys won't be able to work with you due to conflicts of interest. There also are many attorneys who aren't willing to take on cases that have advanced too far in the litigation process.
When you schedule your interview, be up front from the beginning about how far along litigation has progressed and how much work has been done. If the attorney is unwilling or unable to take the case, at least you won't have wasted too much of anyone's time.
 Since your case has already begun, any attorney you interview to replace your old attorney likely will want significant information about your case, your old attorney's strategy, and how far into litigation you are.At a minimum, your prospective attorneys likely will want to review any documents that have been filed with the court.
You also should prepare a short summary of the facts of your case, what has happened in litigation, and the basic strategy your current attorney is pursuing.
 The best way to ensure that you don't make the same mistake twice is to be able to explain the problems you had with your old attorney and ask questions to ensure the same problems won't occur with the next attorney you choose.You want to phrase your questions carefully, because you want to avoid bad-mouthing your current attorney or even appearing as though you are. However, you want to make sure that you're not hiring a new attorney who's cut from the same cloth.
Be prepared to discuss why you want to replace your attorney. It can help to come up with a standard statement that adequately expresses your dissatisfaction while putting the situation in a relatively positive light.
At the same time, don't hesitate to let the attorneys you interview know if your relationship with your current attorney is tense or if you anticipate your current attorney will cause difficulties.
Although you probably want to focus on correcting the problems you're having with your current attorney, you don't want to create new ones in the process.
Ask questions to evaluate each attorney's experience and qualifications litigating cases such as yours, as well as about each attorney's work habits and general litigation strategy.
 After you've finished interviewing several attorneys, select the one you think is most capable of continuing your case without repeating the same issues you had with your old attorney.Contact the attorney you've chosen and find out how he or she prefers to handle the transition. Some attorneys prefer you to take care of firing your old attorney and closing out the relationship before they proceed to take on the case.
Other attorneys take a more hands-on approach and will handle communications with your old attorney and the transfer of case files and other materials themselves.
 Once you've chosen a new attorney, let your old attorney know in writing that you wish to terminate the representation. Request that he or she file a motion to withdraw and forward your case materials to your new attorney.Typically, it is legally mandatory for an attorney to withdraw from the case if the client fires him or her. However, even when withdrawal is mandatory the attorney must get permission from the judge before withdrawing in the middle of a case.
Your old attorney requests permission from the judge to withdraw as your attorney by filing a motion to withdraw.
Ask your old attorney either to transfer your case file to you or to forward it to your new attorney.
If there are any deadlines coming up in your case, your old attorney should file any necessary motions to have those deadlines extended. This will give your new attorney the chance to review your case file and become familiar with your case.
Your old attorney also typically will send you an account statement indicating the balance owed through the termination of his or her representation. Make sure you pay this amount as soon as possible, but keep in mind the attorney can't withhold your case file or any actions because you haven't paid.
 Typically the judge will grant your old attorney's motion to withdraw without any protracted discussion. However, in some situations the judge or the other party may request a hearing to evaluate the reasons you want to replace your counsel.The judge typically will hold a hearing if the request occurs after extensive litigation – particularly if the trial has already started.
The other side may request a hearing if your desire to replace your attorney seems to be motivated by an effort to stall or delay litigation unnecessarily. This is especially likely if you've already changed counsel at an earlier stage of the proceedings.
The judge generally will approve your request to replace your attorney if it seems to have been made in good faith and won't result in any unnecessary delays or undue burden to the other party.
When the judge grants your old attorney's motion to withdraw, he or she typically also will determine if there are any deadlines that must be extended.
If your trial is scheduled or has already begun, the judge may grant a continuance to give your new attorney a chance to catch up.
 After the court has approved your replacement, your old attorney still must be involved in your case to the extent necessary to get your new attorney up to speed.Keep in mind that your old attorney's role in your case doesn't entirely end when he or she withdraws from the matter. Your old attorney still has continuing ethical duties to you required by the state's code of conduct for attorneys.
In general, your old attorney must protect your confidential information, even after you've terminated the representation.
Your old attorney also has the duty to get case files to your new attorney in a timely manner and work with you or your new attorney to ensure the transition is relatively smooth and the process does not disadvantage either party in the lawsuit.

