 By keeping a schedule of all your due assignments, you will be able to keep track of your projects and homework. Keep it in an easily accessible place so that you can pull it out without hassle.;
, Neatly copy down your homework on the correct dates, making sure to emphasize when each assignment is due. Be sure to leave enough room for other notes. If you have an important project or test, highlight it.
 In every class, keep it within reach in order to avoid the trouble of searching for it. As soon as your teacher announces an assignment or test, immediately jot it down in order to avoid forgetting it.
 If there are specific instructions provided, copy all of them down. Always look at the chalkboard for homework or projects written on it. If you need additional help, don't hesitate to ask a teacher for guidance.
 Use it for additional notes that won't fit into your planner. Also, keep your information and facts for tests in it.
 Jot down your classmates' names and their phone numbers. If you missed an assignment or need class notes, you can contact them and ask them for help.
 Place it in a certain spot to make sure it stands out. On it, write down all your assignments, projects, and tests, along with their due dates. This method will help remind you of any upcoming assignments so that you won't forget them.
 Although a planner and a whiteboard may be useful, you may occasionally need to carry around a constant reminder with you. However, don't rely too heavily upon this method.
 You can have your parents act as your coaches when it comes to completing your assignments. By nicely asking them to remind you about your homework, you will decrease your chances of forgetting about your school assignments. Every evening, make it a habit to check in with them in order to ensure that you remembered all your projects.
 By getting the small tasks out of the way, you will be able to focus on completing the harder objectives. Clearing the simpler duties off of your plate will help lower your stress.
 Once you complete an assignment, erase your whiteboard and check it off of your planner. This method will help you avoid missing homework.
 Although it may be difficult to keep a schedule, maintain this habit until it becomes natural. Keeping track of your assignments will help you receive the best grades. It will also set up good habits that will benefit you in the future.

