 Before you can begin to plan the details for an anniversary party you need to find an appropriate venue and select a date. It would be best to hold the party on the actual anniversary, or a weekend that falls close to the exact anniversary date. You may want to choose a location that is meaningful to the couple, such as a restaurant they enjoy or the place where they got engaged.
 If you are throwing a formal party you will want to send out invitations well in advance of the event. Address and mail the invitations using your best penmanship.


E-vites, or electronic invitations, can also be used. They will help save postage costs and you will likely receive responses much quicker.
 There are a variety of different decorating options that are suitable for a 50th wedding anniversary party. You may want to consider decorating with a gold colour scheme to emphasize the fact that this is a 50th wedding anniversary. For example, you could have gold trimmed plates, glasses, napkins, flowers, and tablecloths. Other decorating ideas include:


Recreating the same colour scheme that the couple used at their wedding 50 years ago. You could also try and find similar floral arrangements.
You could choose a decorating theme based on the decade the couple was married, the place they went on their honeymoon, or to something to match their current interests.
 Have the couple cut the cake together and be sure to have photos taken. Here are a few example messages to put on the cake:


“Happy Anniversary”
“Happy Golden Anniversary”
“Congratulations on 50 Years of Marriage”
You may also want to include the name of the couple on the anniversary cake.
 You may want to have the couple share stories or provide the guests with some tips for creating a lasting and loving marriage. It would also be a good idea to have photo albums available that guests can look through to reminisce about the couple at different stages of their marriage. The party should feel like a tribute to the couple and this will help add a personal touch.


If you are crafty you could try to create a scrapbook to share with the couple at the party. The scrapbook can include pictures from throughout their marriage and highlight important moments, such as the births of children and grandchildren, travel, career achievements, and retirements.
A slideshow of photographs is another great way to showcase the couple and their relationship over the years and it will ensure that all guests get a chance to see the pictures., Arrange in advance for someone to give an anniversary toast to the couple. Typically this should be someone close to the couple, such as a child, sibling, or family friend. This is a great way to share memories and stories about the couple., Music is a must for all parties and you can be really creative with the music selection for a 50th wedding anniversary. For example, you could play all of the couple's favourite songs from over the years, play music that was popular the year the couple was married, or play all romantic songs including the couple’s original wedding song., Many couples will decide to renew their wedding vows at some point during their marriage. This is done to reaffirm their commitment to each other and is often associated with a milestone anniversary. The 50th wedding anniversary is a perfect opportunity for a couple to renew their vows.You will need to do some additional planning to make this happen. Most importantly, make sure you have an officiant present.

