 When you measure your gait speed, there are two different speeds you can measure. The first and most common speed is your "comfortable" or normal gait speed.Comfortable gait speed is when you perform this test when you're walking at a normal pace.
You shouldn't be walking faster or slower than normal. It's a comfortable pace for you.
Start walking and have someone begin timing you at the start of the first marker or cone. Walk normally until you get past the second cone. Stop the timer just as you pass the marker of the end of the walking area.
To get the most accurate results, its perform this test 3 times. Then, record those results and take the average.
 The maximal gait speed test will measure your fastest walking speed. It's generally reserved for those that have been working on improving their speed.


Unlike the comfortable gait speed test, the maximal gait speed test is designed to see how fast you can walk safely. For example, how fast you can cross a street.Although the speed will be different for this test, the method of testing is identical to the comfortable gait speed test.
Begin walking and build up speed during the initial starting area. This way, you are walking as fast as you can when you're in the timed walking area.
You can slow down once you have past the second marker and are in the finishing area. Again, repeat this test three times.
 To calculate your gait speed, there is a simple equation that you input your data and information. It's simple to use and will give you a fairly accurate result.


Before calculating your actual gait speed, take the average of your three results. Add up each of your 3 results and then divide by three. This will give you your average result.
The equation for gait speed is: total distance / time.For example, if you did a 10 meter gait speed test and it took you 7 seconds, the equation would like: 10 meters / 7 seconds = 1.4 meters per second.
 Once you have your gait speed results, you can compare these to standards or normal limits of other people your age and gender.


For men between the ages of 60-70, your gait speed should be around 1.26 meters per second. Women of this age group should have a gait speed of 1.24 meters per second.For men and women between the ages of 70-80 years old, your gait speed should be 1.25 meters per second.
For men between the ages of 80-90 your gait speed will decrease to around 0.88 meters per second, while women of the same age group should have a gait speed of .80 meters per second.
Men and women over 90 years old should will generally notice another decline in gait speed to around .70 meters per second.
 Once you've compared your gait speed to averages, you can determine whether or not you need assistance improving your gait speed.


If you've calculated your gait speed and it's at or faster than the normal limits for your age and gender, you're considered normal and have an acceptable gait speed.
If your gait speed is below what's considered normal, consider speaking to a doctor or physical therapist for help.
Make sure to compare your gait speed to the right normative values. Although age and gender are important, you also need to factor in health conditions. There are specific gait speeds for those that have strokes, hip fractures, multiple sclerosis, lower limb amputation, Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease.

