 Goth culture is marked by an interest in darker topics. If you want to win a goth girl's heart, work on developing an interest in darker things.Watch movies with dark themes. Films like Donnie Darko and The Exorcist may help you become more appealing to a goth girl.
Develop an interest in the supernatural. Read books about ghosts and the occult. Watch documentaries about real life hauntings on Netflix.;
, Mythology is a big aspect of goth culture. Many people who identify as goth enjoy learning about ancient mythology. An interest in mythological things can help you find common interest with a goth girl.Check your school's library for books on mythology. Something like Edith Hamilton's Mythologies can give you an introduction to a wide array of myths.
You can also read about mythology online. If you're comfortable talking to her, ask the goth girl what specific kind of mythology she's interested in. Something like Norse mythology will be much different than Greek mythology.
 Music is a very important aspect of the goth culture. In general, music is important to many people. You can easily bond with someone over a shared interest in music.Bands like the Cure, London After Midnight, Sisters of Mercy, and Skeletal Family are popular in goth subculture.
You can also try asking the girl what kind of music she likes. While certain bands may be popular in goth culture, not everyone who associates with the culture is the same. It's a good idea to try to get to know this girl's individual interest in music before pursuing her.
 Goths tend to value intellectualism. If you want to win a goth girl's heart, get into reading. Many goths enjoy literature.Take a look at what the girl is reading. She may read in between class or at lunch. Try to see what authors she likes.
Stop by a local library and ask a librarian for suggestions. As intellectualism is valued in goth culture, tell the librarian you're looking for a book that will be a bit of a challenge.
 Creativity is also valued in goth culture. A goth girl may like you more if you're not afraid to get creative.Try joining a school club that encourages creativity. You could join your school's art club, for example. If the goth girl you like is in a particular club, this could also be a way to get to know her.
Explore creative activities that interest you. If you love music, for example, try learning the guitar and writing some songs. If you enjoy poetry, try writing some of your own poems.
 It can be hard to talk to someone you like. You want to find a natural way to begin a conversation. This can be done in several ways.You can make an observation. This invites her to share her opinion with you. For example, say the two of you have class together. You could sit next to her and say something like, "Wow, that quiz yesterday was really tough."
You could also ask a question. This can help show her you find her interesting. For example, say she's wearing a shirt with a slogan on it. Say something like, "That's a really cool phrase. Is it from something?"

, Regular conversation will allow you to get to know her. This can get her to like you, and allow you to eventually work up the courage to ask her out.Be a good listener. The goth girl will be more interested in you if you're invested in getting to know her as a person. Listen to what she has to say and ask follow up questions. For example, "You grew up in Vermont? That's so interesting. Can you tell me more?"
Pay her compliments. Say things like, "You look really nice today" and "I love your new haircut."

, Individuality is a staple in goth culture. A goth girl is unlikely to share your affections if you don't let her be herself. Make it clear you respect how she chooses to dress and act.Never make negative comments on her appearance. Don't say things like, "I wish you would wear more color." Allow her to be herself.
Tell you that you admire her for being so unique. This will help her see you like her for who she is. A goth girl will not want to be with someone who expects her to change.
 You want to be an individual as well. A goth girl will value someone who's unafraid to be his or herself. When you interact with her, always be genuine.Do not feign interest in her. When you ask her questions and make conversations, talk about things you are genuinely interested in. The sincerity will be easy to recognize.
Do not simply agree with everything she says. A goth girl will respect the fact you have your own tastes and interests as long as you respect her tastes and interests. For example, "Honestly, I didn't really like that book, but I totally get why you did. It's okay if we disagree."

, It's best to be direct when asking someone out. You do not want to leave room for any confusion or ambiguity. If you're nervous, take a few deep breaths before asking the girl out. You can also practice what you want to say in the mirror ahead of time.Be direct. Start the conversation saying something like, "Can I ask you something?"
From there, ask her out in a way that makes it clear it's a date. For example, "Could I take you out on a date this Friday?"

, It's important to be genuine. Remember, goths value individuality. A goth girl is unlikely to be swept off her feet by over-the-top romantic gestures, as they may read as corny or empty. Focus on being yourself. Express your opinions and let conversation unfold naturally.Remember, however, do not dominate the conversation. While you should let the goth girl get a glimpse of who you are as a person, she may be put off if you talk about yourself too much. Ask her questions about herself and try to get to know her more.
 If you begin dating, you should work on planning dates a goth girl would enjoy. Think about her interests and goth culture when planning activities.Take her places like art shows, museums, and plays. Goth girls may like cultural activities.
If she's into the darker side of goth culture, try catering to that. Go see a dark movie together or take a walk through a cemetery.
 You cannot force someone to like you. Despite your best efforts, the goth girl may simply not feel the same way about you. If this is the case, accept her decision and move on.You can't control the factors that make a person want to date you. The goth girl may simply not be attracted to you, or just see you as a friend.
Give yourself a week to mourn the loss. It's okay to be sad and disappointed. Remember, however, there are many other girls out there. Next time, you could find someone more compatible with you.

