 Don’t bring up any sore spots when your mother-in-law is in town. In particular, don’t discuss finances, politics, religion, children, or sex while she’s around.Finances can be a touchy subject in any marriage. They can become even more difficult to navigate by involving in-laws. Don’t talk about your money situation when your mother-in-law is in town. If she asks, politely change the topic to something else.
Keep discussion of politics to a minimum. You never know where your in-laws may be coming from. Even if you agree, it’s best to avoid contentious topics during a short visit. Find something you agree on to change the topic if she brings it up.
Don’t talk about religion with your mother-in-law. This is especially a good idea if you know there are differences when it comes to religion. Regardless, make sure to not spend too much time on discussions of religion if could be a point of contention. Say things like "Well, everyone has their own beliefs" if disagreements come up.
This may be obvious, but don’t talk about sex with your mother-in-law. It’s uncomfortable and can cause problems in your relationship with your spouse.
 Mother-in-laws love giving advice. Listen to them politely if they offer advice. However, don’t feel obligated to follow their advice.Let your mother-in-law give you advice. Even though you may disagree with her, it’s better to let her talk than cutting her off or disagreeing with her.
Listen politely to their advice. It may be worthwhile advice or helpful. Regardless, don’t be rude and let them know they are heard. Say things like, "I understand" or "That seems like it worked for you" when she gives advice.
Feel free to ignore their advice if you want. There’s no rule that you have to listen to your mother-in-law. Be polite, but don’t’ feel like you have to follow what they say.
 Mothers-in-law may want to compete with their children’s spouse, especially if the spouse is a woman. Don’t compete with them. Tell your spouse to avoid being drawn into comparisons as well during his or her mother’s visit.Let mother-in-law cook. Mothers-in-law like making their children’s favorite dishes. Give them time and space to make food if they want. Don’t be in their way in the kitchen, but try to help them out as best as possible.
Stay away from any comparisons between you and your mother-in-law. Comparisons will only lead to emotional fireworks. Warn your spouse against comparing the two of you at any point during her visit. If your mother-in-law, or your spouse, tries to compare the two of you, politely dismiss the comparison by saying something like "That's interesting, but I don' think it's worth comparing" or "Everyone has their own way of doing things"
Give your spouse and mother-in-law time to be together. She is likely coming to see him or her, rather than you. Make sure they have some time to be together one-on-one, if possible.
 It's inevitable that you'll disagree and possibly get into arguments with your mother-in-law. If that happens, stay calm, don't be emotional, and try your best to maintain the relationship.Keep calm if arguments arise. Don't raise your voice and keep a calm face and demeanor.
Arguments with your mother-in-law may make you feel emotional. Try to keep your emotions in check and not show if you are angry, upset, or sad.
Do your best to keep the relationship intact. Try not to say anything you'll regret later if arguments arise.
If your mother-in-law is verbally or physically abusive, it may be best to cut off ties. While she is your significant other's mother, that does not mean you have to take everything from her.

