 In other words, a high-fiber diet will reduce the amount of calories that the pig absorbs and turns into fat.


Avoid feeding your pig soy hulls, wheat midds, and distillers dried grains with solubles (DDGS).;
, The type of fat that is included in your pig’s feed has little impact on the weight gains it will make. Feed your pig whatever high-fat feed that it finds most palatable, and you find most affordable.Skim milk, yogurt, and dairy are also foods that can increase pig fat.
Sweet foods with high sugar content -- donuts, candy, and cupcakes -- can also rapidly increase your pig’s weight., Tankage (animal feed made from residue left behind from the tanks in which animal carcasses were rendered) and meat scraps are two good sources of protein. Soybean oil meal is another option. Give your pig a mix of many types of protein.See what the pig likes best, and feed it primarily that type of protein.


Combining soybean meal with a corn diet will provide your pig with well-balanced amino acid levels., Whatever you choose, 50% of your feed should be yellow corn. The remainder of your pig’s feed should be a mix of barley, wheat, and sorghum. Feed your pig various grains and see which it likes best. Use the pig’s favorite grain in abundance in order to increase its weight.Avoid bird-proof sorghums, as pigs find them less desirable than regular red or white sorghum.
 If a pig is not eating enough food, it will lose weight. If a pig eats over and above the caloric volume needed to maintain its current weight, it will increase its weight.


Increase the pig’s nutrient intake as you increase the amount of food it eats. Take your pig to the vet or nutritionist for blood work and a nutritional analysis. The vet will be able to tell you if your pig is suffering a nutritional deficiency, and what supplements can correct it.
Adequate nutrient intake helps your pig absorb calories more efficiently.
Vitamin B12 is an important addition to your pig’s diet. It can help improve feed intake, as well as reduce stress levels and prevent disease in your pig. B12 injections are the best way to go. Talk to your vet about how much B12 your pig should receive.
 Fat and protein supplements (sometimes labeled as energy supplements) are available in many varieties, with fat and protein contents ranging from 30% up to 70% or more. Some have high protein and high fat, while others are high in either fat or protein.


Decide how much weight you want to increase your pig by, then incorporate fat supplements or fatty foods into the pig’s diet.
Typically, pigs under 150 pounds receive half a pound to one pound of supplements. For pigs over 150 pounds, you can add one to one and a half pounds of supplements.
Always follow the directions on the package of your supplement product.
Young pigs need about 17% of their diet to be protein. Older pigs should get a diet with about 15% protein., If your pig enjoys what it’s eating, it will eat more of it, thus increasing its weight. Try several palatability enhancers and see which pushes your pig to eat the most.


Add water to the feed. When your pig’s feed is wet, the food will be softer and the pig can more easily ingest it. Pour some water over your pig’s feed in order to turn it into a watery mush or paste.
If your pig really likes one feed, but dislikes another, you should regularly purchase the one it likes. Tasty feed will be consumed in greater quantities and with greater enjoyment than feed that the pig doesn’t like. This will lead to rapid weight gain.
Give your pig a variety of foods. Like people, pigs get bored of eating the same thing over and over.