 However you normally sleep, that's what you want to establish with your odd schedule pattern. If you usually sleep when its dark outside, find a dark room. If you like to sleep with the tv on, make sure there's a tv where you sleep. Try to create a place that effectively mimics your normal sleeping place.
 If you are on an odd schedule, you may need more than one alarm clock to wake you up. Some alarm clocks have different settings for each day. Some alarm clocks (especially those on a cell phone) can be set to go off multiple times a morning--even if you turn an alarm off, the next one will come on.


If you have a cell phone you may be able to find very sophisticated alarm clocks in your cell phone's store. Some cell phone alarm clocks make you answer math problems or scan a bar code in your bathroom before it turns off., Waking up on an odd schedule robs you of establishing a daily circadian rhythm. If you can't get up at the same time everyday your body may resist an alarm clock more readily. Set your alarm clock based on your needs.


Try to wake up at as close to the same time everyday as possible unless your needs vary greatly. For example, if you can establish a regular sleep schedule--even if that means waking up hours before you need to be somewhere--you should do try to go to bed and wake up at the same time.
 This usually takes the form of another person. You may ask your partner to wake you up. Maybe a parent or child could call you on the phone to make sure you wake up. If you know you need to be up and in the car for a long trip you may simply sleep in the car. You may still be asleep halfway through the trip.
 Getting up and moving will make a big difference. Turning lights on or moving into rooms with already-awake people. You may think about taking a shower to wake yourself up a little more. Don't stay in bed though. Its too comfortable and sleep will draw you back. Get out of bed and get moving so your body will force itself to wake up so you don't hurt yourself walking around.


Be careful of ideas like "If I don't turn the alarm off I won't fall back to sleep." If you are tired enough you might fall asleep with the alarm blaring. Do this enough and your alarm may not wake you up at all.

