 Using plain printer paper for this trick paper airplane is best. If you pick paper that is thicker, it will fall too easily, and if you pick thinner paper, it won't be able to gather enough momentum to really fly. It's important to be precise when you try to fold the paper exactly in half. After you're done, run your finger along the crease to make sure that it's secure., Once you've secured the crease, just unfold the paper in the same exact way that you folded it. You'll be left with a piece of paper with a vertical crease running down its center.
 This will create two triangles that meet along the middle crease of the plane. Running your fingers along the outer edges of the triangles will reinforce the folds.
 Take the top corner of the paper and fold it down along the line created by the bottom edges of the two triangles. You'll be creating a mirror image of the top triangle over this line. You'll have a triangle with a corner that is pointing downward instead of upward.
 The bottom corner of the big triangle should still be peeking below the folds created by the top two corners. Just the tips of the triangles created by the top two corners should meet an inch (2.5 cm) above the bottom corner of the big triangle below them.
 Just take the little flap below the two folded triangles and fold it upward, above the little space where the two triangles met. Make sure that the creases on the sides of the airplane are nice and firm after you do this by running your finger along their edges.
 Fold the plane lengthwise in the opposite direction of the way you folded it in the beginning. You should be able to see the little triangles you created on the outer sides of the plane after this fold.
 Fold one wing down so that it gradually slopes downward, with the thickest part of the wing being at the bottom and falling below the bottom edge of the plane. Then, fold the other wing down the same way to meet the first wing. This will make the plane as aerodynamic as it can be and can make it fly long distances and loop in the air.
 Grab the handle of the plane and gently throw it upwards and watch it glide long distances and spin in the air.

