 Border collies and other herding dogs are playful, smart, and energetic. Most will love to fetch and spend hours playing if you let them. As an added bonus, they are very trainable, as long as you work with them to learn new skills.Another dog in this category is the Australian cattle dog. Like border collies, they are herding dogs, and they are energetic and very smart. Often these dogs will attach particularly to one family member.
Another similar breed is the Australian shepherd.;
, Golden retrievers are known for their friendliness and intelligence. Because of these qualities, they make great family dogs. They are also known for their retrieving skills (hence, the name), making them a great breed for learning to play fetch.Standard poodles also make a good choice for families, as they like to be around people.Poodles are actually very athletic and love to play, which makes them a good choice for learning fetch.While poodles aren't currently classified by the American Kennel Club or the Canadian Kennel Club as retrievers, the American Kennel Club did so in the 19th century. Traditionally, however, this dog has been seen as a sporting dog and is still classified as such by the United Kennel Club., This breed got its name (from Theodore Roosevelt, no less) because of its ability to hunt down small rodents. These dogs make great fetchers because of their hunting nature. They're also smaller than some of the other breeds that make good fetchers.A similar dog to the rat terrier is a the miniature schnauzer, a dog bred to work on German farms hunting for rodents. Schnauzers are more people-pleasers than rat terriers, though., Medium-sized hunters like English springer spaniels are also great at fetching. They have a good deal of energy and love to run and play with their families, and they top out at about 45 pounds., These dogs were bred to work on farms, so they can enjoy a good game of fetch. However, they tend to be calmer than other fetch-loving breeds, and they are great option for families, since they love to be around people., Getting a high-energy medium-to-large dog in an apartment may not be the best idea. Of course, it also depends on how much time you're willing to devote to the dog. If you have time to take the dog for long walks or runs every day, this type of breed make work for you.Even medium-sized hunting dogs, such as the English springer spaniel, will need to be walked or exercised regularly., Dogs like border collies require a lot of attention and devotion. Because they are so smart, they get bored easily if left to their own devices, and they can become destructive. Make sure you have the resources and energy to devote to this type of dog if you decide to adopt one.Also, herders can turn to nipping if they are trying to herd things, and they will herd anything, from cats to kids to cars.
 Golden retrievers can be great family dogs as they are very friendly. However, that friendliness can also lead to a downside: they stay in puppy mentality for longer than other breeds, up to 4 years. Sometimes, these dogs stay puppy-like well into adulthood. While that's a pleasing quality to some, others may find it tiresome.Like border collies, golden retrievers require a lot of exercise and attention.
 While rat terriers are smaller than say, a border collie or golden retriever, they don't have the same desire to please their humans as these other dogs. Because of this trait, they can take a bit more training and socialization to incorporate them into a family., A Bernese mountain dog is a very large dog. It can reach up to 100 pounds, so it needs a lot of space to roam around and enjoys exercise. You'll also find the dog food bills more expensive., When picking out a dog, an important factor is paying attention to how the dog interacts with you and your family. Going by yourself to pick out a dog can be problematic if the dog doesn't like children (and you have them) or the dog is intimidated by your husband.If the dog seems playful with one member of your family but growls and backs away from another, that could be problematic.
Ask questions about the dog, as some dogs have had previous owners, which can tell you important information about who the dog will get along with.
In addition, make sure you get up and close and personal with the dog. That is, pet and engage with the dog to see how it handles being touched.
 Both your age and the dog's age are important to consider when picking a dog. That is, if you're older, you may not want a high-energy dog that requires walking two or three times a day. Similarly, while puppies are cute, dogs that young require a lot of work, and you'll need to be able to devote a good amount of time to them when they are young. An elderly dog may not be right if you are looking for one that is enthusiastic about playing., A playful dog is more likely to want to play fetch and other games with you. A dog that hangs back and hugs the corner is more likely to be a good cuddle buddy. Therefore, if you're looking for a dog that wants to play fetch, pick one that bounces up to you and greets you immediately., Another option is to simply try playing fetch with the dog. Once you've narrowed down your choices, see if your choice seems to enjoy playing fetch with the ball. Keep in mind, though, that it may be a learning curve for some dogs.

