 Checking in with yourself to see how you are feeling is a great way to stay tuned in to your thoughts and feelings. Try to check in with yourself once per day. You can do this by following a simple pattern of questioning yourself and answering your questions.What’s wrong? To this, you might answer something like, “I am worried about my finances for this month because I had an expensive car repair to make.”
What can I do to feel better about the situation? To this you might respond, “I can use the emergency credit card if necessary. However, I will probably be able to get by without it if I can reduce sending in a few other areas. This was a necessary repair, so it is okay that I spent money on it.”
What is going well in my life? You might respond to this question by saying something like, “I have a nice home, good friends, and a fun job.”

, Successful and happy people do not just set out a path and blindly follow it. Just like your inner self matures and evolves, your goals need care and attention as you grow, too. Once a month or so, ask yourself the following questions.


Are my goals and priorities still the same? Are there any new ones?
What have I done to get closer to my goals? How can I repeat that success?
What can I do in the next two weeks to actively pursue my goals?

, Many people are plagued daily by self-doubts, criticisms, and worries. This is natural, but that doesn't mean you always need to listen to them. When your brain tells you something is too hard, that you might fail, that you're unpopular-- whatever your stress is -- remember that this is not who you are. Your inner self is not a critic, these are just anxieties and worries that you need to address.


Ask yourself what emotion, usually anger or fear, is at the center of your unpleasant thoughts. You can then confront these emotions instead of letting the thoughts circle your brain.
If you're struggling to get past this voice, set a timer and indulge it for 5 minutes. Let yourself be worried, scared, or confused and, when the timer is up, move on., Good friends make everything easier, and finding people who are equally interested in being their best self will help you be yours. Try to avoid constantly negative people, or those that refuse to think critically about themselves. Instead, look for people who:


Are pursuing personal goals.
Talk honestly about themselves and their feelings.
Look for the best in situations, finding solutions instead of excuses., Saying no, especially to friends, family, and coworkers, is difficult but necessary if you want to find your inner self. This doesn't mean you should be selfish, it just means to be confident in your ideas and decisions. If something doesn't mesh with your idea of yourself, trust yourself and turn the offer down.


Pursuing a goal, whether it is personal or professional, requires some sacrifice. But you can only choose what is important and what is less crucial once you start to find your inner self.
Peer pressure isn't always obvious or cruel. It might be fun, for example, to go out with your roommates instead of finishing work or relaxing. But if you want or need to stay in it's okay to temporarily disappoint them -- they'll understand.
 Ralph Waldo Emerson famously said that "a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." What he means is that truly self-aware people accept that their opinions and ideas can change, and that is okay. Don't worry about appearing hypocritical -- the goal is to be honest and truthful to yourself in the present moment, not to who you were yesterday or last year., Staying true to your inner self is not supposed to be easy. Through challenging yourself to reach difficult goals, complete projects, or just try something new, you can break the rut you're in and further develop your skills. Even better, the moments when you challenge yourself are often the most rewarding because they require you to learn or expose new parts of yourself.


This doesn't mean you must live a difficult life to know yourself. It simply means you don't shy away from things you love or want because they are challenging.
 Some people love to think about every possible outcome before they do something. Others will take a risk at the drop of a hat without any prior knowledge. Somewhere in the middle of these two extremes, however, is a healthy and productive philosophy. Once you've reached a point where further research is just delaying a decision, it's time to look inward and make a choice.
 When you're placed in unfamiliar circumstances, whether it is a new country or a party full of strangers, you remove the context and labels that once defined you. You're free to be yourself, and these new experiences will expose parts of yourself that never needed to come out in the past.Learn something every day, even if it is small. By broadening your understanding of the world around you, you gain a greater context to examine yourself.
 Finding your inner self is, paradoxically, not a solitary effort. Other people can illuminate parts of yourself that are difficult to see yourself, helping shape your self-understanding. A good mentor will not tell you what to do or who to be, but will instead help you find the answers yourself.


A mentor or role model is just someone whose opinion you trust, and who you can talk openly and honestly to.
A mentor isn't someone who is right every time. When asking advice, remember that it is ultimately up to you whether or not to follow it.

