 A baby’s first word is normally something that is important to them, such as “mama” or “dada”. Most babies’ words are repeated syllables and are fairly simple words. Keep this in mind when trying to influence your baby’s first word.


To say a real word, they must associate it with something—a baby won’t say “carrot” as his first word because he probably doesn’t know what a carrot is.
But he will say “mama” because his mom is always close by and he knows what the word means.;
, If you practice words with your baby but also teach them the words' meanings, it will help them learn to say the word more quickly. Babies typically understand objects and people before they understand words that describe relationships, feelings, or actions.


So if you are set on your baby saying a particular word, such as “dog” as their first word, surround them with that word. Sing songs and read stories about dogs, point out dogs on the street, and repeatedly build word association by saying the word “dog” whenever you show a picture of a dog.
This doesn’t guarantee that your child’s first word will be “dog”, but repetition and strong word association will significantly increase the chance.
 Your baby is more likely to choose their first word based on how useful or significant it is to him. For example, if your baby realizes how important milk is because it satisfies his hunger, he will be more motivated to learn how to say the word, so he can ask for it.


You can also influence your baby to use words like “bye-bye,” “good,” and “more,”, as these are other frequently used words that are useful for your baby to learn.
On the other hand, you should say the word “no” to your baby in moderation, otherwise he may latch on to it and use it as his first word - without really knowing what it implies - just because he hears it a lot and it is easy to say.
 For example, in teaching your baby the word “clap,” demonstrate how to clap and encourage. The same process goes with action words like "hug" or "kiss".


Aside from being familiar with the word, your baby will also learn that these words express appreciation (clap), and love (hug and kiss).
Focus on teaching your baby other words, along with their corresponding actions, as this will help with their emotional development, for example, “smile” for approval or happiness, and “wave” (to say hello).
 Babies have been shown to associate touch with words and often do better at speaking when they are being tickled or touched. Many babies can even improve their word association when they are being touched.


For example, touching a baby’s foot every time you say the word “foot” helps them understand what a foot is before they can even speak and can increase the likelihood of them attempting to repeat the word.
You can also play games with your baby and do word plays and finger games like “Where is Thumbkin” and “5 Little Pigs” to activate all of their senses. Even just talking as you rub their back or head will energize your baby and allow them to process what you are saying better.
 A baby’s first word is often unpredictable and comes when you least expect it. Parents can influence the first word in the sense of increasing their child’s overall speech development, but trying for a specific word is a little more difficult.


It's better to try to expand your baby's understanding of a wide variety of words using activities and examples, than to try to coerce them into saying one specific word.
 Most babies utter their first word between the ages of nine to fourteen months, though this differs from one baby to another. Your baby’s first word will depend on the type of environment they are in.


A baby's most influential environment is the one where he spends most of his time. - this could be your home, day-care, or playschool. Your baby’s first word is more likely to relate to the things that he sees and hears on a daily basis.
Additionally, at this stage of your baby's development he tends to imitate different kinds of sounds. For example, if you live near an airport where your baby always hears airplane; he likely to imitate the sound of an airplane. If you live on a farm, the baby is more likely to copy animal sounds.
If your family owns a dog and you spend a lot of your time playing and training the dog, the baby’s first word might be your dog’s name.
 Even before babies begin to speak for themselves, they can understand when a person is speaking words to them.


From a very early age, they can understand the difference between words and babbles or other incoherent sounds. Babies can begin to categorize things by word, even if they don’t understand what the words mean.To help your baby along, start speaking to them from a very early age and expose them to as much speech and vocabulary as you can.
 Start by having everyday conversations with your baby. Tell them what you are doing and give them a running commentary of your day.


For example: “I’m washing the dishes. Now I’m getting lunch ready. I’m eating a sandwich”. The more your baby is exposed to speech, the more likely he is to start talking at an early age.
You can also ask your baby questions and wait for a response. Even though your baby isn’t going to talk back to you anytime soon, it gets them involved and shows them how speech works.
 Talking in “baby talk” can help you connect with your child, although its effectiveness in helping develop language is sometimes questions. However, most experts agree that baby talk, or talking in a higher pitch than normal, is beneficial in the sense that it helps capture the infant’s attention.People also speak more slowly when using baby talk, which helps the baby better discern speech patterns and leads to their own language experimentation.
Baby talk is also helpful in that it helps a baby feel more comfortable in their speech testing, and often leads to language development at a younger age.
Holding a conversation with your baby by speaking to them and then waiting for them to respond (even if it's just nonsense) helps the baby transition from babbling to forming real words.
 This will naturally occur during their early months, but can be an even more powerful learning tool if parents make a conscious effort.


Simple conversations, such as holding a one-sided conversation with your baby, teach the child how their parents speak to them. You should also try modelling a conversation between two people by having your baby in the room for a conversation between you and your spouse.
A large group conversation can also teach a baby the different cadences and nuances of speech. Include older children in the conversations as well, so a baby can see how adults and children speak differently.
In most cases, the baby will notice that the child's speech is different from the adults and will pay more attention.

