 A great way to show your horse you love him is to feed him high-quality food and provide him with access to plenty of fresh water. Your horse’s dietary needs will vary according to his age, size, activity level, and medical condition.Meeting his dietary needs will help your horse live a happy and healthy life.


Grass and hay are essential to a horse’s diet—they provide roughage that helps move food through his digestive system. Bermuda grass and fescue are good types of grasses to feed your horse.Alfalfa hay is a great hay to feed your horse. Make sure the hay is green, clean (no dirt or weeds), and free of mold.Your horse should eat about 1.5% of body weight in roughage each day.Horses can eat grain, but too much of it can cause digestive problems and weight gain.Limit your horse’s grain intake to four to eight pounds per day, spread out over several meals.Oats are good type of grain to feed your horse on a limited basis.Salt licks add extra minerals to your horse’s diet. As long as he has access to plenty of fresh water, you do not need to be concerned with him eating too much salt.Pelleted horse food contains a good mix of grains, molasses, vitamins, and minerals. However, pellets can be expensive.Allow your horse to graze as much as possible. Constant access to grazing is preferable., Your horse will love when you give him treats! However, treats should be given only in moderation.Also, the treats should be nutritious.Apples are a great, healthy treat for horses. Apples have fiber (which provides roughage) and vitamin C (thought to be important for older horses). Applesauce may be suitable for horses with finicky appetites.Maple syrup is a sweet treat that is an energy source and contains potassium and calcium.Honey is another healthy sweet treat. It contains vitamin B and is rich in minerals and antioxidants.Be mindful that hand-feeding treats may lead to your horse nipping at you.Feeding treats should be strategic (e.g., a reward during training).If you give him treats during training sessions, you should work on phasing out the treats. A scratch on the chin can replace the treat and will still be rewarding to your horse., Showing your horse you love him also involves staying on top of his health. For example, your horse should receive a dental exam every six months. Poor oral health can lead to several problems in your horse, such as difficulty eating, colic, and poor athletic performance.


Your horse’s hooves also need to be taken care of. You should clean them every day, as well as before and after every ride. Your horse’s hooves also need to be trimmed every four to six weeks.A farrier can trim your horse’s hooves if you are unable to do so.
To keep your horse healthy, he will also need to receive regular vaccinations (e.g., tetanus) and dewormings by your equine veterinarian.Vaccinations are typically administered on a yearly basis.Your horse’s deworming schedule may depend on the worm burden in your pasture, so talk with your equine veterinarian to see how often your horse should be dewormed.
 Depending on how you use your horse, he may end up spending a lot of time in his stall. His stall should be dry, safe, and provide protection from the elements (e.g., sun, wind, rain). In the summer months, his stall should also be able to provide him relief from biting insects.Given that your horse is on his feet for most of the day, the floor of his stall should be comfortable for him. Ideally, the floor should be comprised of multiple layers: a subfloor made of natural materials (e.g., crushed rock, wood, not dirt) and paved with concrete or asphalt, and a ‘top’ floor made up of rubber or plastic flooring.You will need to clean his stall every day.Supplying the stall with fresh hay, fresh shavings, and a bucket of water will make your horse’s stall more comfortable.If you have multiple horses, it is helpful to have the stalls arranged such that the horses can see each other., Horses are naturally athletic animals and need plenty of exercise. Exercise will help keep your horse healthy, calm, and happy.Individual exercise needs vary from horse to horse, but, at a minimum, you should exercise your horse for 30 minutes to an hour, three to four times a week.Giving your horse regular access to a paddock or pasture will allow him to casually stroll and get some low-intensity exercise.Riding your horse is also good exercise. A 10 to 15 minute trotting ride on a trail or in a riding ring is a good way to warm up your horse before more intense riding or training.You can ride your horse as often as four to six times a week, but he must be given at least one day a week of rest.It is important to cool down your horse after an intense exercise session. Cool him down by walking him until he relaxes and his heart rate slows down. Let him cool down before putting him back in his stall.Talk with your equine veterinarian to determine the right type and amount of exercise for your horse.
 Your horse will not know what you are saying, but the tone of your voice can influence your bond with him. For example, talking to him in a calm and soothing voice, especially if he is anxious or fearful, can help calm him down.Do not use a loud or high-pitched voice with your horse,especially when you are trying to correct bad behavior.
Your horse will appreciate if you talk to him in a low and soft-pitched voice.Your voice may need to be more firm when you are training him, but it should still be calm.

