 If you experience indigestion or heartburn frequently, you should focus on treating the cause of your indigestion rather than simply addressing its symptoms. Start this process by monitoring your consumption and meal habits. Seemingly small habits such as eating too rapidly, taking large mouthfuls, or overeating with excessive portions can aggravate your indigestion.Once you’ve noticed your bad mealtime habits, correct them by eating smaller meals over a longer period of time. Eating slowly allows your stomach more time to digest and smaller portions lessen its workload.
Problems with the stomach after eating is called non-ulcer dyspepsia, which is also known as indigestion.
 Waiting until an hour after mealtime to drink a beverage can help ease indigestion. While it may seem counterintuitive, chugging water with your meals can dilute the digestive acids in your stomach and make them less effective.Opt for water or milk rather than soda, coffee, or alcohol, as these can be abrasive to your stomach lining and make you more uncomfortable.[

, Indigestion is frequently caused by consuming hard-to-digest foods which aggravate pain and increase acid production. One of the easiest ways to curb indigestion, then, is figuring out which foods trigger dyspeptic symptoms and eliminating them from your diet.Instead, opt for bland foods such as oatmeal, broths, toast, applesauce, crackers, and rice. These items are easy to digest and thus won't put undue stress on your digestive system.
 This can seem like a small consideration, but in fact your clothes can have a big impact on indigestion and acid reflux. Super tight waists on pants or skirts can dig into your abdomen and put pressure on the lower esophageal sphincter, impeding regular digestion and causing stomach acids to rise up your esophagus.This doesn't mean you have to ditch your favorite skinny jeans entirely. Just make sure you slip into some looser fitting clothing before digging into a big meal.
 Digestive enzymes, hydrochloric acid supplements, and enteric-coated peppermint oil are three widely available supplements which can make a big impact on your indigestion. For example, taking enteric-coated peppermint oil gel capsules daily has been shown to reduce or cure indigestion for up to 75% of users.Although many times indigestion is thought to be the cause of overactive stomach acid, it can also be the result of insufficient stomach acid. Ask your doctor if you think this could be your issue, and try a hydrochloric acid supplement if they recommend it.
No matter which supplement you decide to try, be sure to follow the dosage directions and consult a doctor if you experience any side effects.
 Probiotics are good bacteria that grow in your stomach and aid digestion. Studies have shown that taking probiotics can improve certain chronic digestive problems such as irritable bowel syndrome and infections diarrhea.Eating yogurt and other cultured milk products on a daily basis can boost your probiotic levels, but make sure that you check the label and purchase products containing live cultures.If you can't stomach yogurt, you can swallow a gel capsule supplement with water instead. Good supplements include Florastor and Align, which are probiotic supplements that help with your GI health.
 Artichoke boosts the production and flow of bile in your stomach, allowing food to move more rapidly through the digestive tract. Recent studies have shown that taking artichoke extract can significantly mitigate symptoms of indigestion such as flatulence and a premature sense of fullness.Though widely used in Germany, artichoke extract can be more difficult to find in other countries. Look for the product in health food stores or browse online retailers which can ship to your home.
 Many commonly prescribed and consumed drugs can cause indigestion or heartburn, so check your medicine cabinet to see if you're taking anything that could be contributing to your problem. Don't just quit important meds cold turkey, though. Ask your doctor if you can stop using the drugs and how you can substitute for it.Nitrates are often used for heart disease as they widen blood vessels, and common non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin and ibuprofen are typically used for addressing pain.
 You should take a break before doing any physical activity in order to let your food digest. If you exercise too soon after eating, your body interrupts any digestion it was doing so that it can provide blood and energy to your active muscles and lungs. This interruption delays digestion and can cause a stomach ache.Sit upright or lounge for up to an hour after eating your meal.


If you've just eaten a large meal with a lot of fat in it, you may need to wait two to three hours before vigorous exercise., There are many over the counter prescriptions that can treat your indigestion, but many of these have unpleasant side effects if used over a long period of time. If your indigestion persists despite making dietary changes and taking supplements, talk to your doctor and find out if there's a medicinal option to address your problem.For example, your doctor might decide to put you on a proton pump inhibitor or an H2-receptor antagonist. These medications work to lower acid production in the stomach or reduce existing acid levels.