 Loving your family member is a lot like loving someone else; it requires commitment. Don't think that loyalty alone is enough to keep your relationship strong. It will require work, but familial love should offer a strong, safe, supportive loving place.The stronger your relationships are with people in your life, the better you will be at taking care of others. If you have a poor relationship with a family member, you may have a hard time being as empathetic or compassionate as you could be., Start by accepting the relative for who he is and make expectations that both of you can meet. As you both meet expectations, make more. You may want to start off with infrequent meetings, gradually increasing them as you both learn to love and understand each other.


Be clear in your expectations and consequences. For example, if you invite your family member to dinner once a week, then he needs to be there when he says he will. If he doesn't, follow through with a consequence., Boundaries create manageable expectations for interactions and behavior. So, if a challenging family member has a way of being unreliable or sporadic in your life, create a boundary of expectation. This can help both of you work on creating a relationship. You can even negotiate the boundaries, just stick firm to the aspects that are most important to you.Know when to bend and when to stand firm. For example, if the relative often breaks expectations that you agreed on, ask yourself if you want to repair the relationship or let the relative go. You aren't responsible for anyone else's emotions or choices.
 You'll need to stop your negative thoughts, change your words, and choose your actions carefully. Choose to change your thoughts and words about your relative. Find something you can appreciate and focus your thoughts on their positives. Treat your family member as though you already have the relationship you would like.


If you decide that you want to repair a damaged relationship with your relative, realize that you can't change anyone but yourself. Your relative may never change.

