 Get a cleanser that works best for your skin type, create a lather with warm water, and massage it into your face by using your fingertips in a circular motion. Rinse your face off and then pat it dry with a clean washcloth.

Use a cream-based cleanser if you have dry skin.
Use a oil-based pH-balanced gentle cleanser if you have normal skin.
Use a foaming cleanser if you have oily skin.;
, After you’ve washed your face, it’s time to hydrate and protect your skin. Massage in a quality moisturizer with an SPF and apply eye cream.To make sure your face is being protected by the sun, get a moisturizer that protects against UVA rays., It’s crucial that you create an even base before applying your bronzer, and that starts with concealer. Apply concealer to the areas of your face that seem to have discoloration.

Use green concealer for red spots and blemishes.
Use peach concealer for bluish gray under-eye circles.
Use yellow concealer to even skin tone., Once you’ve put on concealer, apply an even coat of liquid foundation over the entirety of your face. This will smooth out your complexion and create a blank canvas for your contouring.You can put your foundation on with a makeup sponge, a makeup brush, or by using your fingertips.

Be sure to blend the foundation down your neck slightly for a more natural look.
Don’t apply blush until after you apply your bronzer.
 Since the purpose of a bronzer is to darken the complexion subtly, the one you choose will depend on the color of your skin. Generally, it should only be two shades darker than your natural skin tone. Test a little on your wrist to make sure it "warms" your skin tone without making it look fake.









If you have fair skin, look for a honey-colored bronzer.
For a medium complexion, choose a rose-bronze or gold flecked bronzer.
Dark skin is best enhanced with a tawny or amber bronzer., If your brush is too small or stiff, it may cause blotches and streaks to form when you apply the bronzer. There are specialized bronzer brushes available on the market, although any large blush or foundation brush will work equally as well.
 It is best to apply your bronzer in light, even coats to build up color rather than adding a single dark layer at once. Therefore, just lightly coat the end of your brush in the powder and tap off the excess onto the lid of the container.
 Your bronzer should be applied in the shape of a “3” from the top to the bottom of your face on both sides, starting with your forehead. Lightly sweep the brush along the outer sides of your upper forehead and along your hairline., Next, make a fish face and apply your bronzer to your cheekbones. You can also do this by smiling, starting at the apples of your cheeks, and sweeping slightly up toward your hairline., Finally, complete the “3” shape by sweeping your bronzer along your jawline. This will add definition to your face., As you’re applying bronzer, you’ll want to focus on covering the areas of your face that sunlight tends to hit. Do a final dusting of your bronzer on the higher points of your face, such as the bridge of your nose and your chin. Complete the natural glow by applying bronzer to your neck so that it matches the coloring of your face., Take out another fluffy, clean brush and softly blend everything in so there aren’t any unnatural lines or blotches. It’s especially important that you blend the neck area.To blend most effectively, work the brush outward in small, circular motions., If you’ve blended and your complexion still doesn’t look smooth and subtle in color transition, swirl your blending brush in a translucent powder, tap off the excess, and blend again., After you’re done, make sure to spray your entire face with a makeup setting spray to keep your face looking radiant all day.