 There are many ways, formulas,and kinds of prayers but here is just a simple start to get you some relief. This is in no way all there is on prayer but simply a start point.;
, Talk as though you were telling your most trusted mentor what is bothering you, where you failed, where it hurts, etc.
 (beneficial, but not an absolute need)

, What do you say? Just start out "God, I need you." (suggestion: you may want to simply say it slowly again and again until you mean it) then just start emptying yourself out by saying whatever is inside you, unedited. Most people find it helpful to close their eyes to help focus on their inner turmoil. Be honest to what you are saying and feeling. For example: "God, I'm feeling ... Numb, scared, overwhelmed, angry, wronged, out of control". Empty yourself out of all the held back, pent up stuff buried inside you.... This may take some time at first. And if you need to yell, or cry now is the best time to let it all out. Speaking honestly is power here. Once you are empty. Then just tell him "God, I need you I can't handle all this by myself, please help me." (you may want to repeat this until you mean it)

, In the silence listen with your whole self. Listen , is there suddenly a word in the back of your head like "let go of it" or "forgive" or "mercy" or maybe a picture of someone you are at odds with? Listen and pay attention. Once you have resolved the inner turmoil you will begin feeling comfort,like being with a close friend. Are you feeling peaceful, like everything is going to be ok - even though nothing you know of has changed? Relaxed? Are you feeling like an invisible barrier of protection is surrounding you? One of the most common side effect of prayer is falling asleep during it - that is real peace. Are you feeling connected to something greater, that you somehow are not alone in the moment?

, That you are not limited only to the resources you can see, touch and feel? Do you suddenly know what you need to do to make things right between you and the other person?

,, There are many people across all walks of life and cultures that have a story or testimony to a simple prayer and then how events took a sudden turn in their favor.

