 If you don't have an individual heart rate monitor, you can take your pulse to determine your heart rate. To find your target heart rate, you must first determine the number of times your heart contracts (or "beats") in a minute while you're at rest.First thing in the morning is the best time to measure your resting heart rate. At other times during the day, your heart rate may differ in response to other activity. Use the radial artery in your wrist or the carotid artery in your neck.
Place your index and third fingers over the artery you're using. The radial artery is between the bones on the thumb-side of your wrist. The carotid artery is on your neck, next to your windpipe.
Set a timer for 30 seconds and count the beats. Then multiply by two to get the number of beats per minute (bpm). For reference, the average adult's resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 bpm. If you're well outside that range, you may want to check it again to be sure.
Keep in mind that you should take your pulse once every few weeks or so and adjust your resting heart rate as necessary. It may change if you start engaging in regular exercise or make other lifestyle changes.;
, If you engage in physical exertion that causes your heart to beat beyond your maximum heart rate, you can cause it serious damage. You can find your maximum heart rate using the simple equation of 220 minus your age.For example, a 24-year-old person would have a maximum heart rate of 196 (220 – 24 = 196).
The level of intensity and frequency with which you exercise doesn't affect your maximum heart rate, nor is it affected by gender. However, it will decrease with age.
 The difference between your maximum heart rate and your resting heart rate is your HRR. This is the range within which you can safely exercise without damaging your heart.Subtract the resting heart rate you found when you took your pulse from the maximum heart rate you determined using the general equation.
For example, if the 24-year-old from the previous example had a resting heart rate of 80 bpm, they would have an HRR of 116 (196 – 80 = 116).
 You can use all of these rates you've found to determine the intensity level of any exercise that causes your heart to beat that quickly. On the treadmill, the range you use will depend on your goals for exercise.If you want to increase your cardiovascular strength, aim to spend the bulk of your treadmill workout in the aerobic zone, which is defined as 70 to 80 percent of your maximum heart rate. Typically you can reach this zone with a steady jog.
If you want to burn calories and increase your overall fitness, focus on staying between 60 and 70 percent of your maximum heart rate. This is typically achieved with a brisk walk or slow jog.
To find the zone, multiply your HRR by the percentage of your maximum heart rate that you want, then add the result to your resting heart rate. Do the same for both ends of the zone. For example, if the same 24-year-old wanted to work out in the aerobic zone, they would need to keep their heart rate between 161.2 (116 x 0.7 = 81.2; 81.2 + 80 = 161.2) and 172.8 (116 x 0.8 = 92.8; 92.8 + 80 = 172.8).

