 Line the bottom of the pan with parchment paper. Then, grease the pan and the parchment paper. Finish off by dusting flour over the grease. Set the pan aside., Separate the egg yolks from the egg whites. Beat them for about 3 minutes. You can use a handheld mixer or a food processor with a whisk attachment. The egg yolks need to be thick and creamy.,

If you want a darker gingerbread, omit the honey and use ½ cup (165 grams) molasses.If you want a lighter gingerbread, omit the molasses and use ½ cup (175 grams) honey., Put the egg whites into a clean mixing bowl. Beat them until they turn white and stiff. They egg whites are ready when they turn white, become stiff, and get soft peaks. You can use a handheld mixer or a food processor with a whisk attachment to beat them., Keep mixing until you get firm peaks., Use a spatula to guide the egg whites mixture into the egg yolks mixture a little bit at a time. Stir the two mixtures together using a rolling motion, starting from the bottom of the bowl and moving upwards. This will help trap some air bubbles inside the batter., Stir slowly so that you don't lose the air bubbles. Try to use that same horizontal stirring motion as before., Start at one end of the pan and slowly work your way towards the other. If needed, move the mixing bowl back and forth in a wave-like motion. The batter needs to spread over the entire pan. It will be thin, which is normal; you will be rolling the baked gingerbread into a roll later., Take it out of the oven once the time is up, and leave it some place where it will not be disturbed., Dampen a tea towel and sprinkle confectioners/icing sugar all over it. Place the cake upside-down onto the tea towel and lift the pan away. Peel off the parchment paper and discard it., Start at one end, and begin rolling the cake into a tube. Some people find it easiest to roll the cake along with the tea towel. You will be unrolling it later., To make the filling, combine the heavy cream, sugar, and cinnamon in a mixing bowl. Whisk together until your get firm peaks. Start at a slow speed before increasing to a higher one., Make sure that the cake is completely cool before you start filling it. Once it is cool, use a spatula to spread the filling over the top. Start from the center, and spread the filling all the way to the edges. Remember to leave some of the filling for the outside of the cake., Use the spatula to spread the filling over the top and sides of the cake. You can cover the two flat ends, or your can leave them uncovered; the spiral can look nice.For some added color: dust some ground cinnamon over the top of the cake. If you left a bumpy texture with the frosting, this can make your cake look like a Yule log.
For some added flavor: sprinkle some lemon zest, orange zest, candied orange peel, or candied ginger over the top of your frosted cake.
For some added design: make some sugared cranberries and arrange them on top of your cake. Add some mint leaves to make them look like holly.

