


On a Mac, hit the little Apple icon in the top left corner and select Software Update.
Windows, download iTunes for Windows at http://www.apple.com/itunes/download/
;
,, You may find links or a torrent easily enough with a simple Web Search.


Anywhere you download it from may have it in .dmg format. On Macs, this is no problem to open, but on windows you'll need extra software to do this such as "DMG Extractor" or similar.
 Make sure your on your device's Summary page where it gives you options such as Check for updates, Back up, and Restore Device. (You may alternatively just click Restore Device on the Summary page in iTunes for this step only).


On Macs, hold the Alt/Option button and click on Restore device. Navigate to where ever you have your 6.1.3 or 6.1.4 .ipsw file and double click it.
On Windows, hold the Shift button and Left Click on Restore device. Navigate to where ever you have your 6.1.3 or 6.1.4 .ipsw file and double click it.
Proceed through the next few prompts and let your device finish the restoration process, this will take a few minutes.
 On either your iOS device's screen or iTunes, go through the process of setting it up as a new Device, until you get to the home screen. You may skip any prompts you get such as Location services or WiFi network.
 This time we will be Alt or Shift Clicking on Check for Updates button instead of Restore device.


On Macs, hold the Alt/Option button and click on Check for Updates. Navigate to where ever you have your iOS 7 Beta 3 .ipsw file (mount the .dmg file if necessary) and double click it.
On Windows, hold the Shift button and Left Click on Check for Updates. Navigate to where ever you have your iOS 7 Beta 3 .ipsw file (extract the .dmg file if necessary) and double click it.
Proceed through the next few prompts and let your device finish the restoration process, this will take a few minutes.
 You can choose to do either at this point depending on your preference, Restoring from your latest backup will return all your favorite settings, contacts, apps, and etc, while using it as a new device will let you start from scratch.
 If you need to Restore it to iOS 6 there are plenty of guides available but just do Step 4 only and you should be fine.