 Each airline has different physical requirements tailored to the dimensions of their planes. Airlines want to make sure that flight attendants are tall enough to reach the overhead bins, but not so tall that their head hits the ceiling of the plane. Airlines also require that flight attendants be able to sit in a seat and buckle the seat belt comfortably.


The height range for most airlines is between 5’0” - 5’ 1” and 5’8” - 6’3”. Some airlines do not have height requirements, but instead require that you be able to reach a certain height.
The minimum age requirement ranges between 18-21 years old depending on the airline. There is no maximum age as long as you pass all medical requirements
There is no numerical weight requirement, but many airlines do a visual assessment, looking at weight in proportion to height.
In the 1960s, flight attendants were required to be females of a certain weight, and to retire before they reached a certain age. Some airlines continued these discriminatory practices through the 1980s and 1990s. Now men can be flight attendants, there is no numerical weight requirement, and people may continue working as flight attendants until they’re ready to retire.
 Airlines won’t hire people who don’t have their GED, but no higher education is required. That said, airlines do look favorably upon people who have a college degree, or even a few years of college under their belt. It shows that you’re ambitious and able to handle a challenge.


Some companies offer “flight training programs,” but this is not a requirement before applying to airlines. You’ll receive training if you’re hired as a flight attendant.
 The primary role of a flight attendant is to provide excellent customer service, so it really helps if you’ve worked in a similar role before. There are many types of jobs that count as customer service experience: answering phones for a company, working in retail, or working at the front desk of a small business all require interacting with and helping the public. This isn’t a mandatory requirement for all airlines, but it will help give you an edge.

