 If your cat is scratching its ears a lot, if you spot signs of infection, or if the cat's itching has caused it to injure itself, then it needs veterinary care. Make an appointment with your veterinarian and take the cat in. Discuss the cat's symptoms with the veterinarian and allow them to do an exam.


After the vet does the exam, discuss your cat's diagnosis. Itchy ears can have a variety of causes, including ear mites, ear infections, and polyps or growths.In severe cases of ear disease, your veterinarian may suggest sedating your cat so that they can do a thorough exam.;
, Your veterinarian may suggest that the cat get its ears cleaned at the veterinary office or by you at home. If you are told to clean them at home, your veterinarian should give you very clear instructions and they should provide you with cleaner or the name of a product they recommend.Use a specific cleaner made for cats’ ears. Clean very carefully, as cleaning that is too rough can damage the cat's eardrums or inner ear.
If the cat's ears are very dirty, cleaning its ears will allow the veterinarian to get a sense of the severity of the issue.
In some cases, cleaning the cat's ears will remove the dirt and debris that was causing irritations, and thus will be all that is needed to treat the itching.
 If your veterinarian has found polyps or other growths in your cat's ear, they are likely to suggest removal. This type of surgical procedure will require that your cat be put under anesthesia and it will need pre and post surgery care from you.Other procedures your cat may have to undergo at the veterinary office include removal of foreign bodies and stitches to close up wounds or trauma., If you are told to put medicated drops into your cat's ears as part of its treatment, you will need to take care when applying them. Hold your cat on your lap and gently fold back one of its ears with one of your hands. Then use your other hand to quickly drop the prescribed number of drops into your cat's ear. Once the drops are in, fold the ear all the way back over to close up the ear and hold on to your cat.Once the drops are in your cat's ears, you need to be quick about closing up the ear canal and holding onto your cat. If the cat gets away, it will shake its head a lot, which will dislodge the medicine from the ear canal.
 In addition to drops, your veterinarian may prescribe other medications and provide suggestions for care during recovery. Follow these directions so that your cat cat make a speedy recovery.In many cases, you will need to put a cone on your cat to prevent it from itching its ears and further injuring itself.
Your doctor may prescribe oral antibiotics in addition to medicated drops if your cat's infection is especially bad or it has traveled beyond the cat's ears.
 Cats normally scratch their ears to ease minor itches or irritations. They may also rub on their ears as they clean them, licking their paws and then rubbing their paws on their ears. However, there is a difference between itching normally and excessive itching. If you notice that your cat is constantly itching its ears, then you should assess the ears for potential problems.A cat that is itching its ears constantly, and damaging the skin around the ears, may have an ear issue that needs veterinary care.
 Once you notice that your cat is spending a lot of time scratching its ears, you should do an inspection of the ears. Hold your cat in your lap or go down to its level. While petting it and keeping it calm, you should look closely at the outside of your cat's ears. Then gently fold back the cat's ears and look inside them.Make sure there is no redness, scabbing, or flaky skin on the inside or the outside of the ear.
A cat's ears are usually covered in fur on the outside but the inside has less fur. You should be able to see a lot of healthy pink skin in the inside of the ear., While inspecting your cat's ears you should be looking for signs of disease. In addition to scratching, if your cat has an ear infection or other ear disease they may exhibit other symptoms. These symptoms may include:Discharge
Sensitivity to touch
Ear odor
Repeated head shaking
Rubbing the ears on the floor or other surfaces

, If your cat has a little bit of waxy build up or grime in its ears, but they seem otherwise healthy, then you may simply choose to clean your cat's ears. Once the cat's ears are cleaned, you should then keep a watchful eye on whether the itching persists. However, if your cat has injured itself with its itching, or there is evidence that your cat may have some sort of ear disease, then it should be seen by a veterinarian.Cats are very good at hiding discomfort and pain. Just because you do not notice any behavioral changes or signs of unhappiness, that does not mean that your cat doesn't need veterinary care.

