 To get the ollie down, you have set up your feet correctly. Traditional set up for the ollie requires you to have your front foot near the middle of the board and your back foot down by the tail of the board. You don't want the back foot to be hanging off the tail, but to be in the middle of the tail so you have a grip on the board. Your front foot should be just behind the last two bolts on the front part of your skateboard, completely parallel to them. Remember that you have to get this down and learn to do a regular ollie before you can start going higher in the air.;
, Now, you shouldn't move the front foot back too much, or your skateboard will just stand up vertically. However, if you've really gotten the regular ollie down solid, then you can move that front foot toward the center of your board, just two or more inches. Sliding that front foot is what gives you your lift, so the more sliding room you have, the higher you will go. You can start by just moving that foot back an extra inch or so, as you get more comfortable in this position.
 Now that you have a solid ollie, you can get it higher by sliding your front foot all the way to the nose of the board, up to the part where the board starts to curve upward. This way, your foot will get caught where it starts to rise, and since your foot is no longer sliding, if you keep moving it, it will bring the board higher in the air. Just remember that, even if you get it higher, you will still have to even out your board in the air by pushing gently with your front foot.
 Jumping higher is what will help you get your ollies higher. To get up higher, you'll need to pop the board harder, suck your feet up with the board, and jump higher than normal, trying to get your knees almost all the way up to your chest. You can raise your arms a bit more to help yourself get that extra lift too. Remember that you'll have to be really comfortable with your ollies to feel good about lifting your knees and body up that high when you jump.
 Along with jumping higher, one of your problems may be that you're not picking up your feet high enough. If you want to pick them up high enough, then you have to have your shoulders centered instead of hunching over too much, keeping your weight centered over the board to keep stable. When you snap your back foot, you need to really pull those feet up in the air. Some people focus on just lifting up that front foot, but it's important to have your back foot up, too.
 You can get down each aspect of the technique, but the most important part is putting it all together. You want the movement to be as fluid and smooth as possible, so you naturally move from the footwork to the jump, and back to the board again, without having any jagged or awkward movements. Whenever you're trying to get a move down, remember that timing is everything.
 This may sound obvious, but if you really want to get those ollies higher, then you have to keep practicing. But you can't just practice any old technique, or you'll just be repeating the same mistakes again. If you do master the footwork, jumping higher, sucking your feet and board up, and all of the other techniques we've discussed, then continuing to practice definitely will make perfect.
 Though some people like to practice their ollies first without any speed, you can try rolling to gather a bit more momentum to help you jump higher in the air. It's hard to jump high if you're generating all of the height from your own body without any speed to help you along. So, once you've got the ollie down flat, you can try moving, or even going a bit faster, to help yourself get the momentum you need to jump higher. A lot of people do start their ollies with some speed already, so if this is you, you can just try to go a bit faster as you practice more and more, especially if you're going over objects.
 Start small, working on doing an ollie over a garden hose, and then work your way up to doing an ollie over a shoebox, or another object that can be easily toppled without hurting you. Once you master this, you can try two shoeboxes or another higher object. Just making visual contact with an object before you jump over it can motivate you to jump higher than if you have nothing to clear. Having this goal set out for yourself can definitely help you get those ollies higher.
 If you have an old board that isn't in the greatest condition, then you won't be maximizing your ollie potential. A fresh board with some fresh grip tape can help you keep your feet planted on the board, and can also help you suck the board up with you when you jump up, so if you really want to ollie higher, you may consider getting a fresh board.

