 Generally speaking, major keys sound happy, while minor keys are melancholic or sad. Listen to the music and keep your ear out for the emotions at work in the piece. In the majority of cases, it should be easy to hear whether a piece is major or minor. Once you have that basis down, you'll have an easier time of specifying the key to a root note.


Major keys are typically purer than minor. If there is a mixture of happy and sad-sounding chords in a piece, chances are high it is a minor key.
 Unless the piece of music you're working with is incredibly complex, there should be a tone you can hum that matches all of the chords in a song. If you find this, hold onto the note. Record it on a voice recorder if you need to.


The Beatles' classic "Yesterday" is an interesting example due to its sophisticated chord progression. Play around by humming a few different notes, and try to hum the note as long as possible. If you find yourself stumped, hum the F note. Although certain notes may fit better than others, Yesterday is in the key of F Major.You may have to try out a few different notes before you hear one that sounds synchronous with the music.
 If you have an instrument, you can take the note you hummed out and apply it to an instrument. If you have a grasp of what the hummed root note was, you shouldn't have any trouble finding it on the instrument. Once you play a note on the instrument that matches your humming, you'll have be able to clearly identify what note it is based on standard notation.


Play along to The Beatles' Yesterday using one note. If you play F, you'll find the note backs up the chords used in the song.
There are tuner apps online and on your phone that will tell you what note it is you're singing.
 Figuring out the key for a given piece of music becomes a lot easier if you can identify notes with your ear and develop perfect pitch. Depending on your musical knowledge, this may be very tricky, but it can be done over the course of time and patience.


One technique to help you learn is note replication. Using a tuner (you can use free online tuners as well), listen to a pitch and read up what note it is. Think up the musical note in your head, and try to replicate it with your voice. Once you've sung it, play the tuner note again and see how close you got to the true pitch. Do this for all of the notes.