 The prospect of seeking treatment for both ADHD and an eating disorder may seem overwhelming. However, choosing to just treat one and not the other simultaneously can cause the one that is treated to come back again. Undergoing treatment for both will be challenging, but it is important to your success.Since the two disorders are linked, treating one can help treat the other. Seeking help for your ADHD can make it more achievable for you to focus and follow through with what you should do for your eating disorder. Talk to your doctor about your options for seeking treatment. For example, you may be able to see a psychiatrist and/or therapist for help with both disorders, or you may need to see two different specialists.;
, Turning to drugs, alcohol, or other unhealthy behaviors to control your symptoms or numb negative feelings that arise because of these symptoms will only lead to trouble. Your ADHD makes you prone to indulging in impulsive and dangerous behavior, which increases your likelihood of turning to substance abuse.Be aware that medications used to treat ADHD may worsen your eating disorder, such as by suppressing your appetite and causing weight loss. Likewise, a medication meant to stimulate your appetite for your eating disorder might worsen your ADHD.
Instead of turning to substances, see a counselor, call a friend, write in a journal, or use creative expression to help you cope with your symptoms.
 During your recovery, you’re going to have to rely on others for help. Along with your doctor and loved ones, those who are experiencing the same journey that you are can offer tremendous help for you to become and stay healthy. Talking to others who are going through the same ordeal as you can offer you insight, support, and hope.


Ask your doctor for recommendations on support groups that can help. If you can’t find any in your area, look for an online support group. Online support groups are perfect for those who aren’t feeling well and don’t want to leave their home, or who would rather stay anonymous.However, be on the lookout for unhelpful online blogs and groups, which may cause more harm than good, especially for eating disorders.
 Chronic stress will only serve to exacerbate the symptoms of both ADHD and your eating disorder. Having healthy and effective ways of keeping stress at bay can be a powerful tool for your recovery.


Try relaxation exercises such as progressive muscle relaxation, deep breathing, running, or swimming. Make these exercises a regular part of your routine to experience the benefits.In addition, it can help to condense your schedule and get rid of any excess responsibilities that may be contributing to stress. Drop a class if you're taking too many. Delegate a chore to a family member if it requires too much of your energy. Look for ways you can cut back.
 People with ADHD often find a variety of therapies beneficial. Taking care of themselves by getting proper nutrition can also help to alleviate the disorder’s symptoms. Patients may also do well with social skills training.


Behavioral therapy is often successful in helping those with ADHD, as is cognitive therapy. Cognitive therapy is typically effective in helping with problem solving, neurocognitive skills, critical reasoning, social skills training, and emotional control., Nutrition has been shown to be a fundamental aspect of improving ADHD symptoms. For instance, many of the artificial colorings and additives in processed foods seem to worsen the condition.Seeing a professional who can examine what and when you are eating can help.


This professional might recommend that you streamline your diet and include more real foods such as nutrient-rich fruits and vegetables as well as omega-3 fatty acid-rich fish and nuts, while limiting saturated and trans fats and simple carbs like crackers or candy.
 Doctors often prescribe both stimulants and non-stimulants to help manage the symptoms of ADHD. Stimulants, like amphetamine, are successful in about 70 to 80 percent of patients. Non-stimulants are typically used when stimulants don’t work or cause unpleasant side effects. Non-stimulants often prescribed include atomoxetine and clonidine.Common side effects of ADHD medication include trouble sleeping, stomach upset, mood changes, daytime drowsiness, heart problems, and mood changes. Talk to your doctor about any type of side effects you may experience, as some could be quite dangerous., Those with ADHD often feel like they are out of control and can’t get a handle on their world around them. Food may be a way to help them cope. The food helps to give them a high and provides a short-lived feeling of balance.


Those with eating disorders often look to sugary, carbohydrate-loaded foods during their binges. These types of foods can actually increase a person’s serotonin levels, which makes them feel happier and in control of their symptoms. Unfortunately, the good feelings are only temporary, and the patient can experience depression on top of their already existing symptoms, which can lead to a vicious cycle. , Eating disorders are often caused by traumatic events in a person’s life or underlying psychological conditions. Without healing the pain from the past or what you’re currently experiencing, you can’t move on and become healthy. Talking to a therapist about what has caused a distorted body image or why you use food as a source of comfort can help you combat the issue once and for all.


Common reasons for people to experience eating disorders include low self-esteem, depression, stress, anger, loneliness, or traumatic experiences as a child., Depending on the type of disorder and the practical experience of your therapist, there are a range of approaches to help those with eating disorders. Dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT), one type of cognitive behavioral therapy treatment, has produced many positive results with patients who have eating disorders. You can receive this type of treatment while admitted at a facility, or seek outpatient treatments.DBT is an approach that strives to address the underlying issues behind eating disorders by teaching mindfulness skills, emotional regulation, social skills, and stress-coping skills., You might also find that alternative types of therapies can help with the disorder. These types of treatment approaches are used in conjunction with medical or psychiatric approaches to help improve symptoms.


Many of these approaches focus on becoming more mindful of your thoughts and emotions, managing stress, developing greater acceptance of one's body, and building a healthier relationship with food.
Complementary treatments may include equine therapy, art and dance therapies, acceptance and commitment therapy, meditation, yoga, and herbal supplements among others. Talk to your healthcare provider to determine if any of these are good options for your case., Medication to specifically treat eating disorders doesn’t exist. However, your doctor may prescribe you something that can manage the underlying causes of the eating disorder. Taking this type of treatment can help you feel better, which in turn, may help with the eating disorder.Doctors will often prescribe antidepressants to help with eating disorders like anorexia and bulimia. Zoloft and Prozac are usually helpful in managing the feelings of sadness one may experience and use food as a coping mechanism. Doctors may also prescribe medication that is typically used for schizophrenia for those with anorexia, as it may help them to gain weight and stop their obsessive thinking.

