 End-loading your bat can give you more power behind your hits. To get started, you'll need to find a softball bat that is hollow and will allow you to remove the end cap. Many aluminum and composite bats will be capable of being end-loaded. Before you continue, make sure your bat is capable of being end loaded.


End loaded bats will have weight added or shifted to the end cap of the bat. This extra weight can add more power to a hit, sending the ball flying faster than normal bats.
End loaded bats are usually not permitted to use during an official game. The advantage that these bats provide is considered unfair to players who are using regulation bats.
The inner barrel of your bat should be hollow.
You should be able to remove the end cap from your bat.
 To end-load a softball bat yourself, you will first need to carefully remove the end cap from the bat. Removing the end cap will allow you to add material to the cap, causing the weight of the bat to shift to the end. You can use these steps to help you remove the cap from your bat:Gently work a screwdriver in between the end cap and the wall of the bat.
Use the screwdriver's leverage to begin pushing the cap up and out of the bat's barrel.
Move the screwdriver to another spot between the cap and the barrel.
Don't push too hard. Forcing the cap out could damage the bat or the cap.
Some people have found applying gentle heat to the end cap can make it easier to remove.
 Once you've remove the end cap, you can apply polyurethane to add weight to the end cap. The end cap should be entirely filled with polyurethane to ensure that enough weight has been added. Allow at least one full day for the polyurethane to dry completely., After you have made sure your polyurethane filling has totally dried, you can add the end cap back onto your bat. Adding the end cap will make your bat ready to use again. The new end cap will have shifted the weight of the bat into the end, changing your swing and adding more force to your hits. Use these steps to help you add your end cap back to the bat:Make sure the inside of your bat is clean.
Apply epoxy to the inside of your bat's barrel.
Place the end cap back in the bat. You may need to use a rubber mallet to get it all the way back into position.
 Don't start swinging your bat just yet. You'll need to give the epoxy plenty of time to dry before you can use the bat. If the epoxy doesn't dry completely before you use the bat, the end cap may come flying off of the bat. Make sure that the epoxy is fully dry before heading out to use your new bat.


Allow your bat around two day's time to dry.
Clean up any epoxy that has spilled onto your bat. Any epoxy that dries outside your bat will be very difficult to remove once it dries.
 There are many end-loaded bats that you can purchase, saving you the trouble of creating your own. These bats will come with a polyurethane filled end cap, putting extra weight in the end of the bat and your swing. If you want an end-loaded bat without the hassle of making one, try looking on-line for one that you can purchase.


You can also find pre-made end caps that are already weighted for you.
You can find end-loaded bats for around the same price as a regular softball bat.

