 Dog parks are a great way to let your dog off the leash so it can explore and stretch its legs. Before you go to the dog park, ensure that your dog responds to basic commands so you can call it back to you, if needed. Keep an eye on your small dog since there may be larger or more aggressive dogs at the park.Check the dog parks to see if they have a small dog section or offer small dog play times.
 You can easily play tug-of-war or fetch, go for walks, or take it swimming. If you play fetch, ensure that the ball is large enough that your small dog won't choke on it when it's retrieving the ball. If you take your dog out for exercise, your dog should be responsive to commands or you may need to train it. Doing different physical activities will help you learn what your dog enjoys to do, making it easier to get the exercise it needs.


Although your small dog can easily walk or jog, it won't be able to exercise as long as a larger breed would., Make your dog's exercise part of your daily routine and so you both form healthy habits. Just ensure that you tailor your routine to fit your dog's needs. For example, if you're training for a half-marathon, it's fine to jog your dog, but it probably won't be able to keep up with you for an extended period of time.If you have a pug, Boston terrier, or any flat-faced breed, you should limit your runs to under five miles. This is because some flat-faced dogs may struggle to breathe while running.
 It's not always possible to take your small dog outside for exercise, especially if it's too hot or cold out. However, your dog will still need to exercise. Play simple indoor games like making it jump, offering exercise balls, and giving mental games like food puzzle toys.Watch your dog when you let it into the yard. If it's only pacing or sniffing around, it's probably not getting enough exercise. Go outside with your small dog and chase it around, help it run laps, and get it moving.
 If you or your small dog are getting tired of the same walk or run around the neighborhood, explore a new environment. Put your dog on the leash and take it to a new part of town. Let the dog lead you so it can check out anything it's interested in.


You could take your small dog on a gentle hike through the forest. Let the dog sniff and examine things along the trail.
Take your dog along with you when you do contained activities like canoeing or kayaking.
 Remember that small dogs can get exercise from simple activities that we often overlook. Have your dog run up and down the stairs with you for an easy work out. You could also create a climbing obstacle course by stacking cushions, pillows, and chairs for your dog to scramble on.


You could also hide doggie treats around the house for your dog. This will motivate it to run around and explore its environment.

