 Good doesn't just mean they're good at halo 2, it means you all work well as a team. Once you do, introduce yourself (by first name) and ask everyone else's names. This is much easier than saying people's gamer tags because they may be complicated, difficult to remember and using real names fosters teamwork.;
, The 4 main spots are:


The sniper tower
The cheap tower (BR Tower)
The lift
The library (above sword spawn).

The spot where you can walk down to the 3 stickies and jump through the hole is sniper two.
The spot where the plasma rifle spawns is sniper one (a.k.a. suicide room).
Notice that the level of elevation determines the number after the main position.
The ramp coming from blue room and going to sniper one is called the elbow.
The middle where the plasma pistol spawns is called top mid. or middle.
Under that is called "Under glass" or glass.
The green room is located under glass.
At the BR tower where the BR spawns is called BR 3 (highest level). t
The second level is called BR 2 (where the needler spawns without the stickies.
BR one is where the other needler spawns with the 3 stickies (next to sword).
The place where you end up after going up the lift (some people call it "the teleporter") is called the Lift.
The Blue room is under the lift.
The library is above sword and SWORD is where the sword spawns.
, If you don't have any great weapons remember:


Two weapons aren't always better than one. A good grenade can sometimes make the difference in a firefight. A second weapon takes grenades away. If you are using an SMG, either lob a grenade in early and finish up with the SMG or if you can get away then open up with the SMG and toss the grenade in afterwards for the kill. Note: Doing the latter method will require an excellent grenade, meaning that if they are backing up you throw it far, if they are moving in you throw it short.
It's a good practice when throwing grenades to bounce them off of the floor in closer ranges. It'll explode faster so it makes it easier to make the good grenade.
You can grab a quick noob combo (BR and plasma pistol).

