 Studies show that movies improve the immune system by boosting natural killer cells.They say laughter is the best medicine and it is true. Watching comedies can have a great effect not only on your mood but also by shrinking the duration of your illness.Watch all of the movies you’ve been meaning to watch but just haven’t had the time – in a row. Or try choosing a theme that will keep your mind elsewhere.


For example, you could watch all of your favorite Disney films, revisit your guilty pleasures, or just get totally random with your Netflix account. Your imagination is the limit!
Make yourself some popcorn to go along with your movie marathon. Treat your marathon with the seriousness and respect it deserves! And movies deserve popcorn.
Stay in your pajamas all day. A movie marathon requires no dress code.
Get silly. Build yourself a “fort” with your blankets and pillows, just like you did during your childhood movie marathons. Why not? No one’s looking!
Since laughter is good for your health, watch comedies to maximize your benefits from watching movies.;
, Being physically ill doesn’t always mean feeling mentally clouded and that’s when the boredom tends to hit. Games of all kinds are a great distraction for your mind. Even better, research has found that the enjoyment and positive feelings that come from playing games actually boosts your immune system and lowers stress levels.Pull out one of your favorite video games and save a princess or two.
Give your brain a good workout with crossword puzzles or sudoku.
Get online and have a Scrabble battle with a complete stranger. Whatever your favorites types of games are, play them!

, Research has proven that music has the power to uplift your mood, reduce sensations of pain, and foster relaxation by promoting calmness.Plus, how often do you get the chance to put your favorite music on and listen to it with no distractions? Not that often, probably.


Revisit some of your favorite tunes and make yourself the ultimate sick day playlist.
Daydream and ruminate on happy memories while you listen to music. Let your mind drift off and soak up the healing music vibes.
 For many people, there is nothing more soothing than reading an awesome book. You’ve got all day, so read it cover to cover! Pull a paperback from your own library, reread an old favorite, or Google a few book lists for good suggestions.


If you don't particularly like to read or if you're not feeling well enough to concentrate on a book, try an audiobook instead. Audiobooks are a great solution when you want a story without the actual book.
If you aren’t in the mood for a story, get absorbed in an excellent TED talk or track down a podcast on a topic that you’re interested in.
 Meditation increases your immune system response, calms your mind, alleviates symptoms of being sick, and improves your mental outlook.Incorporate some meditation into your daily routine to help yourself feel better.


Try searching Youtube for a guided meditation for healing and positivity.
 Laughter is a great way to get your mind off of being sick. It also has healing properties of its own. Research shows that laughter releases chemicals in your brain that boost your body’s immune system, improve blood circulation and lower stress.Check out your favorite comedian’s stand-up act online or hop on Youtube and look up funny videos. If you aren’t sure where to start, use search terms like “funny animal tricks” or “hilarious home videos” and you’ll find yourself in hysterics pretty quickly. Thanks, internet!
Think about your favorite jokes – and then think up some new ones!
Call up your funniest friend and have a chat. This will cheer you up and give you an opportunity to try out a few of those new jokes you've been working on.

