 Even if you’re not very athletic, it’s important to get some exercise each day. This will help exercise the muscles in your feet to prevent cramping. It also helps improve poor circulation, which is another cause of foot cramps.Walking is a great way to exercise to prevent foot cramps.
Make sure your choice of exercise involves your legs and feet. For example, don’t simply choose weight lifting for your arms and shoulders.
If it’s difficult to support your weight while standing, try swimming or water aerobics.
 Cramps are muscles spasms, which means that the muscles are clenching involuntarily. Stretching the muscles out helps to ease and prevent this. Develop a simple stretching routine and practice it regularly.Incorporate yoga into your exercise regimen. Take a class or follow a video at home at least twice a week.
Do plantar flexion or calf raises. For this exercise, stand with your feet shoulder width apart and then rise up onto your toes. Hold for a few seconds and then slowly lower your heels back to the ground.
Include dorsi flexion or toe lifts. For this exercise, keep your legs straight and bring your toes up towards your calf. Hold in this position for about 30 seconds and then release.
Do ankle circles. Extend your leg and then begin rotating your foot around. After about 30 seconds, begin rotating your foot in the opposite direction.
 For some people, foot cramps signal that they need to up their activity level. However, if you’re extremely active, foot cramps may be a sign that you’re actually overdoing it. Make sure you’re exercising in a way that is healthy and safe, or you could develop an injury.If you’re new to exercise, increase the length of your workout by 10% per week.
Look for other signals that your body is fatigued. Do you feel lightheaded after a workout? Are you very sore the next day? Make sure to rest and take it easy when you need to.
 When you sweat, you don’t just lose water. You also sweat out important minerals such as potassium, magnesium, and calcium. A lack of these minerals can cause cramping. Make sure to get enough of them to make up for what you lost during a workout.You can take a supplement each day to help replace lost minerals. Drug stores, natural food stores, and nutrition centers often sell a variety of supplements.
Some sports drinks may contain the minerals you need. Read the nutrition label to make sure.
There are plenty of foods high in potassium and calcium (such as bananas and dairy). These can be great sources of these minerals as well.

