 Everyone wants to feel that they have something to contribute. Begin asking them questions about their interests as it relates to your organization or office. You do not need to probe them too hard, but finding out some basic information early can be helpful in providing them with a quality experience.If they are at your organization’s meeting, you might ask “So what brings you to us today? What are you hoping to gain from this experience?”
If they are new to your office or friend group you could ask “What kinds of things are you interested in either professionally or personally?”

, When the newcomer arrives, after introducing yourself and getting to know them a bit better, introduce them to others as well. Asking those basic questions like “what are your interests?” can help you identify which people in your organization or office to introduce them to first.You might say something like “Hey Karen, I wanted to introduce you to Jorge. This is his first meeting. Jorge tells me that he’s an attorney, too.”

, Once you have successfully introduced your new guest to others, don’t leave it at that. Work to actively engage them in any group conversations that you might be in. Often times, you and your group may have inside jokes that your guest may not understand. Try to avoid those during this new time.You might say something like “Yeah, speaking of technology, Ada just showed me her new phone. It’s definitely one of the coolest I’ve seen.”

, Activities like games allow for new people to blend into a group with a bit more ease than does having a conversation. Provide some space for activities during this time of welcoming guests so that they can feel on equal footing with others. Try not to play something that you have already played often so that you don’t have an unfair advantage.Perhaps you want to do a fun icebreaker or play a card game.
 If they should make any contribution of value during this first gathering, be sure to acknowledge that. People enjoy being recognized for their input and will be more likely to return if they feel valued and productive.Say something like “Mary, thank you so much for coming tonight. And thanks again for that fundraising idea. I would never have thought of that!”

, Once the event is over, invite them to come back for your next event or to something unrelated to the group. For instance, you might have an upcoming social event that they might be interested in or perhaps you are going to the movies soon. Invite them and ask if they would like to bring a friend.
 After the meeting or event is over, find out their thoughts. See if there was anything that they enjoyed or that they did not like in particular. Find out if they feel that any information was missing.A more formal way of collecting this information from newcomers is to do an assessment and have them fill it out. It can have questions like “On a scale of 1 to 10, how much did you enjoy tonight’s event?” Make these surveys confidential.

