 These circular snacks are a real lifesaver in the morning, since they can be gobbled down quickly and don't require cooking. They also come in dozens of different flavors and toppings and go just as well with hashbrowns as they do with your mocha-caramel latte. A dozen donuts can be enough to provide you with breakfast for a few days.You can choose from regular, cake, powdered, glazed, creme and jelly-filled, crullers, bear claws, and even donut holes—there’s something to satisfy every appetite.
There is usually no shortage of donut chains to choose from in bigger cities.;
, Danishes, strudels and eclairs all make great breakfast options. They’re flavorful, portable and just rich enough to keep you going until lunch. Pastries are often sold in gas stations, supermarkets and drugstores, as well, making them extra convenient.Stock up on packaged pastries so you’ll always have something to eat in the morning, even if you don’t feel like dirtying up a bunch of dishes.
Handheld pastries are great whenever you’re on the go or don’t have time to prepare a bigger breakfast.
 Both yogurt and pudding are made with milk, which has just about all of the major nutrients covered. Teamed up with some of your other favorite flavors, like chocolate, banana or butterscotch, these types of spoon size snacks taste great and can be eaten right away with no mess or cleanup. They're also endlessly customizable with toppings like fruit, nuts, granola and chocolate chips.Greek yogurt is full of protein, calcium, vitamin D and probiotics, making it one of the best all-around food items you can choose to get your day started.
 Warm the confection up in the microwave for a few seconds, then scarf it down with coffee, milk or juice. Cakes and pies are made with flour, butter, sugar and other ingredients that are commonly found in traditional breakfast items. Now you can finally put that leftover birthday cake that’s been sitting in your refrigerator to good use.If you’re looking for a more filling and balanced first meal, serve pie or cake "a la mode" with a side of nonfat Greek yogurt.
Pies especially tend to feature fruits, nuts and other foods that can lend you valuable energy.
 Cinnamon rolls are part biscuit, part tantalizing after-dinner dessert. Make cinnamon rolls from scratch, or simply pick up a package in the refrigerated section at the grocery store and pop them in the oven. They can be enjoyed at room temperature or while they’re still warm and gooey.Reheat leftover rolls for a quick and easy breakfast throughout the rest of the week.
 Another food that can be eaten at any time of day, cookies, scones, shortbreads and other types of baked goods make good handheld options. You have tons of choices, as well, from oatmeal raisin to cranberry almond. While they’re nothing elaborate, a couple cookies and a cup of coffee will typically be enough to satisfy your early-morning hunger.Pick up cookies and scones during your stop at the coffee shop on your way to work.
Since they’re dry, cookies and scones can even be stored in a sandwich bag or paper towel and stuffed into your purse or backpack.

