 An easy way to start is to do a quick online search for "duct tape crafts". Find a website that features a variety of crafts to choose from. For example, the website Duck Tape features many duct tape crafts, or Ductilities, you can make. You can start by reading on and making a beach bag or wallet. The steps for making those duct tape crafts are described below, in methods three and four. These crafts are "easy" level crafts to make.
If you are searching online, there are many classic duct tape crafts to choose from, including: flowers, bow tie, wallet, magnetic clutch, wire picture frame, and beach bag. Start with an easy craft. If you are searching online websites for crafts, on most of the websites, it will tell you how easy or difficult it is to make the craft.
Click on a project you might like to make. Check the approximate crafting time it takes as well as the supplies and tools required for the craft. Browse through the crafts, until you find the craft you want to make.;
, For most crafts, you do not need more than one roll of duct tape. You may, however, need two different colors, or you may need a color and a print. There is a wide variety of duct tape colors, prints, and even scents, for you to choose from.


For most crafts, you can choose the print(s) and/or color(s) that suit your taste. For example, if you are making duct tape flowers, you could choose a classic pink solid and floral print or you could do something a little different and pick a geometric print, to along with a green solid.
You will be able to find the best selection of duct tapes online. You can shop online at Staples, Amazon, or Consumer Brands, to find a great selection of duct tapes: colors, prints, fabrics, and sheets. Generally, printed duct tape from the retailer cost about five dollars, plus shipping, for a ten-yard roll. You can also find duct tape at craft stores, like Michael's and Joann’s. If they are out of stock, ask an employee where there is a store nearby that sells craft duct tape. Often, it is easiest to talk to someone who is knowledgeable about where to buy craft supplies.
 Both will work, but many craft enthusiasts prefer a razor blade to scissors, which the tape often sticks to. No matter which utensil you choose, make sure you are comfortable handling it.
 For example, the beach bag requires a cord for the strap. Read through all of the steps of your craft. As you read, make a list of things to buy.


In some crafts, not all of the materials are listed in the materials section at the top, so be careful.
You may need to buy duct tape sheets to make your craft. Sheets, unlike the fabric, have a sticky side. You use sheets to make shapes that you stick onto your finished product.
You may also want to buy pre-made duct tape fabrics. Purchasing fabrics can cut down on your crafting time, because you will no longer have to make your own duct tape fabric. Duct tape fabrics can come in both in rolls and sheets. Almost all crafts require you to make duct tape fabric. If you do not know what duct tape fabric is, read this method to find out how to make duct tape fabric.
To buy the less common materials required for your craft, you may want to go to a website like etsy.com. For example, to buy the stencil to make the anchor shape for your beach bag, you can find a variety of anchors, ranging from five to ten dollars, on Etsy.
Go to Michael's or Joann’s to buy any other materials you may need. For example, for the beach bag, you can easily find a cord for the strap, at a craft store.
 A crafting board is a mat used for craft making. You can get away with not using a board, but they are useful to have because they have measurements on them. You can buy a crafting board online at Amazon, for less than ten dollars. You can also buy a crafting board from any crafts store, like Michael's or Joann’s.


A self-healing crafting board is a more durable version of the crafting board. It has a malleable surface that will withstand cuts. However, these boards are more expensive.
 Clear off a table or a counter space to make your craft. Before you get started, make sure you have at least three feet by two feet clear for your materials and cutting mat.


You can use the floor to craft, but make sure all small children and animals are out of the way.
Cut on a flat, firm surface. Not only does a flat surface ensure that your designs are cut with more precision, but it is much safer than cutting on a surface that is likely to bend. If you are serious about duct tape projects, it might be a good idea to invest in a self-healing mat.
 If this is your first craft and the project approximated time is twenty-five minutes, give yourself forty-five minutes, to do your craft.


If you do not have dexterity in your fingers from making other crafts, it will probably take a duct tape craft or two before your fingers are used to manipulating duct tape. Be patient.
Don’t worry, after you have made a few crafts, you will be able to make duct tape crafts much more quickly.
 Most crafts require that you make duct tape fabric for your craft. Making the duct tape fabric takes approximately five to ten minutes, depending on how much fabric you need to make. To make the fabric you must:









Find the measurements of the duct tape fabric you need to make. Map out, on your craft board, the dimensions, the length and height of your fabric.
Measure out your duct tape, lengthwise (the longer side), using the measurements on the cutting mat, and cut. Lay down the strip, sticky side up, on your cutting mat. Cut another strip the same length, and lay it next to the first strip, so that it slightly overlaps the other. Do this until you have the correct width for your fabric you are making. When it is the correct length and width, turn it sideways so the strips are going left to right in columns.
Cut more pieces of tape, lengthwise (the long side again), and lay them sticky side down, going up and down, to cover the tape that is sticky side up. Repeat the process until all of the sticky side is covered, and cut off any excess.
 If you used scissors for your project, wipe any adhesive off of the blade, surface, hands, by using rubbing alcohol and a paper towel to scrub it off. 








When storing your duct tape, fold the end so that it is easier to start the roll next time you use it.Clean the area that you worked at. Throw away any extra scraps, and put your craft materials away in an assigned location, so you do not lose any of your materials.

