 This is the classic way to open up a horror film, as it preps the audience for what is to come and unsettles them early on. The best horror movies scare viewers even when nothing bad is happening because the opening scene makes them aware of the evil lurking around the corner. Use this first scene to prime the audience for future scares. It shouldn't be the most terrifying moment in the movie -- just enough to make them curious or worried.The Exorcist's opening isn't the scariest thing in the world, but the odd, primordial location hints at the ancient, malevolent demon that lurks underneath the surface throughout the movie.

Scream boasts one of the most famous, and chilling, openings in horror history. It is basically a short film showcasing the killer's first villain. Writer Kevin Williamson gives us everything -- tone, gore, humor, and terror -- while showing us that no one is safe.There are exceptions to this rule. Cabin in the Woods starts mundanely in an effort to lure the viewer into a false sense of security, for example.
 For maximum frights, you need the audience to care about the characters and their fate. If they don't then the eventual deaths will ring hollow and you won't get great scares as a result. All of the best horror movies have the best characters, not just a good villain. Take some time to let your characters converse and hang out before the evil really takes hold -- it will pay off later.



The Poltergeist takes its time making you feel for the "average American family" at the core of it, making their later terrors feel like they could happen in anyone's home, anywhere.

Nightmare on Elm Street spends a good 15-20 minutes at the kid's school, then another few minutes at a standard slumber party, building up sympathy for the main characters.

You're Next goes the opposite direction, setting up the dysfunctional, annoying, manipulative family at the heart of the movie so that you root for the killers (who are being hunted) by the ending.
 The best scares come later in the movie, when your audience is primed and already on the edge of their seat. This is your biggest challenge while writing -- building tension carefully without boring the audience or numbing them to the scares. The easiest way to do this is to defy expectations. Remember -- viewers are often more scared by what they don't see than what they do. Use the fear of the unknown to your advantage. Once you've set up characters and setting, start to break the norm -- moving furniture, missing characters, odd signs/signals, ominous news bulletins, etc. Again, watching the experts will help you:



The Conjuring doesn't kill a single person, yet is considered by many a modern classic. The tension comes from what is not on screen. When you see the shaking cabinets, shadowy feet, and hear strange noises, the viewer's imagination does all the work for them.

Halloween succeeds largely because we don't know where Michael Myers is at any time. He could be behind any corner, in any room, because the writer wisely leaves him in the background in order to build tension. Because he so rarely "jumps out," we never know when to expect him.Many horror films rely on "jump scares," when a loud noise or quick jump startles the viewer immediately. However, modern movies are using "fake" scares to build tension, having good guys (or pets) pop out to lull the viewer into a sense of security.
 Your first big kill is going to kick the last two-thirds of the movie into high gear. This almost always needs to be a major character, and the death indicates to the characters, and the viewer, that there is no turning back now. Everyone is in grave danger, and all of the audience's worst fears have come to fruition. This scene needs to be scary, a big payoff from the prior minutes of tension building, so work on making this scene stand out.


It is often best to imagine this moment as a mini-movie with a beginning, middle, and ending. Think of one specific scare and then work backward to make the scene shine., Give your characters a glimmer of hope after the first major death. While things are terrible for a while (another character or two often dies between this moment and the first death), eventually the main character(s) get a grip on the situation. They decide to escape, or fight back, and they start to succeed too... until the villain cuts their plans short at the last minute.



The Night of the Living Dead has a tense, action-filled attempt at escape, a chance to get everyone out of the farmhouse. The characters even make it to the car, and avoid all the zombies, until their rushed, faulty plan literally blows up in their face.

Shaun of the Dead, a horror-comedy that sticks to horror structure, finds the main characters successfully boarded up until one of their greedy friends lies about being bitten.
 At least one character needs to escape from the failed plan, and they must make one final, last-ditch effort to survive. Depending on your movie, you can take this in multiple directions, but, in general, the characters either decide to run away or fight back the evil.



Funny Games' main character decides, despite her hatred for the villains, that all she can do is run. What follows is a tense, cat & mouse scene of hopeful escape.

Dawn of the Dead finds the desperate survivors willing to fight for their freedom, taking the battle straight to the zombies instead of waiting.
 By the end of the move, you need to reveal the killer (if it is another character), and you need to show whether or not the main character has triumphed. Commonly, the main character triumphs over the evil, only to be taken by surprise at the very end of the movie, like in Drag Me to Hell and Nightmare on Elm Street. Sometimes the main characters are killed, but there is a hint that the villain is not actually dead. No matter what your ending is, you need to provide the audience some closure, even if you imply that things are still dangerous.