 If you're lying awake and too excited or anxious to fall asleep, that's probably not going to change on its own. Try getting up and doing something to distract your mind. Your body will let you know when it's tired, and when you return to bed you may find it easier to fall asleep., Music can have a powerful effect on the brain, and if you're feeling overly excited you may find it helpful to listen to soothing music.If you have a particular album that always calms you down, try listening to it in the dark.
Listen to a recording of natural sounds, like rainfall or ocean waves, which can create the illusion of a calm, natural environment.
Try listening to a sad song. Research suggests that sad music can actually leave listeners feeling soothed and even uplifted, which may help curb the restlessness that's keeping you awake., While some people find that the adrenaline boost from vigorous exercise wakes them up, most people sleep better after working out. Exercise helps release stress and can make you feel calmer, which can add up to a restful night of sleep., There are many different types and styles of meditation, but choosing the right one for you can be a rewarding and calming experience. If you're too wound up to fall asleep, try engaging in yoga or meditation to stop your mind from racing and help relax your body.Focus on your breath. Take deep breaths in and slowly exhale. Rhythmic breathing slows down your heart rate and can help you disengage from stressful thought patterns., Focus all of your attention on your body, beginning with your toes and working your way up to your head. This can help you distract your mind from thinking about whatever is keeping you awake., If you have things to do or a brilliant idea on your mind to tackle later, make a note so you won't focus on it while trying to sleep. It's no help to you trying to remember all those undone tasks, and dwelling on them at night might prevent you from getting a good night's sleep., A shower will also help you relax, but soaking in a bathtub relaxes the muscles better, and researchers have found that lying in a bath can have positive psychological results.Whether bathing or showering, the hot water can help calm your mind and relax your body.

