 Lemons contain alpha hydroxy acids(AHA) which help to remove dead skin cells, help new cells grow, and bring back some elasticity to the skin. As a natural bleach, it can help lighten scars.


Make sure the scar and surrounding area are cleaned thoroughly
Put 1 teaspoon of lemon juice on a cotton ball
Rub the cotton ball on the scarred area
Let it sit for about 10 minutes and then rinse it off
Lemon juice may make your skin sensitive to light, so consider wearing sunscreen wherever you applied it when going outside.;
, Raw honey can also be used to fade scars. It is a natural moisturizer, can be effective in the treatment of wounds, and stimulates tissue regeneration.


Mix 2 tbsp. of raw honey with 2 tbsp. of baking soda
Massage for 3 minutes
Place a hot washcloth over the area
When the washcloth has cooled, use it to wipe the area clean
Note: Try mixing 2 tbsp. of raw honey with 1 tbsp. of baking soda to make an exfoliating wash to help fade acne scars

, This is an anti-inflammatory and can inhibit the production of collagen in a scar, thereby making it less noticeable.


It is typically found in a gel that you rub onto the scar
This process is long and may take up to several months before you start to see any results.
 Aloe Vera's anti-inflammatory properties help reduce skin irritations and help remove dead skin from wounds. Aloe vera may also lessen swelling, help repair damaged skin cells, and fortify new skin cells being produced.


Aloe vera can be found in many forms including gels, ointments, and lotions
Apply and massage the aloe vera directly on the scar tissue several times a day

, Also known as "amla," this is a great source of vitamin C, and is most effective if applied to a newly-healed area immediately as it will go right to work inhibiting the formation of scar tissue.Amla is often found in a powder or paste. You can even make your own amla paste at home by mixing the powder with water or olive oil
Massage the paste into your skin on the affected area

, Cucumbers are cheap, easy to find, and are commonly used to make skin softer and more supple. One bonus, is that cucumbers aren't very acidic and are very unlikely to cause skin irritations.


Make your own cucumber paste by peeling the cucumber, removing its seeds and blending it with about 4-5 mint leaves in a blender. Beat an egg white separately and then add this to your mix.
Apply the paste on the scar and leave it on for about 20 minutes
Wash it off with cool water and use a clean towel to dry the area
Practice this regularly to see the most benefits

, This powerful oil is anti-bacterial and when used properly can gradually remove scars, including acne and surgical scars. Since it's so strong, it should be diluted with water before being applied to the skin, and should NEVER be ingested.


Add a small amount of tea tree oil to warm water to create a "soap"
Wash the affected area with the soap, then rinse and gently dry it off
You may experience some tingling or light stinging after using the oil, but that is most likely due to the anti-bacterial agents at work. If the stinging persists, you may want to stop using it and consult a dermatologist before continuing its use.
 Olive oil is rich in vitamins E and K, which are great for your skin and make this an effective ally in getting your scars to fade quickly. Virgin olive oil is particularly high in anti-oxidants and has higher acidity level, which helps to lighten the scars.


Rub approximately 1 tbsp of olive oil onto your scars. Use less if the scar is small.
Massage the oil into your scars for approximately 5 minutes to help loosen up the scar tissue.
Leave the oil on your skin for roughly 10 minutes, then wipe it off with a clean cloth

,


Like lemon juice, cocoa butter must be applied daily for its healing benefits. Rub it over the affected area, beginning as soon as the cut's scab falls off.
There is no need to wash it off, as it absorbs into your skin.
Cocoa butter is often recommended to eliminate stretch marks and help heal tattoos.

