 Chance are, your home studio will not have to be equipped for any recording situation that could emerge. Therefore, your mic selection should reflect the instruments you will be recording most often. For example, your list might include electric guitars, bass, drums, and vocals. Making this list will help you focus on getting mics that fit your studio's needs.;
, Your budget represents the primary constraint in your microphone purchases. If you are working with a small budget, it is generally best to buy a single good-quality microphone than several cheaper ones meant for different applications. With a larger budget, you can begin buying several different high-quality mics, but make sure your mic budget is scaled to your overall budget. For example, it doesn't make much sense to spend 10 times as much on a microphone as you spent on your audio workstation itself.
 There are 3 types of microphone designs: dynamic, condenser, and ribbon. Of these, dynamic mics are the most durable, the most versatile, and the most affordable. If you can only afford 1 microphone, it should be a dynamic mic. By far the most popular and acclaimed dynamic mic is the Shure SM57; it is incredibly versatile, with a frequency response well-suited to guitars, drums, vocals, and more. It is also very durable, able to withstand physical abuse as well as very high sound pressure levels.


Dynamic mics are self-powered, meaning they do not need phantom power from your preamp. They are known for their flat frequency response, and their only real shortcoming is their low sensitivity.
Even when working with a higher budget, there is nothing better suited to recording electric guitars and snare drums than a good dynamic mic. The Shure SM57 performs admirably in these applications, even with its relatively low price tag.
 After obtaining an all-purpose dynamic mic, you can consider buying a condenser mic to round out your options. Condenser mics require phantom power (a small amount of DC current delivered through the mic cable), so make sure your preamp is capable of that. Condenser mics are less durable and versatile than dynamic mics, but they can deliver excellent sensitivity.


Condenser mics are the best choice for recording vocals. Their excellent sensitivity allows them to capture all the nuances in a performer's singing, even responding to the inflections in the air around the singer's mouth.
Their high level of sensitivity also makes them ideal for acoustic guitars and other quiet instruments where a more intimate sound is desired. They also work well as "room mics," capturing ambient noise and creating very natural reverb.
Condenser mics are available in a wide variety of diaphragm sizes. For a good vocal or acoustic instrument mic, choose a large diaphragm mic.
 You may find that you can get everything you need done with a single dynamic mic, in which case you can reserve your budget for other equipment. As another example, before buying individual mics for each drum in a drum set, try recording the set with dynamic mics on the snare and bass drums, with a single condenser mic mounted overhead. As you expand your collection, try to focus on quality over quantity.

