 Ask yourself what you want to accomplish by having this conversation. Be as honest as possible, and make sure that your final goals are noble instead of self-serving.You should be able to state what the desired outcome of the conversation would be.
Expect to compromise by the end of the conversation, but figure out which points are non-negotiable beforehand so you know what you really need to stand firm on.
Watch out for your own hidden motives. If the situation makes you angry, you might have some desire to punish, exact revenge, or embarrass the other party. You need to be honest about these feelings so that you can work through them before embarking on the discussion.;
, You might have a general sense of what the problem is, but in most cases, difficulties are caused by deeper issues. Making progress will require you to address those underlying causes.


More precisely, you should ask yourself what behavior is causing the problem and how that behavior is impacting you and everyone else involved.
Think about this until you can summarize the underlying problem in two or three concise statements.
 Identify any assumptions you might have regarding the other person's attitude. Sincerely consider whether or not these assumptions are supported by fact or if they are primarily driven by emotion. Try to discard those driven by emotion.


Ask yourself how you feel when you consider the other person's intentions. If you feel that you've been ignored, intimidated, or disrespected, you might be assuming that the other person has had negative motives toward you. This often isn't the intention, though, even if it is the resulting impact of his or her actions.
 Keep yourself calm. If you enter into the conversation in a heightened emotional state, things are more likely to spiral out of control at a much more dramatic rate.


Consider the possibility that personal buttons of yours are being pushed. For instance, if you've always had a problem with people ignoring your concerns, you might be more emotional if the person you're talking with has done the same thing. Try to set aside long-standing, personal issues and focus only on the circumstance at hand.
 Your impulse might be to fixate on everything that could go wrong, but doing so won't help the situation. It is far better to go into the conversation with a healthy, realistic amount of optimism regarding the success of the conversation.


There's some truth in the idea of a self-fulfilling prophesy. If you think the conversation will be difficult and will end poorly, it probably will.
On the other hand, if you believe that some good will result in the conversation no matter what the final outcome is, your attitude will naturally be calmer and more cooperative.
 Thoroughly understand both your position and the other person's position in the conflict. Try to imagine how things appear from the other person's perspective.


Ask yourself how you've contributed to the problem and how the other person has contributed to it.
Clarify for yourself what your concerns and needs are concerning the resolution of this conflict.
Ask yourself if the other person is even aware of the problem and, if so, how he or she might perceive it. Consider that individual's concerns and needs, as well.
 Run through the conversation in you mind or with an unrelated party. Repeat this exercise once or twice, but don't use it as an excuse to procrastinate on having the real discussion.


If you practice with another person, make sure that your practice partner understands the situation but is a truly neutral party who won't betray your confidence later.
When mentally practicing the conversation, imagine different possibilities (both good and bad) and determine the best way to handle them.
 Don't invite the other party into your space and don't approach the other party on his or her space. Instead, invite the other person to somewhere you could consider neutral ground—as in, a place not belonging to either of you.


For example, don't invite the other party into your office or offer to hold the conversation in his or her office.
Consider holding the conversation in a meeting room (if you both work at the same company), living room (if you both live in the same house), or low-key public area, like a park or coffee shop.
Avoid audiences. Even if you have the conversation in a public place, it's best to choose somewhere with a limited audience. Neither you nor the other person in the conversation may feel comfortable enough to be honest when there are onlookers observing your every move and sentence.
 Ideally, you should aim to converse until the two of you can resolve the issue. Some conversations can sink into an endless loop, though, preventing any real progress from occurring. To prevent this from happening, it might be helpful to set a time limit for the conversation before you start it.


Each situation is different, but 30 to 60 minutes is usually a good time limit to stick with. If there's still more to say after that amount of time passes, part ways and address it another day., Be direct and honest about the topic you want to discuss, but introduce that topic in a calm, non-accusatory manner so that the other person does not automatically raise his or her guard.


Consider a line like, "I think we're viewing _____ blank differently, and I'd like to take a few minutes to talk and see if we can understand each other better."
Be upfront about the matter at hand. Don't make the conversation seem less important than it really is, or else you run the risk of making the other person feel tricked and trapped into a corner.
 Move the question along by asking questions and remaining genuinely interested in the other person's responses, including both verbal and non-verbal replies.


Briefly explain the issue, then immediately ask the other person for his or her perspective on it.
Instead of assuming you know everything about the situation, tell yourself that you don't know anything. Try to learn as much as possible from the other person.
You need to listen to what the other person says, but you also need to watch what the other person does. Look at body language and listen for energy and emotion. Ask yourself what the other person isn't vocalizing.
 Even if both of you want to be emotionless during the conversation, there's a good chance that something will trigger an emotional response at some point. Identify those emotional responses and disarm them without cutting them down.


When dealing with your own emotional responses, like defensiveness, you can directly state that you are experiencing that emotional response and offer a quick explanation regarding why it might be--without pointing the finger at the other person as the cause of it.
When dealing with the other person's emotional responses, acknowledge them in a polite manner. For example, you might state "I realize you're upset" when someone starts to shout or cry instead of demanding them to "calm down."

, Rephrase the other person's argument in your own words to demonstrate an understanding of his or her side. People are generally less hostile when they feel as though they're being heard and understood.


Aside from paraphrasing the other person's argument, you should also explain what you think he or she really means and venture a guess at what he or she hopes for by the end of the conversation.
If your guesses are wrong, don't try to defend them. Allow the other person to correct you and restate that correction when he or she has finished.
 When you get the opportunity to speak, restate the other person's opinion before clarifying your own conflicting opinion. Be honest and precise about the way things look from your perspective.


Wait until the other person finishes talking before introducing your own perspective. Never cut the other person off mid-speech.
Reaffirm his or her perspective and acknowledge that there are some valid points. When you reach a point you disagree on, explain why you disagree and offer an explanation on how the difference or misunderstanding may have occurred.
 Sometimes, you may need to have a difficult conversation with someone who will attempt to attack you personally or use an emotional ploy to distract you from the issue at hand. Stay calm and take those attacks and ploys for what they are instead of taking them personally.Ploys can include things like accusations and sarcasm.
When you're faced with a problem like this, address it with sincerity and inquisitiveness. For example, if the other person is unresponsive, you might admit, "I don't know how to react to your silence."

, Silence may naturally fall over the conversation at some point. Instead of forcing yourself to fill the uncomfortable quiet with something meaningless, pause and use it as an opportunity to let things sink in.


In fact, a little silence in a serious conversation can be a good thing. It helps both sides calm down and reflect on all that's been said so far.
 Before rattling off your own ideas of how to best resolve the conflict, ask the other person for ideas on how to fix things. Wait for an honest answer instead of trying to coax out the answer you want to hear.


Asking the other person for suggestions first keeps that person engaged while assuring him or her that you value the ideas he or she might offer.
 Unless the other person suggests something you already had in mind, you will need to use his or her ideas as a starting point for your own. Acknowledge the other person's suggestion and make a counter-offer based on that proposal.


You might not like much of what the other person says, but you should try to find at least one point you might be able to agree on. Latch onto that point and build off that one.
 Don't expect to get everything you want at the end of your conversation. Be prepared to make compromises when arriving at a final solution.


Think back to the non-negotiable points you determined before embarking on the conversation. Make sure that each of these points have been addressed and that your final conclusion adheres to them.
Details other than your non-negotiable points will probably need to be negotiated. Compromise doesn't mean “losing,” though. Instead, think of compromise as a means of leaving both sides satisfied.
 Set your pride aside and ask yourself if there are points you really have been wrong about. Apologize for your own blunders to demonstrate your honesty and willingness to compromise.


No one is perfect and no one can be right 100 percent of the time. Keep an open mind so that you can see your own shortcomings and correct them. The idea is to arrive at the right conclusion, not the conclusion that makes you appear right.
 The solutions you propose should be consistent with the types of solutions you've arrived at with other people in similar circumstances. If your suggestions seem harsher than past resolutions have been, the other person might think that you're singling him or her out in a negative manner.


Someone who is consistent will seem more trustworthy and fair. Typically, people will be more willing to work with someone just than someone who seems unjust.
 Even if you cannot arrive at a solution that satisfies you both, you should do all that you can to avoid completely destroying the relationship between you.


Stop before you make any statement or decision that will create a permanent enmity or wall between you and the other person. Think of a way to rephrase or restructure it in a less damaging manner.
 Once you arrive at a resolution, make sure that you follow through with the promises you made. Only by holding to your promises can you demand the same from the other party.


It can be a good idea to schedule a follow-up conversation in a few days, weeks, or months to determine how things have been working out and whether or not further changes need to be made.

