 You may want to try vodka cocktails, like a vodka martini or vodka and sugar-free Fresca. These drinks generally don’t contain many carbs, so they won’t spike your blood sugar too much. Make sure to drink these in moderation, though.Make sure to be careful of the garnish of a martini. Olives, strawberries, oranges, and other garnishes may have been soaked in sugar, which can add unnecessary carbs and sugars. Make sure the rim isn’t lined with sugar either.;
, A Bloody Mary may be a good cocktail choice when you have diabetes. The tomato juice has less carbs than a juice used in other drinks, such as orange juice. If you use low-sodium tomato juice it’s even better.A Bloody Mary has approximately seven carbs.
 If you would like to enjoy a beer with your friends, you can have one. Just make sure that you go for light beer. Light beer has lower amounts of carbohydrates, usually three to six grams. Make sure to stick to a 12-ounce beer. Skip large sizes, such as a 32-ounce.Avoid craft beers. They have more carbs, alcohol, and calories than normal beer.
 Red or white wine can be heart healthy, so a glass each night is okay even if you have diabetes. However, make sure that you are drinking dry reds or whites. They both only have around four carbs for a glass.Don’t drink flavored wines or dessert wines. These have more sugar, which can cause your blood sugar to spike.
 Drinks you can sip instead of finish quickly may be a better option when you have diabetes. This allows you to drink them slowly so your body can process them, and it lessens the risk of you ordering multiple drinks. Sherry is a great choice for this. Order a sherry and sip on it for awhile.A two ounce glass of sherry has approximately eight grams of carbs.
 Another tasty diabetic-friendly alternative is a wine spritzer. This is a cocktail made with wine, club soda, and ice. The club soda adds a bit of carbonation to the wine, making it more bubbly. Ask for a twist of lemon or lime on the side.This is a cocktail you can easily make at home. You can also ask a restaurant or bar if they can make you one.

