 Make sure everyone in the family knows where to go, what to take, and how to be safe if a tornado hits.

Store important documents, just in case.Make copies of birth certificates, insurance information, and social security cards to bring with you if you need to evacuate. This will be valuable if you aren't able to return home immediately after the tornado.

Set up means of communication.Make sure everyone in the family knows how to get in contact with everyone else. School number, work number, and cell phone numbers should be compiled on a list. Anyone, such as a babysitter, that your children might be with during the emergency should be included on this list. Keep it with the copies of your important documents. Know who will be in charge of having these forms, if evacuation is necessary.

Know the closest evacuation center. If you may be in the danger zone, it's important to know where the safest place to be is. In most cases, schools, the community center, and city building are used. These places will have medical attention and supplies. This can also be used as a meet up place for your family after the storm.;
,



Create an emergency kit.This should include water and food for at least 72 hours. Having a means of communication or information (radio, satellite phone, etc.) is also important to include. Any first aid supplies, clothes, and toiletries that you may need should be stored along with flashlights, batteries, etc. For more ideas, see: http://www.ready.gov/kit)

Build or designate a safe room.Rooms that can typically be used include basements, garages, interior rooms on the first floor, etc. The room should have no windows, be anchored to the ground to avoid uplift, and be strong enough to withstand any flying debris it may come in contact with. Be aware that water may accompany the storm, so be cautious when using below ground rooms, as they may collect water.

Arrange and secure household items.Arrange furniture so that it is away from windows, mirrors or glass. This could cause broken glass to fly during the tornado, creating a hazard. Make sure any items that may move during the storm are moved away from your family. Use eye bolts or l brackets to secure large furniture to the walls.
 Tornadoes usually only develop in the presence of thunderstorms (though the thunderstorm may be some distance away from you), so lightning, rain, and hail (especially if occurring after a tornado watch or warning has been issued) should put you on guard. In addition, watch out for the following:


Darkening skies, particularly if the sky appears a sickly greenish color (indicating hail) or an orange-y color (dust being blown around by high winds)
Strong, persistent rotation of the cloud base
Very calm and quiet conditions during or right after a thunderstorm

A rumble or roar that sounds like continuous thunder or, sometimes, a train or jet
Whirling debris near the ground, even in the absence of a funnel cloud.
Blue-green or white flashes at ground level in the distance at night – a sign of power lines being snapped by high winds

, Even if you know the signs of a tornado, you can't always rely on your own eyes and ears alone to know if one is coming. Listen to local radio stations or watch local TV to stay informed, especially during conditions that are likely to form tornadoes. Also purchase a "Self Powered" Radio/Flashlight combo unit. This will allow you to stay informed, doesn't use batteries, and it provides light. See the entry about finding and using "Self Powered" Radios listed below.


In the U.S. the best way to get information about severe weather is to get a NOAA weather radio. These can be purchased cheaply at most big box retailers and outdoor supply stores. If possible, find one with backup battery power and a tone-alert feature, which automatically notifies you when the National Weather Service issues a severe weather watch or warning for your area.
Find a website with a local radar link or page. This will give you a real-time look at storm cells in your area, and because you can see the intensity and direction of movement of storm cells and systems relevant to your home, you can judge more accurately when precautions should be taken. Several weather websites have this feature.
Find out if your community has tornado sirens and learn what they sound like. If you hear these sirens, seek shelter immediately.
 The National Weather Service in the U.S. issues both watches and warnings for severe weather.


A tornado watch indicates that conditions are right for tornado development and tornadoes are possible in your area. If you hear a tornado watch or a severe thunderstorm watch, you should pay special attention to weather conditions.
A PDS tornado watch is issued when a powerful supercell (storms that form tornadoes ) is in the area and has a chance of creating a significant tornado (EF2+ 135MPH+), or starting a tornado outbreak. When this watch is issued, be prepared to take immediate shelter; expect a PDS Tornado Warning OR Tornado Emergency, and take special actions in case it forms an outbreak.
A tornado warning indicates that a tornado has been seen in your area or that radar indicates the presence of a tornado. If a tornado warning is issued, you should seek appropriate shelter immediately.
A PDS tornado warning is issued when a powerful storm is very likely to develop a significant (EF2+ 135MPH+) tornado or is likely to develop a tornado outbreak.
A tornado emergency means that a significant tornado (EF2+ 135MPH+) has been confirmed on the ground in your area or that an outbreak has been confirmed to be severe (containing 135MPH+ tornadoes). When these warning are issued, take cover immediately.
A severe thunderstorm warning means that a severe thunderstorm has been spotted in your area, and you should take appropriate precautions and watch for tornadoes.
Keep maps of your local area handy, so that you can identify the location of a storm when it is reported on the radio.
 Do not stand by windows, or near anything that could possibly hit you (bookcases, chairs, etc.). Put as many walls between you and the storm as possible.

If you are in a mobile home or trailer, find the nearest secure structure. These places, even when secured down, offer little protection.

If you have a car, attempt to drive to the nearest shelter away from the storm. If that's not possible, stay in your car, duck below and cover yourself with a blanket. Keep your seat belt on.

If you are in an open field, duck closest to the ground and cover your head. Do not hide under a bridge or overpass. Most importantly, watch out for flying debris.
Note: Never try to outrun the storm.
 Never leave your shelter until you are sure that the storm has passed and that it is safe to follow the next directions. High winds can still be dangerous, so do not go outside if debris is still moving in the air or on the ground.
 If someone needs medical assistance, wait out the storm, and then seek help.
 Damage to one of the pipes or switches could cause a fire or explosion. Never light a match or use a lighter if you suspect that there may be a gas leak, or if you have not already turned off the utilities.
 Note all damage, but mostly look for any structural damage that could be an immediate harm to your family. If you suspect a part of your home is not safe, leave and find a shelter.
 If you or your family need medical attention or suspect structural damage that may be threatening in your home, seek a center. These often have supplies, but it's important to bring what emergency supplies you can with you.
 The high winds may return, placing you once again in danger's way. Stay tuned to the radio for more information on the situation in your town or neighborhood.
 Move hazardous objects with care, and make a note for your insurance company on what has been damaged. Taking pictures will help later with claims.
 If your family and property were unharmed, be thankful, but remember that not everyone was so lucky. Join in rescue efforts or volunteer. Always follow the orders of public officials when doing so, to make sure that you are being constructive and not damaging the situation further.

