 There are twelve major scales that you can practice, which will help strengthen the foundation of your piano skills. Becoming familiar with the scales' notations will help you be able to play them accurately. You can search them on the Internet and print them out to use as a reference as you play. A good scale to start with would be the C Major scale, which consists of the notes C, D, E, F, G, A, B, C.


Remember to not miss any sharps or flats. Although the C Major scale has neither sharps nor flats, other scales have them. An example would be the G Major scale, which contains the notes G, A, B, C, D, E, F#, G.

Keep in mind that a sharp is a semitone above and a flat is a semitone below.

;
, The height and distance from the piano should feel comfortable. When sitting on it, you should only take up about half of the seat. Position yourself so that you are close enough to reach the keys but not near enough that your elbows bend. Make sure that your feet can reach the pedals and press down on them when necessary.
 Developing a good posture helps you play naturally. Your body will be relaxed enough to avoid strain, and you'll be able to play for long periods of time without growing weary. When you play the piano, keep your back straight, and make sure your head is held high and facing forward. Your shoulders should be relaxed so that you can play naturally. You should also keep your arms and wrists lifted above the keys. Place your legs so that your knees are at a 90 to a 120-degree angle, and position your feet so that they are resting on or in front of the pedals.
 In order to play well, you should keep your hands arched and fingers curled on the keys, as if you're holding a baseball. This reduces the chances of cramping or weariness during your practice sessions. You should also keep a straight wrist as this prevents arthritis and carpal tunnel. In the beginning, you can tape a pencil to your wrist to keep it from bending. The goal is to move your fingers, not your wrist.


If your wrists are still bending, sit a little further away from the piano.
Keep your nails cut short. This stops them from clicking against the keys, and you'll be able to play better. You want your fingertips to touch the keys, not your nails.
 In order to make sure that you properly learn them, start to slow and gradually increase the speed. You will be able to hear each note better and give yourself time to memorize the scale. Playing quickly will only cause the scales to sound sloppy. If you want, you can invest in a metronome, which will teach you to keep the tempo. When you first begin, set the count to 85 beats per minute. Work your way up by increasing the speed.


You can set the count slower if you're having difficulties.
 There are specific orders to follow in scales. Using the correct fingering will help you play the scales in the most natural and effective manner possible. In the future, you'll also be able to play other songs with flowing movement. You can look up the fingerings of different scales online and print them out if necessary. When playing, be sure to bend your fingers at their joint and hold up your wrist.
 When you first learn the scales, practice them using one hand before moving onto the next. Then, you can play them together. If you notice that your right hand is better than your left, practice more often with your left hand to ensure that you sharpen its skills (and vice-versa). Make sure that you practice with both hands; otherwise, one might lose its skills, and you'll have to train it again.
 Repetition is key, as it helps drive the scale into your memory. Be sure to play until it sounds accurate, not sloppy. Do your best to connect all the notes for a smooth sound - never use staccato notes. As you become more familiar with the scale and keys, begin to look straight ahead as you play. You may be tempted to look down at your hands to make sure that you're hitting the right notes. However, the less you watch your fingers, the more secure you become in your playing.
 Once you become familiar with one scale, move onto others to continue expanding your skills. Some may take a longer time to learn, as they might contain more flats and sharps than others. However, continue persevering. Don't hesitate to ask for help or look up tutorials and advice on the Internet. Continue practicing old scales to ensure that you don't forget them.

