 They should be 12 inches long and serve as your secondary color.


Use a ruler for an exact measurement.
Fold each strip in half lengthwise. Try to be diligent in folding; the opposite side of the duct tape is a different color and will be seen.
Repeat this 23 times. That's right, 23. Use a different color on occasion if you see fit.

Put weights on them (books, stacks of paper, boxes) to flatten them out.
 Measure out 25 inches (63.5 cm) of your main color.


Fold each strip in half, just like you did with the horizontal strips. Do this 12 times.
Cover all straps with weights for around an hour to flatten completely. They'll be easier to work with.
 Rip off a piece of duct tape from your main color that's about 14 inches (36 cm) long.


Fold it in half sticky side out and make a crease.
Line all 12 of the vertical strips along the crease. Get them up close and personal to each other.
Reverse the seam and fold along the crease, adhering the ends together.
Do this for both sides.
 Make sure each strip is snug in its place.


For weaving, go under, over, under, over for the first strip and then over, under, over under for the second. Repeat.
Throw in a different color here and there to mix it up.
 This should go on the back of your purse. It acts as a liner.


Be as straight as possible--the strips will create lines.
Don't skip this part; the liner makes your bag much sturdier.
Continue weaving and constructing the lining as you go until you meet the far seam.
 Leave half of the strip hanging, exposed.


Flip the entire piece over and fold the hanging edge over, taping it to the opposite side of the bag.
Repeat for both sides.
 These will serve as the sides. They should be at least 4 inches (10 cm) wide and 8 inches (20 cm) tall.


Fold your strip in half sticky side out. Lay on another strip sticky side up touching the upper, sticky edge of your first piece.
Unfold the bottom piece so that the two pieces are totally stuck together. Fold the top sticky part over the middle, so that there is only sticky on the bottom edge.
Flip it over and repeat.

If you're lost, we understand. Basically, halfway overlap the pieces of tape, flip it, halfway overlap them again and repeat until it is the size you want.


With the last one, fold it down so you have a sheet with no sticky band at the top or bottom.
 You want your sides to be a bit bigger at the bottom than at the top.


Like a triangle...but not quite. The two sides should come to a point if the piece were to go on.
 Count 8 strips in for centering.


This will not be centered; one side is supposed to be longer than the other.
 This will adhere the sides together.


Fold it in half sticky side out.
Connect the sides together. Repeat this three more times.
 This hides any pieces that wound up not completely straight.


One side should be longer than the other. It's a flap-top purse; the longer side serves as the cover.

Attach velcro to keep the purse from opening needlessly.
 Cut three strips a bit longer than half the length you want the strap to be.


Lay one down, sticky side up. Cover half of it with another strip, sticky side down. Fold one half over the other.
Flip the piece and cover the now-exposed sticky edge halfway with the third sticky piece.
Flip over again and fold the edge down so there are no exposed edges.
Tape the two pieces together and tape them to the inside of the bag.

