 The first step to apply online is to visit the Kohl's website. If you do not know the web address, you can search for "Kohl's card" online.Applying online is quick and easy. The approval process takes approximately one minute, once the application is complete.Some Kohl's customers who complete an online transaction at Kohls.com may receive a pop-up notification that Kohl's has determined that customer is pre-qualified for a Kohl's charge card. Customers receiving this message can click "Apply Now" through the pop-up notification, and the website will take them directly to the application page. However, not all customers who are deemed pre-qualified will necessarily be approved after completing the application.;
, Before you can begin the application, you will need to consent to an electronic disclosure. This simply means that you consent to receive electronic copies of Kohl's Account Opening Disclosures, Cardmember Agreement, and Credit Card Privacy Policy.To confirm your consent, simply click the green "continue" button at the bottom of the screen., Once you've given your consent, you may begin the application process. If you've been given a personal offer code, you may enter that code on the screen immediately following the consent page. Otherwise, simply click the green "continue" button to proceed to the application., The first page of the actual application will require you to enter your personal information. Capital One has a strict privacy policy which guarantees that your personal information will not be shared with any third parties for marketing purposes.The application asks for your:


first and last namefull address, including city, state, and zip codehome or mobile phone numberemail addresssocial security numberdate of birthannual gross income, Once you've entered your personal information, you will need to scroll down to the bottom of the page. The website details the card's interest rates and charges, late payment/returned payment charges (both up to $35), and compliance information regarding the USA PATRIOT Act requirements.The annual percentage rate (APR) for all purchases is 23.99 percent as of November 2015.The penalty APR, which is applied in the event that a minimum payment is late or declined, is 26.99 percent as of November 2015.Once you have read all of the terms, conditions, and disclosures, and correctly entered all of your personal information, you may click on the blank box at the bottom of the screen to indicate your consent.When you're finished, click the green "continue" button at the bottom of the screen.
 The application typically takes 60 seconds or less for approval or denial.If you take too long to complete the application, you may receive a message saying you've been timed out. If this happens, you will have to begin the process again from the beginning.


If approved, you will receive your new Kohl's card in the mail within a few weeks.