 If the recipe calls for "two cups (480 mL) sifted, powdered sugar" you should sift first, then measure out two cups (480 mL) of sifted sugar. If the recipe calls for "two cups (480 mL) powdered sugar, sifted" or simply "powdered sugar" with instructions to sift later on, measure out two cups, then sift.


If the sugar contains many clumps, always sift before measuring.
If measuring by weight (such as ounces or grams), it shouldn't matter whether you sift before or after.;
, Sifting can be messy. Use a large, wide container to minimize cleanup. If your container is not significantly wider than your sifter, you may want to put down paper towels or a plate underneath it to catch spills.


Alternatively, use a large sheet of wax paper. This method is best used with small amounts of sugar at a time. Don't pile the sifted sugar high enough to prevent you from picking up the paper for pouring into another container.
 Add no more than a few spoonfuls to the sifter or strainer at one time, leaving cup-shaped sifters less than 3/4 full. Trying to fill the sifter fuller won't save time, and can cause sugar to spill over the top and make a mess.


A metal can-shaped sifter with a hand crank on the side is an easy, relatively tidy sifting tool. If you do not have one, you can use a fine mesh strainer instead, or see the section on sifting without a sifter.
 Shake the sifter or strainer gently back and forth over the bowl or wax paper. If it has a crank on the side, press it repeatedly with your hand. These motions cause the sugar to shift, sending the fine particles of sugar through the mesh.


Do not shake up and down, and keep motions gentle. If you are too vigorous, you may create a "cloud" of powdered sugar that makes a mess of your kitchen.
 If the sugar is lumpy or hard-packed, it is more likely to get stuck in the mesh. If you see the trail of sugar stop or slow almost to a halt, tap the side of the strainer or sifter with a few, short motions of your hand. This should dislodge the stuck particles.
 If your sugar has absorbed moisture and formed lumps, these will not fall through the mesh. Discard these, then add more sugar for sifting. Continue shaking gently until all of the sugar you need has fallen through the mesh.


If sifting before measuring, you may need to stop periodically to find out if you have enough sugar. Transfer the sifted sugar gently to a measuring cup. Do not pack the sifted sugar down.
 Professional bakers typically sift sugar and other dry ingredients in every recipe, but many baking hobbyists try to avoid this sometimes messy or tedious step. If you saw only a couple of pea-sized lumps in your sugar during sifting, or none at all, consider skipping the sifting next time you make cakes, cookies, or other recipes where sugar is one of many ingredients. Sifting is more important when making icing, buttercream, or other decorative toppings in which gritty sugar is easily noticed.


If you want your baked goods to end up airy, light, and even-textured, you can sift the dry ingredients together after they've been mixed.In this case, you do not need to sift the sugar separately unless there are many, obvious lumps that need to be removed before measuring.

