 To fully embrace a minimalist lifestyle, consider eliminating pieces of furniture that seem unnecessary in your home. End tables, for example, are not always useful but do tend to collect clutter. Decorative display cabinets (and the knickknacks on display) are also fairly incongruent with a minimalist space, as are large entertainment centres. Sell or donate large items and enjoy the extra space., In keeping with the theme of paring down and simplifying, consider finding a smaller living space. While we live in a society that encourages us to aim for large, impressive "dream" homes, opting for a smaller residence can be a better choice for your well-being. The minimalist choice to live in a small house or apartment can make your happier because:it means less debt and less financial risk
a small home will require less maintenance
a small, affordable home will be easier to sell (if you choose to do so)
you'll be less likely to accumulate clutter

, While living without a car is not a requisite component of a minimalist lifestyle, it is very conducive to it. Between gas, repairs, maintenance, and registration, cars are possessions that require our energy and money on a constant basis. Some minimalists require a car because of certain life circumstances (e.g. having children, needing a car for work) but may choose to drive only when necessary. If you are able to go without a car, consider simplifying your life by using public transport, taxis, Uber, or your own two legs instead., If you live with others, it is important to discuss your move towards minimalism with them, and to get their feedback. If they are interested in joining you in trying out a minimalist lifestyle, you should discuss some ways to adapt your shared living space and belongings, and to consume in a minimalist way. If they do not wish to live in a minimalist way, discuss the limits and parameters of your minimalist changes in order to compromise on shared spaces, belongings, and consumables. Maintain communication and discuss all possible changes to your living space beforehand to avoid conflicts.