 This can be done at USPS locations around the United States. For short stays, visitors do not need a visa, but travelers visiting for longer periods of time do need to obtain a travel visa. Visitors to Vancouver from Washington State may be able to have their driver's licenses enhanced for use as a passport between the U.S. and Canada.;
, While many places in Vancouver accept credit cards, it is recommended that visitors bring traveler's checks to exchange for Canadian dollars at banks or currency exchanges.
 Summer is the recommended time of year to visit, with temperatures around 30 degrees Celsius, or 86 degrees Fahrenheit. Short sleeve shirts and shorts are recommended. In the winter, however, temperatures can drop to -10 degrees Celsius, or around 14 degrees Fahrenheit. Winters are also relatively wet, with the odd snowstorm, so in addition to heavier jackets and gloves, be sure to pack an umbrella and raincoat.
 Vancouver is surrounded by mountains, and while visiting one may want to hike Grouse Mountain or explore the area surrounding the city. You should also bring multiple pairs if the weather report says that it is raining because it can be wet and muddy.
 There are plenty of fine arts and upscale dining establishments to visit in Vancouver, and many require proper formal attire. A suit and tie will be necessary when visiting the Queen Elizabeth Theatre to take in an opera or ballet, while more casual wear can be worn to more experimental theater companies, such as the Fire hall Arts Centre.
 Vancouver offers hundreds of photo opportunities, so be sure to snap tons of photos! In the case of a digital camera, bring an extra memory card or two to insure you don't run out of space. Pictures can be taken while on tours on the Big Bus, at Stanley Park, Canada Place, Science World, or while viewing the world from a great height while on the Capilano Suspension Bridge.
 There are plenty of activities for the outdoor man; any traveller should make time to experience them all. In Vancouver or surrounding areas one can do fishing and scuba diving, hiking and whitewater rafting, skiing, rock climbing and even play a round of golf.

