 You can also use a 4-cup (950-milliliter) measuring cup instead. For something that looks more ice-like, use a clear or blue-colored juice.You can also use water if you do not care about the flavor.


These gelatin ice cubes are merely cut to look like ice. They are perfect for winter themed parties or desserts where you need something that looks like ice.
You can also try to use a clear soda., Tear open 4 packets of clear, unflavored gelatin, and add them to the water. Give the mixture a brief stir. Wait for the gelatin to bloom. This will take about 5 minutes., Make sure that the bowl or measuring cup you are using is safe to use in the microwave. If it isn't, pour it into a container that is. Heat the mixture in the microwave until the gelatin dissolves. This will take about 1 minute on HIGH., Add in the sugar first. Give it a stir until it dissolves completely. Add in the rest of the juice/water, and stir it again. Keep stirring until the color is consistent., You can use a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 30.02-centimeter) glass pan or an ice cube tray. Spray your mold of choice with cooking spray. This will make the cubes easier to pop out.If you are using a silicone ice cube tray, then you can skip this step.


Use a regular ice cube tray with wells that are shaped like cubes. This will make them look more like ice cubes. Save the novelty trays that are shaped like fish, hearts, stars, dinosaurs, etc. for another project.
 If you used an ice cube tray, you may have leftover gelatin. You can pour it into a smaller baking tray or another ice cube tray, but be sure to spray it with cooking spray first.
 This will take about 1 hour.Again, these gelatin ice cubes will remain jiggly; they will not be solid like real ice cubes.
 Aim to make the cubes about ice cube sized, about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) square. You can also make them rectangular instead. If the cubes are stuck to the pan, you can try soaking the bottom of the pan in warm water for a few minutes.


If you used an actual ice cube tray, you can leave the cubes as they are after popping them out, or you can cut them into smaller cubes.

