 With your prescription in hand, you will be able to obtain the medication at your local pharmacy. Alternately, your doctor might contact the pharmacy of your choice directly in order to have the prescription filled, in which case he or she will direct you when to pick the prescription up.If you have obtained a prescription at a certain pharmacy before, you should obtain your modafinil prescription at the same pharmacy. Having a regular pharmacy you go to for your medicinal needs will streamline the process, since the pharmacy will retain your information in the event you need a refill or a different medication in the future.
Going to the same pharmacy for all your medications will also help prevent negative drug interactions, since the pharmacy will know all the medications you’re currently taking.
If you have not been to a pharmacy before, bring your insurance card with you and ensure you fill out all your personal information correctly on the requisite forms.
Call the pharmacy you intend to use and check with them to ensure your insurance is accepted there. If it is not, contact other nearby pharmacies to find one that will accept your insurance plan.;
, If you do not want to buy modafinil at your local pharmacy, you can get it online. In order to buy modafinil online, you should be sure that the pharmacy you’re consulting is safe and licensed by reputable agencies in your area. For example, some rogue pharmacies sell controlled substances to consumers without a prescription and despite the fact that they don't have a license from the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency. To avoid scams, contact your state board of pharmacy and ask for a list of legitimate online pharmacies.A complete list of state boards of pharmacy is available at http://www.nabp.net/boards-of-pharmacy.
Look for an online pharmacy that bears the VIPPS (Verified Internet Pharmacy Practice Sites) logo.
When buying modafinil online, you will encounter a number of unlicensed pharmaceutical websites offering knock-off versions of the drug, or another drug altogether being sold under the name modafinil.
Choose a website that offers credit card payment so if anything goes wrong you can dispute the charges.
Remember, importing modafinil by ordering it online is illegal unless you have a prescription.It may take two to three weeks to receive your order.
 An alternative to getting your medication through a website or a local pharmacy is to order it from a mail-order pharmacy. Your prescription could be called in by your doctor and arrive at your home address within five to seven days, or you might be given the prescription yourself and asked to call it into a pharmacy of your choice.Mail-order pharmacies are good options when you plan on taking modafinil for a long time, as in the case of a chronic sleep disorder.
 If you suffer from sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome, fatigue, shift work sleep disorder, and narcolepsy, modafinil could help you.If other treatments have proven unsuccessful, or even if you’re new to sleep disorder medication, you could give modafinil a try.


Schedule an appointment with your doctor to talk about getting a prescription for modafinil.
 Modafinil can be expensive. Depending on your dose and pharmacy, it can cost around $1,100 for a one-month supply.Visit your insurance company’s website to see whether modafinil is covered. Your insurance company should offer a summary of benefits and coverage you can use to determine whether modafinil is totally, partially, or not at all covered under your insurance plan.If you have questions about modafinil’s availability under your insurance, contact your insurance company directly.


Modafinil might also be available or covered under the brand name version, provigil.Depending on your insurance, you might be responsible for a co-pay, or a portion of the prescription cost that the insurance company expects you to pay for. Find out if you will need to contribute a co-pay toward your modafinil prescription, or if your insurance covers the entire cost.
 After scheduling the appointment, speak to your medical professional or doctor. Your doctor will ask you a series of questions pertaining to your medical history and health. For instance, he or she might want to know if you smoke, if you are or have been addicted to drugs, or if you’re taking any other medications. Only with your doctor’s approval can you get a prescription to buy modafinil.If your doctor thinks modafinil is right for you, you will receive a prescription.
 Certain health conditions (including mental health conditions) could affect the modafinil prescription you receive. For instance, if you have a history of alcohol abuse or drug abuse, you might not want to take modafinil.Individuals with a history of mania, depression, or psychosis should use modafinil with caution, as it may exacerbate these conditions. Let your doctor know about your mental health history before using modafinil.
Pregnant and breastfeeding women should avoid modafinil, since its effects on young and unborn children are unknown.
If you’re preparing to have surgery -- even dental surgery -- tell your doctor., Modafinil can create negative side effects when taken together with some other medications. Apixaban, darunavir, and cyclosporine, for instance, are usually not prescribed together.Talk to your doctor if you’re taking these or any other medication before taking modafinil so he or she can advise you to take an appropriate dose.


When first taking modafinil, it is advised you start with a small dose. Talk to your doctor about proper use of the medication.
 Certain foods, alcohol, and tobacco might also produce an adverse reaction when combined with modafinil. Consult your doctor about your diet, alcohol, and tobacco consumption so they can prescribe the right medicine for you, or advise you how to best manage your diet while on modafinil., Modafinil may lead to nausea, headaches, nervousness, anxiety, difficulty sleeping, and dizziness. Additional, less common side effects include mood changes, confusion, depression, abnormal thoughts, chest pain, irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia), fever, and sore throat.If you experience any or all of these side effects, contact your doctor or pharmacist. He or she may recommend another medication or adjust the dose you were originally prescribed.
 Modafinil may be addictive. Therefore, always follow the prescribed guidelines and do not take more than prescribed per dose. If you miss a dose, do not take double the next time you take it in an effort to make up for the missed dose.Do not abuse modafinil in order to improve cognitive function at work or school.

