 Whenever possible, try to spend at least 30 minutes per day outside enjoying the sunlight. Exposure to sunlight triggers the production of Vitamin D, which helps improve your immune system function and strengthen your bones. The sun's rays also increase levels of serotonin in the body, which promotes feelings of well-being and happiness, and helps to regulate your appetite., The accumulated effects of making numerous minor changes will go a long way in helping you become a healthy, active person overall.


Avoid the easy way. Try taking the stairs instead of the elevator, and walk through your golf game instead of driving a cart.Park farther from the door when you are out shopping. This small change will add to the accumulated number of steps you take per day, and it might also free up a parking space for a less agile person who needs it more.Wash your car by hand instead of using the drive-thru. This can be a fun activity when the weather is nice, and hand-washing is much gentler on your paint than the big mechanical brushes.Walk or ride to work. If you live close enough to your place of employment, walking or riding a bicycle to and from work is a great way to stay in shape.
Take a lunchtime walk. Taking a long walk on your lunch hour can be an enjoyable way to refresh your mind and your body. Try inviting a friend along!, One of the most important elements of any healthy diet is water. Try to drink around eight 8-ounce glasses of water per day, to keep your body hydrated and to avoid potential health problems. Also, water will help you feel full so you will eat less. If you don't like plain water, try adding fruit, herbal tea, or sugar-free flavoring. There are also apps like Waterlogged that will remind you to drink more water!, For two weeks, try setting your alarm clock to wake up 30 minutes earlier than your usual time. Having that extra half hour will eliminate a lot of stress caused by rushing around in the morning, and can also make you feel more responsible and empowered., Just twenty minutes per day has been shown help reduce stress, lower blood pressure, and generate feelings of happiness and well-being. Simply find a quiet place where you will not be disturbed, and sit comfortably with your hands resting, palms-up, gently on your knees. Focus on your breathing, which should be regular and deep, and try to clear your mind.Try candle meditation. If you find that your mind wanders when you try to meditate, you might try lighting a candle, and focusing on the flame.Make use of mantras. Some people find it helps to repeat a word over and over. You can use a traditional Sanskrit mantra, or use any word that has positive associations for you.Practice creative visualization. Another easy technique is to imagine yourself in a peaceful, beautiful location. Imagine all the small details of the setting, and ignore everything in the physical world around you.