 Even if you're planning to buy online, see if you can try out a few different tablets at a retail store. This will give you a basic feel for how the models perform, and can help drive your purchasing decision. Just don't let the salespeople try to talk you into something you don't want.
 Try out a graphically intensive game (if one is available on the demo model) to see how the tablet handles a high load.
 There are a few different specs that you'll want to pay attention to when shopping for tablets. Different specs will be relevant for different tablets. For example, if you're deciding between iPads, the processor won't make a difference since all new iPads share the same processor. When comparing Android tablets from different manufacturers, however, processor and RAM specifications become much more important.Resolution - This is the size of the display, expressed in the number of pixels shown on the screen. The larger the resolution, the clearer your image will be.
Processor - This is the chip that drives the tablet. A tablet with a quad-core processor will generally perform better than a tablet with a dual-core processor. If you are looking at iPads, all new iPads share the same processor.Battery life - The published battery life can't usually be trusted, since it is measured under the most optimal conditions set by the manufacturer. Try to find some reviews online to compare battery life with normal usage.
RAM/Memory - This is the memory that allows your tablet to multitask and run memory-intensive apps. This specification is really only apparent if you're comparing Android models.
Storage - This is the amount of space that the tablet has to store media, apps, and any other files and documents. Storage is the primary difference between different tablets in the same model line. Check if the tablet supports SD or MicroSD for storage expansion. As more and more people store files in the cloud, the need for large amounts of physical storage has gone down.
Cellular - If you want to use a cellular data plan to be able to browse the internet anywhere you have a cellular signal, you'll need a tablet that supports SIM cards. All tablets can connect to wireless networks that you have access to.
 If you plan on taking a lot of pictures with the tablet, check out the camera options. Generally, tablets do not have the best cameras, though some models make a point of touting powerful cameras. Most tablets have a camera on the back and a less-powerful camera on the front for video chatting.
 Tablets generally come in two different sizes: 10-inch and 7-inch. Screen size is a personal preference; larger screens allow for easier video watching and typing, while smaller tablets will generally be more portable. Apps generally work with both 10-inch and 7-inch tablets, though some are only optimized for one size.


Be sure to check out the screen brightness and clarity as well as the size.
Some tablets offer different sizes (8.9" for example), but most tablets will fit into one of these two sizes.

