 Before you change your diet, you should talk to your doctor about how much protein you should be consuming. They will be able to help you determine the proper dietary interventions based on your health, lifestyle, and personal history.;
, How much protein you need depends on the number of calories you consume each day. The United States Department of Agriculture sets guidelines for estimated calorie needs based on age, gender, and level of physical activity. Check out the agency’s website for specific guidelines.A moderately active woman needs around 2000 calories per day.
A moderately active man needs around 2500 calories per day.
 Your dietary needs depend on the amount of exercise you get each day. For example, a 25-year-old woman who is moderately active should be consuming about 200 calories more per day than a woman who is sedentary. A 25-year old woman who is active will need an additional 200 calories each day.For example, a moderately active person is someone who walks between 1.5 and 3 miles or 2.5 to 5 kilometers per day.
An active person, for example, walks more than 3 miles or 5 kilometers per day.
 Healthy adults should get between 10% and 35% of their calories from protein. Once you figure out the recommended number of calories you should be consuming each day, you can calculate how much protein you should be consuming.If you are consuming 2000 calories each day, then 20% of those calories, or 400 calories, should come from protein.
Since one gram of protein equals 4 calories, you should aim for around 100 grams of protein in a 2000 calorie diet.
 Higher amounts of protein are necessary for pregnant women to support fetal development. Pregnant women should consume an additional 10 grams of protein each day., A lactating woman should be consuming more protein than a non-lactating woman of similar age and activity level. During the first six months of breastfeeding, a woman should consume an additional 15 grams of protein daily. After the first six months, an additional 12 grams of protein should be consumed., If you aren’t getting enough protein, your body might be trying to tell you with a variety of symptoms. Some common signs you should increase your protein intake include having trouble losing weight, low energy levels, poor concentration, mood problems, and wounds that are slow to heal.If you experience these symptoms, you should make an appointment with your doctor for a nutritional assessment.

