 Spell things the slightest bit wrong, and when people call you out on it, tell them how stupid they are while spelling everything wrong. WRITE EVERYTHING IN CAPS LOCK. OVERUSE CAPS LOCK. when you really should write something in all caps use lowercase letters. Or CaPiTaLiZe every other letter.


Don't punctuate correctly? Overuse, commas. Don't worry,No exclamation marks.
Purposely spell things wrong. Get really upset when people don't understand you.
Absolutely no vowels.
Replace all punctuation with 'stop', or any other random word like 'canvas', or make something completely goofy up like 'foo cakes' and end all your sentences with it.
Spell everything backwards e.g., "sdrawkcab gnihtyreve lleps"
Pretend like you know everything about everyone. If you are watching a video on a makeup tutorial, go to the comments and start typing about how the person in the video grew up in south Asia, had 18 children by the time they were 14, etc.
 Clog it up with long requests for re-posts. If there's a video with no comments, comment on it saying, "OMG 1ST COMMENT" or something along those lines. You can also post comments asking "What's the name of this video?" Be argumentative needlessly.


Go on classic rock videos on YouTube and complain about Justin Bieber. Just complain in general. Maybe about how the cupcake you are eating is stale. Just as long as you know the person reading absolutely doesn't care.
Bump old threads on message boards and forums. People will be annoyed when you post "me too" in a thread from 2001.
 Text speak also works. As many non-words as you can put into any kind of communication are smart choices if you want to be annoying. Say 'lol' at the end of everything, even if it's not funny.


Alternatively, always write 'liil' instead of 'lol' and then type 'oops sorry, I'm always typing the wrong keys, liil! oops, i mean kopl, i mean LOL!

, Make up a fake screen name on AIM, and send a message to every 'buddy' or user you know. Start a conversation to make it seem like you're their best friend, or your boyfriend just broke up with you.


On Facebook, make a fan-page or group titled your name. Invite everyone you do or do not know to join. Make the persona a more ridiculous and mean version of yourself. Refer to that person in third person.
Go on a social game and dress as girly and cute as you can, complete with a girly username, and use a ton of emoticons. If someone asks, "Are you a girl?" say "... no" or "i Don't know", whether you are or not. Note: This makes the conversation very, very awkward.
On chat boards, pretend you're a little kid. Whenever someone uses adult language, ask what the word means, or say, "My daddy/mommy says (insert word here) all the time! You two are alike." Misspell almost every word you type. Ask stupid questions like, "How do I log in without Mommy helping me?"

, On Facebook, put every single move that you make as your status. Be very detailed. This will annoy people. A lot. On Halloween, post the synopsis of every horror movie on Netflix, at fifteen minute increments.


Start a long, dull email conversation with one other person, but include everyone in all of the replies.
