 Once you're ready for bed, all sources of direct light need to be off. This includes this article, as soon as you finish reading. Lower the brightness of all lights, screens, etc. 1-2 hours before bed.
 You want your neck to be straight when your head rests on the pillow, not curved or bent in one direction.


If you have sinus problems or a sore throat, prop yourself up with 2-3 pillows so that your back is still straight and your neck is elevated. This lets fluids drain naturally.
 Put on loose cotton pajamas or a long nightshirt. If that's still not working, strip down to nothing at all. Your skin needs to breathe in order to feel healthy and regulate your temperature. Tight clothing will prevent this.
 Warmed feet are scientifically proven to help your fall asleep quickly. If you don't like socks, place a hot water bottle at the foot of your bed., Try bananas, avocado, peanuts, almonds, figs, and milk-based drinks.Avoid a sugary or all-carbohydrate meal that releases stress hormones, keeping you awake., Recognize everything that you notice: "I smell the lotion I just applied to my hands; I feel my legs' weight on the bed; I hear my spouse/partner breathing, etc." Fighting off feelings takes energy. Energy keeps you awake. Accepting things relaxes you, putting you to sleep.
 Lemon balm oil, chamomile oil, lavender oil, and marjoram can be used singly or in combination for the bath, a massage, or as an air or pillow spray. All of them, alone, also promote sleep., White noise is a constant, unobtrusive noise that helps you ignore other irregular sounds. It can be the sound of static, raindrops, rustling leaves.


Calm, wordless music is a great way to settle into bed with some white noise.
Many music apps have an "ambient" option that provides great white noise, like the sound of waves crashing.
 Small earplugs, or bigger, noise-eliminating ear muffs, can provide the tranquil soundscape you need to drift off to sleep.
 If you're really struggling, make an impromptu sleep mask out of an old tie or a pillowcase rolled lengthwise and tie it gently over your eyes. You can also buy one, or make an effective one at home.
 If you're trying to fall asleep but keep getting interrupted by noises from the street or around the house, try to block them out with a regular noise.


Turn on a fan.
Close the windows.
Invest in thick, sound-dampening curtains.
Turn your phone on silent, not vibrate.
 Caffeine, in particular, should be avoided after 2-3PM, as it takes a long time to leave your system and will absolutely affect the quality of your sleep. Alcohol may make your drowsy, but it will hurt deep sleep, leading you to wake up later in the night or feel restless or tired the next day.Nicotine has a similar effect as caffeine, so you should avoid smoking before bed for the best sleep.
 If you go to bed at the same time each day, your body will quickly adapt and help you fall asleep at that time each and every night. This same thing happens if you wake up at the same time each day, as you body will adapt to become tired when 7-8 hours before it expects to wake up the next morning. The best way to fall asleep regularly is to make sure your sleep cycle is regular. If you don't know your schedule, or how long you should sleep for:


For two weeks, go to bed at the exact same time.
Get out of bed when you wake up in the morning — don't hit snooze or keep sleeping.
Write down the time you wake up each morning.
After two weeks or so, you'll notice that you start getting up at the same time every morning. If you've been going to bed at the same time, you can use this to find out exactly how much sleep your body needs, personally, each night., Regular exercise, including 1-2 hours of cardio (running, biking, swimming, etc) each week and 2-3 strength training sessions (yoga, weights, aerobics) as been shown by the University of Maryland to significantly decrease sleeping problems in adults.Don't exercise in the three hours leading up to bedtime. Exercise awakens you, with the impact often lasting up to three hours after you've completed the exercise, as well as decreasing the secretion of needed melatonin (naturally helps regulate your sleep)., If you need a nap, nap no more than 15 minutes (a power nap). Naps break up your sleep schedule and make it much harder to fall asleep in the future. Anything longer can make it much harder to fall asleep in the evenings., Stress, anxiety, worry, and depression can all contribute to an inability to fall asleep. Seek help for stress management, including finding positive techniques to handle stress such as yoga, relaxation, cognitive behavioral therapy, self-hypnosis, assertiveness training, meditation, exercise, visualization, etc.Psychotherapy can be helpful if you have underlying anxiety, trauma, or depression issues., Stress, anxiety, or depression can all affect your sleeping patterns.If it's bad enough that you're losing sleep on a regular basis, contact your primary care physician. Some symptoms to look out for include:


Long standing insomnia, continuing for several weeks or months.
You are unable to stay awake during the day, especially during crucial moments.
You have mood swings, irritability, or constant feelings of stress.
You wake up in pain, or unable to breath.