 The most direct way to cancel your Sky subscription is to call up Sky’s customer contact centre. The number to call is 03332 022 135, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 7:55 p.m. GMT any day of the week.


Calls to Sky contact centres are free for Sky Talk customers.
If you don’t have a telephone package with Sky, charges for the call may apply.
Calls to 03 numbers are charged at the same rate as calls to 01 and 02 numbers.For most customers who have reached the end of the minimum term of their contract, there is still a 31 day notice period, so check your contract carefully before you call.;
, When you make the call you will have to follow a series of prompts to get connected to a customer service operator. You cannot cancel over the phone without actually talking to someone, so if you are in any doubt about what option to follow, always try to get through to an operator.
 Once you are through to a customer service operator, you need to say very clearly that you want to cancel your account. Often the person you talk to will be required to try to get you to change your mind, and might offer you a variety of incentives not to cancel. There have been stories of people subjected to very long phone conversations before being able to actually cancel their subscription.


Stick to your guns, and try not to get too frustrated by the operator’s filibustering.
Saying that you are moving abroad has been cited as a good way to speed up the process.There is no magic bullet, however, and newspapers have reported on long and tedious conversations.Be polite but persistent and try to make it absolutely clear that you are only interested in cancelling.
 When you have received confirmation that your account has been cancelled you will be given the date on which your services will cease. This will typically be 31 days since the date you cancelled the account, but the day will be provided to you in writing. Your TV, broadband and/or phone services will end at midnight on the given date.


Sky customers are billed at the start of the month, so you may be charged for a full month ahead of your cancellation.
If this happens it will correct itself once your services have ended and you will be credited any excess payments.Be sure to check your bank account in the following months just in case the direct debit hasn’t been cancelled.
 Sky Q customers are required to return their Sky boxes after their services end. You will be sent packaging and instructions on how to return the box through the post. You must return it within 90 days of the end of your contract or you will be charged with a non-return fee.The charges for the specific pieces of equipment for customers in the UK and Republic of Ireland are as follows:


Sky Q box - £100/€130.
Sky Q Silver box - £140/€182.
Sky Q Mini box - £50/€65.
Sky Q Hub - £30/€39.