 While you are in high school, make sure to focus on getting a strong science background. This will set you up for success in your science classes in college. Make sure to take biology, physiology, anatomy, and chemistry, if your school offers them.


Although not as necessary as your science background, it may help to have a strong background in math, with focus on geometry and algebra. This will help you understand how the half life of drugs and the growth patterns of bacteria are determined.;
, While still in high school, look for opportunities outside of school to work, volunteer, or shadow a doctor, or a pulmonologist if possible. This gives you some experience and helps you to determine if you are truly interested in the profession. Through this, you can also meet people who may potentially become mentors or who will provide letters of recommendation for your pre-medical undergraduate work.


A good place to find opportunities is your high school guidance counselor. Their job is to help you find opportunities and they may have connections in the community you don't.
The Association of American Medical Colleges also compiles a list of internships for high school students. These internship will help you learn more about the profession, obtain positive experiences, and develop relationships that may help through medical school. , Before you apply from your undergraduate degree, you will need to take the ACT or SAT examinations.Most colleges and universities accept either the ACT or the SAT, but check where you tend to apply to make sure. You may want to take both and submit your better scores. Because the tests are different, many students find that they do better on one test compared to the other.


You can take these tests as early as your sophomore year and as late as the first semester of your senior. It may be smart to take the exam early so you have time to improve your scores if you don't do as well as you want the first time. You can also take them as many times as you want.
The test results are often available online within six weeks of taking the test. The examining agency will send the score directly to the schools you request because you aren’t able to send the scores yourself.
 Make sure you apply to college in time for early application and early decision. Most of the time, the deadline for this kind of admission is in November or very early December. Check the college or university you want to apply to for the date their application will be available and when their application deadlines are. You also need to make sure you apply for the pre-med program at the school of your choice, which will prepare you for medical school later.


Early decision and early application are different ways of applying. Early decision means that, if you are accepted, you make a binding agreement with that college to accept their offer. Early application means that you will hear about your acceptance or rejection early but still have until May 1st to make that binding agreement for attendance in the fall.
Because pre-med undergraduate programs fill up early and fast, it’s important to use the early application system and make your decision as soon as you can., More than 600 colleges and universities now accept the Common Application.This is one application available online which is then forwarded to all the schools that you want. This can save you time and money if you are applying to numerous programs.


Other colleges and universities have their own application system. For these, the applications are available and also submitted for early application through their websites. If you are unsure, call the office of admissions of the schools you choose to get this information.

