 To get rid of blackheads and whiteheads, you need to use products that loosen and soften the dead skin cells on the surface of your skin so they do not stay in your pores. Your skin type (normal, oily, combination of normal and oily) will determine what type of skincare product you should use to get rid of blackheads and whiteheads. If you are not sure about your skin type, your dermatologist will be able to help you determine your skin type.Try a commercial product that is formulated for specific skin types. For example, Clinique has a four step skin care line that is fashioned for different skin types.
If you have a normal skin type, your skin type is not overly sensitive to skin care products. You may use over the counter skin care products already, but want to focus on removing blackheads and whiteheads to improve your skin tone. If you have normal skin type you will want to use a gentle astringent and soap as well and a gentle exfoliant.
If you have an oily skin type, your skin may be prone to oil buildup on your “T-zone” (forehead, nose, and chin). You may use prescribed products from a dermatologist and have acne prone skin due to your oily skin type. If you have oily skin you will want to use a harsher astringent and soap and a coarser exfoliant on the skin.
If you have a combination skin type, your skin may have normal and oily patches. Your skin may also be prone to dryness, especially in the winter months, and be sensitive to over the counter skin care products. You may use prescribed products from a dermatologist to fight off the development of acne. For this type of skin, be gentle when it is normal and use harsher cleansing when it is oily.;
, These ingredients are dermatologist approved for the removal of dead skin cells and have been shown to cleanse the skin of blackheads and whiteheads. The best commercial products for the removal of blackheads and whiteheads will contain one or a combination of these three ingredients. However, some people can be allergic to these ingredients or develop dry skin due to these ingredients. Talk to your dermatologist if you are concerned about having an allergic reaction to any of these ingredients.If you have an allergic reaction to a product, then you will see intense redness or urticaria of the skin.
If you have normal or oily skin that is not overly sensitive, you can use products with a high concentration of salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, and glycolic acid. Using products that contain all three ingredients will cause your blackheads to fade fairly quickly.
If you have sensitive skin that may be allergic to salicylic acid, causing chapping and dryness, you can still use products that contain benzoyl peroxide or glycolic acid, or a combination of both.
 This depends on your skin type and the needs of your skin. If you have normal skin with some blackheads and whiteheads, you may be able to use one product that contains salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, and glycolic acid on the area of your face that has blackheads and whiteheads. You may apply this product after you have washed your face with your normal cleanser to remove the dead cells from the surface of your skin.


If you have oily or combination skin, and are prone to the development of acne as well as blackheads and whiteheads, you may want to use a combination of products. You may follow a strict skin care regime where you use a cleanser that contains salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, and glycolic acid, followed by a toner that contains benzoyl peroxide, and ending with a moisturizer that contains glycolic acid. This will help to improve your skin tone overall, and get rid of blackheads and whiteheads.
 Clay facial masks can help to absorb excess oil on the surface of your skin and exfoliate your skin, removing the sebum buildup that causes blackheads and whiteheads. These deep cleaning masks should be applied on a regular basis, at least once a week, to work effectively.You can find clay facial masks over the counter at your local drugstore or you can ask your dermatologist for medicated facial masks that contain clay.
 Look for pore strips at your local drugstore that are made specifically for blackheads. Though the use of pore strips on your blackheads can help to release clogged pores, your blackheads will come back if you do not follow a regular skincare regime. Pore strips can provide immediate removal of your blackheads but they are not as effective as using skin care products that target the buildup of sebum on the surface of your skin.
 One of the best ways to clear clogged pores and stop blackheads from developing is to take prescription strength formulas like retinoids, a vitamin A derivative. Your dermatologist can prescribe retinoids in pill form or cream form and provide dosage information on how often you should take or apply the retinoids.Retinoids work by improving the way your skin grows and sheds so it is less likely to develop acne. They will also even out the outer layer of your skin, the epidermis, and help your skin shed dead skin cells. You may have peeling when you first use retinoids, but after regular use three to seven times a week for four to six weeks, your skin should appear more clear and even.
 Microdermabrasion is a professional method that uses an abrasive instrument to gently massage your skin, removing the thicker outer layer of your skin, including blackheads and whiteheads. Your dermatologist can perform microdermabrasion or recommend home microdermabrasion instruments you can buy at your local drugstore.A chemical peel is a procedure where a chemical solution is applied to your skin to exfoliate the area and peel off the outer layer of skin. You will then have new, regenerated skin that is free of dead skin cells, as well as blackheads and whiteheads. Your skin will be more sensitive to the sun as it heals, but you should see a noticeable improvement in your skin tone. Chemical peels should always be performed by your dermatologist., Though it may be tempting to squeeze a swollen whitehead or a prominent blackhead, squeezing, poking, and picking at them can cause the skin to become even more inflamed. This can also lead to an infection or scarring. Instead, make sure you wash the area well and apply skin care products that will work to treat and heal the blackheads or whiteheadsNever use any sharp tools on your skin, even if it is advertised as a blackhead removal tool. This can lead to permanent damage to your skin that can be difficult to treat or that will require more intense skin care treatments to heal.
 To make sure you are removing dead skin cells from your skin, you should wash your face at least twice a day, once in the morning and once at night. Use a cleansing product that contains salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, and glycolic acid to remove blackheads and whiteheads effectively.If you wear makeup every day, you should always wash your face well and remove all makeup products from your face before going to bed. This will prevent a buildup of dirt and dead skin cells on your skin and ensure you do not develop any blackheads or whiteheads during the night.
 As part of your daily skin routine, you may consider using a toner that contains salicylic acid after you have washed your face with a cleanser. Toner, usually applied with a cotton pad, can help to remove dead skin and dirt that can lead to the development of blackheads and whiteheads.If your skin is sensitive or allergic to salicylic acid, you can talk to your dermatologist about using a toner that contains benzoyl peroxide or glycolic acid.
 Choose an exfoliation product that contains salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, or glycolic acid to help get rid of any clogged pores. Apply the exfoliator in circular motions to any areas that have blackheads and whiteheads, such as your nose, forehead and chin.Exfoliation will remove dead skin cells and encourage a newer, smoother skin surface. It will also help to prevent further breakouts and diminish blemishes and pigmentation spots from acne.
 Lots of commercial products can dry out your skin, especially if your skin is still trying to get used to the ingredients in the product. To prevent dryness or chapped skin, use a moisturizer that is oil-free and noncomedogenic. This will ensure the moisturizer does not clog your pores or irritate your skin.Avoid using moisturizers that are heavy in oils, such as Vaseline and mineral oils. These products will only increase the buildup of oil and debris on your skin and the development of more blackheads and whiteheads.

