 The best material to work with is terracotta or travertine. Avoid glazed tiles, as they are difficult to work with. Most importantly, if they aren't sealed properly, the ink will rub right off.;
, You can also wipe the tiles down with rubbing alcohol instead; it does the same job and dries a lot faster. Cleaning the tiles is very important, as they tend to come very dusty. Cleaning your tiles ensures that your design comes out neat and clean.


Don't forget to wipe the back of the tiles down as well.
 For best results, choose a permanent, self-setting ink. It will ensure that your work lasts longer. If you choose to use a hybrid, heat-setting ink, you will need to bake your tiles in the oven.


Choose a dark or bright color that stands out against your tile.
 Do not rock the stamp back and forth. Instead, press it straight down onto the tile, hold it for about 5 seconds, then lift it straight back up. If you rock your stamp, you may end up smudging your design.
 If you used hybrid or some other heat-setting ink, you will need to heat-set them using a heat gun or an oven. Each brand may be a little different, so read the instructions on your ink. In most cases, you should be able to pop your tiles into the oven, and bake them at 250°F (122°C) for 30 minutes.If you plan on baking your tiles, place them onto a foil lined baking sheet. Allow them to cool completely after baking before moving on.If you used a permanent, self-setting ink, then you do not need to bake your tiles.
 Give your tiles a light coat of acrylic sealer. Alternatively, you can also use a sealer designed for natural tiles. Let the sealer dry before applying a second coat.


The sealer will make the tile less-porous. If you have a simple image, consider coating just the image with a squeeze-on or brush-on sealing glaze., You will need four felt pads, one for each corner.You can also use rubber or cork pads. Alternatively, you can also hot glue a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) square cut out of a thin sheet of cork to the back of your tile. These will prevent the tiles from scratching up your table or counter.

