 You can use any Internet browser you have (Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, or Mozilla Firefox, for example) by double-clicking on its icon on your desktop.;
, On the address bar at the top of the browser screen, type in www.gilt.com then hit Enter.
 If you are not already signed in, click the gray “Sign In” link to the left of the shopping cart icon, and the sign in dialog will pop up.


Enter your email address and password into the fields provided, then click the orange “Submit” button.
You can also sign in using your Facebook account; just click the blue “Log in with Facebook” button.
 Once you are signed in, you will see “Account” where “Sign In” used to be, near the top right of the page. Click “Account,” and your account settings page will load.
, The first option is if you want Gilt to send you periodic updates on Gilt sales and promotions. Choose the radio buttons for Daily (5-8 per week), Weekly (1 per week), or Unsubscribe (to unsubscribe from Sales Reminders.)

, The second option is if you want Gilt to send you periodic updates on Gilt City sales, which are sales at Gilt’s retail stores in major cities. Choose the radio buttons for Daily (5-8 per week), Weekly (1 per week), or Unsubscribe (to unsubscribe from Sales Reminders.)

, If you have been placed on a waiting list for an item, you can get reminders that you are waiting for that item. Under Notifications, click and check “Waitlist Recommendations” to sign up for these notifications.
 If you have placed items in your Gilt shopping cart but have not checked them out, Gilt can email you a reminder that you have items in your cart. Just click and check “Cart Reminders” to receive these notifications.
 For the Gilt Home Newsletter, a periodic newsletter of Gilt items for the home, click and check “Home Newsletter” and you will be opted-in to this newsletter.
 If you want to receive emails about special offers from Gilt, click and check “Special Offers,” and you will receive these notifications about once per day.
 Finally, if you have invited friends to shop at Gilt, you can get notifications about your friend invitation status by clicking and checking “Friend Invite Status Reports.”

, If you want to quickly unsubscribe from all emails from Gilt, you can click the Unsubscribe link directly to the left of the “Save” button.
 Click the orange “Save” button at the bottom right of the page.

