 Mobile card readers are a great option for mobile businesses or small business that have not had time to build up the credit history necessary to receive a traditional credit card merchant account. These card readers are provided to sellers by the payment processor, who then handles the transaction with your bank and the buyer's. This greatly simplifies the transactions process, but comes with its own set of issues. For example, you'll need some sort of internet connection to receive payment. For businesses operating in remote areas, this may not work out so well.


You may also pay more for manually entering credit cards, due to the risk, and may be charged a higher fee for accepting foreign credit cards.
In order to use the card reader, you have to have a compatible device, which is usually a smart phone or tablet.
In addition, some of these processors may not allow you to access your money immediately, which can be an issue for a small business struggling with cash flows., While using a card reader is simpler to set up and use than a traditional merchant account for most small business, this ease is made up for by the fees that these processors charge. Mobile payment processors, much like more traditional merchant accounts, charge a percentage on each sale. For merchant accounts, this is usually one to two percent. However, mobile processors may charge three percent or more. In addition, some of these processors have monthly fees, fees for the card reader itself, or refund fees.


Make sure you understand the costs involved before you make a decision to use a mobile card reader. You don't want to have any surprises once you've signed on to use a service., The market for mobile card readers is large and still growing, as both startups and large corporations look to get into the game. When looking for a mobile processor, consider the pros and cons of each option, especially in accessibility and pricing. Some of the more popular processors are:


Square. Square is a very small card reader that can be attached to almost any smartphone. Square charges a flat transaction fee of 2.75 percent. The reader itself can be purchased at a number of retail stores. You get your money in 1-2 business days after the transaction.
PayPal Here. PayPal's mobile reader links up to transactions that are processed and stored in your vendor PayPal account. It charges a flat fee of 2.7 percent. With PayPal, your money is available almost immediately.
PayAnywhere. PayAnywhere is Wells Fargo's mobile payment service. It charges 2.69 percent on transactions unless you qualify for their storefront solution, which offers a free tablet and a 1.69 percent rate, but requires that you process $5,000 per month in transactions. You get your money in about a day with this service., When you've decided on a mobile processor, make sure that you have an appropriate mobile device to use with the card reader. Then, visit the processor's website or a retail store to purchase their card reader. Follow the provided instructions to set up your account and begin accepting payments.