 Get a tag with your contact information on it. Pick up an appropriate collar. That way, when you go to pick up your puppy, you can put it on the pup. If the pup escapes on the way home, it will at least have your information on it., While it's tempting to just hold a puppy in your lap, a puppy is safest traveling in a carrier or crate. If you can fit it in your car, you can use a crate that you plan to crate your puppy in at home. If not, consider a smaller carrier to help keep your puppy safe.Have a towel or blanket in the carrier for your puppy. It can help the pup feel more comfortable, though be aware that it may use the bathroom on the way home.
 When bringing a dog home, it can be helpful to have someone else along. That way, you or that person can sit with the puppy in the back on the way home., When you get to the place you're picking up your puppy, ask when the puppy is normally fed and how much. You should also ask what kind of food the dog eats. When you get the pup home, try to keep it on the same schedule and food, to make it less confusing for it., For adoptions and dog purchases, you'll need to fill out some paperwork. Plus, you'll need the registration for the dog. In addition, you'll likely need to pay a fee before leaving., Once you've filled out all the paperwork, it's time to take your pup home. Put the pup in the carrier you've brought, making sure the pup can sit or stand in the carrier.
 Have the person you brought sit with the puppy. Also, keep everything calm. Don't blast music, for instance, but just let everything be quiet and calm for the pup.If the pup starts whining, the person sitting with it can put his or her hand up to the gate or talk to the pup in a soothing voice.
 For a small carrier, your best option is to set it on the floor behind your seat, as buckling the carrier in could cause problems in a crash. If the carrier is larger, then place it in the back seat. The back of an SUV is not a great option, since that area is often considered a "crumple zone" in a crash, meaning it is the area that designers allow to crumple for the purpose of protecting passengers.