 To get used to a weighted vest, you need to get an appropriate vest for yourself. Ultimately, you want to get a vest that can carry more weight than you’ll need in the beginning. You’ll also need a vest that is suited for your objectives.


If you will be wearing a vest for medical reasons, embracing the goals of weight or endurance training may help you achieve your primary goal.
If you also have a goal of endurance training, you may need a weight vest that can hold 10% or more of your weight.
If you also have the goal of strength training, you may need a weight vest that can hold 20% or more of your weight.
Make sure you get a vest that is rated for whatever activities you’ll be doing. For instance, some vests allow a much greater range of arm movement – these are good for weight lifting. Others offer less, and may provide extra support for runners or walkers with skeletal-muscular problems.
Make sure the vest is comfortable.;
, After fitting yourself, you should take some steps to balance the weight on the vest. Ultimately, you’ll want to adjust it and the weight on it so you’ll be comfortable and balanced.


Try to evenly distribute weight throughout the vest. If you put 10 lbs. on one side, put 10 lbs. on the other.
Use just a little bit of weight at first. Consider 5% or less of your total weight. For a 200-lb. person, this would be 10 lbs. or less.
Consult your trainer for advice.
If you're wearing the vest for medical reasons, you may work with much smaller increments of weights, such as an eighth of a pound.
If a medical doctor has recommended using a weighted vest, contact them for help about balancing your vest., Your first step in improving your balance will be to wear the vest as much as you can around your house or yard. By doing this, you’ll be able to get used to it in a relaxed and informal environment.


Try a variety of activities while you’re wearing your vest. Do normal chores like taking out the garbage, cleaning your home, and more.
Consider light exercise while you first get used to your vest.
Be careful around stairs or other potential hazards when you first start wearing your vest. After all, your balance might not good, yet., An important part of improving your balance with a vest is to slowly increase your weight over time. By increasing your weight, you’ll get used to the weight and be able to improve your balance.


Use a minimal amount of weight at first.
Increase your weight in manageable increments over the period of 8 to 12 weeks.
Try to avoid going above 20% of your total body weight.
Make sure to not engage in any exercises that may overexert you when you are trying to get used to the vest., Perhaps the best way to improve your balance with a weighted vest is to use a balance beam. By using a balance beam, you’ll force yourself to confront your balance problems head on.


Use a balance beam at a gym or park, if you're healthy.
If you don’t have access to a balance beam, use a long board, a curb, or simply try to walk along a line.
Force yourself to walk the beam, line, or curb until you are more confident in your ability to balance when wearing the vest.
If you're wearing the vest for medical reasons, avoid a balance beam and try to walk along a straight line. , Spending time doing sustained cardio with your weighted vest will help you improve your balance. This is not only because you’ll spend a lot of time with your vest on, but because wind up in different positions and situations with it on.


Try running.
Use an elliptical with your vest on.
Walk briskly with your vest., Weight training is another good way to improve your balance with a weighted vest. By training while you wear your vest, you’ll get used to lifting while you wear your vest. This’ll challenge your ability to keep your balance.


Try lifting free weights.
Use exercise machines., If a doctor has recommended the vest because of a medical condition, you should begin by practicing normal movements that you do every day. This is because your first goal will be to improve and regain your balance.


Try walking up and down a half flight of stairs. Don't push yourself too much. Make sure you have a helper around if you fear falling down.
Try moving your arms, turning around, and standing and sitting down while wearing your vest. With much repetition, you'll improve your balance on these basic functions.
Work with a physical therapist who can instruct you on other exercises to do while you wear your vest., Before committing to an exercise routine using a weighted vest, you should consult a physician. This is important, as weighted vests are intended to put extra pressure on your cardiovascular system. If you have cardio problems, this could produce dangerous effects.


Tell your doctor of your plans to use a weighted vest.
Talk to your doctor about your cardio health. See if they will run blood work, take your blood pressure, and monitor your pulse and heart rate., A weighted vest may exacerbate muscular-skeletal problems. Because of this, you need to make sure you don’t have any problems that may be made worse by wearing a weighted vest.


Have your doctor investigate any chronic aches or pains you have.
Be careful if you have any neck or back problems.
If you have osteoporosis, a weight vest might help you. Consult your doctor., If you have a disability or condition that negatively effects your balance or ability to stand, you may benefit from wearing a weighted vest. However, you should talk to your specialist first. They will be able to instruct you on how to use and calibrate your vest.


Weighted vests are increasingly being used to help people with disorders like multiple sclerosis. The vests help to improve their balance and general physical abilities.
Work with your doctor to determine the right amount of weight to use.
Distribute the weight until you feel balanced. The weight may not need to be balanced evenly.