 There are two types of tarragon, each with different characteristics. French tarragon is considered to be the best variety for cooking. However, it can be more difficult to plant and care for. On the other hand, Russian tarragon is a hardier plant but it has a less robust flavor. Depending on your growing situation, and what you intend to use the tarragon for, each plant has its own pros and cons.If you are concerned about having an authentic tarragon flavor, it is recommended that you go with the French variety. This is the type grown in most gardens and is used by chefs and foodies.
Russian tarragon might be a good choice if you want a nice widow herb and are less concerned about the flavor. It tends to not be good for cooking, but makes an attractive plant.;
, If you decide to plant French tarragon, you will need to find a whole plant at a store or take a plant from a friend’s garden. It is very difficult to grow French tarragon from seeds, and they are very rarely available for purchase. However, you can grow Russian tarragon from seeds. You should be able to find both seeds and whole plants are your local home and garden store.The roots of French tarragon are very sensitive, so try not to damage them when transplanting a plant.
 Tarragon grows best in a deep, loamy soil that holds moisture, but drains well. Tarragon prefers a soil pH of 6.5, but will grow in a range between 6.5 and 7.5.If you are growing the plant in a pot or window planter, cover a layer of gravel with ordinary potting soil mixed with some garden soil. In a garden, use a bagged garden soil that is not too high in nitrates to avoid burning out the plant’s delicate roots.Avoid using peat, which is too acidic. Tarragon likes slightly alkaline soils.
You can also use soilless potting mixes, perlite, vermiculite, rockwool, coco peat, and Oasis Rootcubes., Due to its temperamental nature, you will want to plant tarragon in a place where you can easily manipulate the soil and somewhat control the temperature and amount of water it receives. A raised garden or herb bed is ideal. Be sure to plant it somewhere where it can get at least 8 hours of sunlight a day.You may want to consider planting your tarragon near an eggplant. It is believed to be particularly beneficial to the vegetable’s growth.If you live in a temperate region, consider planting the tarragon in a raised garden where it can get plenty of sunshine year round.
If you live somewhere that experiences front and snow each year, consider planting the tarragon in a pot that you can bring indoors during the winter.
 If you are planting French tarragon or a Russian tarragon plant, you will need to dig a hole where you intend to plant it. Because its roots are delicate and do not like to be disturbed, you will need to dig a hole big enough to accommodate the size of the pot the tarragon plant is in. Ideally, when placed in the hole, the top of the soil in the pot should line up with the top of the hole.Russian tarragon seeds should be planted about one inch (2.5cm) in the soil.
 Tarragon will grow to cover about one foot (30cm) of soil in your garden or window box. Therefore, you will want to make sure that there is at least 2 to 3 feet (60-90cm) of space between it and other plants.These dimensions apply to both Russian and French tarragon.
Because it is so delicate, you may want to avoid planting tarragon with other herbs, such as oregano, which can spread quickly and choke it out.
 Once you have planted the French tarragon plant or Russian tarragon seeds, you will want to cover its roots with soil and gently pack it down with your hands. This will ensure that the roots make contact with the new soil. You will then want to water the plant and cover the roots with a bit of mulch to keep the sun from damaging them.This step does not apply to Russian tarragon. Simply plant the seeds approximately one inch (2.5cm) deep and let them grow.
Russian tarragon seeds will germinate about 10 to 14 days.