 While many people believe a Realtor and real estate agent are the same thing, only real estate agents with the title "REALTOR" after their name actually belong to the world's largest trade association of agents. Official Realtors earn more industry credibility since they must pass certain eligibility tests, abide by a strict code of ethics and participate in annual extended education courses to belong to the group.

Use a Realtor for access to the Multiple Listing Search (MLS) database, which comprises the world's largest listing of properties for sale. Only certified Realtors have access to this information.;
, Bigger real estate offices might have more resources for marketing homes BUT smaller ones may provide more services and offer other advantages, like discounts.

Consider working with a locally owned real estate agency. These offices tend to understand local market trends and give more personalized service.
 A good Realtor will know how to price your house correctly to attract buyers. Your potential agent should know who your target audience is, have a recommended strategy for giving your home curb appeal and present a plan to market your house using multiple media outlets.,

Ask your potential agent for a list of satisfied home buyer or sellers who completed real estate transactions with the agent.
Call 2 or 3 former customers to verify that the agent handled their home sale to their satisfaction.
If any problems were encountered, ask the former customer to share details. Confirm that any issues were taken care of to the satisfaction of all parties involved with the sale.
 Many people receive real estate licenses each year but only a handful make it a profession. The ideal Realtor has experience and up to date education. Certificates and classroom time through their affiliated Realtors' Association should be easily verified.

Find out how long the agent has been selling homes. Veteran real estate agents may have more contacts to help sell your home BUT newer agents may be more enthusiastic about marketing it and more readily available to you.
Research the number of homes similar to yours that the agent has sold. Consider the number of sales in your price range that the agent has successfully completed and the agents own knowledge of your specific area.
 These individuals are known as "dual agents" and are technically supposed to work for both the buyer and the seller's best interests. Since human beings generally have a difficult time exercising impartiality, opt to work with an agent whose commission hinges on their willingness to fight for one party's best interest.