 There are three primary ways to communicate anger; they fall into the categories of “passive,” “aggressive,” or “assertive.” Learning to use assertive communication can help you communicate about your anger in a healthy way.Passive communication involves becoming progressively angry about something without actually dealing with the problem or confronting the situation in any way. Passive people usually internalize their behavior which is anger that is "unexpressed."People who become angry outwardly and have learned that is not socially desirable may "suppress" their anger instead of dealing with it assertively. They may eventually have an outburst, the outcome of externalizing behavior being suppressed.
Aggressive communication involves becoming so angry that you have an outburst that likely seems like an overreaction to the situation from the outside. Aggressive outbursts can also be paired with violence.
Assertive communication is a healthy, respectful way to address and confront the person or situation that is causing you to become angry.
For example, you may be angry that your neighbor’s dog constantly runs into your yard unattended. A passive response would be to never speak to your neighbor about it, but become more and more angry. An aggressive response would be to call the pound, harm the dog, or do something mean to your neighbor in retaliation. An assertive response would be to communicate about the problem with your neighbor.
 Part of assertive communication is acknowledging that your needs as well as the needs of the other person (or people) involved are important. This takes the focus off of you and shows that you are appreciative of the needs of others. For example, you might tell your neighbor, “I understand that your dog needs to spend some time outdoors. However, I have very young children, and I’m not comfortable with a dog being around them without its owner.”

, Using “please” and “thank you” can go a long way towards seeming respectful of another. Treat the other party with respect, acknowledging that they have a side to the story as well. For example, you might begin a conversation with your neighbor by saying “Hey! How are you today? I have something I would like to speak with you about.”

, Remember to think of any actions you would like the other party to take as requests, not demands. This will help you word your request appropriately. It is important that you are specific and that you do your best to stick to the actual facts. For example, you may say to your neighbor, “I’d like to request that you keep your dog on a leash or in a pen when he is outside. He came into my yard 3 times yesterday while my 1- and 3- year-old children were outside playing.”

, While you do want to provide factual information, it is okay to include the way that you feel when you are expressing your anger. You can emphasize words like “I feel like” or “it makes me feel,” which may help prevent the other party from becoming defensive. For example, you might tell your neighbor, “It makes me feel frightened and frustrated when I see a dog I don’t know well run right up to my 1-year-old. Even though your dog is sweet, I feel afraid that something bad could happen on my own property, which should be safe for my children.”

, Ideally, you and the party to whom you are expressing your feelings can collaborate on a solution to the problem that is making you angry. Unfortunately, you cannot control the actions of others, and you may need to seek a solution on your own.For example, you and your neighbor may brainstorm ways to keep the dog in check, such as keeping him on a leash or in a fence. If, however, the neighbor refuses to cooperate, you might have to come up with a solution on your own, such as fencing in your own yard.

