 Notable examples include Stanley Park and the Vancouver Aquarium, the Capilano Suspension Bridge, the Dr. Sun Yat-Sen Classical Chinese Gardens, Playland, Canada Place, Science World, and Harbour Centre.;
, Most notably: Granville Island, Commercial Drive, Mount Pleasant/Main Street, Chinatown, Robson Street, Kitsilano, Steveston, Edgemont Village, Lonsdale Quay, New Westminster Quay, White Rock and Deep Cove.
 A wonderful selection choose from including Stanley Park, Whistler/Blackcomb (2 hours north), Grouse Mountain, Jericho Beach, Crescent Beach, White Rock Beach, English Bay, Second Beach, and Wreck Beach, among others.
 To avoid the frustrations of driving in congested traffic and paying high parking costs, take advantage of Vancouver's public transit system which includes the elevated SkyTrain System and the Seabus. This is an inexpensive way to get around and you will get to see a panorama of Vancouver and its array of suburbs.


Before boarding the Skytrain you must purchase a fare ticket called a Compass Card. They are a disposable card with an NFC chip that allows riders to "tap in and out" of fare paid zones in Skytrain stations. Compass ticket vending machines are located at the entrance of every Skytrain, as well as at the Tsawwassan Bay ferry terminal.
Public transit is divided into 3 zones, and if you travel through 2 or more of these zones, the fare increases. All bus routes are considered a 1 zone fare.
Single fare tickets range from 1 Zone- $1.75, 2 Zone- $2.75 and 3 Zone- $3.75 CAD and are valid for 90 minutes from time of purchase.
If using the Skytrain to sightsee, consider purchasing an all day pass. They are generally a better deal as they cost $9.75 CAD and are valid all day.
 Plan an overnight trip from Vancouver to Victoria. Take a break from Vancouver's bustling metropolis and relax in Canada's Prettiest City. Victoria is home to many beautiful parks including the famous Butchart Gardens and BC's historic Parliament Buildings, home of the Provencal legislative assembly.

