 Then, locate your social security number. You will need the last 4 digits of your social security number to fill out the online form.


The DMV uses the signature on your California ID to sign the voter registration card. However, if you do not have a CA ID card, you should still fill out the form. A copy of the registration will be mailed to you for your signature.;
, The online process is available in English and Spanish.


Go to http://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/new-voter/ to download and print off a voter registration form in Thai, Chinese, Tagalog, Vietnamese, Japanese, Khmer, Hindi or Korean.
 It will also ask you if you are military personnel or a person living overseas.


If you are in the military or living overseas, you will be taken through a slightly different registration process that helps overseas voters register and receive their absentee ballots.
 You must be over 18, a California resident, mentally competent, a US citizen and not currently detained by the courts or on parole for a felony.



First, enter your California ID or driver's license number. Leave this space blank if you do not have it.
Next, enter the last 4 digits of your social security number. All US citizens should have this number; however, you can check the box if you do not have a social security number.
Then, enter your date of birth. Click "Next."

, This will include your full legal name, your address and your mailing address if different. You may also add your party affiliation and race.
 Submit the address where you were last registered to vote.



Submit the form to be sent to your mailing address for your signature. Once you receive the form, sign it and place it in an envelope. Address it to the return address that is indicated on the form, or you can mail it to your local county elections office.
 Your local elections office must confirm your eligibility to vote.


If you do not receive this card promptly, you should call your local elections office and inquire about your registration.

