 Inspect the neck for signs of warping or bowing. To check more precisely, run a ruler along the length of the guitar, resting it on the frets. Do this on both sides to make sure your neck is not twisted.









You want your neck to have an ever-so-slight curve inwards, so the headstock will bow slightly toward the bridge. Guitar engineers refer to this curve as giving your neck some "relief." You should have a very slight gap between your neck and your straight edge. If your neck curves away from the strings, backward, you may have a problem that will affect the action of the guitar, and you should take it to a guitar shop to have it checked out.;
, Use the D string to check the straightness of the neck by checking the string height. After stringing the guitar, Fret the D string at the 1st and 22nd frets, or whichever is the highest fret on your fretboard, then check the distance between the string and the fretboard at the 12th fret. Ideally, you should just be able to slide a business card under it. You can check the straightness of the whole neck by fretting at different places, using the string as a straight edge.










If you've got access to a feeler gauge, take a capo and place it over the first fret. Hold down the lowest string at the last fret. With your feeler, gauge check the distance between the string and the 8th fret. The measurement should be approximately .010" (0.254 mm). If this measurement is greater than .010" you will have to tighten your truss rod by turning the Allen wrench clockwise.
 If you need to make an adjustment to the bow of the neck, remove the truss rod cover, which is usually located at the top of the neck on most guitars, but will also sometimes be at the bottom, closer to the bridge. Adjust delicately, using gentle quarter turns with the appropriate-sized allen wrench.










If your neck is too convex, you will have to turn your Allen wrench counterclockwise, raising the strings. When making this adjustment, take your time and only turn it a quarter of a turn at a time. Then let your guitar settle for a bit and re-tune it before checking again or attempting to play it. Let it sit overnight.
 If your truss rod is set correctly, but the strings above the 12th fret are too far from the fretboard, it's possible that there is an angle between your neck and your body. Make sure that your guitar is resting on a flat work surface, and remove the strings before you attempt to unbolt the neck. Bolt-on necks can be removed from the body by removing four screws at the back of the guitar, to ensure that the joint is flush.










The neck of your guitar should be parallel to the body of the guitar, but often there will be a lot of sawdust from the factory, which means the neck will be askew. If it is, clean up the area and bolt the neck back on.
If the angle of your neck is still incorrect, you can change it by putting a "spacer", either between the two bottom screws to tilt the neck backwards, or between the two top screws to tilt the neck forward. Something very thin, like Post-It notes, works fine. They stick to the surface and won't move as you bolt the neck back on. If you need a thicker spacer, just fold the Post-It note over itself.

