 You may know from TV commercials that oatmeal or oats can help lower cholesterol. This high fiber grain has been shown to help lower cholesterol levels making it a great food to include in a snack.


Oats contain a type of fiber known as soluble fiber. This particular type of fiber (also found in foods like beans, apples, prunes and barley), helps decrease circulating levels of LDL or "bad" cholesterol in your body by binding to dietary cholesterol in the gut and preventing its absorption..Since oatmeal falls into the grain food group, you need to follow appropriate portion sizes for grains. Measure out about 1/2 cup of cooked oats or about 1 oz of oats per serving.Incorporate oats into your favorite snacks. Try: having a small bowl of oatmeal in the afternoon, a homemade granola bar made with oats, making homemade granola with oats (sprinkle over your favorite yogurt) or using oat flour to make high fiber cookies or muffins.;
, Another group of foods that is commonly associated with improve cholesterol levels are foods that contain healthy fats. These fats, known as omega 3 fats, can help improve and manage your cholesterol levels.Studies have shown that those people who eat more of these heart healthy fats typically have higher HDL levels ("good" cholesterol), lower total cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
Omega 3 fats are found in a wide variety of foods like salmon, tuna, mackerel, nuts or avocados. However, not all of these are the best snack foods.
Instead try foods like: salmon or tuna jerky, a small handful of nuts (maybe mixed with oat granola) or avocado.
 Another great snack option is fruit. This food group offers a lot of fiber (especially soluble fiber), vitamins and is relatively low in calorie making it a great option for a cholesterol lowering snack.


Some fruits have higher levels of pectin which is a soluble fiber. Similar to oats, soluble fiber helps your body decrease circulating levels of cholesterol by limiting absorption.Like all foods, fruit needs to be portion controlled. Measure out about 1/2 cup of chopped fruit or have 1 small piece of fruit.Limit your daily intake to 1 1/2 to 2 cups per day. If measuring dried fruit, consider a 1/2 cup of dried fruit to be the same as 1 cup of fresh fruit.
The fruits with the highest levels of soluble fiber include: apples, grapes, pears, citrus fruits, peaches, apricots and strawberries.
To incorporate these fruits into your snacks, just eat them plain, dice them up into a salad, add to a bowl of high fiber oatmeal or add on top of a yogurt.
 Many types of tea have become a more popular healthy food due to the amount of antioxidants they have been found to have. Black and green teas in particular contain antioxidants that have been shown to help lower cholesterol levels.Green and black tea has cancer-fighting antioxidants known as theaflavins.Studies have shown that this compound in particular is responsible for improving blood lipid levels.
One study from the USDA in particular showed that black tea was able to lower blood lipid levels like cholesterol by about 10% in 3 weeks.Green tea can also help to lower your cholesterol in small numbers. It won't reduce your cholesterol from a high risk number to a low risk one, but drinking green tea in combination with avoiding foods high in cholesterol will help you lower your cholesterol.Brew either hot or cold black tea to sip on with your afternoon snack. Try to limit how much sugar, honey or agave syrup you add. If you use sugar, keep it to one teaspoon per cup of tea.
 Need a good reason to grab that piece of dark chocolate? Studies have shown that small quantities of dark chocolate can help lower cholesterol levels and even prevent it from sticking to the insides of your artery walls.Dark chocolate contains a few compounds that can help you manage your cholesterol levels. This sweet treat contains antioxidants known as procyanidins and epicatechins and oleic acid (a type of fat) that have shown to have positive effects on cholesterol levels.
The antioxidants have been shown to help prevent the oxidation of LDL (the "bad" cholesterol) from sticking to the inside of your artery walls. The oleic acid, even though its a type of fat, has been shown to reduce total cholesterol levels.
Choose a type of dark chocolate that is comprised of at least 60% cocoa solids. This is where all those beneficial nutrients are.
A small 1-2 oz serving of dark chocolate makes the perfect snack. However, be careful not to down the entire bar or several pieces.
 Newer research has now clarified that one of the key food ingredients in Westernized diets has a more significant effect on cholesterol. Sugars, especially added sugars, have been found to be more harmful than foods that contain cholesterol (like eggs).Sugar is a common part of the Westernized diet. Unfortunately, studies have shown that these sugars have had negative side effects. Sugar lowered the HDL or "good" cholesterol and increased both total cholesterol and triglyceride levels.To limit how much sugar, especially added sugar, you're getting in your diet, skip sweet treats.
Items like cookies, cakes, muffins, pastries, ice cream and candy should all be limited in your diet. Only have these items very occasionally and in a very small portion.
 Unlike omega 3 fats, there are some types of fats that are actually harmful to your body and can raise cholesterol levels. Both saturated and trans fat need to be monitored in your diet when you're trying to manage cholesterol levels.


Both saturated and trans fats have been implicated in the increased occurrence of elevated cholesterol and triglyceride levels, heart disease and diabetes.Although some newer research does show that saturated fats may not be as harmful as previously thought, you should still consume these in moderation.
Saturated fats are found in foods like: fatty beef, lamb or pork and full fat dairy products like butter, cheese or whole milk.Trans fats are found in foods like: fried foods, fast foods, pastries, cookies, cakes, crackers, margarine and frozen pizzas., Like refined sugars, refined flours like white flour are equally as detrimental to your health and cholesterol levels. Do not choose snack foods that are made with refined grains either.


Studies have shown that foods made from refined carbohydrates are even more detrimental to your cholesterol levels than saturated fats.Refined carbohydrates are the result of flours, like wheat, being highly refined. All of the beneficial nutrition has been stripped away. Unfortunately, many foods in Westernized diets are full of refined carbohydrates like white flour.
To avoid having an impact on your cholesterol, avoid snack foods that are made from refined carbohydrates like this.
Avoid items like: white bread, crackers made with white flour, snack cakes, bagels, muffins, pastries and sugary cereals.
 In addition to foods that can cause high cholesterol, there are beverages that are equally as unhealthy. Just like foods, sweetened beverages have been linked to higher cholesterol.


Skip sugary, sweetened beverages like: smoothies, sodas, fruit juices, fruit drinks, sports drinks, energy drinks, sweet teas, lemonade and sweetened coffee drinks.
Instead, stick to unsweetened, beverages like: water, sparkling water, flavored water, unsweetened decaf coffee and tea.
Health professionals recommend consuming at least 64 oz or about 8 glasses of clear fluids each day. However, you may need even up to 13 glasses daily.Keep in mind, though, that these recommendations do not take into account chronic health conditions that might be exacerbated by excess fluid intake.
 Get a little healthy fat into your afternoon snack by having some homemade guacamole. It's a tasty snack that's healthy for you and your cholesterol levels.


Mash up an avocado in a large bowl. Use the back of a fork, spoon or potato masher. You want to get it to a fairly smooth consistency, however a few lumps is OK.
Add in about 1/4 cup of diced tomatoes, 1/4 cup of diced onions, 1 clove of garlic minced and 1 tablespoon of chopped cilantro. Drizzle in 2 tablespoons of fresh lime juice and season with salt and pepper.
Bring half of your guacamole mixture as your afternoon snack. Keep it sealed in an airtight container. Serve with whole grain tortilla chips for an extra hit of fiber.
 If you're craving a little sweet and salty for your snack, consider making your own homemade trail mix. You'll get a dose of heart healthy fats in this tasty snack.


Start by picking out two or three of your favorite nuts. Walnuts, almonds, pecans, cashews and peanuts all contain varying levels of heart healthy fats.
Measure out 1 cup of each type of nut. You want to end up with about 3 cups of nuts total.
Also measure out 2 cups of your favorite dried fruit. Try to find unsweetened dried fruit to keep the sugar content low. You can do dried cherries, blueberries, cranberries or strawberries.
Toss together and keep your trail mix sealed in an airtight container or baggie until read to eat. Measure out about 1/3 cup for your snack serving.
 If you want a sweet treat in the afternoon, indulge with a dark chocolate covered banana. It's the perfect afternoon snack.


Make these snacks in advance so that you can pull one out whenever you get a snack craving.
Start by halving a few bananas. Carefully push a popsicle stick about half way up the banana.
In a small bowl, melt about 1 cup of semi sweet or dark chocolate chips. You can melt in the microwave. Heat for about 30 seconds and then stir. Repeat until the chocolate is melted.
Dip your banana pops into the chocolate until thoroughly coated. Lay flat on a baking sheet and freeze until solid. Keep frozen banana pops in an airtight container in your freezer until ready to eat.
 If you want to sip on something sweet and creamy, make a fruit and oat smoothie. You'll never know the oats are in there providing you with an extra hit of soluble fiber.


In the cylinder of a blender add: 2 cups of your favorite fruit sliced, 1/4 cup of almonds, 1 cup of your favorite yogurt and 1/2 cup of rolled oats.
Turn on the blender and process until your smoothie is creamy and smooth. You may need to scrape down the sides of blender one or two times during the processing to get everything combined.
Taste and adjust for seasonings and consistency. This recipe serves 2.
 If you want a little bit heartier afternoon snack, consider making a tuna and white bean salad. This is perfect to serve with whole grain crackers in the afternoon.


Start by draining a 5 oz can of tuna. Place tuna in a medium bowl and flake gently with a fork.
Also add about 1/2 can of drained and rinsed white beans. It'll be about a cup of beans that you add to the tuna.
Drizzle in 1-2 tablespoons of olive oil, 1-2 tablespoons of white wine vinegar, 1 clove of minced garlic, 1 tablespoon of minced basil and salt and pepper to taste.
Stir gently and taste for seasonings - adjust as needed. Serve alone or serve with some whole grain crackers.

