 Do not shower or wash your face too much, as this will dry out your skin. In order to avoid dryness, you should limit your bathing to just one bath or shower a day. You should also avoid steaming your skin and washing with water that is too hot.Use warm or lukewarm water so hydration isn't stripped from your skin. Water that's too hot tends to wash away your skin's protective lipid barrier.
For the same reason, you should also avoid taking long showers or baths.
 This may be obvious to some people, but not so much to others. By moisturizing all year round, your skin will be prepared for whatever the seasons throw at it, whether it's biting winter winds or scorching summer heat.


People with sensitive skin should avoid creams containing fragrances or lanolin as these can cause the skin to react negatively.
Try to get your hands on products that contain either glycerin or hyaluronic acid, as both of these substances are fantastically hydrating for the skin., If you spend a lot of time outdoors, it's imperative that you protect your face with a cream or moisturizer that contains an SPF of 15 or higher. This will protect the sensitive skin on your face from damaging sun rays, which cause burns, sun spots and even wrinkles. Remember that you can burn your skin all year round, so sunscreen isn't just for summer!, If the air in your house is very dry, your skin could be drying out as you sleep, leaving it feeling rough and flaky come morning. To counteract this effect, try putting a humidifier in your bedroom which you can turn on while you sleep.Putting a bowl or pot of water next to the radiator in your bedroom is a low-cost, DIY alternative to using a humidifier.
Alternatively, try using a natural plant humidifier, such as a Boston palm, a bamboo fern, or a Ficus alii. These plants raise the level of water vapor in the air through transpiration - so try putting one in your bedroom, it'll help your skin while giving your bedroom a tropical feel!, Protect your skin from the elements by covering up as much as possible. In winter, protect your skin from drying winds by wearing hats, scarves and gloves. Wear a protective chapstick to shield your lips. In summer, wear a baseball cap or sunhat to protect your face from harsh rays of sun, and wear loose, light, long-sleeved shirts and pants to prevent skin from burning.

