 When you are ready, apply a layer of liquid latex to the area in between the lines you have drawn. Use a makeup applicator to dab the liquid latex on your skin, while avoiding the areas around your eyes, nose, and mouth.








Do not put liquid latex on your eyelids! It is not okay to use on or near your eyes.
 After you finish applying the first layer of liquid latex, start adding some chunks of cotton to your skin and dab more liquid latex over them. This will give your skin lots of texture to create a more realistic look.








Keep adding cotton pieces and liquid latex until you are satisfied with the results.
 Next, you will need to cover up the lumpy white palette you have created. Use your red face makeup to cover up these areas. You can use multiple colors of red and even some brown or black to create dimension.








For example, you could do a layer of red, and then use some darker red to make some areas stand out more. You could also dab on and blend in some brown and black around clumps of cotton to give them the appearance of blood clots.
 Remember that you do not want to put the liquid latex on your eyes. However, if you have decided to place the zipper so that it is around your eyes, then you will need to make sure that your eyes blend in with the rest of your face.Apply some red eyeshadow to your eyelids and to the areas below your eyelids. You may have to use multiple layers, but this will be the safest way to color your eyelids.
If you are applying the zipper around your mouth, then try wearing some red lipstick that matches the other face makeup.
 When your makeup is complete, you can glue on the zipper. Use some skin safe adhesive to glue the zipper onto the area you traced. Make sure that you use enough glue to keep the zipper in place.
 To finish your look, you can apply some of the red petroleum jelly you created. Apply the jelly to the red areas of your skin to give it a shiny, wet blood appearance.








If the petroleum jelly is too shiny or if you accidentally apply too much, then just use a paper towel to gently dab some of it away.

