 If the wedding is very formal, you might need a tuxedo. Whether you will need a suit or tux depends on the preferences of the groom and his bride-to-be. Some weddings do not require that all groomsmen match their attire. If that is the case, the groom will usually instead provide some rough guidelines like “gray and navy suits.”If the groom provides no advice for you, inquire with the groom as to what he would like you to wear. Contact your local wedding attire specialist or men’s clothing shop for recommendations on what look and style would best suit you.
 The wedding rehearsal and dinner is crucial for working out exactly how things will operate on the big day. While the actual organizational responsibilities of the rehearsal will be the groom’s, he might delegate certain things to you. For instance, if certain groomsmen weren’t able to attend the rehearsal, the groom might ask you to fill them in as to where they should sit and stand during the wedding.


Learn as much as you can about the plan for the wedding during the rehearsal. If any groomsmen forget their places, you can remind them of where to stand.Any ceremony that involves a lot of moving about, or ceremonies in which specific people like parents, bridesmaids, or groomsmen are meant to sit in certain locations requires a practice run. The rehearsal ensures that during the actual wedding, there are no snafus and everything goes according to plan.
 It also helps them get to know one another a bit before the actual wedding. Deliver a complimentary speech at the dinner in honor of the groom and bride. Celebrate their life and future together. Express your happiness for them both.


Keep the speech brief. You’ll want to deliver an even deeper, more moving speech at the actual wedding reception.
Keep a pen and notepad on hand during the rehearsal and dinner. If the bride and groom want to change anything about the venue, seating arrangements, or lighting, they might ask you to make these arrangements.
Assuming the rehearsal dinner is at the same place as the actual wedding reception, plan how and where you intend to take pictures at the wedding reception during the rehearsal dinner.

