 There's no denying it; what you wear is important -- it tells the world how you want to be seen.


Therefore, it's important to wear clothes that you feel comfortable in -- that express your personality while also making you feel attractive.
Men aren't solely interested in girls who get dolled up to the nines, wearing skin-tight dresses and teetering around in high heels -- although this isn't a bad thing either!
The right guy will be irresistibly attracted to a women who feels comfortable in her own skin, no matter what she's wearing -- a high-powered business suit or paint-splattered overalls.
However, it doesn't hurt to take pride in your appearance by wearing clothes that highlight your best assets -- whether that's your bright, green eyes, your petite waist or your curvaceous booty.
 Make-up is a fantastic tool for highlighting your best features, covering up blemishes and generally helping you to feel more confident about your appearance.


The right foundation can cover up a multitude of skin issues -- from acne and redness, to dark spots and under-eye circles. A little contouring can slim a round face, or elongate a short one. Some expertly applied mascara can open your eyes, making them look bigger and brighter. The list goes on.
Make-up shouldn't be plastered on like a mask -- it should be used to highlight your best features and camouflage the ones you're less proud off. And remember -- it's not the make-up itself that will make you more irresistible to men -- it's the confidence that wearing it gives you!
Of course, if you're not a regular make-up wearer and you feel perfectly happy going bare-faced, we're not telling you to do otherwise! Good for you!

, Beautiful, shiny, well-tended hair can be a big turn-on for guys, so it's important to give it adequate attention.


First and foremost, make an effort to have freshly-washed hair as often as possible. Can you imagine running into the guy of your dreams on a greasy hair day? Mortifying. If you lead a very busy lifestyle, try carrying a can of dry shampoo around in your handbag -- then you can give it a quick spritz in times of emergency.
Get your hair cut regularly, so it looks healthy and well-maintained rather than scraggly and unkempt. If you have color in your hair, don't wait too long between appointments -- you don't want your roots showing!
Experiment with different styles to find a look that works for you and highlights your best features. Could you rock a pixie cut? Or be an ombré-haired goddess? Ask your stylist for some ideas if you're unsure.
 Of course, you shouldn't just look good, you should try to appeal to as many of a man's senses as possible! That's why finding your signature scent and smelling irresistibly delicious is so important!


Obviously the first step to smelling great is taking care of personal hygiene. Find some nice smelling shower gel to use during your daily shower and rub on a matching lotion afterwards -- this will help the fragrance to last longer.
Choose a fragrance that matches both your personality and the time of year -- do you want light and fruity, warm and floral, or musky and rich? Don't make a snap decision when it comes to perfume, go to the store and test a sample. Wear it throughout the day to see how the scent develops. If you still like it by the end of the day, you can feel confident about your purchase.
Don't go overboard when it comes to application -- you don't want a guy to be overpowered by the scent. Apply just a small dab on each of your pulse points -- the inside of your wrists, behind your ears, in the crook of your elbows and on your inner thighs. Then he'll get an alluring whiff whenever you walk by!

, You don't need to be a size two to attract a guy, but you do need to take care of yourself and pay attention to your health.


Men are irresistibly attracted to confident women who feel happy and healthy in their own skin -- it's a fact.
So when you're pushing yourself to run that last mile or trying to convince yourself to order a salad instead of a pizza, think about your dream guy -- that should provide some motivation.
Try to find an activity that you enjoy, then the exercise benefits will just be an added bonus. Take up a dance class, do horse riding, learn how to surf -- anything that gets you excited and motivated. This will also give you something interesting to talk about when you're chatting to guys!
Remember that attracting a guy isn't the only or even the best reason to eat well and exercise (you should do it for you), but if that's what gets you motivated, so be it.

