 If you like to cut and use glue, this version might be fun for you to make. You can also use letter stickers to make the words instead, but keep in mind that the stickers will be glossier than the rest of your poster. Here's a list of what you will need:


Rectangular sheet of paper
Colored paper (letters and crown)
Pencil
Eraser
Ruler
Craft knife
Letter stickers (optional)
Glue stick
Eraser (optional)

, You can use poster paper or construction paper. If you want a poster with a pattern on it, use scrapbooking paper. You can find it in the scrapbooking section of an arts and crafts store. If you decide to use scrapbooking paper, cut it down to make it a rectangle.
 Use a long ruler and a pencil to lightly draw some lines where you want everything to go. This will help you align the letters and crown.
 You can also print out the outline of a crown and some letters onto a sheet of paper. Make sure that the crown and letters are not filled in by any designs.


If you want, you can also use letter-shaped stickers to make the words. Keep in mind, however, that most stickers tend to be glossy. If you use stickers, then the words will have a different finish than the rest of your poster.
 Be sure to cut just inside the outline. Also, try hard not to nick the crown or letters, as they will be going right onto your poster.


If you find that the knife is not cutting smoothly, the dull is probably dull. Try changing the blade for a new one.
 Flip the crown over, and place it down onto a piece of scrap paper. Use a glue stick to apply a thin layer of glue over the back of the crown, then paste the crown down onto the poster. Use your fist to smooth it down.
 Stick the letter onto the poster before moving onto the next one.


You will notice the piece of scrap paper getting more and more glue marks over time. Try to avoid these marks, or your letters will become dirty.
 Try to go in the same direction while erasing—so always rub your eraser in an upwards direction, or a downwards direction. Don't rub back and forth, or you will risk dislodging the paper.

