 Luckily for WWE 2K fans, majority of the controls to move around your wrestler has not been changed. Actions such as walking, running, grappling, and other basic wrestling moves has been kept intact lowering the learning curve for new players.


You will initially notice that the pacing of animations, especially superstars, has been increased. The sped up animation helps players experience a more realistic and fast paced matches just like what we watch on TV.
Superstars will now have random generated starting up animation when you make them run just to add up more realism to their movements.
Small actions such as fixing a wrestler’s hair or wristband has been added as well. These movements such as taunts might not be that impacting to an actual match but it surely adds depth to a wrestler’s looks. These small things, again, lessen the repetitiveness of a wrestler’s movements.;
, Since attacks are now faster, reversals are not as effective as before. This means that also on your end, you can get spammed with punches from your opponent so learn to dodge, guard, and apply reversal.


When a reversal is successful – the wrestler will execute a signature move of his own! This eliminates the chain reversals that was present on previous WWE 2K games.
When facing two opponents at once, you can execute special moves such as the Double Attitude Adjuster and the Double Chokeslam.
 Nothing is more than satisfying that bring forth finishers or smackdowns on your opponent. Finishers can be executed with different triggers depending on the wrestler you are controlling. Some needs to put their enemy first on the floor for them to execute a finisher, some needs to put their opponent to the ropes. So be sure to know how your player executes his finisher.


A new trigger for finishers is by throwing your opponent in the air and applying your finisher on him on his way down.
The 2 player mode is one of the most effective mode to practice yagersaur basketball prowess. Simply start a quick game and you are off to the old exhibition mode between you and a friend. An AI team opponent can also be arranged.
You might want to work on your outside shooting mostly since NBA 2K14 made it harder now for players to hit those nasty three pointers. Also, the AI of the opposing players are now tweaked to make it harder for you to drive and simply shoot that ball into the basket.
 You can use your surroundings to your advantage while fighting an opponent. Your match does is not limited inside the boundaries of the ring. You can use the ring post, tables, chairs, and other stuff that you can use as a weapon.


Be careful not be disqualified by using prohibited items in the ring. You can get away with it especially when the referee is not looking.
There are special moves that are incorporated with damages dealt with the environment such as the DDT on Apron and Boot-to-head on outside ring post.
In hardcore matches or TLC’s, make sure you equip yourself with ‘weapons” because these modes encourages using environmental weapons to beat your opponent.
 There’s a lot of modes available for you to explore in WWE 2k14. The developers see to it that all the bases are covered when it comes to wrestling modes.


Normal mode includes one on one, fatal 4-way, and triple threat match.
Two on two includes tag team and its other variations such as mixed, elimination, and tornado tag. 6-man tag variations are also available in this mode.
Handicap match includes one to two (up to three) matches. There’s also a gauntlet mode.
Backstage brawl mode is just like normal only taking place at the backstage.
Battle Royal includes fatal 4-way and 6 man with an option to add a special referee.
Elimination chamber includes normal and tornado tag mode.
Extreme rules includes one on one, tornado tag, fatal 4-way, triple threat, and an option for a special referee.
Hell in a cell is back and with one on one, tornado tag, 6 man, 4way, and triple threat variations. Again, a special referee can be added in this mode.
I quit, Iron man, Submission, Last man standing, and Inferno match just have one on one option.
King of the ring, Gold rush, and Tag team has several variations including singles, one on one backstage brawl, iron man, TLC, extreme rules, and others.
Ladder match mode includes one on one, triple threat, fatal 4 way, and 6 man. Another variation of this mode is Money in the bank.
Steel cage and TLC mode includes one on one, fatal 4 way, 6 man, and triple threat. Table mode’s variations just like the Steel cage with just an addition of elimination tag.
Royal rumble of course offers the most number of wrestlers in one match. It can be a 10 man Royal rumble up to 40.
Title match can be any mode with the championship belt at stake!

, Each match has a set of rules. Fortunately, these rules can be adjusted to your preference. From winning conditions to ring designs – you can adjust these to your liking.


Make sure to adjust the rules only if you would like a customized experience of the wrestling match. Otherwise, leaving the rules and settings as is makes the chosen match mode based on the actual match mode in WWE 2k14.
 If you are a fan of WWE, this section will truly inspire you to unlock all achievements of the game just to be a part of the hall of fame and be one of the legends!


This section is more like a tribute and a look back on the history of WWE. You will play as the legends as they battle it out with some of their most memorable matches ever.
This also unlocks a lot of legendary wrestlers and arenas by competing the objectives a certain match requires you to meet.
 As you play the game, you will also ear trophies or achievements as rewards. Certain rewards are tricky to earn and some are just plain easy. Either way, completing all rewards can really be satisfying and can add more re-playability to your game.


Once you complete all 41 rewards, you will earn the final reward All Trophies Earned.
 One of the most interesting features of WWE 2K series is its WWE Creation mode. Creating your own superstar has always been a fantasy for all WWE fanatics around the world. Through this mode, they can actually customize a player’s looks to their likelihood and even tweak it’s move sets to your favorite WWE superstars.


You can obtain two achievements/trophies just by creating your character. These rewards are Woo Woo Woo!!! and One of a Kind Superstar.
Adjusting your wrestler’s threads affects your fans’ signage and its attire’s color scheme.
There’s also an entrance section where you can customize how you go out from the backstage, approach the ring, and enter the ring. It could be a mixture of existing wrestler entrances. Advance creation option allows you to make your entrance even more detailed and unique.
 It is really satisfying when you see your creation battle it out with other players around the world! Whether it’s just one on one or ranked matches – playing online surely adds value to your game since this will test how you go head to head with other WWE fanatics out there. Playing against a real person is really different compared to playing against an AI.


You can customize your search for your online opponent. If you feel like you are ready to face a tough enemy – by all means, go ahead and look for a high level opponent that can give you a good match.
Rankings is also available in case you need to see how you are doing globally. You can easily access DLC content here from the WWE shop.
Again, there are two rewards available when you play online. These trophies/achievements are A Winner is You and A Fresh Beginning.
 Some WWE 2K14 contents are just available through purchase via WWE shop. If you have money to spare, you may want to visit the shop and try to see what you can add to your collection. From wrestlers to costumes – you can find it here.

