 Sex is safe during pregnancy provided you have a low risk pregnancy with few complications. Your doctor will let you know if you should avoid sex for any reason at all to avoid complications. You may be advised to avoid sex if you have experienced the following:Unexplained vaginal bleeding
Leakage of amniotic fluid
History of premature labor
Other medical conditions;
, One of the most common concerns of mothers and fathers-to-be is that sex will hurt the baby, or that they might "bump into" the baby during sex, but in reality there is no reason to worry. A woman's cervix forms a barrier between her uterus and vagina, cushioning the baby and preventing harm from occurring. Most women can enjoy a healthy and fulfilling intimate relationship throughout their pregnancy, right up until their delivery date.

Consider bringing up the issue of having sex while pregnant during a prenatal visit to the physician. A little reassurance from your physician that sex will not hurt the baby may help both people feel more comfortable.
 Since pregnancy increases blood flow to the pelvic area, many women feel increased sensation in the clitoris during sexual intercourse. Some women find this pleasurable, while others find it uncomfortable. The following changes may also be present:A feeling of fullness after sex
Abdominal cramping after sex
Sore nipples
Increased vaginal discharge

, These types of contractions do not lead to labor, but if you're experiencing them for the first time, you might get confused.Orgasms are unlikely to trigger labor, so there's no need to avoid sex on these grounds.
 The same practices that apply to sex at other times apply during pregnancy. If you have more than one sexual partner or are at risk of contracting an STI, be sure to use a condom each time you have sex. Putting yourself at risk of infection may put the baby at risk as well.
 If you and your partner are interested in maintaining a healthy sexual relationship during pregnancy, then you must be wondering what positions will work best for you as your belly grows and expands. The best thing you can do during your pregnancy is keep an open mind and be creative. You'll probably need to try out different positions and experiment a bit to find something that works for both of you. Most women will find that it is uncomfortable to enjoy sex in a missionary position after about the first or mid second trimester, once the stomach starts getting big. Try being the one on top instead.
Many find that having intercourse in a "spooning" position is a very comfortable way to have sex while pregnant.Try sitting on a chair or on the edge of the bed while your partner kneels or stands.Getting on your hands and knees while your partner enters from behind is another position that works for many.
 Pillows are your friend when it comes to having sex while pregnant. Use them under your bottom or other parts of your body to prop yourself and get more comfortable. If one position doesn't seem to be working out, try modifying it by using pillows to achieve a better angle.
 Mutual masturbation can be a satisfying and low-key alternative to vaginal intercourse, and many women find it more comfortable in the later stages of pregnancy. Others find that oral sex is a good alternative to vaginal intercourse, since it requires less movement on the part of the pregnant woman.


During oral sex, make sure your partner does not blow air into the vagina; in rare cases, this could cause an air embolism to form and potentially harm the baby.If your partner has oral herpes, a dental dam should be used during oral sex.
Anal sex is not recommended during pregnancy, as it can lead to an infection that could spread to the vagina., If sex just doesn't feel good during pregnancy, there's no need to push yourself to do it. Some women find it uncomfortable to have sex during pregnancy, and others experience a reduced sex drive. Do what feels right for you, and make sure you communicate your needs to your partner.

