 Lay several feet worth of untouched Christmas wrapping paper down on a large flat surface. Grab a pair of your night pants and a heavy long -sleeve sweatshirt on a flat surface so that both touch each other at the waistline. (Make this seem natural when placed down on the surface with the paper). Make sure the pieces are folded and laid in the same direction on the same side of the paper that should be folded over so that the white side is showing outward. You don't need to worry about the armholes too much, but you should sketch the approximate look of the armhole placements.


Trace around the way the clothing fits on the paper. You will need to make two sides to suit both the left and right side.
Any remainder of the paper can be used to make the arms and feet which will come later.
For the shoulders, bring the sweatshirt away from the edge a little bit and trace. (Three inches above the sketch in the region of the shoulder should provide ample enough growing room for the wearer later, or for when they move around at night).
Make some adjustments to the leg sections of the pattern to give yourself an estimate of placement in relation to the rest of the clothing and to know where you'll need to connect your pattern together. Allow for some seem allowance and write it in where the seam would be placed.
Make yourself a designation of where the sleeve location line area is when creating it.;
, Make sure to make an additional cut at the center fold line to make the two matching location show separately.
 Make sure that you've folded the piece of fabric in half so to make two sides and so that the fold line is the very side of your body area for later use.
 Face the two back pattern right side pieces together and sew them along the center back.
 Face the front right sides together and place your zipper on the edge of where the garment would normally have the zipper and mark where the zipper will end. Trace the zipper on the garment itself with a pencil or a lightly with a pen or thin marker. Place the zipper in the place you designated in the middle and pin it down in place and sew it onto the garment.
, Use the same shirt you used when you originally made the pattern for the body cavern of the sleeper. Connect the top and bottom lines of the sleeve, but leave this a bit curved to provide for a less tight fit in the armpit area.
 Fold them and sew the two sides together where the seems would meet perfectly.
,, Wrap a piece of the elastic around one ankle and approximate it's length (Cut the elastic when only a centimeter or so is seen extending over the edge of the beginning edge of the elastic). Then do the same for the other ankle. Sew each one separately.
, Draw a large line that measures half the length of the real measurements of your ankle measurements.


Get a measurement for the length of your feet's length from toe-tip to the back of the ankle. Drop it down an inch or inch and a half(drop it down 3 times the distance in the back area of the boot. Measure this length out and at a distance on the paper below the original area and draw out this location and draw out an estimated pattern of what a shoe should look like.
Cut this pattern out.
Place your fabric down and create your boot pieces. Make sure to do this four times and sew two of each side of the boot together, but don't close off the bottom of the boot as you sew the sides together. Do this for both feet.
,,,, Jiffy Grip can be found more commonly online, but if you walk into your nearest sewing center and ask for Jiffy Grip, they might be able to find some for you or be able to order it online. Jiffy Grip is the same fabric used on almost all baby blanket sleepers available on the market, and why not give your feet that same feeling.

