 Call your boyfriend by a nickname, when you're on the phone, maybe even a girl's name so that your parents don't suspect who you're talking to. Save that nickname in your contacts; don't use his real name or photo, in case your parents decide to snoop through your phone.


Don't use the name of a friend that your parents know; ideally, pick someone that doesn't have a phone. Do this in case (for instance) you leave your phone in the dining room and you get a call from your boyfriend. Instead of your parents seeing "Blake Grant" they'll see, say, "Bella Grey."
If your parents are in the same room as you, try to keep a blank expression on your face so they don't catch on that you're talking to your boyfriend. Make them think you're talking to a regular friend.
If you video chat him, make sure you do it when your parents aren't around. They may see you virtually kissing him.
 This is only important if your parents are monitoring your email, or if you think they might be able to get access. If you email your boyfriend a lot, make sure you message him with a fake account so then your parents don't find out about your conversations. If they find out, you could be in trouble, especially if you're messaging things like 'I love you!'

, Establish secret code words or phrases that only you and him know. This way, you might even be able to talk to him on the phone right in front of your parents without them knowing. This goes for call, text, or email, depending on how closely your parents are watching your communication.


For example, slipping the word "hungry" into your conversation might mean that you want to meet your boyfriend to get food. The word "homework" might mean that you can't get out to meet him tonight.
Try devising a numerical code that signifies when you plan to meet your boyfriend. For example, pretend that you're talking to your friend about your math homework. Use the "problem number" to tell your boyfriend that you want to meet at a certain time. If you want to meet up at 10 pm, say, "Did you do the math homework yet? I'm having trouble with problem number 10."

, This way, if your parents check out your web history, they won't see his true name or photo. It may help if he creates an entirely new online identity. If not, ask him to abbreviate his name on Facebook (or use his middle name in place of his last name) so that he at least somewhat hides his identity.
 If your parents check your phone or computer often, delete your messages in 5-10 minute intervals. Don't only delete conversations between you and your significant other, but between you and everyone. If you don't have many conversations, it won't be as suspicious.


If your parents ask why you're deleting conversations, just say that you're trying to conserve memory. Tell them that you have a lot of photos, apps, or music, and you're trying to free up space by deleting unnecessary chat records.
Got a message that you really want to keep? Screenshot it and back it up elsewhere: a computer, a flash drive, or even a private album of pictures on Facebook.

