 Almost 60% of Americans say they probably wouldn't seek medical help if they were suffering from chronic neck pain.When the neck pain occurs due to an accident or hasn't improved after several days, seek medical attention. If you suspect an injury, you may need a physical exam and possibly an X-Ray or MRI to determine the extent of the injury. Be prepared to tell your doctor when the pain started, if it is a result of accident or injury, and what over the counter medications you've been taking for relief., Once your doctor or a general practitioner has given you initial treatment, you may be referred to a specialist like an osteopathic physician. Osteopathic physicians deal with chronic pain by considering your overall health and well being.Be open and honest about your activities so that your osteopathic physician can create an effective treatment plan. Sometimes, the seemingly small details can help your osteopathic physician determine the best course of action to alleviate physical discomfort and rid you of chronic neck pain once and for all. Talk about your habits, lifestyle, and anything that may be of relevance to your condition.
Follow the treatment plan. The success of any medical treatment and pain management hinges on your ability to follow what your osteopathic physician has prescribed. Remember, your doctor can't help you if you don't follow his or her advice! Take your doctor's opinion seriously.
 Understanding what your specialist does can alleviate concerns or worries you may have about receiving treatment, as well as make you more receptive to the benefits of osteopathic medicine.


An osteopathic physician, like a general practitioner, will ask questions about medical history, lifestyle, and overall physical conditions. Prior to a visit, have as much of your and your family's medical history at hand as possible.
An osteopathic exam will be much more extensive than a general practitioner's. A Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) will check your posture, spine, and joints, as well as examining various bones, tendons, and muscles.
OMTs (osteopathic manipulation techniques) are used by D.O.s to treat chronic pain. Akin to massage, OMT techniques involve the D.O. pushing and moving muscles, and sometimes holding a muscle in place in order to relieve tension.
 Advanced treatment may be necessary for severe chronic pain cases. D.O.s sometimes use the same musculoskeletal surgical procedures as other doctors, but evidence suggests that OMTs are usually the most effective methods. Typically, an osteopathic physician will use techniques somewhat similar to chiropractic such as gentle mobilization and spinal mobilization to work with patients in a whole body (holistic) manner.