 Your look is the first thing that a customer sees. Show your high importance by being well-dressed. Try to wear suits or official uniforms. This will convey your position to the others.;
, Being polite is one of the things that a customer first notices. Beautiful smiles, appropriate compliments and good welcoming can attract customers easily and naturally. If you have some friendly customers, tell them that they look great today. Make sure to welcome everyone and, when they're leaving, wish them a great day.
 It's required to work hard and have enough energy so the customer will be attracted by what you do as a good seller. Your positive energy will make them want to come back to you again.


Caution: This doesn't mean ignoring customers by acting busy.
 Your opening and closing time should be specified. If not, you will lose customers. You can put a notice on the door of the premises you sell at with the opening and closing times listed.
 It is essential to be in your workplace when it's time to work and it will show your responsible character. Remember that customers will easily become disinterested if you are not there when they need you.
 It's important for customers to know that you're always there and they can contact you easily. Write your phone number and email beside your logo. Try to create an updated website or page in social media. This way, potential customers will probably trust you more.
 When people feel like you are actually trying to sell something to them, they'll immediately react and run away! Stop focusing on the money that you will get, and instead, focus on helping the customer.
 The more you try to close a deal, the more the customer will resist and, of course, they may not trust you as a fair seller. The selling process has to proceed step by step.
 For example, if you sell hair products, give your customers specific ideas about their hair and what the best options are for them. When your customers believe that your purpose is helping them to make the best decision, they will trust your products more easily.


Remember that it is a good idea to recommend better options to customers, but don't force them. Sometimes, it's better to let the customers decide by themselves rather than forcing them to buy higher end products. They probably have their own reasons for not buying what you suggest and their reason is actually none of the seller's business.
Don't talk a lot when guiding. You may often encounter some customers that just prefer to buy and go or to be left alone to examine the options and choose among them. Not everybody likes being guided. Expressing your ideas and experiences is different than trying to change customer's ideas by coercion or talking like a long-winded person.
 Customers may leave if they can't make a decision as a result of too many choices. So consider on having a few but effective options so the customers can easily choose the most appropriate one.
 It's a better idea to wait for customers to ask rather than showing all you have immediately. This decreases risks and complicated situations.
 Many people believe that presentation is the most essential part of selling, and can be the hardest. You may have the best product ever, but as long as you don't present it as well, there will be no success. To have an acceptable presentation, consider on the advantages of the product and how it benefits the customer. Focus on the facts that has been proven rather than your own perspective. It's good to share your experiences after you've given the main information, but only if the customer seems open to this.
 Being wrong is a part of selling! In fact, there is no failing, but what we call as a "fail" is a chance to learn and develop. Remember that there will be customers you lose but what it seems like a loss, can be a help for you to become better.
 Customers will love to buy from you if you respectfully accept their criticisms and make your business to a better one by considering and incorporating their opinions. For example, if a customer tells you it's better to increase the number of X product, accept their opinion and try incorporating their suggestion. You may see an incredible result after a while.
 Don't have greed for big deals. To attract people as a seller and be successful in selling, it's better to start from smaller deals. You can easily end up with a better one if you follow this rule.
 Try to improve your knowledge about what you're selling by doing some research. When you're extremely knowledgeable about a particular product, customers will easily get caught up in your product. This will also decrease risks and you probably won't come across with questions you can't answer knowledgeably.
 Don't just wait for someone to give you an opinion; seek it and don't feel shame about it. The most successful people are sometimes the ones who asked for the most.

