 You can open with something simple like "Hey" or "Hi.". Alternatively, step it up with a subtle compliment and say something like "Hey handsome!";
, If he's interested, he'll respond and you can continue putting yourself out there. If not, move on!

, Starting the conversation by asking what he's doing gives you an opening to talk about what you're doing in a second. For now, though, text something like "So... what are you up to tonight?" or "How's it going?"


If you feel bold, fish for a compliment. Instead of asking what he's doing, say something like, "I hope I'm not interrupting anything, but I miss you! Hope that's ok. :)". If he likes you, he'll take it as an opportunity to let you know he loves it when you text him.
 Once he asks what you're up to (or you're just ready to tell him), use it as a way to start flirting. For instance:


If it's late and you're getting ready to go to sleep, tell him you're lying in bed but it's harder to fall asleep without someone to cuddle with.
If it's cold, tell him you're in bed FREEZING, or some variation of that. It's a perfect opening for talking about him "warming you up".
If you're not doing anything particular, tell him you're "...distracted thinking about this really hot guy...".
 If he does, he'll probably text back saying something about how he wishes he could be there to "help you fall asleep/warm you up," or he'll slyly ask you who you're thinking about.


If he doesn't get it, don't give up! You'll just have to be a little more obvious. For instance, if you're talking about being cold, say something like, "If you were here, maybe I wouldn't have this problem... ;)". That should get him thinking about being with you.
 If you have him thinking/texting about being with you, now's the time to get him fantasizing about seeing you. Try these areas:


Discuss what you'd do with him. This can be vague (like talking about spooning in general), or specific (like talking about how you'd like to slowly kiss him).
Talk about what you're wearing (whether or not it is what you're actually wearing; he's not there to tell the difference, right?). Again, you can be subtle ("I wish you could see what I have on right now...") or more specific, like discussing your favorite thing to wear to bed.
Hint at what you might do with him in the future. Dropping hints about doing the things you've talked about the next time you see him is a surefire turn-on. (Just be sure that's what you actually want before you promise anything.)

, Don't let the texting get stale before you leave; bow out while it's still sexy and interesting and you'll be on his mind for the rest of the day/night.

