 When your face isn't broken out, cut back on the acne cleanser. For your daily face wash, you can use a gentle soap that moisturizes. Some examples of this type of soap include Dove, Basics, and Neutrogena.Avoid any product that contain alcohol, especially if you're using salicylic acid. This will dry out your skin and could cause redness and inflammation.If you tend to get frequent breakouts and your skin doesn't appear to react negatively to the acne cleanser, continue to use it daily to help prevent further breakouts.
 Wash your face once in the morning and once at night using a gentle cleanser. However, don't wash your face more than twice a day, as that can make your acne worse.If you sweat heavily or exercise, wash your face after you're finished. Using antibacterial washes is unnecessary and does not appear to have any benefit.Avoid the temptation to exfoliate or use cleansers with "scrubbing beads" etc. These may actually irritate your skin further, and could leave it discolored or scarred., It may be tempting to leave your makeup on at the end of the day, but be sure you take all of your makeup off before going to bed. Makeup can lead to clogged pores, which leads to blackheads., You'll find this word on certain skincare and makeup products. Basically, all it means is it has been proven to not clog pores. That in turn means that you won't get as many blackheads, at least ones caused by your skincare routines.For instance, the Simple brand makes noncomedogenic products,as does Cetaphil, such as their moisturizing lotion., If you have especially oily hair, tie your hair back. The oils from your hair can can get on your face, just like oil from your hands or fingers.In addition, wash your hair regularly, especially if your hair tends to have extra oils.The oil in you hair can get on your face, leading to more blackheads., In turn, testosterone can trigger acne.For instance, you can try relaxing each group of muscles in turn. Close your eyes. Moving around your body, consciously tighten and relax each group of muscles one by one. This technique will help you feel more relaxed overall.You can also try focusing on breathing.Take a moment to close your eyes. Breathe in deeply through your nose, counting to 4. Breathe out through your mouth until you reach 4 again. Keep focusing on your breaths until you feel yourself calm down.