 This kills microorganisms that speed pumpkin decay. You can do this by adding bleach to your cold soak water (if soaking the pumpkin) or by using a plant mister.


Use about 1 tbsp. (15 ml) of bleach in 1 qt. (946 ml) of water. Some professional pumpkin carvers use lemon juice instead of diluted bleach; use a 50/50 solution of lemon juice and water.

In several tests done by enthusiasts, bleaching was the best (by far) method of pumpkin preservation., These preservation products, which are an alternative to petroleum jelly, bleach and lemon juice treatments, are usually available where pumpkins are sold. They are specifically designed to help keep a carved jack-o'-lantern fresh.


If you opt for the bottle of Pumpkin Fresh, you may want to buy two. You'll go through that baby in no time flat. Commercial sprays, in a few studies, have held up to bleach, or even surpassed it., Let it absorb the water for at least 1 hour; however, you can leave it in for up to 8 hours.


This will create a firmer pumpkin that will resist dehydration for longer than an untreated pumpkin. Dry the pumpkin completely after soaking.
 This works best when done right after the pumpkin has been soaked, since it helps seal in moisture. If the pumpkin starts to become dehydrated and shriveled-looking, soak it in cold water again and repeat the application of petroleum jelly. Pumpkins can be soaked for up to 8 hours.


Vegetable oil can be substituted for petroleum jelly. Either way, know that this is a method that has received mixed reviews.
 The ideal temperature for storing pumpkins is 35 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (2 to 5 degrees Celsius). If you live in a cold climate, keeping your pumpkin outdoors (and out of the sun) might work. In warmer climates, covering it with plastic wrap and storing it in the refrigerator until you wish to display it slows the process of decay. Be sure to prevent your pumpkin from freezing, since a frozen pumpkin will soften considerably within a few hours.


Whatever you do, just make sure the temperature is dry and stable -- those two factors are the most important.

