 Perhaps the most important item you’ll need is a small cage or terrarium. This way, your little friend will have a safe place to play. Your terrarium should be greater than 15 inches long by 12 inches wide and 15 inches high (38 by 30 by 38 cm).If you have a lot of toys or places for your hamster to climb and explore, though, you may need a bigger cage.;
, Line the bottom of the cage with 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of bedding made of cellulose and plant-based fibers. This is important, as it will give your hamster a cozy and soft place to play, sleep, and walk through. However, avoid products that have dyes or chemicals, as they could irritate your hamster’s respiratory system. Stay away from:


Wood shavings
Cat litter
Corn cobs
Newspapers
Anything with an unnatural scent or smell, Just like children, hamsters need toys to play with. Without toys, they’ll be bored and generally unhappy. To avoid this, give your hamster several different types of toys. Some include:


A hamster wheel
Chew toys, like unpainted and untreated pieces of wood.
Walnut shells
Hard dog biscuits, Have your parents purchase a bag of hamster food mix. These mixes include seeds, grains, vegetables, fruits, and more. Diverse food is important, as it will give your hamster all the vitamins they need to be healthy.In addition to normal food, you should give your hamster treats occasionally. While you can purchase hamster treats at the store, your little friend will really enjoy bite-sized pieces of fresh fruit and vegetables.
 Put out multiple sources of water. One good source is a shallow dish of water. Another good source is a drip bottle you can hang on the side of the cage. This way, your hamster will always have plenty of fresh and clean water.Change your hamster’s water every couple of days. In addition, make sure to clean their water bowl with warm water and soap every week.
 While hamsters don’t need anything special to keep them comfortable, you should make sure that the temperature in their cage stays within certain limits. In most circumstances, the temperature in the habitat should be between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit (18 to 24 degrees Celsius)., Never put your hamster’s cage in direct sunlight. If you do, the temperature could climb very high, very fast. This could harm or even kill them. Instead, locate your hamster’s cage in a cool, shaded location with some indirect sunlight., Create a chart of your hamster-related duties. You can either download or create your own chart. This way, you’ll have a constant reminder of everything you need to do and when you need to do it. Once you have your chart and you’ve filled it out, post it in a place you’ll see it all the time.Consider putting aside fifteen minutes before school to feed your hamster, fifteen minutes after school to feed and check on your hamster’s water, and an hour on the weekends to clean the cage.
 Before you clean your hamster’s cage, you’ll have to trap it and then remove it from the cage. Do this by picking your hamster up and placing it in a temporary cage (with a top that closes). Its best to ask your parents or a sibling to help, as you might need a spare pair of hands. This is important, as your hamster could easily get out of your hands and run off., You should clean your hamster’s cage every week. When you do this, throw out whatever bedding material you used to line the bottom of the cage. This is important, as it can accumulate dirt and bacteria. If you leave it in too long, your hamster could get sick., After you remove the old bedding, you need to wash down the cage. Mix light dish detergent with warm water in a small bucket. Take a clean cloth and wipe down the inside surface of the habitat. Make sure to get the corners and other hard to reach places – you don’t want bacteria to accumulate there.


Wash any toys or other objects that are in the habitat.
Allow the habitat to dry before putting anything back in. If you want, you can take a towel and dry it down by hand., After you've washed the habitat and allowed it to dry, you need to restock the habitat with bedding. Again, make sure to line the floor of the cage with 1 to 2 (2.5 to 5 cm) inches of your chosen bedding product.
 Before touching your hamster, thoroughly wash your hands with antibacterial soap. This is important, as you don’t want to introduce bacteria or other contaminants into your hamster’s cage. In addition, you need to make sure you wash off any chemicals that could potentially poison your hamster.
 Be silent or very quiet when approaching your hamster or it may get scared. When you go to pick your hamster up, gently cup your hands around it. Then, slowly raise the hamster out of its cage and onto a safe surface.
 When you are done handling your hamster, place it carefully in its cage and close the door. This is important, as your hamster could easily escape if you leave the cage door or top unsecured.
 If you notice that your hamster seems sick, behaves weird, or has had any noticeable change over a short amount of time, you should tell your parents immediately. Some things to look out for include:


Weight loss
Loss of hair
Diarrhea
Lack of energy
Watery eyes
Problems breathing, Especially when you first get your hamster, you should let your parents know before you take it out of the cage. This is important, as your hamster could jump out of your hands, run under the door, and get lost in your house.


Go to your parents and ask politely, “I’d like to take the hamster out of its cage. Is this okay?”

, Since you’re the primary caretaker of your hamster, your parents likely won’t know if you’re running low on food, bedding, and other supplies. As a result, you’ll need to let them know when you are getting low. Make sure to give them several days’ notice so they have plenty of time to go with you to the pet store to get more supplies.

