 Even if you cut off your vents and put a towel under your door, and smoke while leaning out of your window, smoke has this miraculous ability to follow air currents. When the air in your house is on, the smoke will follow the pressure changes and find its merry way to the return vent, and even if it's just a little smoke, it will get to every single part of your house in a matter of seconds.;
, The heat pump (the big fan thingies that sit outside of your house that work with the air unit,) act as the intake of a house's A/C system, and just like the return vents in the house, they will spread the smoke all over in a matter of seconds. Not to mention smoke will find its way through crawl space vents, and doors and windows (even when they're shut.)

, It's easier to explain the smell when your buddies smoke.
 THIS DOESN'T MEAN UNDER YOUR MATTRESS! Your parents aren't stupid. They've lived longer than you, they've also probably done it, and they know all of the usual hiding spots like under beds, under mattresses, in pillow cases, dressers, clothes hanging in the closet, etc. Find somewhere really creative. Think of somewhere that they'd never look in a million years, but is in plain sight. For instance, inside an old, dusty clay vase on the book shelf. Behind the clock on the fireplace mantle. Inside the hollow of one of your mom's porcelain figurines that's been sitting in the same spot for 10 years.
 Unless you use them religiously already, try to avoid these. You will only draw attention to yourself.
 It will greatly reduce the smell that's on you.
, It would probably be best to put on a shirt of like color and make. If, every day, you go out to smoke wearing a green shirt, then go change into a blue shirt or something like that, you're gonna raise some eyebrows eventually unless your parents are just oblivious to everything you do (in which case don't bother finishing this article, because you don't need it.)

, If you're careless, you'll get caught. Expect the unexpected. Treat every time you smoke like your parents are waiting to catch you in the act.

