 Sugar is a simple carbohydrate, and shows up naturally in many fruits in the form of fructose, and milk products as lactose.Add milk to your protein shake for a carb boost — use 2% or skim milk for low-fat options. Experiment with blending fresh fruit into your shake for added carbs and sweetness. Be creative — you can use strawberries, bananas, raspberries, blackberries, peaches, pineapple, mango, and many more.


Blueberries and acai also contain antioxidants, which are good for your body because they fight free radicals.Sucrose, or regular table sugar, is also a simple carb, but it’s healthier to get sugar from natural dairy or fruit sources. Avoid just dumping pure sugar into your shake.
Measure 2 oz. (56 g) of yogurt and blend it into your shake. Choose any flavor you like for great carb boost and taste.;
, Starches give your shake good carb content because they are complex carbohydrates (lots of carbs stuck together).Vegetables, grains, and legumes like beans and peas are good fresh sources of starch.


Whey protein is the most common choice for bulking up a shake with starch.You can get whey protein at many health food stores.
On top of that, add some starchy vegetables like sweet peas, pumpkin, squash, or yams — it will add texture and flavor, as well. It may seem strange to add vegetables to your shake, but it can result in some tasty and nutritious outcomes. Use fresh veggies, not frozen or dried., Fiber is also a complex carbohydrate, and is found in fruit, vegetables, whole grains, beans and peas. Fiber aids in digestion, and helps you feel full more quickly.Add fiber-rich fruits and veggies to your blended shake like kale, blackberries, blueberries, cranberries, strawberries, kiwi, mango, orange (whole, not juice), apple, pear, or even avocado.For example, add 2 oz. (56 g) of strawberries or sliced apples.
Some brands of whey protein contain fiber as well as starch. Check the nutrition facts to know for sure., Include 1 tbsp. (15 mL) of peanut butter for both carb and protein content, as well as to thicken the texture of your shake. Or, chop 2 oz. (56 g) of unsalted peanuts by hand with a kitchen knife. You can also use a food processor to grind 2 oz. of cashews, or unsalted sunflower seeds for added carbs.
 Mix 2 oz. of oatmeal in 2 tsp. (10 mL) of water, and blend it in to your shake. Oatmeal is a complex carbohydrate that helps you feel full and balance your blood sugar level. Whole grain cereal is another option.

