 Morroc, the home of the Thief and Soul Linker guilds, is a desert city located next to the Pyramids and Sphinx. Head southwest to find the desert city. In Morroc, head to the upper-right corner of the city and then enter the building. You will find the Dye Maker, Java Dullihan, inside the room to the right door.;
, You'll be able to see the list of dyes you can make, including the ingredients.


If you're playing in a server with @warp command, simply type morocc_in 146 99.
You can teleport to Morroc using the Kafra service or simply travel there from Prontera.
 You can pick 8 dye colors, and each require different ingredients and fees.


Scarlet Dye—Requires 30 Red Herb, 1 Counteragent, 1 Empty Bottle, and 3,000z fee.
Lemon Dye—Requires 30 Yellow Herb, 1 Counteragent, 1 Empty Bottle, and 3,000z fee.
Cobalt blue Dye—Requires 20 Blue Herb, 1 Counteragent, 1 Empty Bottle, and 3,500z fee.
Dark green Dye—Requires 5 Blue Herb, 20 Green Herb, 20 Yellow Herb, 1 Counteragent, 1 Mixture, 1 Empty Bottle, and 5,000z fee.
Orange Dye—Requires 20 Red Herb, 20 Yellow Herb, 1 Counteragent, 1 Mixture, 1 Empty Bottle, and 5,000z fee.
Violet Dye—Requires 10 Blue Herb, 30 Red Herb, 1 Counteragent, 1 Mixture, 1 Empty Bottle, and 5,000z fee.
White Dye—Requires 30 White Herb, 1 Counteragent, 1 Empty Bottle, and 3,000z fee.
Black Dye—Requires 30 Red Herb, 30 Yellow Herb, 30 Green Herb, 5 Blue Herb, 1 Counteragent, 1 Mixture, 1 Empty Bottle, and 7,000z fee.



Remember, creating dye requires a lot of money if your plan on buying the ingredients from other players, or time if you decide to hunt for the ingredients instead of purchasing it.
Having a Priest or Acolyte is an advantage while gather ingredients because of their ability to open a warp portal and use teleportation.
 You can find Red Herb from Red Plants. Red Plants spawn in Payon Cave 1st floor, Payon Cave 2nd floor, and Geffen Field. You can get Red Herb from monsters like Permeter with 24.5% drop rate. Permeter can be found in Turtle Island Dungeon. Goblin also drops Red Herb with 15% chance; they can be found in Prontera Field (prt_fild11).
 Empty Bottle is mostly used in any quest that involves mixing. The best source for Empty Bottle is from Ant Egg in Ant Hell floor 1 and Goat in Einbroch Field (ein_fild06) and Muka in Sograt Desert (moc_fild11).
 Just like Red Herb, you can get Blue Herb from Blue Plants. Blue Plants can be farmed at Odin Temple F2 (odin_tem02) with 30 to 45 minute respawn time. They’re also found in Geffen Field (gef_fild08) with 15 to 23 minute respawn time.
 Green Herb can be gathered from Green Plant in Geffen Field (gef_fild03), with 3 to 5 minutes respawn time. It’s also a drop of Spring Rabbit in Turtle Island (tur_dun01), with 45% drop rate.
 These can be picked up from Yellow Plant in Einbroch Field (ein_fild03) and Lighthalzen Field (lhz_fild02). It’s also a drop from Galapago, with 35% drop rate, found in Kokomo Beach (cmd_fild02).
 These are dropped from White Plants, found in Geffen Dungeon F3 (gef_dun02) and Geffen Dungeon F4 (gef_dun03). It’s also a drop from Blazer, with 30% drop rate. Blazer can be found in Nogg Road F1 (mag_dun01)

, Counteragent and Mixture are created by Morgenstein, but in order to have this quest unlocked, you need to meet Merchant Louitz with these three solutions in your inventory: Alcohol, Detrimindexta, and Karvodailnirol.


Merchant Louitz can be found in the northern part of Alberta (alberta_in 130, 54). First, talk to Louitz and then choose “More about Solutions.” He will then tell you about Aure Dupon in Geffen.
To get in Alberta, you can ask a Priest or Acolyte to warp you there. Usually, they will ask zeny for their service or request for a gemstone.
If you're in Prontera, just head south to leave the city then head east. You will find the small town of Izlude. At the top-right corner of the map, you will find a dock that will warp you to Alberta for 250z.
You can also travel on foot to Alberta, but there will be monsters that might attack you. From Prontera, head south from the city and then southeast. The path will lead you to Payon City. Once you get in Payon City, head south to leave the city and then head farther southeast. You will then find Alberta City.
 Once you reach Geffen, head to the eastern part of the city. Aure Dupon will be standing near the portal, right under a street light, or simply warp to Geffen 181, 114 if @wrap command is available in the server. Talk to him and choose “More about Morgenstein.” He will then tell you Morgenstein's location.


From Alberta, it will be a long way to reach Geffen on foot since the City of Mage is found farther west of Prontera. It's best to use the ship again by the docks to get to Izlude, from Izlude go to Prontera, and then start traveling to west.
You can also ask players with warp skill to teleport you to Geffen for a small fee.
 Morgenstein can be found on the 2nd floor of Geffen's old blacksmith guild. The building is right at the 5 o'clock position of the city. Talk to him about his research.


Talk to him again if you're ready to make a Counteragent and Mixture.
 The creation of Counteragent needs three ingredients to be completed: 1 Alcohol, 1 Detrimindexta, 1 Empty Bottle, and 3,000z fee.
 To complete a Mixture, you need 1 Alcohol, 1 Karvodailnirol, 1 Empty Bottle, and 4,000z fee.


Aside from creating dye, Mixture can be used to create ores.
 Solutions can be hard to gather because of its low drop rate, which explains why Dyes are expensive in the market.


Alcohol—You can gather Alcohol from Black Mushroom, Horong, and Red Mushroom, with 0.5% drop rate. Black Mushroom can be found in Geffen Field (gef_fild11), and Red Mushroom is found in Prontera Field (prt_fild10), with 6 to 9 minutes respawn time for both. Horong is found in Payon Cave F5 (pay_dun02).
Detrimindexta—This is a drop from Deviance, with 2% drop rate, and Removal, Black Mushroom, and Hydra, with 0.5% drop rate each. Deviance can be found in Undersea Tunnel F5 (iz_dun04); Removal, in Bio Laboratory F1 (lhz_dun01); Black Mushroom, in Geffen Field (gef_fild11), with 6 to 9 minutes respawn time; and Hydra, in Meo, the East Cave (beach_dun3).
Karvodailnirol—This is a drop from Removal, with 1% chance. Red Mushroom, Poison Spore, and Rhyncho drops Karvodailnirol with 0.05% chance rate. You can find Poison Spore in Mt. Mjolnir (mjolnir_07), and Rhyncho is found in Nidhoggur's Next Lv 2 (2@nyd).
Once you have gathered enough requirements, head back to Morgenstein to have the mixture created. You can now make the dye you want to use to change the color of your hair or clothing.
Solutions are also useful in gaining Platinum Skills and are also requirements for headgear.

