 When looking for an ear infection you'll have a head start if you know what your dog's ears look like normally. As part of your regular grooming routine check your dog's ears. This way you will become familiar with what's normal for your dog, and be better placed to spot when something isn't right.;
, Look at the skin inside the ear first. Lift up the ear flap, if it is droopy, and inspect the skin for abnormalities or foreign objects. Then look down into the eardrum. A healthy ear should be clean and the skin should be smooth, supple, and the same color as the rest of the skin.


This is especially important after a walk in long grass, as grass awns trapped in the fur can migrate into the ear canal and cause an infection. Finding a grass awn before it causes an infection could save you a lot of money and it could potentially save your dog's life.
Smell your dog's ear. This may sound odd but when smell your dog's ear it should not smell unpleasant or rank.
Compare the state of each ear. If you can't tell if there is a problem, compare one ear to the other.If one ear looks different to the other, the chances are one ear is abnormal and has a problem.
 Your biggest challenge may be to recognize a low-grade long-term ear infection. With this type of infection the dog may have grown used to the change in hearing and so it doesn't give you any clues that there is a problem. Signs of a low grade long term infection include:


Skin thickening: The skin in the ear becomes thicker and less supple than normal. In extreme cases it can have a lichen-like appearance, which is sometimes compared to rhino hide. This thickened skin can also develop a crazed or cobbled pattern over the surface.
Change of color: Skin that is inflamed in the long term often produces pigment as a protective mechanism. Thus, if the dog normally has pink skin, the pigment may cause it to take on a grey or brown appearance.
Greasy feeling skin: Many long term infections involve the normal yeast inhabitants on the skin's surface. These yeasts overgrow which gives the skin a characteristic greasy feel, instead of the usual soft, velvety touch.
Smell: Lift the ear and sniff. If your recoil at the unpleasant smell then something is going on and the ear should be checked by a vet.
Narrowing of the ear canal: If the ear is sore and inflamed for days to weeks, the skin swells which narrows the ear canal. Compare the entrance to the ear canal, one side with the other, and the narrower one is the abnormal side.
Excessive paw or belly licking: Long term ear infections often arise as a result of allergic skin disease. If your dog chews its paws or licks its belly excessively, be especially alert to the possibility of an ear infection.
 These symptoms could indicate a variety of conditions, but they are associated with ear infections. If your dog has had ear problems in the past, note that any of these symptoms could indicate that there is a problem in the ear.


Itchiness: Some infections, such as an infestation with ear mites, are very itchy and the dog will constantly scratch its ear.Moodiness: Ear infections often cause an ear ache, which can be deeply unpleasant and make your dog unhappy. The dog may seem depressed and lose its appetite and some dogs will yelp when you touch their heads, indicating that your touch caused acute pain.Loss of Balance: Some infections occur deep within the inner ear and these can cause a loss of coordination. Your dog may stagger like it is drunk and may stumble and fall. This level of infection can also cause dogs to vomit and refuse food., Some ear infections come on suddenly and these are usually easy to catch. This is because sudden onset infections are often very painful and uncomfortable, which will affect your dog's behavior. Signs of an ear infection include:


Holding the head on one side: If your dog is repeatedly moving its head to one side, and not doing it out of inquisitiveness, then it might have an ear infection.Shaking the head: If your dog is shaking its head it may be a sign of irritation. Your dog is simply trying to rid itself of the discomfort associated with an ear infection.
Rubbing the ear: Rubbing the ear with a paw or on the ground can be a sign of discomfort.Pain: Ear infections and ear aches are painful. Your dog may seem not itself and look miserable as a response to the discomfort. In addition, it may be shy, and flinch or move away from you when you go to handle its ears. It may even vocalize its pain, or the anticipation of pain, by whining or yelping when you go to touch the ear. Some dogs will even growl or snap when you try to see what is wrong, even if that is out of character for them.
 If your dog is acting out in a way that makes you suspect it has an ear infection you should inspect its ears. Physical signs your dog has an ear infection include:


Inflammation: Reddened skin in the ear is a sign of inflammation. This often happens as a result of rubbing or from the infection itself.If you suspect an ear infection, lift the ear flap up and inspect the ear canal for reddening.
Discharge: There is often discharge from the ear when a dog has an ear infection. It may take time for the discharge to become evident, as discharge from an infection deep inside the ear will take time to build up. If you see green-yellow smelly discharge, blood-stained liquid, or thick black-brown waxy build up in the ear then your dog probably has some kind of ear infection., You do not want your dog to suffer in pain if you can get the problem solved. In the case of ear problems, you should always err on the side of caution, as hearing (and eliminating pain) is very important for a dog.
 The vet performs a physical examination looking at the outside of the ear, in much the same way you do. In addition, the vet will check the dog's lymph nodes in the throat, to see if they are enlarged, which can signal that the dog is fighting an infection. The vet may also check the dog's temperature to see if it is feverish.Next, the vet will look down the ear canal with an otoscope, which is an instrument that has a light source and a nozzle which allows them to see down the ear canal. The vet will check for objects in the ear (such as grass awns) which could set up the infection., If the cause of the problem is not immediately clear your veterinarian may suggest further testing. This will cost you more money but it could help to ease your pet's suffering.


The vet may smear a sample of any discharge onto a microscope slide and examine it for signs of yeast, bacteria, or parasites. If the vet suspects a bacterial infection they may send a sample of the discharge away to the lab for culture, to find out exactly which bugs are present and which antibiotic will be most effective at killing them.
Specialist veterinarians use small endoscope cameras which they pass into the ear canal, to record a video of what they see. This can be helpful to monitor the success of treatment and just to identify the problem.
If an inner or middle ear infection is suspected the dog may need further diagnostic tests. The most helpful of these is an MRI scan, since this provides an excellent picture not only of the structures of the ear, but of any fluid or soft tissue masses that are present within the bony chambers of the middle and inner ear.
 This treatment can vary, from letting the dog's immune system clear out a minor infection to putting the dog on antibiotics. If there is a severe problem with your dog's ears, beyond an ear infection, then your veterinarian will have suggestions about how to proceed.

