 The state of Washington has a convenient online database where you can look to see whether the state is holding property that belongs to you or someone else.


Go to: http://ucp.dor.wa.gov/. You will find spaces to enter your personal information to start the search.
Put in your first and last name or your business name or a reference number if you’ve already started a claim. Click the blue search button or returning user button.
Unclaimed property in Washington comes from more than just the government too. It can also come from banks, retailers, credit unions, utility companies, insurance companies, and various corporations.
The Department of Revenue is the holder of the unclaimed property and, as such, administers the program in order to seek rightful owners and return the property to them.;
, The state of Washington has very precise definitions for what counts as unclaimed property. Don’t waste your time looking for something that doesn’t count.


Typical unclaimed property in Washington includes such things as bank accounts, proceeds from insurance, stocks bonds or mutual funds, safe deposit box contents, utility and phone company deposits, and uncashed checks.
Uncashed checks can include payroll checks, insurance payments or even traveler’s checks. Unclaimed property is defined as property being held by an organization that has not had contact with the owner for an extended period of time. Generally, it takes three years for property to be considered unclaimed.
In Washington, real estate, cars, and most other physical property does not count as unclaimed property under the unclaimed property law, which is Chapter 63.29 in the state statutes., Unclaimed property laws are very specific in Washington. The power of the law protects your property until it can be returned to you.There is no time limit for filing a claim to receive it back. Owners or their heirs can file to regain property that was reported since 1955. Claims are updated once a week. You might not have received a notice from the company that owed you the money if the amount was small.
The one exception to this lack of a time limit for filing is that the state might auction off the contents of safety deposit boxes that remain unclaimed for five years.
There’s a lot of unclaimed property out there. More than $1 billion in unclaimed property was turned over to the Washington Department of Revenue, dating back to 1955. In 2013 alone, the department received $138 million in unclaimed property, an amount that is on the rise.

