 Launch an Internet browser and head to Aimersoft website for Mac. Once there, click on the green “Free Trial” button.


The download should begin resulting in a DMG file called “aimer-dvd-creator-intel_full335.dmg.”

, Do this by clicking on the “Downloads” button in your dock, at the lower-right corner of your screen. Click on the downloaded file, and it should open a new window with the DVD Creator icon, which is a DVD with a pen running along it.


Open your Finder app, and click on Applications in the left panel. Simply drag and drop the DVD Creator icon into the Applications window to install it.
 Do this by clicking on the launchpad in your dock. A list of all the installed applications should pop out. Look for the DVD Creator, and click on it.
 With the DVD Creator window open, look for the video file you wish to burn into DVD by going to its directory using Finder, and dragging and dropping the file into the DVD Creator window.


Alternatively, you can click the plus icon in the upper right of the application window and browser to the file using the file navigation tool.
Your video should then appear in the right panel.
 Do this by clicking on the “Edit” button at the lower-right corner of your video’s thumbnail. Here, the video will play to give you a preview. You can drag the squares around the border of the video in the left side to rescale the video as well as reposition it.


Under the Effect tab, you can set various effects into the video like changing contrast, brightness, saturation, and volume levels.
The Trim tab lets you set the start and end time of the video, while clicking on the scissors icon the left will let you drag points in the timeline for easier setting.
The Watermark tab will let your set a custom watermark to appear in the video.
The Rotate tab will allow you to set the rotation of the video output.
 Once you are done editing your video, you can choose a menu template by clicking on the “Menu” button in the right side of the application window. Here, you can select between a number of menu templates that will play after you insert and play the DVD.
 Click on the blue and black circle icon in the lower-right corner of the app screen. It will summon a pop-up window that allows you to set the name for your DVD, the burning device, burning speed, and the standard to use depending on your region.


Set the region to NTSC if you are in the US, and PAL if you are elsewhere.
 Click on the “Save” icon, and the video should then begin transcoding. After it finishes, it will burn the file into the DVD to make it playable.