 It can taper downward, like a bowl, but it should not have anything that sticks out, like a handle. Objects that make great molds include:


Cans, cups, and pillar candles
Cubes and square candle votives
Bowls
Seashells (you will need to smooth the bottom out later);
, Make sure the sand is packed tightly into the container, and that the surface is smooth. You can use anything you want to hold the sand: a bucket, a plastic bin, etc. Whatever you use must be twice the height you want the final candle to be.


The sand will stick to your candle, so make sure that you are happy with the grain, color, and texture.
The sand should be damp enough so that it holds its shape when you squeeze in you hand. It should not be so wet that it is soupy.
 Press the object down until the top is level with the sand. You should only see the top of the object. For a shorter candle, press the object only part-way down into the sand.
 If you accidentally messed up any sand on the surface, smooth it down with your hand after you pull the object out.
 Don't press them all the way into the sand, or they won't stick the to candle. Make sure that the bottom of your object is the part that is sticking out, and the designed part is inside the sand.


Leave these objects in the sand. When you pull the candle out, these items will be embedded inside the candle, and peek through the sand.
 Make sure that the wick is sticking up out of the hole. If it is too short, you won't be able to use your candle. Don't worry if it is too long; you will trim it down later, after the candle sets.
 The wick should be sandwiched between the two sticks. This will hold the wick straight up while you pour the wax., Fill a large saucepan with 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) of water, and place it on a stove. Place a spouted melting pot inside the saucepan. You can buy spouted melting pots from the candle making section of an arts and crafts shop. If you can't find any, use a heat-safe, glass measuring cup instead.
 Use a candy or cooking thermometer to gauge the temperature. You can use wax flakes or wax cubes. How much wax you melt will depend on how big your mold is. Plan on having some extra wax handy for the second pour, however, as the wax will sink into the sand.


Don't add any color or fragrance into the wax yet. The high temperature may change the color and ruin the scent.
Never leave the melting wax unattended.
If your wax has specific melting instructions, follow those instead. Some waxes have a lower melting and ignition point.
 Don't be alarmed if the wax starts to sink into the sand. You will add more wax later.


Consider pouring the wax over the back of a spoon to prevent too much splattering.
Keep your face away from the mold and wax; there may be some splattering.
 As the wax sets, it will sink into the sand. This is normal, and is what creates that sandy shell.,, Because you are using a lower temperature, you don't have to worry about the color or scent changing.Try using some ocean or tropical-themed scents, such as:


Ocean breeze
Coconut
Orchid
Pomegranate

, Again, keep your face away from the mold and wax, in case of any splattering. Because your mold is already filled with a wax shell, this second pouring of wax won't sink into the sand as much.
 If you pull the candle out too soon, the sand may not stick properly.
 Use a spoon to loosen the sand around the candle, then carefully lift the candle out.
 This will prevent the candle from making a mess on your table when you use it. Depending on how hot your wax was, you may have a subtle sand texture, or a thick shell of sand.
 You can do this with a small spoon. Try doing some organic designs, such as swirls and loops.
 If it is too long, it will become a fire hazard.
 If th candle wobbles too much, turn the candle over and look at the bottom. If you see any lumps or bumps, you will need to smooth them out using a knife.
 Always place a candle stand under your candle to catch any drips or melted wax.