 First of all, make sure your parents or any school official will not be offended by your intended apparel. Check your school's dress code to make sure you won't violate any rules.;
, Think about your overall concept. What color or colors are represented in your dress? What kind of makeup will match the dress? The suggestions here will work with almost all dress colors and are best suited to dark dresses. Buy your makeup supplies ahead of the prom and try out your makeup before the big night to make sure you're not missing anything or you've picked the wrong colors.
 Even if you want to make a statement in favor of being goth, consider that it may be too crass for the event. Keep your Goth style visible, but not in everyone's face. For example, do not use chalk-white foundation or you will look like you're attending a Halloween party. Instead, use a foundation matched to your skin and apply luminescent loose powder over it to add a nice glow. Consider applying highlighter directly under your brow bones and on your cheekbones to lighten these areas.
 Top it off with powder like you usually would. Remember to use foundation and powder on your eyelids too. This way, the colors of your eye makeup will come out better.
 Dab a little lighter shade into the inner corner of your eye and up to the beginning of your eyebrow. Using a light grey liner pencil, draw a fine curved line up from your outer eye corner, following and extending the curve of your lower eye rim. Join this line with a line drawn from your lid crease outwards (a bit like "cat woman"). This is a guideline. Fill in the space in your guideline with a light grey eyeshadow and blend so that your guideline is no longer visible. Line your upper eyelid close to the lashes with a black or charcoal liner. Smudge it a little into your eyeshadow. If you want a smoother transition, dip a liner brush in darker grey eyeshadow and apply it just above your liner from the inside to the outer corner of your eye. Blend it upwards.
 To make it more dramatic yet glamorous, Use a special eye glitter. Using loose glitter is dangerous, as it gets in your eyes and can do some serious damage.
 If you like, you can curl your lashes beforehand, but avoid heating up your curlers. This may very likely cause your lashes to scorch and break and you don't want to risk it. Eyelashes grow very slowly and your dramatic eye makeup will look awkward with broken-off stubble lashes. Tilt your head back when putting mascara on your upper lashes and forward for the lower lashes. This way the chances of getting mascara on your skin and having to do everything over are reduced.
 Take a large brush (powder or blush brush) and lightly sweep across the area below your eyes to remove any makeup particles that have fallen down. This is important to avoid looking tired or smudged even before the big night has begun.
 If you think that blush will ruin your goth look, remember that blush is important to even out the proportions of your face. Your cheeks take up a large portion of space in your face and leaving them "blank" might make you look sallow instead of vibrant, especially if you apply darker shades around the eyes. *Darker complexions look good with pinkish shades, while fair-haired people look good in peachy blushes. Use a little at a time and apply with a blush brush (or powder brush) on the cheekbone, sweeping "up and out".
 Remember to keep your lips simple if you want your eyes to be the center of attention. Consider some nude or lightly pink lip gloss. Berry colors look good on girls with slightly darker coloring (brown hair).
 If you feel uncomfortable with anything, go ahead and try different colors or amounts of your products. Here's where doing a "dry run" comes in handy. The most important thing is that you feel beautiful.
