 If you can take the pill, then you can most likely take one of these as well. Several brands allow most women to have only 4 periods a year, having 84 active and 7 inactive pills in each pack. There is also one pill that can be taken for an entire year with a continuous level of hormones, offering the possibility of having no periods at all during that time.They appear to have similar health risks as the regular pill, but there have been no long term studies to support this yet.Side effects can include breakthrough bleeding for up to a year. Essentially, this is your body experiencing an unpredictable and irregular period while adjusting to hormones. Typically, bleeding subsides after a year of usage.To shorten symptoms from hormone withdrawal, your doctor may suggest taking only 3 or 4 days of inactive pills, instead of all 7., Both work similarly to the pill, but are easier to use since they only have to be changed every three weeks.


These are good choices for women who can’t remember to take a daily medicine because less user error is involved.
Wear up to three in a row for a total of 9 weeks. You should never go more than 9 weeks without taking at least a few days off., Depo-Provera is injectable synthetic progesterone administered by your health care professional every twelve weeks. It prevents menstruation during that time and can even stop it if the first dose is given within 5 days of your menstrual cycle. However, this method is less reliable for stopping your period so it may not be a good first choice.


Some women experience spotting in the beginning, but this usually subsides with time. At least half of users report having no period after the first year.Side effects can also include headaches, depression, acne, weight gain, hair loss and decreased sex drive. Long-term use may lead to osteoporosis. Talk with your doctor to determine if the shot is a good option for you., An IUD is a small plastic device shaped like a T that is inserted into the cervix and releases synthetic hormone. It prevents pregnancy and makes periods lighter or stops them altogether. Hormonal IUDs can be used continuously for 3 to 5 years.They must be inserted and removed by a health care professional, which causes mild to moderate pain in most women.
You may experience spotting or irregular periods for up to 6 months after insertion. IUDs have similar health risks to other hormone-based birth control.
Be sure to get the IUD with hormonal therapy. There are two types of IUDs: Mirena, and ParaGard. ParaGard does not contain any hormones, and prevents fertilization by using copper to irritate the uterus. It can be worn for up to ten years, but in many women causes menstruation to be heavier and last longer rather than limiting its frequency.