 It can feel a bit silly as a parent or other adult to role-play a “c’mon, just take one of these pills” scenario, or downright uncomfortable to run through a “c’mon, there’s no way you’ll get pregnant” one. However awkward it may be, though, practicing how to respond to peer pressure scenarios offers teens valuable experience and guidance.Start by asking questions (“Have you ever been offered a cigarette?” “Has a friend ever pressured you to do something you didn’t want to do?”). This can help establish a dialogue and comfort level that can make the role playing less awkward for both parties.;
, However, saying “no” to peer pressure can prove far more complicated for teens. Sometimes that one little word is enough, but usually it is more effective to combine the “no” with a strategy suited to the situation.This wikiHow article provides a good list of what might be called “no plus” strategies that you can help teens recognize and employ. These include saying “no” plus adding an explanation (“Smoking will hurt my performance on the track team.”), using humor (“I’d fall before we even got up on the roof.”), changing the subject (“But hey, how about that game last night?”), or offering an alternate idea (“Let’s go see that new movie instead.”).
Be clear that they understand that “no means no” and is always an acceptable technique. If necessary, they can just say “no” and walk away.
 When facing negative peer pressure, asking leading questions or making targeted comments can sometimes shift the focus or prompt a reconsideration. Other times, creating a scapegoat may be helpful, so offer yourself up as their excuse for not going along with the plan or succumbing to pressure.For instance, talk about asking questions like “Is this a good idea?”; identifying the negative aspects (“Won’t this cause trouble for our friends?”); or evaluating the consequences (“This will get all of us suspended from school”).
As a parent, your teen is going to blame you for practically everything anyway, so make it clear that it’s OK for him or her to use you as the main reason for rebuffing peer pressure — “I can’t do that, my parents would find out and ground me forever. They’re so nosy and strict. It’s really annoying.”

, No matter how prepared they are, teens are going to succumb to peer pressure and make some bad decisions. Especially if it is a dangerous situation, such as drinking with friends and getting ready to drive home, let them know that they can trust you to be understanding and helpful. If punishment needs to happen, delay that discussion until after the teen is removed from the bad situation.


Some parents choose to invoke a “no questions asked” retrieval policy, which means that if a teen gets into a bad situation due to poor choices, he or she can call home and be picked up no questions asked. Only you as a parent can decide whether this or other techniques will be useful or abused in the case of your specific teen.The more open and honest you are in your discussions about peer pressure (and other topics), the more trust will be built between you. Make sure they trust you enough that they'll make that call when they need your help getting out of a bad spot.

