 The shuttle cover is located below the needle. If you find the metal plate where the needle pushes through with the thread, then you should see the shuttle cover on one side of the machine., The bobbin casing is located just inside the shuttle cover. It will look like a metal cylinder., Slide out the bobbin. If your bobbin is secured within the casing, then you may have to open the casing first., The spool pin is a piece on your sewing machine that holds the thread while you wind the bobbin. It will be a cylindrical piece that fits the hole in the spool of thread.The spool pin is commonly located on the top or side of the machine.
 Start the spool or remove the end of the thread from the hook so that you can easily transfer thread from the spool once it's secured to the spool pin.
 The spool pin should fit through the center of your thread.


If it has a spool cap, place that on top of the thread to hold it in place.
If your machine’s spool pin is on top of the machine, it may not have a spool cap.
 Most machines have a piece with a small hole near the spool that helps you guide the thread either when winding a bobbin or when threading the machine. If your machine does not have a thread guide, then skip this step., Your machine will have a small metal piece that will convey the thread as it’s wound around the bobbin. This piece should be near the thread guide and will look like a tiny knob., Your thread should form a triangle when held taut, with the top of the triangle located at the tension disk. Don't let go of your thread., Your bobbin should have a tiny hole in the side. Some bobbins have several. Push the end of your thread through the hole in your bobbin. You only need to push the thread through one hole on one side.If your bobbin has more than one hole in it, you can use any of the holes.
 The bobbin winder is a cylindrical metal piece that looks similar to the spool pin and is about the size of the hole in the center of your bobbin. Next to the bobbin winder, you should see a round plastic piece., Line up the bobbin winder with the hole in the center of the bobbin and push the bobbin down onto the winder., Push the bobbin winder toward the plastic disk next to the winder. When the your winder is securely in place, you should hear a click., As you start to wind the bobbin, hold the end of the thread that you looped through the hole in your bobbin to keep it from slipping back out., Continuing working your pedal as your bobbin fills with thread. Move at a comfortable speed.You may want to start by pushing your pedal slowly to find your rhythm, but there’s no reason to wind your bobbin at a slow speed.
If your bobbin fills unevenly, you have likely wound your thread around the tension disk in the wrong spot. Check your placement of the thread. If you believe you have done it correctly, then wrap it a second time to ensure that your thread is winding evenly.If your thread catches on the notch of the spool, try turning the spool over and working in the opposite direction of that notch.
 You may be unsure of how much thread you’ll use, but it’s a good idea to fill up your bobbin each time you wind it so that you don’t run out of thread.Your bobbin is full when you reach the edges of the sides of the bobbin, making your thread flush with the outside edge. If you keep loading your bobbin past the sides, then the thread will slide off and unwind.
 Use your scissors to disconnect the thread between your bobbin and the spool. Be careful to not let go of the end of your thread on the bobbin so that it doesn’t start to unwind., You will again hear a click when the winder is securely in place., Your bobbin is now full of thread and ready to use.