 Whatever level of education you pursue, ensure quality – and that your work will be recognized by employers – by completing a program that is accredited by a major organization.American Health Information Management (AHIMA) and the American Academy of Professional Coders (AAPC) are the two largest, most well-known organizations. Both of these provide tools on their websites to find credible programs., You will choose between the certification exams provided by AHIMA and AAPC. Whichever organization’s exam you choose is also the professional membership you will obtain. Which specific exam you take will depend on which certification you are getting.


Attending an accredited program and having the recommended work experience will probably enable you to pass your exam. For additional help, both AHIMA and AAPC have online study resources.
 If you choose to pursue your certification and take the exam offered by AHIMA, you will choose one of three levels of Certified Coding. Join AHIMA as a member to be eligible for any of these.


To be a Certified Coding Assistant (CCA), you need your high school diploma and to take the exam. Generally, passing the exam requires 6 months of work experience after completing an accredited certification program.A more popular option is to become a Certified Coding Specialist (CCS). This generally requires 3 years of experience in the workplace, plus additional coursework in pharmacology, anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology in order to pass the exam.Opt to take the exam to be a Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P) if you plan to work in a physician’s office, group practice, specialty area, or clinic practicing multiple specialties., The American Academy of Professional Coders is the largest professional organization for medical billing and coding workers. To obtain a certification you need to be a member of AAPC, pay an exam fee, and pass the appropriate exam. Once you pass the exam, you will have an Apprentice Certification, and have “-A” after your title. After you obtain 2 years of work experience in the appropriate field, you’ll drop the “-A” and be a full professional.The standard certification is a Certified Professional Coder (CPC). This will be your title once you have your 2 years experience, 2 letters of recommendation that you are proficient with CPT, ICD, HCPCS codes, or proof of 80 hours of education in coding.An off-shoot of CPC is the CPC-H certification, or Certified Professional Coder-Hospital. This is a good choice if you want to work in a clinic, hospital, or outpatient setting.
You can take the exam to be a Certified Professional Coder-Payer (CPC-P) if you have extra skill with insurance payment procedures including Private, Medicare, Medicaid, as well as self-pay by patients., There are over 20 different options for specialization that the AAPC offers – everything from dermatology to pediatrics. This gives you the opportunity to become proficient in basic billing and coding, and then pursue an area that particularly interests you. Each specialty has its own individualized exam. All of the options are available on AAPC’s website.


One of the highest-paying specialties is the position of Certified Interventional Radiology Cardiovascular Coder (CIRCC).