 To do this, measure from the top of your hip to the ground. This will be the length of both your blade and hilt. However, if you are fighting someone of equal size as yourself, you should make them equal size, for sparring.;
, One half inch thick, and one and one quarter inches wide is a suitable thickness and width for a broadsword, and is the same dimension as baseboard you can find at the local Home Depot. Be aware that this means one of your edges will be rounded, but in the grand scheme of things, the enemy you just beheaded won't notice. Also, get some smaller pieces for the hilt, about 6 inches (15.2 cm) long (although this varies in accordance with your sword length), same width, and 1/4th inch thick.
 Off the bottom (what will be the pommel), make also equal cuts, but this angle should be obtuse, since you intend to sand this into a rounded shape.
 Hey-- no complaining, this is part of being a master swordsman. Sand your blade point until the triangle becomes rounded, and sand the pommel so that it becomes rounded. It is also a merciful practice to sand the top of te blade so it's not actually sharp. You may omit this step if you are preparing for a real battle. Also, sand the edges up six inches from the pommel; this will be your grip, so you don't want the edges digging in. And while you're at it, just sand the entire sword. Nothing ruins a good arm slash like leftover splinters. When you sand everything in coarse grit, do a good run down on the finest grit you can get, and blow off the resulting sand-powder.
 Now don't just stand there, get back to work, Lancelot. It's time to lacquer those beauty(s) with Instant Drying Lacquer (it should be in a spray can.) Go outside, and apply a good 4 coats, waiting at least 15 minutes between coats. Don't cheat here, this stuff could save your precious weapons from unsightly scratches. And don't wimp out; your lungs could always use a good lacquering, too. Or wear a mask.
 Spray the blades with silver, down to (and a little past) the 6-inch-from-the-pommel mark. Spray your hilt pieces with gold, along with the little nub which will be your pommel. Be careful not to get gold on your silver! A minimum of 2 coats will give you that threatening-shiny look you've always wanted.
 Once you've done that (and everything is dry) grab your hilt pieces, one for each side of the sword and nail them in with 16x3/4" nails, in a criss-cross pattern (that means two diagonal on one side, and do the opposite diagonal from the other side.)

, You will need a different piece of tape for that last circle, because it will be mathematically impossible to make it end evenly. But you'll try this anyway.)

, But if you were hiding behind a rock this time, waiting for battle, now is a good time to run out and give your war call. Quick!

