 Fonts are a common way to transmit viruses, so take care to only download fonts from trusted sources. Avoid any fonts that come in EXE format. Fonts typically come packed into ZIP files, or in TTF or OTF format. A few of the more popular font sites include:


dafont.com
fontspace.com
fontsquirrel.com
1001freefonts.com;
, If the font files came in ZIP format, you'll need to extract them before you can install and use them. To extract a ZIP file, right-click on it and select "Extract All." This will create a new folder containing the files that were packed in the ZIP file.


The files in the ZIP file should be TTF or OTF format. These are the two font formats supported by Windows. Don't install any fonts that come in EXE format.
 Find the folder that contains your newly-downloaded and extracted files. Leave this window open for now.
 You can install fonts through the Control Panel. There are various ways to open this, depending on your version of Windows:


Windows 7, Vista, XP - Click the Start menu and select "Control Panel."
Windows 10, 8.1 - Right-click the Start button and select "Control Panel."
Windows 8 - Press ⊞ Win+X and select "Control Panel."

, If your Control Panel is sorted by Category, you'll want to switch it to either Small or Large Icons. This will make it easier to find the Fonts folder. Click the "View by" menu in the upper-right corner and select one of the icon options.
 This will open a window displaying all of your installed fonts.
 Drag the TTF or OTF file into the Fonts window to install the new font. You may be prompted to enter the administrator password if you don't have admin access. It may take a moment to copy. You can verify that it was installed by finding it in the list of fonts in the Fonts window.


Your font may come with more than one font file. This is common for different styles, such as a bold version and italic version. Make sure that you drag all of the included OTF or TTF files into the Fonts window.
 You'll be able to find your new font using the Font menu in Word. The fonts are listed alphabetically.
 Installing a new font will make it display and print properly on your own computer, but if you share the document with someone else, they won't be able to see your fonts unless they have them installed as well. You can solve this by embedding your font files into your Word document. With the fonts embedded, anyone who opens it will be able to see the correct fonts. This will increase the file size, since the fonts will be included with the document.Click the File menu in Word and select "Options."
Click the "Save" tab in the Options menu.
Check the "Embed fonts in this file" option. Make sure your current document is selected from the drop-down menu.
Decide if you want to only embed the characters you use. This can reduce the size of the file, especially if you only use a few characters from the special font.
Save and share your document as normal. The fonts will be automatically embedded when the document is saved.

