 Start socialization as early as possible in order to train your dog to be open to additional “pack” members later down the road. When you start getting your dog used to new sights and smells, give it a small food treat when it comes into contact with the new person or animal.Start socializing your puppy as soon as you bring it home, especially if you plan on getting a new dog or cat in the future. Puppies are more receptive to socialization than older dogs, but dogs of any age can be trained through proper conditioning. If a visitor comes to your home, have them offer the dog a treat so it identifies your guests with positivity.
 In addition to preparing your dog for social situations in general, you should take careful steps when introducing it to your new dog. Your “pack’s” dynamics in the long run will depend on a successful introduction.Introduce them gradually, starting with the sense of smell. Offer the dogs scent articles so they can get used to each other’s scents before making visual contact.
When they do make visual contact, do it on neutral ground, like a neighbor’s yard or park. Don’t force them to stand face to face. Allow them to show each other their profiles, walk around each other, and sniff.
Next, separately bring them to your own yard, and allow them to meet for a few minutes on your territory. If all goes well so far, bring them inside separately and keep them out of each other’s sight in closed rooms or crates. Let one out at a time, starting with the new dog. Let it explore the house. Then, put it back in its crate or closed room, and allow the old dog to explore. Finally, let them both out simultaneously inside the house.
Continue to monitor how they interact within the house. Keep them separated during the initial weeks using a sturdy baby gate if necessary. Keep them crated out of sight or in rooms with closed doors while they’re unattended.
 As you add dogs to your household, remember that each is most likely at a different level of training. In order to foster the best social dynamics, you should be patient and work with each dog as an individual. Spend extra time gradually conditioning each dog based on their needs.For example, if one dog is less tolerant of other members of your household, begin by instructing it to sit while another dog or family member stands behind a baby gate. Offer a treat if it remains calm. Next, remove the gate but keep the dog or person at the same distance, and again reward calm behavior. If working with two dogs, keep them leashed just in case. Proceed using the same method at shorter and shorter distances.
 Try not to be discouraged or reluctant about asking for help from a vet or trainer. Understand that some dogs simply don’t respond well to family environments or social situations.Ask a vet about anxiety medications or other recommended solutions. Ask them to recommend a trainer who can help it get along better with your other dogs or family members.
Try to get to know your dog before acquiring another pet. If it has trouble getting along with others despite training from you or a professional, try to accept its personality as it is. Some dogs are simply not social, and you should do your best to love it no matter what instead of creating a potentially unsafe environment.

