 A swim cap is a great way to limit your hair’s exposure to harmful pool chemicals, though you must both put on and take caps off carefully. Either way, wet your hair with clean water before entering a pool (even if you’re going to wear a cap).To up your defenses, take a quick shower, put some conditioner in your hands right after and run them through your hair before a swim.
Saturate your hair with water to slow (and hopefully prevent) the absorption of harmful chemicals such as chlorine.
 If you wear a swim cap, be very careful taking it on and off, as the grip of the cap on your hair can easily pull strands out of your scalp.Gather your hair close to your head, twisting and tying up long hair into a loose bun on top of your head.
Place your hands inside the cap, with your palms vertical and your fingers spread.
Let the front inside edge of the cap catch your forehead as you slowly lower the cap over your hair and around the back of your head.
If you have trouble with latex caps pulling your hair, switch to a Lycra of silicone cap. These materials will pull your hair much less.
Be gentle adjusting and removing your cap. If repositioning, do so very gently. When removing, start at either the front or back edge, pull out and away from your head, and keep pulling out and away from your head as you rotate your hand around your head.
 The best treatment is prevention. Oil and silicone-based products are best. The realm of oils includes natural products and remedies, while silicone can help calm frizziness and provide extra protection if you aggressively style your hair when out of the pool.Coconut oil, applied liberally, is a great pre-swim option. Massage it into clean, damp locks.
Use a conditioner or leave-in treatment with silicone polymers such as dimethicone or cyclomethicone.Wetting and coating your hair will also make it easier to put on a swim cap without damaging your hair.
Some products even help protect your hair from sun and salt as well as chlorine – so wherever you’re swimming, you’ll be covered.

