 If you have a spoon and a fork you no longer use, you can make a cute set of cupboard handles for your kitchen. At a craft or hardware store, get four aluminum screw posts. You should also get bonding glue.On one end of the fork, use the bonding glue to attach a screw post to the flattest area. Do the same with the spoon. Then, add another screw post to the other end of both utensils. Set the spoon and fork aside in a safe place to dry for 20 minutes.






Remove the existing handles from a cabinet in your kitchen. Screw your new spoon and fork handles into the wall. You may have to drill new holes in the cabinets to correspond with the new handles.
 Mason jars that once contained jams can be repurposed as soap dispensers for your bathroom. You will need to purchase a speed steel drill bit, which goes for about $10 at a hardware store, to do this craft. You'll also need a soap pump. You can use the pump from an old lotion bottle or buy a pump at a craft store.Mark the center of the mason jar's lid. From there, drill a hole in the lid big enough to feed the soap dispenser pump through.






Fill the jar with soap. Screw the lid back on. You should now be able to pump soap through the mason jar.
 If you have any old glasses, particularly stemless wine glasses, you can create cute display domes. Tumblers and canning jars also work well. Using an adhesive glue, glue a small decoration on the bottom of each glass. The decoration is up to you. You can purchase small figurines at a craft store, or use old knick-knacks from around your house.You can place these domes over a variety of objects. You can use old figurines, photographs, or any other tiny item you'd like to display. Leave the domes in areas on the house, like a buffet table, for display.
 If you're making crafts around the holidays or a loved one's birthday, you can make a cute decorative wrapping using wine corks as stamps. You'll need some kind of craft paper or solid colored wrapping paper, an x-acto knife, acrylic paint, and glitter.


If you want to do a snowflake pattern, use the x-acto knife to carve four small triangles into the cork. If you want to simply use a dot design, leave the cork alone.






Wrap your gift in the kraft paper or blank paper. Then, dip the cork in the paint. Use scrap paper to blot off excess paint. From here, stamp your pattern onto the gift. Then, sprinkle the paint with some glitter. Let the package dry, and then decorate with a bow and ribbon as you wish.







