 Type www.pinterest.com in your browser's address bar, and hit ↵ Enter on your keyboard.


If you're not automatically logged into Pinterest on your browser, enter your email or phone number and your password to log in. You can also use your Facebook or Google account to log in.;
, It's in the upper-right corner of your screen. It will open your profile page.
 You will see a list of all your boards on your profile. Click on a board to see your Pins.
 Move your mouse over a Pin to see your options. This will highlight the pin, and reveal several buttons on it.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the Pin's picture. This option marks the Pin as "Tried" and lets you enter a review for it in a pop-up box.
 Click on the text box below "How'd it go?" and enter any notes, tips, or feedback that you want to share with your followers.


You can also add a photo to your review by clicking the Add photo button below the text box.
 This is the red button in the lower-right corner of the pop-up box. It will save your review and share it with your followers.
 It's next to the check mark when you hover over a Pin with your mouse. This option lets you edit the current board and description of your Pin in a pop-up box.
 Click the board name at the top of the pop-up box, and select a board to move your Pin to.


If you want to remove this Pin from your profile, click the Delete button in the lower-left corner of the pop-up box. You will have to confirm your action in another pop-up.
 Click the text box next to Description, and edit the description of your Pin. You can change parts of the current description, or write a new one.
 This is the red button in the lower-right corner of the pop-up box. It will save your edits to your Pin.
 This button is located above the board name in the upper-left corner of your screen. It will open this board in editing mode. You can delete, copy, or move multiple Pins at once in editing mode.
 You can select multiple Pins at once. You will see a red check mark in the upper-right corner of selected Pins.
 They're located above the board name in the upper-left corner of your screen.


If you click Move, you will select a new board for your Pins in a pop-up. This option will move your Pins to another board on your profile.
If you click Copy, you will select a board for new copies of your Pins in a pop-up. This option will not remove your selected Pins from their current board.
If you select Delete, you will have to confirm your action in a pop-up. This option will remove selected Pins from your profile.

