 If a dog is growling at you, this can be a sign that it is not happy with your presence and may attack you. A growling dog is notifying you that it does not want you in its territory and it feels threatened.Be especially cautious if you hear low, guttural growls and barks coming from the dog.;
, If a dog shows its teeth to you, this is a bad sign. Bared teeth is a warning that dogs send to ward off potential threats. This is meant to be an intimidating defense mechanism toward any perceived danger.This is an especially worrisome sign if it is combined with snarling and/or upright, pointed ears.
 If a dog is looking directly at you, this is not a good sign. Eye contact is considered aggressive behavior in dogs and can mean that a dog is on the verge of attacking you.Think about any nonaggressive dogs you know – they usually avert their eyes to avoid extended eye contact as a sign of submission and affection.
If a dog doesn’t avert its eyes and maintains eye contact with you, this is a sign of aggression.
 When a dog intends to attack, it may make some smaller lunging motions before actually attacking. If a dog is lunging forward at you, this is a pretty clear sign it means to warn or attack you.This is especially dangerous behavior when it is combined with some of the other warning signs like snarling and growling.
 You may be putting on a friendly face, but an aggressive dog might interpret a smiling face as you baring your teeth for a fight. Keep a calm, serious face when you are confronted with an angry or aggressive dog.Keep your mouth closed and your teeth covered at all times.
 Loud noises often frighten dogs and can ward them off if they seem to be in attack mode. Try yelling for help or banging on something nearby. This may startle the dog enough to distract it from attacking you.Try yelling “No!” at the dog as this is likely a word that they have been taught by their owner.
 If you have to walk through areas where you know dangerous dogs may be, try to bring a weapon like pepper spray or dog repellent. These can be effective tools in warding off an attack dog.If you must walk in an area that is known to have aggressive dogs that sometimes get loose, consider getting a good aluminum baseball bat.
Of course, don’t go around pepper spraying dogs unless they are actually about to attack you.
 If you run away from a dog, this can engage their instinct to chase you. If a dog is chasing you, it is more likely that it will attack you when it reaches you. Remain still and motionless for as long as possible.Try to back away from the dog slowly, without turning your back on the dog.
You can also try getting on top of a nearby parked car.
 The best method for preventing a dog attack is to never encounter one in the first place. Do your best to avoid areas where there may be aggressive dogs roaming free. Don’t approach dogs that you don’t know, even if you have their owner’s permission.


Don’t ever enter a fenced area where a dog may be without the owner present.
If you’ve seen dogs roaming loose in certain neighborhoods, avoid those places when possible.
 If a dog attack is unavoidable, try to get something to put in between you and the dog. This will help protect you from getting bitten by the dog and may distract the dog from attacking you altogether.Look for anything around that you can use as a shield. Use your purse or backpack; grab a tree branch off the ground. Try to find anything that could act as a buffer between you and the dog.
 If the dog is really attacking you, don’t be afraid to fight back. Your instinct should be to do whatever you have to do to keep from getting hurt. That’s okay in this situation. Do whatever you can to hurt the dog and keep it away from you.Kick the dog in the throat or groin. Try punching the dog in the face.
Use your body weight to get on top of the dog and pin it down.
 If attacking doesn’t work, you may need to consider protecting yourself. Roll up into a ball on the floor and bring your knees up to your chin. Cover your head with your hands and arms. This will help protect your most vital and sensitive body parts from being damaged in the attack.This is a form of “playing dead” which may cause the dog to become bored and abandon the attack altogether.
 Once the attack is over, you need to take care of your wounds. Call the authorities to report the attack as soon as you feel safe from danger. If you feel seriously injured, go to the hospital immediately. Otherwise, you should go home and clean all of the bites and scrapes with disinfectant and soap. Use some antibacterial cream (like Neosporin) and cover the bites with Band-Aids to prevent infection.You should also consider calling the authorities to report the attack.

