 Learn whether you need a permits for handrail construction and whether there are standard specifications for handrails in your area. It is important to ensure that your home improvement projects are compliant with codes set in place for residential buildings.If your work requires a permit, make sure to obtain one before adding onto your home in any way. This prevents any issues that may come about with inspections, potential penalties or violations, and issues that could come about if you ever tried selling your home in the future.
If it does not require a permit, move forward with your building project.;
, The run of the railings should be measured from the top step to the bottom step of the stairs, along its diagonal. For a wall-mounted installation, add an additional 2 to 4 inches to each end to use as returns (also called the ends) for people to grab during use of the handrail.


The rise of the railing should be measured according to local building authority codes; this is usually between 30-36 inches, or alternately at 36 inches,at the average height of people.
Measure the rise at 36 inches from the same place at each step, and mark its position with a pencil or chalk.
Use a tape measure to draw a straight line on the wall, connecting the 36-inch marks you placed at the top of the stairs in descending order to the very bottom step.
Measure where you intend to place brackets that will later be screwed into the wall. Mark the bracket locations using a level to make sure that the brackets are plumb., If you’re choosing to incorporate a handrail indoors, chances are it is an extension of the staircase you already have and will hang on the wall opposite the stairs.


Wood is the most commonly used material for indoor handrails. Wood is sturdy and attractive, making it a good fit for indoor use. Wood is also an option for an outdoor handrail, but it may be prone to rotting in humid climates.Untreated wood will need an oil treatment before installation. Use tung oil, linseed oil, or a product based in one of those oils to coat the wood. Avoid water-based products because although they make wood water and moisture resistant, with time it peels and degrades.Metal railings are decay resistant and great for areas frequented by termite pests.Synthetic railings can be shaped and molded to your style needs and can even be made to look like wood. This option is expensive compared to other handrail options, but also more durable.
 In most hardwood stores handrails come readily available, depending on the type of material you want to use. Bring your measurements with you so you can buy the right size. If you have trouble locating the size you need in a ready-made manufactured style and size, request a custom railing.


Stores like Home Depot, Lowe's, and Amazon are common sellers of handrail and stair products.
If you're installing a wood railing, you can bring home wood samples from your local hardware store to match them to the wood fixtures in your home. Bear in mind that wood does not have to match perfectly, it just has to coordinate.