 Always plan exactly what you will say about each of your former employers if asked by the interviewer. Never let yourself get caught off guard, resulting in a potentially inappropriate or insufficient answer.


Begin by taking notes on all of your previous jobs. Think back and analyze each carefully. Think about your responsibilities and the skills you developed, along with any awards, accolades or recognition you may have received.
 Use notes on your previous jobs to develop a response "script" for each job. The goal of this script should be to clearly and concisely convey what you gained from and accomplished in the position in a few sentences. Practice your job scripts until you have them memorized.If possible, have a friend or family member pose as your interviewer, rehearse your response scripts with him or her, and ask for feedback.If no one is available to rehearse with, you can record yourself. Try to put yourself in the shoes of an interviewer while you listen to your answers. What can be improved?

, Don’t list someone who won’t say good things about you. If you're not sure what a former employer will say about you, ask. It's better to have an awkward conversation with a former boss than a bad reference.


Pick the boss that liked you best. In most companies, there are several supervisors who can legitimately be called your “boss.” Whenever possible, choose the one with whom you left on good terms.
Even if you’re forced to list a boss with whom you parted on less-than-positive terms, you should be reassured to know that most bosses are not anxious to badmouth you. Not only do employers fear defamation lawsuits, they also want to keep the interaction professional in order not to harm their own reputation with their peers in the industry. , You should always alert a former employer that he or she is listed as your reference. Contacting your references as soon as possible in the job application process will allow for any potential delays in their response and give them time to think about what they will say if contacted by your potential employer's HR department.


Giving your references advanced notice works to you advantage, too. If a former employer is caught off guard by by a phone call from your interviewer, he or she may unintentionally provide a reference that isn't as positive as it would have been if he or she was prepared.

