 This will affect their balance because they will have to lower themselves to the same height or close to it which takes away the height advantage. Also they will have an inclination to lean forward. This will leave them open to uppercuts and affect their overall balance.;
, Both parties are likely to be injured and it is not a good way to act, so finding a way not to fight is the best way. Talking is a better way out or making distance or space so it is harder for them to attack you is always better than using your fists.
 You will need to have learned this in a class and have spent a lot of time doing it till you feel and understand that fighting someone bigger, smaller or taller doesn't matter; it is all just fear of being hurt or killed and this is normal.
 Most taller fighters are unable to really "fight tall", or truly take advantage of their height. Scan your opponent's face and eyes. Look at their stance (foot position), body language and distance away from you. Is your opponent nervous? Angry? If you move in aggressively does the opponent instinctively shift or move back and keep distance? If not they are probably unaware of how to use their height. You can use this to give yourself a chance to take them by surprise.
 You must motion to the other fighter that you don't want any trouble - even if a fight is imminent. Do this by holding your hands up by your face, palms outward, in a backing away motion - waving your hands slightly. This is the first set up to strike. Tell them you don't want any trouble - and regardless of what they say or do prepare yourself for a fight.
 In any street fight - especially against a larger or taller opponent you must get them first. The old adage "never swing first" does not apply. Use the open hand gesture above to launch a surprise first punch either to the throat or nose (never hit the jaw - this can be absorbed by most strong men and can hurt your hands). Speed is essential here. One punch is good but more punches are better. A combination of attacks or quick strikes will do more damage than one single strike, so if you can hit your opponent with more hits, do so. However, do not leave yourself open to a counter attack. Launch your fastest strike possible and immediately step back and return your hands to your face area for protection. While stepping back, circle around your opponent.
 If your opponent is still active you must make sure you keep your hands by your face at all times. This will allow you to use your hands, elbows, and shoulders to deflect punches and strikes from your opponent because they can launch strikes from a distance. Most fighters who are immature or inexperienced will try to hit the head area 90 per cent of the time. Use this to your advantage by keeping the hands up and moving your head and shoulders from side to side and up and down in a bobbing and weaving type motion. Your opponent will fire away at your head out of habit - but will connect on much less of his strikes. You will be harder to hit and confusing to defend when you launch strikes of your own. All the while you are ready to shuffle backwards, in a circle motion, on the feet to create space between you and your opponent while they advance.
 Your opponent will come at you with a combination or attack of some kind and once you avoid it, or block it, you will notice a moment when they pull back for an instant and regroup for another attack. As SOON AS your opponent has thrown the last of their strikes in a particular attack you must immediately step into their personal space - close to them - and attack viciously. You get close-in on them where their reach is negated. Using speed and a close-in attack will force them to retreat or back pedal. Throw with speed and ferocity - NOT PANIC - as many shots to their face and exposed areas as possible. Right before exhaustion you step out of their reach - not just a step back - but two or three steps back and regain your strength and stamina. DO NOT clutch or grab your opponent if they have a significant size or strength advantage. This will only turn out bad for you. This close-in attack approach is THE RULE for fighting taller guys. You can wait for them to finish an attack, as stated above, or you can get them by beating them to the punch when they come in. Either way you must close the gap and get inside of their long reach to do damage.
 This is important to look for because you can use these patterns to hurt your opponent with a counter strike. Let's say your opponent is always throwing a long jab punch and then letting their hands drop down to their waist area before returning their fist to their facial area. You could wait until the timing is right on their next jab and, after you avoid it, throw a power punch right over the top of their outstretched arm (as it begins its drop to their waist) and hit them square in the face. Or if you see a wild, winging power-punch coming from their right hand you could duck it and throw a counter-punch combo of your own. These counter strikes are lethal because they usually combine your power with the momentum of your opponents to hurt them extra bad!

, How do you do this? You simply step at an angle to one side while coming in - so you are facing your opponent, ready to attack - but you are not directly in front of them. You are at an angle - and therefore the usual instinctive indicators that we use to judge a target are slightly less effective here for your opponent. Also you will notice new opportunities to hit areas of weakness in your opponents defense from these angles. Also notice that you should preferably be working angles that position you away from their power. So if your opponent is throwing hard right crosses and hooks, you should be working angles that position you towards their left hand - away from the power.
 You must set up your combos and strikes by throwing out a solid jab. Each jab thrown requires a step forward with the lead foot. Use several jabs in succession with your step footwork in order to close in on your taller opponent and smother their long reach. Get deep into their personal space by setting them up with the jab and drop power shots to their ribs when they bring their defensive guard up to protect the face.

