 There are a variety of cues that you can give someone to let them know it is time to leave. Generally, if you turn away from the person this is an obvious clue that your conversation has come to an end. Similarly, bored expressions convey discontent too. Cross your arms, slouch over, avert your gaze elsewhere in the room. These cues obviously depend on the social setting you are in.For example, if you are in your cubicle at work and the office’s chatty Cathy or Carl won’t leave you alone, start shuffling through papers and mumbling about what reports need to be finished. This will tell your unwelcome guest that it is time to leave. You are obviously too busy for a chat.
As with most of the tactics detailed in this guide, be sure to gauge the situation. Sometimes, negative body language can produce negative responses. If the person you are dealing with is quick to violence or anger, another route might be preferable.;
, Inevitably, you’ll come into contact with people, but there are several techniques that will discourage interaction from the start. If you are at home and your parents are bothering you to do something you don’t want to, you can put in headphones. This places an auditory wall between you and your parent. Perhaps, they won’t want to hassle with asking you to remove your headphones in order to talk to you. Similarly, if you are reading a book, working on homework, or doing something else, your parents might avoid disrupting you and therefore talking to you.
 We’ve all been trapped in those conversations or situations that we desperately want to escape from. An acquaintance won’t stop yammering about their problems. A relative keeps harassing you about getting married or having a child. One of the easiest ways to eject yourself from this kind of situation is to enlist someone else’s help.


If you are at a crowded party, excuse yourself by calling to a friend. You can then tell the person you’re trying to escape from that you need to speak with the other person. Then you can walk away without hurting anyone’s feelings. Ideally, there would be another person to go talk to. You don’t want to walk away and then go stand in the opposite corner alone.
You might also decide on a signal with someone else before entering a party or other function. For example, your office party is tonight. You are going with a coworker that you like. You know that the party will be stale and that you’ll inevitably have to talk to people you don’t like. Decide on a signal that will tell the other person you are ready to leave. Make sure it is subtle. Tug on your sleeves. Brush your hair back. Your signal should be clear to the other person, but not draw attention to your actions.