 To start off your Lawliet cosplay, you will need a basic pair of blue jeans and a plain white, long sleeved shirt that doesn't have too tight a neckline, and is basically round cut. V-neck shirts will not work properly if you wish to be L. The jeans can vary, as long as they fit your body comfortably with the waist band resting just above your hips or in that general area.;
, If your hair does not qualify to suit L at the black and ragged shoulder length cut with bangs, you have two options. One, you can cut and dye your hair, or two, you can buy a wig. With either option, the hair you need must be black, and slightly longer on the left than it is on the right. Not too much difference, only about a half inch to an inch or so. Keep the parting of the hairline to the left and the bangs in the front over your eyes. Make sure you can still see though, because L doesn't walk into stuff.
 As everyone knows, L has black bags under his eyes. It is not suggested that you stay up for long periods of time to obtain these bags, but rather get black eyeliner and smudge it under your eyes to give the appearance of bags. Try to avoid sparkly makeup. Also, if you have prominently dark brows, try an eyebrow pencil in a slightly lighter shade to help make them less prominent. L practically has no eyebrows. Also, if you have a uni-brow, it is highly suggested that you pluck or wax it.
 To obtain L's posture while walking, try to be slouched and always look at the ground. Walk like you have back problems and can't quite stand up straight. Keep your hands in your pockets, but only while walking or standing. When sitting, sit in an almost crouched position with your hands resting palms down on your knees. Again, keep slouched, even in the chair.
 L is very passive and doesn't have many strong emotions to exclaim to the world, so to be L, you have to keep your emotions in check. Only smile slightly when you are pleased about something, and if someone insults you, just be passive or respond with a question regarding the insult. Do not take offense. If you do, do not show it in any way. They're just words, there's no need to get all upset over them.
 L has a few habits that make him especially unique. To be L, try to make a point of chewing on your thumbnail and touching your lips often. Lawliet also itches his right leg with his left foot, while standing. It takes practice to get it right. To pick things up, use a maximum of three fingers unless it can't be avoided (example; cell phone, book, paper. He writes with holding the eraser side of a pencil or marker, but most people can't do this and write fancy too.) both hands right in front of your face. Remember, L eats a lot of sweets and strawberries, but try not to get too carried away with that, because you could get a stomach ache or a cavity.

