 Esophageal diverticula are small pocket-like pouches that can catch food. This may cause you to feel as if you have food caught in your throat. This is the most common symptom of esophageal diverticulum.The feeling of being unable to swallow properly is clinically described as dysphagia.
An inability to swallow might be due to pain in the throat or esophagus as food pushes on the diverticula. If the pain is severe, it might cause you to eat less, which could lead to weight loss.;
, Aspiration pneumonia is a lung infection that develops due to inhaled food, liquid, or vomit. The food, vomit, or liquid lodges in the lungs, usually when the person lies down and the substance is regurgitated, and leads to infection. Common signs of aspiration pneumonia include:Chest pain
Trouble swallowing
Fever
Coughing
Trouble breathing

, Bad breath (halitosis) is commonly associated with esophageal diverticulum. This is due to the fact that as food collects in the diverticula, it rots and decays. The rotten food lodged in the throat may lead to bad breath and/or a bad taste in the mouth., Regurgitation refers to the process of already-consumed food returning from the esophagus or stomach. If you notice food in your mouth that you already ate, you might have esophageal diverticulum. You might also find food on your pillow when you wake in the morning., Coughing is the process of roughly exhaling in order to clear the throat or lungs. It is an involuntary action that often accompanies esophageal diverticulum. As a result, you might find your throat becomes sore or your voice becomes hoarse. You might also cough during the night, waking your partner or even yourself.Your coughing might be due to pulmonary aspiration — the movement of foreign material or secretions into the trachea (windpipe) and/or lungs., Pain in the neck related to esophageal diverticulum might occur on the sides, front, or back of the neck. In the case of large diverticula, especially, you are likely to experience pain the neck, especially when swallowing.