 Horses use their ears in a variety of ways to communicate. Your horse’s ears can either be forward, pinned, turned out to the side, turned back, or rapidly swiveling. Here is a guide to figure out what each movement means:


If your horse’s ears are positioned forward, this usually means your horse is relaxed. However, if they are sharply pricked forward this means your horse is alert and tuning into something that is either interesting or frightening.
If your horse’s ears are pinned flat against the back of its neck, this means your horse is angry and aggressive.If your horse’s ears are turned out to the side, this generally means your horse is relaxed or sleeping, and many not be attuned to what is going on around it. Be careful not to startle your horse when they are in this position. Instead, call their name or make a noise to rouse their attention.If your horse’s ears are pointed backward, but not pinned, this means your horse is trying to listen to something behind it. When combined with swishing tail or other signs of tension in the body, ears that are turned back might be a precursor to pinned ears.If your horse's ears are rapidly swiveling, i.e., flipping back and forth, this means your horse is in a heightened state of anxiety or alertness. Your horse may be trying to identify a frightening sound or smell.When a horse is relaxed, their ears will point in the direction of what they are paying attention to. This means that a horse with its ears pointing backward may just be paying attention to what's going on behind it without being angry or aggressive.;
, You can tell a lot about your horse’s mood by observing their head carriage. Your horse’s head carriage may be lowered, elevated, or snaking. Here is a guide to figure out what each position means:


If your horse’s head carriage is lowered, this is a sign of relaxation or a sense of feeling good. Its ears will often hang to the side when its head is in this position. Also, if your horse is in the stall, a lowered head position might indicate that your horse is sleeping. Be careful not to startle your horse.If your horse’s head carriage is elevated, the horse is in alert mode, and trying to decipher if it should flee, investigate, or ignore. To prevent your horse from bolting, try to regain its focus on you by saying its name.
If your horse’s head carriage is snaking, i.e., lowering its head slightly and swinging it back and forth, this is an aggressive act. This is a red alert. Try to diffuse the situation by refocusing its attention, leaving the area, or getting away from the horse., Your horse’s eyes indicate to you what your horse is thinking, as well as where its attention is focused. Your horse’s eyes may be relaxed, tense, darting rapidly, or your horse may be showing the whites of its eyes. Here’s a guide to understanding your horse’s eye movements:


If your horse is relaxed, its eyelids will be relaxed where you will be unable to see the whites of its eyes.
If see the muscles tighten around the eye, i.e., tightness around the corner of the eye or a wrinkled upper eyelid, this is an early sign of distress, fear, or discomfort.
If you see your horse’s eyes darting rapidly, i.e., flicking from side to side, this means he/she is scared and looking for a way to escape. And, if your horse feels trapped, it might react by biting or kicking.If your horse is showing the whites of its eyes, i.e., opening its eyes widely, it is only mildly alarmed or startled. However, in some breeds, like the Appaloosas and Pintos, the whites of the eyes are always visible. Therefore, it is only natural for the whites to show and it is not a sign of alarm., A horse’s nose and lips can communicate a lot about what it's feeling. Your horse’s nose and lips may be slack, curled, flaring, or tightly pinched or pursed. Here’s a guide to determine what each signal means:


If your horse is standing quietly with its lower lip drooping, i.e., slack, it is relaxed and/or might be sleeping. Approach your horse with caution so as not to startle it. However, if your horse is awake and its lower lip is still slack, this may be a sign of a neurological problem. If this happens, you should take your horse to the veterinarian.If your horse is curling its upper lip, also known as flehmen, it means that your horse is sniffing an unfamiliar smell. When a horse sniffs an unfamiliar smell, it raises its head, curls the upper lip, and breathes air through its mouth and back out through its nostrils.If your horse is flaring its nostrils, it means one of two things. It is either out of breath and trying to draw in more air, or, if it is accompanied with a quivering, then your horse is either nervous or startled. Your horse's nostrils should only be flaring if it's been working. If your horse has not been working, then flaring nostrils could be a sign that something is wrong. You should call out a vet to check on your horse.
If your horse’s nose and lips are tightly pinched or pursed (one of the more subtle gestures), then your horse is either worried, stressed, or scared. Try to diffuse the situation by moving your horse away from the area.
 You can also understand what your horse is feeling by observing its mouth and teeth. Your horse’s mouth and teeth may be grinding, clacking, or gaping. Here’s a guide to determine what each signal means:


Teeth grinding can be a sign of multiple things. Your horse could be stressed or experiencing pain or discomfort.
Clacking teeth is usually a communication tool used by younger horses, or foals. If a younger horse is clacking its teeth, it usually means it is signaling to other horses that it is just a baby and does not want to be hurt.A gaping mouth with visible teeth can mean several things. If your horse is showing its teeth combined with pinned ears and wide eyes, then it is displaying anger and might be seconds away from biting. If a horse is gaping while you are riding it, then the bridle and bit might be causing it pain. Finally, if your horse suddenly stops and opens its mouth with its neck stretched out while eating, it may be choking. Either try to remove the uneaten food or call a veterinarian immediately.
Horses are nasal breathers, so they should only be breathing through their nostrils. If your horse is attempting to breathe through its mouth, then something is wrong. Call a vet immediately.

