 Aromatherapy uses the essential oils of various herbs to produce soothing scents. Apply a drop of peppermint oil, lavender oil, or lemon oil to both your wrists and your temples, then breathe deeply.


Make sure you don’t have a skin sensitivity to the oil by first putting a single drop of oil on your wrist. If you have a sensitivity, then you may experience a rash, redness or itching. If so, try a different oil or use a different method to deal with your nausea., In Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), the body is seen as having a system of energy meridians throughout. Applying needles (as in acupuncture) or pressure (as in acupressure) to specific points along these meridians can help to re-balance the energy and reduce feelings of nausea.


Try the “P6,” “Neiguan” or “inner gate” point. This point is about two finger-widths below the crease of your wrists (at the base of the palms). Start with your palms facing you. Feel for two tendons around the midpoint of that area above your wrist. Using the index and middle finger of the opposite hand, apply firm, but gentle pressure for about 10–20 seconds and release. Make sure you repeat this process on the other arm as well., The University of Connecticut conducted a study which indicated that controlled, deep breathing can help to relieve nausea.Other studies have indicated that breathing can help control nausea after surgery.Try this exercise adapted from the University of Missouri at Kansas City:


Lie flat on your back and place pillows under your knees and neck to make sure that you are comfortable.
Put your hands (palm down) on your stomach, right below the rib cage. Place your hands over your belly with your fingers together. This way, you will be able to feel your fingers separate as you breathe in and this will let you know that you are doing the exercise correctly.
Take a long, slow deep breath by expanding your belly, breathing like a baby breathes. This ensures that you are using your diaphragm to breathe rather than your rib cage. The diaphragm creates suction that pulls more air into your lungs than by expanding the rib cage.
 Some environmental irritants may cause you to feel nauseous. These include strong odors, smoke, heat, and humidity. Do your best to avoid these irritants as they can be “triggers” for either nausea or vomiting.
 Sometimes being stressed, overworked, or physically uncomfortable may cause you to feel nauseous. Some common causes of nausea are stress, anxiety, and muscle strain. Try to rest and relax to help reduce these unpleasant symptoms and prevent them from escalating feelings of nausea.
 When you are feeling nauseous, moving around too much may make matters worse. Try to keep as still as possible to help reduce your feelings of nausea and prevent them from becoming worse. Sit in a comfortable chair or recline on a sofa or bed.