 As you prepare to clean and disinfect your rabbit’s hutch, make sure to have all your supplies on hand. You will need ready access to the following items:


Bucket
Stiff brush
Smaller brush or toothbrush for hard-to-reach spots
Vinegar spray
Gentle dish soap
Garbage bag
Gloves

, Rabbit hutches should be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected at least once a week. The cage floor will get soiled quickly. This can pose a health risk to your rabbit if you don’t keep it tidy and disinfected., Place your rabbit in a temporary holding pen, rabbit run, or another place where she’ll be safe while you clean the hutch. Be sure to give her some food and water, along with a couple of toys.
 Take out old and unwanted food. Remove soiled litter, hay, and fur from the hutch.


Wear gloves as you remove these materials. Place them in a garbage bag for disposal.
 Rabbits mark their territory with scents. They can become stressed if they are reintroduced to a hutch that does not have any familiar scent. When you empty out the hutch, leave one small area untouched.The next time you clean the hutch, leave a different area alone. Make sure to clean the area that you skipped this time.
 Use warm water and gentle dish soap to scrub the hutch.


Use a smaller brush or a toothbrush to reach corners and other hard-to-reach spots in the hutch.
You can also use a pressure washer if your hutch is a steel cage. If the hutch is permanently attached to a surface, make sure the attachments are secure before turning on the pressure washer.It may work better to take the hutch down and place it on a gravel or concrete area to pressure wash it.
Some people use a propane torch on steel cages. This will burn away any residue from the cage. Be sure to proceed carefully if you use this method. Use oven mitts or other heavy-duty gloves, as well as goggles, when cleaning a hutch this way. Don’t use a torch if any part of the cage is wooden.
 If your hutch has a drop tray, be sure to scrub this with a brush. Use hot water and a gentle dish soap.
 Stay away from Lysol and other disinfecting chemicals. These can leave residues in the hutch that are harmful to your rabbit., Vinegar is a natural disinfectant,and is not harmful to people or animals. Mix up a solution of 1 part white vinegar to 1 part warm water. Put it in a clean spray bottle. Spray vinegar directly on the hutch to disinfect it.You can also use bleach. Be sure to use 1 part bleach to 5 parts water. Use this mixture in a well-ventilated area. Use gloves when cleaning with bleach.
Some rabbit breeders use Vanodine, which is an iodine-based disinfectant. The antiseptic betadine mixed with hydrogen peroxide is another option., Use a liberal amount of disinfectant so that the hutch is completely saturated in the liquid. Let it stand for 10 minutes., Use clean, cool water to rinse the hutch so that there is no residue. If there is any wood material in the hutch, it’s especially important to rinse thoroughly, since wood is porous and can absorb cleaner more readily.Although vinegar residue is not harmful, bleach solution residue is. It’s imperative that you rinse off bleach residue completely.
 Sunlight will dry the hutch more quickly. It is also especially important if you use bleach to clean the hutch. The sunlight will break down any bleach residue that was left after rinsing.Make sure the hutch is completely dry before putting things back together and reintroducing your bunny to the hutch.
 The feeding bowls and water bottles should be cleaned and sanitized at least once a week. Scrub them with soap and hot water.Disinfect by spraying them with vinegar.


Use a bottle brush to clean out water bottles. Some people also put these dishes in the dishwasher.
 If you use bedding such as towels or blankets, be sure to wash these every week as well.
 Once the hutch is fully dry, you’re ready to reassemble the living space for your rabbit. Spread fresh bedding material across the entire floor of the hutch.


Make sure to place the rabbit’s littering area in the area to which she has become accustomed., Place the bunny’s food dish, water dish or bottle, and toys back into the hutch.
 Once the hutch is completely ready for your rabbit, put her back in the hutch.

