 These ants are coming into your home because there is something there for them: a food source or a warm environment. If you have a very dirty house, ants will multiply – so make sure that you clean daily. The cleaner you keep the house, the less they'll have to eat, and the more they'll look elsewhere for sustenance.Wipe down all surfaces. Spray tables and counter-tops with a mild bleach or vinegar solution. Make sure you keep up with a regular cleaning regimen: sweep, mop, and vacuum at least a few days each week.
If you do accidentally leave something out, take the opportunity to trace the trail of ants back to their source. It can be tempting to wipe out a swarm immediately – but try to think long-term about the problem.
 If you see a lone ant roaming your counters, it is acting as a scout. It is scoping out your kitchen for scents and food sources. If this ant discovers a perceived food source—even just a sticky sweet spot on the counter-top—it will carry the information back to its nest, and you'll have an infestation on your hands.
 Even if you've stashed your food in a cupboard, ants can still find their way in through the smallest of holes. If they can smell it and reach it, then they will swarm it. Putting food in airtight containers has the added bonus of keeping the food fresher.


Consider buying Tupperware or another brand of standardized, sealed containers. It may be easier to keep track of your containers (lids and bottoms) if you're using a uniform set.
Consider washing out resealable containers, then reusing them to store food. This might be a resealable yogurt tub, or a plastic takeout box, or even a lightly-used Ziploc bag.
 This means no dirty dishes, no standing water for ants to drink, and no food in the drain. If you clean your hands, food, and dishes in this sink, you want to make sure that it's a safe and sanitary environment.


Place pet-food bowls in a slightly larger bowl, then add some water to the larger bowl. This creates a moat around the pet food that the ants can't easily cross.

