 The people that work to calculate your credit score can make mistakes. These mistakes may cause your score to appear much lower than it actually is. Check your credit score and dispute any errors that you may suspect.There are a few online services that let you dispute any errors you may have found such as Experian, Trans Union, or Equifax. If you find disputes with one, check all three to make sure they are fully addressed.

Fixing errors in your credit score will increase the score and give you an accurate picture of where your credit is currently.
 Despite having missed a few payments, or made a few late payments, you may still be able to negotiate with your creditors to have these events changed in order to improve your credit score. Try asking about the following when negotiating your delinquent or late payments:Ask your creditors if you can pay off the full amount on a delinquent loan in order to have it labeled “paid as agreed” instead of a missed payment.
If you have only one or two missed payments on an otherwise great payment schedule, write a letter to your creditor that highlights your overall positive payments. They may remove the late payments affecting your score negatively.
 Credit card use is a great way to positively increase your credit score, so long as you use them properly. Try taking the following steps to increase your credit score by best managing your credit cards.If you do not have a credit card, obtain one and start using it. Sometimes you can get a prepaid credit card if you do not qualify for a regular credit card. These will often charge higher interest rates along with additional fees.
Keep the amount charged on your credit card low. Having charges that are maxed out, or close to it, will hurt your credit score.
Don't overuse your credit card. Using 30% of your card's maximum limit a month is acceptable, so take the card limit and divide it by three to get the amount you can spend per month. Try to pay off that balance in full every month. Using your card too much in a month, even if you pay it off, will only give the impression that you are a reckless spender.
Increase your limit. If you do use your card often, increase the maximum limit. You must be careful to not also increase your spending amount. Strive for ten to thirty percent of your card's limit a month.
Don't close any cards. Closing a card will look bad to any credit scoring system. Instead, keep your card working for you by using it to pay for a small monthly bill which is easily repaid.

