 Researchers aren't sure exactly what in ginger relieves nausea, but it may be the oils and phenols in it. Ginger has been used for centuries to settle the stomach and combat nausea, though it has not been scientifically proven to be effective for carsickness. Before using it, check with your doctor if you are pregnant, nursing, or taking other medications with which it might interfere. If your doctor says it is ok, you might try:A tea brewed from fresh ginger. A warm cup of tea is always a cozy addition to reading a good book. This can be quite spicy so be prepared! You can add honey to sweeten it.
Ginger soda. The carbonation may also help settle your stomach.
Ginger cookies or breads
Ginger supplements

, Dimenhydrinate (Dramamine) is commonly used, but meclizine (Antivert) is also available. Read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions and consult your doctor before using them if you are pregnant, nursing, or taking other medications.These medications causes drowsiness so you may have trouble staying awake while reading.
Do not drive or operate machinery while taking this medication.
Take it a half hour to an hour before you get in the car.
 When you discuss the medication with your doctor tell him or her if you are pregnant, nursing, or have other health conditions like asthma, glaucoma, urine retention, epilepsy, heart, kidney, or liver problems. If your doctor feels it is appropriate for you, you may get a prescription for a scopolamine or hyoscine adhesive patch (Transderm Scop).Put the patch behind your ear a few hours before you get in the car.
It should protect you against motion sickness for about 3 days.
This medication may cause drowsiness, blurred vision, and dizziness, so if the side effects are strong, it may interfere with your ability to read. If you will also be driving for part of the trip, do not take this medication.
In some countries, this medication may be available without a prescription. But don’t use it on children or the elderly without first consulting a doctor.

