 These are:

Use Ground 2: If a property was subject to a mortgage prior to it becoming a rental property, a lender can exercise the right to repossess it. However to use this ground, notice (usually equivalent to 14 days) must be served before any form of tenancy agreement has been completed.

Use Ground 8: This ground in only applicable in one of the following three scenarios:
a) Where a tenant has agreed to pay weekly/fortnightly rental payments and has failed to pay their rent for at least 8 weeks.
b) Where a tenant has agreed to pay monthly repayments and has failed to pay their rent for 2 months.
c) Where a tenant had agreed to pay quarterly repayments and has failed to pay their rent for more than 3 months.



Use Ground 10: Should any amount of rent still not be paid to you upon the date your tenant was served notice and proceedings for possession have begun, you have the grounds to evict your tenant.

Use Ground 11: Is applicable when a tenant has repeatedly failed to pay their rent on time.

Use Ground 12: Probably one of the most common grounds you’ll ever use on this form, ground 12 occurs when a tenant has breached a part of their tenancy agreement (other than not paying their rent). This can include letting the property deteriorate, vandalizing the property (internally and externally), possessing illegal substances on the premises… etc.

Use Ground 13: Occurs when the tenant has allowed the property to deteriorate either through misuse or neglect. This covers neglecting the property themselves or failing to remove the person living with them who has caused the deterioration.

Use Ground 14: Commonly occurs when your tenant (or the person living with them) has been reported as a nuisance neighbor to you by their neighbors, visitors or other locals.
This ground is also applicable to tenants who have used your rental property for illegal purposes, such as drugs or they have committed an intractable offense in the local area.



Use Ground 14A: This ground admittedly is only available to registered social landlords or charitable housing trusts. Here your property is occupied by a couple where one has been forced to leave because of violence/threats of violence from their partner or their family. With this ground you can effectively evict the dangerous party from the property and protect the innocent partner involved.

Use Ground 15: Relates to vandalism that has intentionally been done to the property i.e. where your tenant or the person living with them has purposefully mistreated the furniture.

Use Ground 17: This ground is useful if you have been falsely persuaded to form a tenancy agreement with a tenant who willingly gave you a false statement. This can stem to information they themselves provided to you, or fake guarantor references which have been supplied on their behalf.;
