 While all kids enjoy repetitive play to some degree, autistic children will exhibit strong repetitive behaviours such as rocking, hand-flapping, rearranging objects, or repeating sounds over and over again, called echolalia.These can be essential for self-calming and relaxation.


All children partake in some verbal mimicry until the age of three. An autistic child may do this more often, and beyond the age of threeSome repetitive behaviours are called self-stimulation or "stimming," meaning that they stimulate the child’s senses. An example of this is if your son wiggles his fingers in front of his eyes to stimulate his vision and amuse himself.
 Autistic children may not engage in visible imaginative play, preferring to organize objects (e.g. organizing toys or building a city for their dolls instead of playing house). The imagination is occurring inside their head.


Try breaking the pattern: rearranging the dolls they are lining up or passing in front of them while they are trying to walk in a circle. An autistic child will be noticeably bothered by you interfering.
Autistic children may be able to engage in imaginative play with another child, especially if that child takes the lead; however, these children will usually not do it on their own.
 Intense and unusual obsessions with everyday household objects (such as a broom or string) or, later, facts, may be a sign of autism.An autistic child may develop a special interest about a topic, and gain an extraordinary depth of knowledge. Examples include cats, baseball statistics, The Wizard of Oz, logic puzzles, and checkers. A child may "light up" or open up when asked about these subjects.
A child may have one special interest at a time, or a few. They can change as the child learns and grows.
 Many autistic children have a strong need for routines and consistency, and may show exaggerated reactions or protests to changes in routines. For instance, if you always walk with your child to school taking the same route, try changing it up. An autistic child may become very resistant and upset by this change of routine.


Routines may have to do with the order of daily tasks, but they may also be verbal (such as asking the same questions repeatedly), have to do with food (only eating foods of a certain color), clothing (only wearing clothes of a specific fabric or color), the location of furniture, and so on.Routines can be very comforting for a person with autism. The world can seem unpredictable, confusing, and scary to this person, and a routine can give them some sense of control and stability.
 If your child shows unusual discomfort to light, textures, sounds, tastes, or temperatures, talk to your doctor.Autistic children may "overreact" to new sounds (e.g. a sudden loud noise or a vacuum cleaner), textures (e.g. an itchy sweater or sock), et cetera. This is because the particular sense is magnified, so it causes real discomfort or pain.

