 Collections are always more successful if you direct your attention to a specific aspect, such as an era, a theme, a style, etc. The era that interests you will likely be dependent on the country of origin as well, as you will need to account for country variations and interests during particular decades but the Victorian era is well known for its pokerwork pieces.A Look Into the Past of The Art of "Pyr" Themes can include animals, plants, activity scenes, landscapes, country-specific, etc. Do some library and online research to get an idea of what you prefer. For some people, narrowing it down in this way isn't ideal and there are no hard and fast rules to prevent you from just buying pieces that you like!;
, Good, exhibition-worthy furniture or large pieces of pokerwork will cost around AUD $2,000 - $5,000. If you're still keen but don't have these amounts to spend, keep an eye out in antique stores for smaller pieces that were once cluttering the lounge and sitting rooms of many an average family. Pieces such as memento boxes, paperweights, bookends, vases, plates, etc., can be found anywhere in the range from AUD $50 - $300., When you are looking for good quality and value, whole timber pieces are worth more and retain their value better than plywood pieces., When checking out items of interest, look for chips, grazes, missing pieces, etc. and assess whether any damage devalues the item for your collection. If there is damage but you still want the piece for your collection, seek a heavily reduced price for the item.
 Pokerwork that is crazed is, for the main part, irreparable. The same goes for large cracks.
 Pokerwork that is layered under dust and specks can be easily and safely cleaned using an old toothbrush. Once the toothbrush has removed as much as possible, clean the entire piece with a rag that has been dampened in one part vinegar and two parts grapeseed oil.Wipe off excess liquid and repeat one week later (this gives the oil time to soak in). Adding oil regularly will keep a great shine on your pokerwork items.
 Pokerwork items deserve to be shown off. The ideal storage would be behind glass to prevent dust build-up, although large and elegant pieces are better off being placed in strategic positions around the house as artwork (polish regularly!).

