 Lay out and separate each of your strands flat on the table, with four of them to the right, four to the left, and a space in between them in the middle. You can also hold four strands in each hand if you choose to use that method for braiding.


Make sure you pay attention to where colors are placed if you’re going for a certain pattern.
As you start making your braid, you should return to this placement of four strands to the left and four to the right to ensure that the strands stay neat and in order.
 Take the strand that’s on the far right of all eight of your strands. Bring it under the three other strands that you have extending to the right, as well as under two of the strands extending to the left.









If you’d like to use letters to help keep track of the strands, you can label them A, B, C, D . E, F, G, H, with the "." indicating the space you should leave between the two groups of strands. Take the H strand and bring it underneath G, F, E, D, and C so that it rests in between B and C. The new order would be A, B, H, C . D, E, F, G.
Keep the strands arranged so that some extend out to the right and some extend out to the left. Once you move the rightmost strand in this step, there will temporarily be five strands on the left and only three on the right.
 Take the strand you just moved underneath five other strands and bring it back over the last two. This will place the strand back over with the group of strands on the right, but in a new position toward the middle.









With lettering, take the H strand from its position between B and C at the end of the previous step. Wrap it over C and D to rest next to E on the right side. The new configuration would be: A, B, C, D . H, E, F, G.
Tighten the strands by pulling up toward the end knot. It’s essential that you keep four strands on the right and four on the left, even though you’ve changed the positions of the strands slightly.
 Pick up the strand on the far left of all your strands and bring it under the three others on the left, as well as two of the strands on the right. This repeats the same thing you did with the rightmost strand, this time on the left side.









With lettered strands after the previous steps, the order was A, B, C, D . H, E, F, G. Now, take the A strand and bring it under B, C, D, H, and E so that it rests between E and F.
Just like on the first side, this will temporarily make it so that there are now five strands on one side (the right this time) and only three strands on the other (the left this time).
 Take the strand you just moved from the left and under five other strands. Wrap it back over the last two strands so that it resumes its place with the other three strands on the left, but now in a new position toward the middle.









With lettering, you’ll move the A strand that you placed between E and F previously. Take it over E and H so that it rests on the other side next to D. The order then becomes B, C, D, A . H, E, F, G.
Tighten the strands up toward the end knot and you have now completed the same thing on both sides. Keep four strands on the right and left like you do to begin, even though they are now in a different order.
 Continue moving the rightmost strand under the next five strands and back over the last two, then do the same to the leftmost strand. Repeat these motions over and over until you reach your desired length or the end of your material.









If at any point you forget what side you left off on, the strand to start with is the rightmost or leftmost strand that appears slightly higher up where it comes out of your braid.Pause to untangle your strands if you are using long pieces of material. Keep the order of your strands by holding them down with your hand or another heavy flat object while you gently untangle the ends.

