 Consult the documents related to your property and look for the size of your yard. A typical city-sized lot is about one-tenth of an acre and can accommodate one bee colony. Make your determination of how many colonies to have based on the size of your yard.Ensure your space has a clear flight path for the bees so that you or your neighbors don’t interrupt their ability to build the hive.;
, Ask local officials, a county extension, or a beekeeping association about ordinances that govern hosting a colony. They may include regulations about how many hives you can have and the minimum amount of space between hives and your property line. This can prevent violating city codes or having to pay fines.Find your local beekeeping association at http://www.beeculture.com/. County extensions have offices in every state of the United States. You can find your local county extension at http://npic.orst.edu/pest/countyext.htm.
 Bees’ behavior is entirely dependent on climate. Use the fall and winter to consult books on beekeeping, gather your supplies to build the hive, and find a source for your bees. Introduce your bees to the hive in the spring as the early flowers appear. A springtime start allows your bees to collect nectar and pollen to build a strong ., Find a local supplier that sells the three types of beehives: top bar hive, Warre hive, and Langstroth hive. Each type of hive has advantages and drawbacks based on your expectations. Determine the type of hive best suited for your needs by asking yourself the following questions:Can I lift 40 pounds? If not, a top bar hive that weighs less than 10 pounds may be best for you.
How many hives do I want? If you only want a couple of hives, a top bar or Warre hive are good options for you. If you want many hives, the Langstroth is a good choice for you.
How much maintenance do I want to do? A top bar hive is optimal if you want to spend more time with your bees. For occasional maintenance, the Warre or Langstroth are good options.
Do I want to watch the bees? I you are exited to see your bees in action, select a Warre hive.
 Purchase a hive stand or build one with concrete blocks to keep your hive off of the ground. Measure that the hives are at least 18 inches off of the ground. This can protect them from critters such as skunks or raccoons as make it easier to check the hives as you need. It also protects your back from having to lift a heavy hive., Having basic protective clothing and tools such as a smoker can help you optimally maintain your colony and protect yourself. Consider getting the following hive tools:Bee suit with gloves or simple hat and veil and lightweight jacket
Smoker to calm the bees when you’re working in the hive
Hive tool, which is a mini pry bar specific to beekeeping

, Select a local beekeeper, gardening or pet store to purchase your bees by January or February. This can ensure that you have bees when you start the hive in spring.,, Open the top of your hive and pull the bees out of their package. Release them into your hive and let them settle in before covering it. This allows your bees to get to work., It may take time in the spring for nectar to start flowing. Add some food to your hive if the local flora blossoms later than usual. Fill a quart jar with a 1:1 mixture of water and sugar. Punch holes in the top of the hive and hang the jars from them., Check the hive as often as you like. This could be once between spring introduction and fall harvesting or every day if you prefer. This can ensure your hive is flourishing and building a strong comb., During your check-ups of the hive, look for signs of illness, parasite infestation or other animals accessing your hive. This can help you nip potential problems in the bud before they affect your hive. Some signs of issues with your hive include:Misplaced bars
Weakened colony
Visible hive beetles or wax moths on the comb
Lack of larvae
Deformed wings

