 Small businesses may not have the money to install the same types of security systems that big business does. That does not mean they can leave the information they have stored on their computer systems unsecured and unprotected. Instead, it means they need to be smarter about how they manage their computer security systems. They need to follow steps that will keep the information they have stored as safe as their clients, customers, and employees expect.;
, Small businesses face the same risks that big businesses face when it comes to cyber security. Their computer systems can be infected with viruses and malware that slow down their computers. Their systems can also be breached by hackers who are searching for private information that a small business may keep. Depending on the type of business, the amount of private information about clients and customers can be extensive.


Addresses, email addresses, and other information about customers and clients.
Credit card information used for purchases.
Sensitive private identification numbers such as social security numbers and tax identification numbers. (This is especially common in small healthcare businesses.)

, If a small business does not protect information entrusted to them, they can easily lose trust, revenue and could face fines and sanctions.
 Each should have antivirus software that is up to date and is turned on. This is the most basic protection and is essential.
 The amount of security needed depends on the sensitivity of the information stored on the computer. Extra security should be in place for more sensitive information.
 This is a fairly new product which can help a company overcome financial difficulties if their computer systems are breached.
 It is important to not only monitor employees to make sure they are not putting computers at risk, it is also important to monitor any private devices that an employee may use on the business network.
 Every business should have policies in place to protect their computer systems. The employees should all sign a form indicating they have read the policies and there should be consequences when employees break those policies.
 The biggest reason a small businesses will use for not doing anything about cyber security is the cost. The reality is that the cost of a cyber security system for a small business does not have to be prohibitive. The cost of an anti-virus program, for instance, is not as large some businesses may think. Many of the other steps to improve cyber security don’t cost much at all--if anything.
 The cost of having a computer system breached is often much higher than the cost to secure it. Globally, the cost of breaches in cyber security for all businesses could reach $3 trillion. Each instance can result in lost productivity, lost data that has to be recreated and lost revenue.
 Not everyone will agree about the type of cyber security, or even how much security a small business needs. One thing they can agree on is that the threats to all computers are real no matter what size the business. They also know the threats will continue to grow and a small business needs to act before it is too late.

