 Summer is the brightest season and is known for a lack of heavy clothing. Many people tend to go for the obvious colors: orange and blonde. These are warm colors, but they don’t fully represent the “bright” spectrum. Shades of blue can work well for the sunny season. A majority of color people experience in the summer is found in the light blue of the sky. Here’s a list of colors associated with summer that would work well as a hair color:


Red
Pink
Bright Blue
Light Magenta
Green, Autumn is the season where all the lush greenery prepares and dies for winter. During this natural process of death, nature produces an array of stunning colors. Autumn colors can better be labelled as muted warm colors.You can see this in effect on a cool autumn day. Here is a list of warm cool colors of autumn:


Rust
Teal
Salmon
Brick Red
Beige

, Winter is the time of the year when nothing grows and nature is in hibernation. The sky is typically grey and therefore your hair can reflect this with grey tinted colors. The colors of this drab season are muted but enticing. Just because a color has a tint of grey, doesn’t mean it can’t warm you up. Essentially any pastel color or “icy” color can work during this season. Here is a list of “muted cool” colors of winter:


Slate Blue
Winter White
Charcoal
Mauve
Burgundy, Spring is the season of birth where everyone begins to feel the warmth again. This season is notorious for having incredible colors because of new foliage. The color pattern is similar to summer, but the tint of each color isn’t as bright as summer. This is the season of baby colors. These colors all look great in hair because they do not pop out to the eye as much. Here is a brief set of example colors you could choose:


Coral
Turquoise
Peach
Cobalt Blue
Chinese Red

, The city is a great place to base your color palette. Whether you live in a small city or New York City, there is a unique color you can find to fit your needs. Many cities tend to be tinted with streaks of grey, like London. A city like Chicago has tints of green throughout downtown because of the natural green tint of the Chicago river. Look around your neighborhood and attempt to pick out a color you see often.


You can also dye your hair a combination of colors based on your environment.
Be as bold as you want. The city is a big place and you should feel free to express yourself through color.
 Small towns can have a plethora of colors. Small towns typically are settled more firmly into a natural setting such as a mountain, farm, beach, or plain. Take inspiration from whichever scene you see on a daily basis. A town like Boone, NC, for example, is situated at the top of a mountain and subsequently has an extreme variety of colors.


You will stand out and become easily noticed after dying your hair a unique color in a small town.
Consider the reaction from your community before going forward with this type of change.
 As you consider colors based on season, always come back to your hair and skin tone. You may love the idea of burgundy hair for the fall, but will it work for you? Consider how a burgundy shade will show up, given your skin tone and hair color. You may have to go with a different choice if burgundy does not work well for your hair.

