 There are dozens of programs you can choose from. Many are free, but if you’re willing to pay for the program, you can get a more advanced program. All of them can run a scan that detects a large majority of threats to your computer. The more advanced programs allow you to do a custom scan.


Whichever scanning program you choose, make sure it scans your registry objects. This is where you will first see problems with a hacker. Memory, startup, filesystem, and heuristic areas are also important in your scan.;
, Some have system pre-requisites, be sure that you use one that matches with your computer and system model. The pre-requisites will be listed before you download or install anything. If your computer doesn’t recognize the program, you’ve likely chosen one that doesn’t match the pre-requisites.Find your program either by inserting the disk and navigating to your computer menu or by going into your downloads and double clicking on the program.
Select language and read through the agreement. You must accept the terms to move forward.
Select an installation directory. Clicking next after you accept the terms will automatically select your default locations for your installation directory.
You’re ready to install. You will be asked if you’d like to create a desktop icon and then you’ll see a final confirmation asking if you’re ready to install. Once you confirm, you’re installation will be completed in the next couple minutes.
 Open your anti-malware program. The home screen will have an option across the top that says “Scan.” Click this. Up to three scan options will pop up. Choose the first level, Threat Scan, for the most comprehensive scan. It scans all of the places that malware is known to hide., When you choose which scan you wish to run, a screen will pop up will all of your programs listed in a menu. Beneath this menu, there will be a button that says Scan Now. Click this button. This scan can take a good about of time to perform. You can watch your scan progress by keeping the program open.


You can pause the scan at any time by clicking the button at the bottom of your progress screen.
 If your computer has not been hacked, has no malware, and no other threats, your scan will display no detected threats. If there are threats, it will list them and you decide where to go from there.


Most anti-malware programs will list the threats by severity. Red will represent malware, whereas yellow often represents items that are potential danger. Remove malware to protect your computer. It is up to you which programs to keep.
Select the boxes that you wish to remove. The programs listed will be next to a box. Check them and then click “Remove Selected.”
Once the removal is done, you’re scan will tell you that it was quarantined.
 To ensure that the threat removal process is complete, you need to restart your computer. If you choose to wait, you will be reminded regularly that you need to restart it.