 You're going to need a practice location, a set practice time, scripts, and the director.


Have an application for parents to fill out and sign including a disclaimer of certain legalities (give the parent or responsible adult a copy). Have warning signs to post for safety.
If you have only been asked to direct, you can also offer to help organize and publicize the theatre group.
It's recommended that you get an assistant director, if you have more than 15 people; above this number you will usually need to split the actors into separate groups to undertake separate practices so as to avoid having people sit around being bored and creating discipline problems. If you're already well immersed in acting, chances are, you know other people around town who are familiar with acting and directing and would be willing to help out. Call them up and explain to them what they would be doing and what benefits they'd get from being involved: Readers' Theatre is a popular choice for parents, educators and groups looking to encourage participation and nurture the creative spirit.
Think up a name for your Readers' Theatre. It can be very simple (like the name of the town/city where you live) or something to do with theatre arts.;
, Look for any small buildings for rent (drive around, look online, ask people, etc.). Narrow down your choice to three suitable places, and go to see them, walk through them and get a good feel for them. What you're looking for is a nice, wide-open space able to accommodate any stunts or running around, and that has a few chairs, a bathroom and a break room. Check that it has suitably bright lights, so the actors can get used to acting in this environment. Ask about an especially low cost, the availability and consider security.


Look at community centres, university/college spaces, high schools, etc., and anywhere else where they may be able to loan you the space for free or next-to-nothing after you've explained what you're doing. This is especially useful when you're just starting out and you're stretched for funds.
Ask about empty stores -- in an old shopping center, or on the main street in a small town -- that have remained unoccupied for some time. The owner may be happy to let you use it for nothing, if rental chances are low; your system could even end up featured as a local newspaper story that can help the landlord! Check that it's properly insured and safe though. Providing your own insurance may be very expensive. If you can, then incorporate (such as LLC), to limit personal liability for the event of accident or other problems.
 Make the practice time conveniently fit between meal hours and school hours (if it's for kids), being sure it's a "relaxing" time (like the afternoon, or early evening). Every other day may work (like Monday, Wednesday and Friday, or Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday). Decide what is realistic in terms of time commitment, too. Some people might not be able to commit to three practices a week but could manage one or two. You'll need to account for this and occasionally schedule a theatre group accordingly.


You may need to be flexible about changing the chosen practice time after a while, if it becomes clear that people find the time difficult for one reason or another. Set an initial time, then be prepared to revise it later, if a majority of the group thinks that a change in time would be beneficial for all.
 Perhaps you'll charge a nominal fee to cover expenses and treat the actors as volunteers. Or perhaps you'll charge fees and treat the actors as pupils. This might be organized in cooperation with a church or a city community/civic center. If you do intend on charging fees, have evidence of your qualifications to show potential actors that you are genuine and capable. In either case, people will be keen to know what qualifies you to direct Readers' Theatre, so have a nice spiel written and practiced about your training and experience, for both print and conversation.

