 Plastic forks are one of the easiest item to get, and you'll be using them a lot during your escape.
 To trick the guards at night, you'll need to make it look like you are in bed when, in reality, you really aren't. A Bed Dummy can be crafted with two pillows and a bed sheet in the crafting menu; press 9 on PC, or UP on PS4, XB1 to open it., Duct tape is arguably the most useful item in the game and can be used to craft lots of useful items. Rolls of duct tape and magazines can be found by searching inmates' desks, buying off inmates, or looting downed inmates., A poster can be crafted with a magazine and a roll of duct tape. You'll need the poster for later., You don't want to accrue any extra Guard Heat, because you're already planning the escape., Using your 4 forks, chip away at the wall until it breaks and drops a wall block. Keep the wall block in your inventory.

Cover the hole with a poster. Select the poster in your inventory. Scroll with LB/L1/RB/R1 or press the Number Keys (1-6) or press X or Square (depending on your console) to cover the hole.
 Flush it down another inmates toilet., A wad of putty is used to craft a Key Mold from an unconscious guard, and molten plastic is used to make a Plastic Key. The crafting recipes are:

Talcum Powder + Toothpaste (Wad of Putty)
Lighter + Comb (Molten Plastic).
 A Cup of Molten Chocolate is an item used to one-shot a guard. Create it with a lighter, a cup, and a bar of chocolate. All 3 can be found by looting, stealing from desks, or buying., Your intellect determines what you can and can't craft. To craft plastic keys, your intellect has to be 80. Read in the library until your intellect is 80. Shower once your Fatigue gets to 100 or your Energy gets to 0., The guard with the cell key will always be the first one on the naming screen. Feel free to name him Officer Cell or something that will help you remember., Get your molten plastic and putty, corner him, hover over him, and right click/press X/Square to knock him out. Quickly take his key off him and combine the Cell Key with the wad of putty to make a key mold. Use the molten plastic to make a Plastic Cell Key. Loot his outfit and baton, if you can. Put the Cell Key back on the guard, or you will be sent to Solitary Confinement immediately after he wakes up., Craft another Cup of Molten Chocolate and Putty + Plastic, knock him out, make a Plastic Staff Key, take his outfit and baton off him, and put the Staff Key back on him., Nab 4 more plastic forks from the Cutlery Tray, and head back to the library., Flush the wall block down another inmate's toilet and put a poster on the Metal Shop wall. Now, unless circumstances forbid, you have an unlimited supply of metal. Put the poster concealing the corridor back as well., These smuggle contraband past the metal detectors. You need a roll of duct tape and foil. Foil can be found by looting inmates, stealing from desks, or buying off inmates. However, Contraband Pouches only last for 5 times before they break., Having the third and maximum tier of tools will expedite your escape immensely. This is why you chip into the Metal Shop!

Multitool (Sturdy Shovel + Sturdy Pickaxe)
Sturdy Shovel (Lightweight Shovel + Sheet of Metal + Duct Tape)
Lightweight: (Flimsy + Metal + Duct Tape)
Flimsy (Tool Handle + Metal + Duct Tape)
Sturdy Pickaxe (Lightweight + Timber + Duct Tape)
Lightweight: (Flimsy + Timber + Duct Tape)
Flimsy (Tool Handle + Crowbar + Duct Tape)

, These are crucial for your escape. They cannot be crafted, but they can be looted/stolen/bought off inmates., When the guards aren't looking, dig down underground in the Utility Corridor.

Dig down 10-12 blocks left, not right. You will know by counting the amount of dirt you receive.
Eventually you will need to drop your dirt. Flush it down another inmates toilet.
 The braces are used to support your tunnel you dig. If the tunnel is too long, you have to put a brace in it., The escape starts soon! And find some food. Stash it in the tunnel., At evening roll call, after the shakedowns are called, place the Bed Dummy in the bed. Take the Plastic Cell Key, Plastic Staff Key, Contraband Pouch, Jar of Ink, Digging Tool, and Exotic Feather. Equip the Guard Outfit and baton., The door should be locked with a yellow lock, which you can unlock with the Plastic Cell Key. Enter the hole in the Utility Corridor., Your inventory should consist of these items:

Plastic Cell Key
Plastic Staff Key
Digging Tool
Jar of Ink
Exotic Feather
Food

, When you get dirt, fill in the hole with dirt to cover up the tunnel., Walk until you reach the Guards' Barracks. Enter the Guards' Barracks and take the Unsigned ID Papers.,, Give Checkpoint Charlie the papers., Congratulations, escapist!