 Though you may need to take a trip to your local drugstore or craft store to purchase some of these materials, they should all be relatively affordable and easy to find. You will need:A pack of fake white nails
A bottle of liquid latex, available at costume shops or Halloween stores
A nail file
Nail clippers
Tweezers
A plastic bag
A notebook
A paint brush
A bottle of loose, nude colored powder
A bottle of white paint
A bottle of red paint;
, Choose a medium length nail and use the nail clippers to trim it down so it is the appropriate size and shape for a tooth.
 Keep in mind you will need four larger teeth to make two front teeth on the top and two front teeth on the bottom, as well as 12 smaller teeth.


You can also draw the shape of a tooth on the nail and cut it out based on the drawing.
 You just want to make the teeth look round and smooth so don’t file them too hard as this could make them appear uneven.
 If you are using a large Ziploc bag, simply slide the notebook into the bag and place it on an even surface.
 Use the non brush end of the paint brush and dip the tip into the latex.
 Use the latex covered paint brush to draw out a flat triangle shape that is about the size of your mouth.


Do several layers of the latex in the flat triangle shape on the plastic bag and then fill in the triangle with the liquid latex.
 Lay the teeth out one by one onto the long side of the latex triangle, forming a top row of teeth.


It’s important to get the teeth onto the latex before it dries so try to place the teeth on as carefully and quickly as possible.
If the latex triangle is not long enough to fit all of the teeth, use a latex covered paint brush to extend the length of the triangle.
 This triangle will be for the bottom row of teeth. Use tweezers to add the teeth to the latex one by one, just as you did for the top row of teeth.
 It should take about 15-20 minutes to dry completely. The latex may turn a slightly yellowish color once it dries.
 Using a make up brush, dab powder onto the latex.


It’s important to apply powder to the latex before peeling it off the plastic to ensure it maintains its shape.
 You want a light pink color to match the color of gums.


Cover the white latex completely with the paint, but avoid getting paint on the teeth.
 You should now have a set of cool looking latex teeth.

