 If you’re too nervous to talk to your crush, try to talk to his friends. If a friend of yours knows one of your crush’s friends, go up together and chat. If you don’t have any connections to your crush’s friends, try to meet one or two of them by chatting about any circumstances you have in common, like a class or a work project.You could start a conversation with something as simple as, "So when's the final project for English due again?"
If you end up talking a lot to your crush’s friends, you’re bound to meet or hang out with your crush before long. Becoming friends with your crush’s friends is a way to get into your crush’s good books.
Don’t talk about your crush to his friends. If you start asking about your crush immediately after meeting them, it will be obvious that you like him. Try to play it cool.
 If you feel nervous about approaching your crush, there are several things you can do to get her attention and appear interested.Make eye contact and smile. Eye contact and smiling shows that you are friendly and approachable, but you have to make sure not to overdo it. If your crush doesn’t respond the first time, don’t keep doing it.
If you’re a girl, play with your hair, especially if it’s long. Twirl your hair around your finger or brush it to the side. Drawing attention to your hair is a way of highlighting one of your assets.
 If you’ve never spoken to your crush before, it’s time to take the plunge. Find a reason to talk to your crush, preferably when there aren’t many people around so you won’t get interrupted. If you don’t know your crush, talk about something relating to the circumstances that you’re in.For instance, if you are waiting in line for something, ask your crush, "Hey, do you think the wait is worth it?" If you are in the break room at work you could say, "Have you tried the cookies Susan brought in? They're really good!"
Asking a question is a good way to start a conversation. For instance, if you are in the same class you could ask, “Hey, what did Mr. Feinstein say the homework was again?”
You could also ask for help. Whether it be opening a jar, reaching for something, carrying a heavy suitcase, or getting help with homework, asking your crush for help is a great way to start a conversation. It also will make your crush feel good about himself, which is a good way to have your first interaction with him be a positive one.
 Once you have started talking to your crush, talk about anything you may have in common. People are naturally attracted to people that they have things in common with, so talking about shared passions is a good way to create a bond.For instance, If are both on the school track team, ask your crush "So how are you feeling about the next track meet?"

, Asking your crush a question shows her that you find her interesting and want to learn more about her. Since people like to talk about themselves, it also can be a good way to keep the conversation going.For example, ask your crush, “So how long have you been working here?”, or, “What other classes are you taking this semester?”

, After you've asked your crush about himself, you may be worrying about what you are going to say next, how you are going to respond to what he's saying, what to do if there is a lull in the conversation... all of this can be solved by listening. It's difficult to listen to someone and also focus on how nervous you are — listening attentively should take your attention away from yourself and bring it to the subject at hand.


Try to respond with meaningful follow-up questions, or something that shows your crush you are interested and listening. If your crush is talking about taking scuba lessons, ask him how he became interested in diving, or where he's taking classes, or how long it will take to become certified.
Don't see a pause in the conversation as an opportunity to change the focus over to yourself. Conversations should be give-and-take, so you shouldn't spend the entire time talking about your crush, but it also shouldn't seem like you're just waiting for him to take a breath so you can talk about yourself.
Showing that you are a good listener and genuinely interested in your crush and what he has to say can help him feel comfortable around you.
If it doesn't make you too nervous, make eye contact with your crush to show that you are listening and engaged. Don't stare — that could be a little too intense — but try to meet his gaze occasionally.
Show that you're listening by nodding or make an affirming sound (like "Mmm hmm" or "Right").
 As superficial as it is, people love flattery. While you are talking, try to compliment your crush on something. A compliment is also often a good way to keep the conversation going because it puts it on a new course.If you know your crush through a sport, you could say, “I’ve seen you playing soccer. You’re really good!”
You could also just say, “I like your shirt,” or compliment her on some other aspect of her appearance.
Limit yourself to one compliment to avoid looking like you are sucking up to her.
 Another way to flatter and connect with your crush is to laugh at his jokes. It shows your crush that you have a similar sense of humor and that you find him funny. Laughing together is a great way of connecting and sharing a moment.As you laugh, you can even say, "You're so funny!"
If want to be extra flirtatious, touch your crush’s arm while you laugh. This adds another layer of connection and is a way to make your crush feel closer to you.
 Try to keep running into and talking to your crush. Every time you see your crush in the hall or around town, say hello. Pick up conversations from the last time you talked. If you feel like your crush likes you, amp up your flirtiness or even ask him out!

