 While you can run for office without a degree, graduating from college will demonstrate you have studied current events, history and government. There are no specific degrees that can get you in to politics, but Business, Law, Education are the most popular choices of candidates. Although almost any other degree would work just fine.


Take classes in a variety of subjects.
Consider continuing your education. Many people in politics have advanced degrees in law, business or public administration.;
, Most political internships are unpaid, but they are invaluable in giving you the experience and exposure you need.


Work as an intern for an elected official, a government agency, a political action committee or a nonprofit group that is interested in public policy issues.
 During election years, volunteer for a national or local candidate in your area. You will get a first hand look at how campaigns are managed.
 After you graduate and pay your professional dues via an unpaid internship, look for political work.


Apply for entry level positions as a legislative aid, campaign staffer or field representative.
Work for lesser-known representatives and agencies. While it would be great to have the name of a powerful senator or lobbying group on your resume, you will likely get more responsibility if you start small.



Work for a candidate or elected official for a few years, and then switch to the policy making side. Getting broad experience will help your political career and put you in touch with a larger network of people.
 Whether you are planning to run for office yourself or you want to work in other parts of politics, community involvement is essential.


Serve on boards of local agencies, volunteer for schools, churches and other groups, and attend local events in the community.
 Communication skills are necessary to a career in politics, and you should always be improving yours.


Give speeches, join civic organizations and learn how to introduce yourself to people you do not know.
 Politics is often about who you know, and you should know as many people as you can.


Get to know people from many different backgrounds and constituencies. In politics, you will need to do fundraising, community outreach, campaigning and a lot of work with the media. The more contacts you can call upon for support, the stronger your career will be.
 You must know what is going on locally, nationally and globally.


Read major newspapers such as The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, sign up for e-newsletters from political organizations and nonprofit groups and check websites such as Huffington Post, Politico and others.
 Politics comes with a lot of rejection, especially campaign politics.

