 Go over every aspect of the performance until you are satisfied. To improve your practice, ask directors for pointers; they are there to help you out. While no show is perfect, with persistence, you can create a very satisfying end result.;
, When you are in bed, picture yourself on the stage having a great time. Go through your lines, songs, and dance moves, and picture them going perfectly. Having anxiety about the performance will keep you awake, so the key is to stay relaxed and create a positive image of yourself on the stage.
 Eat plenty of eggs, bananas, spinach, and orange juice. It's also important not to drink alcohol before a performance so that you can focus on what you need to do.
 If your director has a certain dress code in mind, follow it. Because of the constant costume changes, wearing a black tank top and black shorts is efficient. Before wearing it onstage, practice at home. Pick out something in your closet similar to your costume, such as a dress. Practice slipping it on and off, and make sure that nothing snags or pulls. Make sure that whatever you wear backstage is appropriate for pictures, too. Most performers take pictures in their costumes, but sometimes you are required to change before coming out to meet the audience. You must be comfortable in quick change clothes, but still look presentable.
 Some directors and shows call for little makeup if you have small theatre, but it's likely you'll need stage makeup done, which is rather excessive. Your director will most likely tell you what your makeup is supposed to be, you may even have a makeup artist. If they don't tell you, ask. It is never okay to go onstage without any makeup because your face will melt into the lights.
 Be sure to hairspray and tease, if you need the extra volume.



If allowed, keep a water bottle backstage. Don't drink a lot because this can affect your dancing, but just a few sips so that you can sing and speak easily.






Never bring anything backstage that you're not allowed to have. You should never disobey the director.
 Each theatre group is different in the way they set up backstage.

If there are changing rooms in the back, take advantage of them. If not, remember that the entire cast are your friends and that it shouldn't be awkward changing in front of them. If you have a complicated costume -- for example, a dress with hard-to-reach buttons on the back or a zipper that always seems to disappear -- ask a friend to help you out.






When backstage, remember to be quiet. When the audience hears noise backstage, it ruins all of the hard work you put in to create an exceptional show, and is embarrassingly unprofessional.
 Right before you go on stage, gather up all of the cast members and form a circle. Face outward, join hands and picture yourself on the stage. One person should start by squeezing the hand of the person next to them, and the next person will pass it on, and it will keep on going until you've gone around the circle. After this has been done, let go of hands and get ready for the first scene.
 It will be dark where the audience is seated, and you won't be able to see their faces. When you aren't saying lines, take deep breaths. Just make sure the audience can't tell. Just have fun!

, You can make up a funny rhyme to help you remember. Another good idea is to have a friend who can cue you before the next scene, or if the lights die for scenery change, they can nudge you in the right direction.
 Be proud of your performance and display the emotion that your character is feeling. If you are performing an emotional scene, pull the audience into your tale so that it's an enjoyable experience. Keep in mind that you're not only representing who you are as performer, but also the rest of your cast and crew members and your directors as well! Remember to smile (if you are suppose to) and have lots of fun!

, Boring love scenes can be extremely disappointing for the audience. Don't be afraid to hold hands, put your arm around your partner, or even kiss. This is just a performance, it doesn't mean anything. If you feel awkward about something, talk to your partner about it. They'll understand and might even feel the same way. Talk about exactly what you want to do onstage, and what you don't want to do. That way, while it will be more comfortable and routine for you, the audience will love it!

, The curtain call is when the audience will be taking lots of pictures, so wear a big smile. Depending on the type of show, you might want to stay in character for a few extra seconds before you break out into a smile. Also, if you have one last song to sing at the end, belt it out loud and proud. This is when all of your hard work pays off.
 Be gracious, and thank them for taking the time to come and support you. If someone gives you flowers, smile, and be prepared for pictures. It's also polite to introduce your supporters to the other cast members. Never take anyone in the audience backstage or into the changing rooms unless they are allowed to. It's strange and unprofessional to reveal the way the special effects are done and where you keep the props.
 There is always room for improvement, and sometimes performing in front of an audience can help you see what you need to work on.
 They deserve credit for all of the hard work they did to help make the show a success. Remember that although they did mostly behind-the-scenes work, that this is in some ways the most important part and that the show wouldn't be possible without them. It might even be a good idea to bring them flowers!

