 It is highly reccomended that you wear eye protection, a dust mask, and gloves.;
, See the Thing's You'll Need section below.
 Place something along the lines of a tarp,over areas that could possibly get dust or soot on them while chopping.
 Use a hammer and chisel to break off the damaged stucco and lath from the sheathing of the wall, but you must leave some lath around the damaged area, as the new lath will be tied to the old. The stucco should fall off fairly easily.
 from the non-damaged stucco in the outside of the patch area. This is the lath previously described as important that should not be removed. Pulling it back will allow you to work it a little more comfortably.
 Cut it as big as the uncovered portion of the lath. Use the hammer tacker to stick the piece on the sheathing.
 Use the rubber membrane to seal of the outside edge of the lath. The rubber membrane may not stick well to the area being sealed off. In that case, tack a few staples in or improvise in order to keep it in place.
 Cut the piece size to fit into the patch area. The metal lath should be large enough to fit beyond where the metal lath from the good stucco on the outside edge can fit over the cut piece.
 Place the lath in the patch and place a few nails in that will keep it in place.
 Place nails in places that will provide a good anchor to the lath. Don't worry about hitting studs because it is only a patch. The nails should be spaced about 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart.
 Take the old lath that you bent outwards and bend it over the new piece of lath you installed. Place nails where the two pieces overlap.
 Make sure it does not dry and harden.
 Use the scoop to place some cement on your hawk. Use your trowel to take the cement off the hawk and spread it onto the wall. Skim just enough cement over the lath so that it is covered.
 Use the scratcher to scratch the entire skimmed area.
 If your current batch is dried out, mix a new one.
 Clean them so they don’t get ruined. Use a wash brush and bucket of water, or whatever else that may work.
 You will know the patch is dry when it turns from a dark grey to a light grey.
 Mix enough to fill the patch twice.
 Scoop cement out of the bucket and place in the hawk. Use the trowel to spread the cement onto the wall. The brown coat must be level with the surrounding wall of the patch, so use enough mud to fill the patch in adequately.
 When the patch has been filled in with cement, use the darby and scrape down across the patch area. Wetting the darby makes the process work smoother.
 If any holes exist after running the darby across the patch, throw some cement in the holes and repeat the leveling process. You must now immediately begin the next part, floating.
 Use a swirling motion with the wet float to start leveling the wall. Be careful not to press too hard against the wall so that you dig into it, but use enough pressure so that you are effectively roughing up the surface of the wall.
 Make sure the outside edge of the patch is smoothed out onto the existing wall with the float. You may apply more pressure on the outside of the patch for this purpose.
 When the patch is roughed up and evened out with the area previously existing wall around it the job is complete. Make sure the patch cures before putting a finishing coat on.
 These materials include a bag of pre-mixed cement (with fibers), bonding agent, and water.
 A margin trowel for scraping the edges of the bucket. An electric drill and beater for mixing the cement. A wash brush is recommended for cleaning the tools after mixing the cement.
 You will want to fill it up about ¼ full with water.
 You'll want to add roughly 16 ounces.
 You can now fill the rest of the bucket with the pre-mixed cement.
 Mix the bucket with the electric drill and beater until the right consistency is met. You will know the cement is at the right consistency when it is not soupy, but it keeps its form fairly well. You may need to add some water, check the cements consistency.

