 If your current position is relevant to the recommendation, use official letterhead if possible. That is, if you work for a school, use the school letterhead. If you supervise the student at volunteer position, use the nonprofit's letterhead. Doing so creates a sense of authority and makes the letter look more polished.If you don't have letterhead with your address, your address goes at the top. You can use the school's address. You don't need to include your name, as that's included at the end of the letter. Just place the school name on one line, the street address on the next line, and the city, state, and zip code on the last line.If you are submitting electronically, it's best to start with letterhead.It should look like the following address:
Muddy River High School
492 West Lane
Big City, Arkansas 73234;
, Leave a line between your address and the date. Write the month out in full, followed by the day of the month, a comma, and the year. In some countries, such as the UK, the day of the month will come before the month.The date will look this way: January 28, 2017
In the UK and other countries, you should write it this way: 28 January 2017

, Leave a line blank underneath the date. On the next line, place the person's name if you have it. Use "Dr." and other professional titles over "Mr." or "Ms.," but "Mr." or "Ms." is fine if you don't have a title for the person. You can also use "Mrs." and "Miss" if the person shows a preference for one of them, but default to "Ms." if you don't know what they prefer. Add the person's last name next.The student should supply you with a list of addresses. If they don't, reach out to them to get addresses. Also, it's up to you whether you want to put the recipient's address on the letter when submitting electronically. If you don't, you'll just have the letterhead, the date, and the salutation.Under the person's name, place the school's name and then the street address. Below that, add the city, state, and zip code.
If you don't know the name, you can use "Admission's Office" and the name of the school underneath it.
The address should look like this example:
Dr. Jordan Jones
College of the Pines
2948 Northlake Boulevard
Big Buck City, Oregon 42343

, If at all possible, it's best to use a name in the salutation.Address him or her professionally by writing "Dear," followed by "Mr.," "Ms.," or "Dr." and the person's last name. Add a colon after the person's last name.If you don't know the person's gender, you can either use a title (such as Dean) or the person's full name in place of "Mr." or "Ms."
The salutation should look like the following example: Dear Ms. Jones: or Dear Dr. Jones:
Alternatively, you could write one of the following: Dear Jordan Jones: or Dear Dean Jones:
Use "To Whom It May Concern" followed by a colon if you don't have a name.
 After addressing the college recommendation letter, write the letter in support of the individual applying to college. Keep all text justified to the left, and use a line break between paragraphs.

