 As you are preparing for your day, check the weather. Simply check your weather app, flick on the television or radio, check the newspaper, or use the internet (www.weather.com) to figure out what kind of weather you may encounter. If you live in or commute to a large city with many high rise buildings, check the wind conditions!


If you do not have access to the internet, a radio, a TV or a newspaper, do yourself a favor and ask a friend. There is nothing worse than being caught off guard by windy conditions that you did not expect.;
, Pay attention to the temperature!


Dress for the wind chill rather than the actual temperature.
In any temperatures, wear sunglasses or protective eye wear. No matter what the weather is like, dust, sand, snow, etc. can easily be blown around by the wind. Protective eye wear will save your eyes from debris.
Layers are the key to success. Wearing layers will ensure comfort no matter which way the wind blows. Try thermals for those unbearably cold, windy days!
If you are not willing to wear boots, at least wear long socks or leg warmers! Believe it or not, wind has the ability to sneak in and up through the bottom of your pants.
Hats, gloves, and scarves will be necessary. Hats and gloves are pretty common. Make sure that your hats are snug. Something you may not think of is covering your nose and mouth with a scarf. You won’t be sorry.
When it is warm, remove your hats people; if you have to struggle to walk against the wind, you might as well let it cool you off.
Be sure to wear long pants in extremely windy conditions. You may think it is okay to wear shorts, cut-offs, skirts, or dresses when it is warm out, but there IS such a thing as windburn.
 Make sure that nothing potentially dangerous is in the way of your path. If you are about to walk between two tall buildings, you are taking the risk of entering a wind tunnel.


This may seem like common sense to you, but if you are new to life in large windy cities, you must expect the unexpected in order to avoid being unprepared!

, Seriously, do your breathing now because it’s hard to catch your breath once you’re walking against the wind.
 The faster you move, the faster it will be over. Any hesitation while walking will only increase the amount of time that you must face being knocked around by the wind.
 Leaning into the wind can help alleviate some of the resistance. If you try to stand up straight instead, you run the risk of landing flat on your back.
 In case foreign objects (i.e. sand, dust, bugs) come flying your way; you’ll want to make sure your face is protected. Also, if you do not have some sort of covering for your mouth as suggested earlier on, keep your mouth closed.
 Once you've made it through, make sure that all of your belongings are still in your possession.

