 If you want to put your arm successfully around a girl, the most important thing is to first make sure she wants you to. Have you hung out at least few times as more than friends? Has she been the one to extend an invitation to hang out? When you see her, does she smile, meet your eyes and look happy to see you? Do you text and talk to one another daily? If so, she’s probably ready for you to put your arm around her.If she seems to take every opportunity to “accidentally” brush up against you or otherwise make physical contact, she likes you.It’s pretty likely that she’s going to be thrilled if you put your arm around her.
If you’ve just met, or if you don’t know her well, wait.
If she’s flirting with you but that’s as far as it’s gone, you should probably wait until you get a few more solid signals from her first.;
, When you’re hanging out and you feel like it could be your moment, sneak a peek over at her. What’s her facial expression? Is she relaxed and happy? Does she look comfortable when she’s around you? Is she already leaning in close to you? These are all good signs that it’s time to make your move.


If she looks uncomfortable, stressed out or unhappy, it’s probably not a good time to put your arm around her, especially if you never have before.
Make sure she’s engaged in the moment.
For instance, if she’s immersed in her phone, not interacting with you at all, and not sitting remotely close to you, it’s not the right time.
 When you’re in the middle of a great chat or having a good laugh together, test the waters by quickly and lightly touching her on the forearm. How does she react? If she flinches or withdraws suddenly, trying to put your arm around her is a bad idea.However, if she meets your eyes, smiles, or moves in closer to you when you touch her forearm, go for it!
By touching her forearm first, you are giving her a subtle heads up that you’re thinking about trying something a little more intimate.She will probably appreciate this gesture, regardless of whether or not she wants you to put your arm around her. It's usually preferable to be anticipating it rather than being totally blind-sided.
 It may sound like a no-brainer, but before you go for it, take a quick look to confirm you can put your arm around her easily and smoothly. If you aren’t close enough to pull the move off smoothly, the gesture will probably come off as very awkward for both of you.


When you finally do put your arm around her, you will want it to seem effortless and comfortable.
If getting your arm around her seems like a stretch because of distance, move a little closer to her and see how she reacts.

