 In order to earn extra splatter spree and vehicular manslaughter medals, you will need to exploit a glitch in multiplayer mode. Of course, if you are doing this glitch in Custom Games or Forge, you need to make sure there is someone else playing for you to splatter.;
, This glitch primarily works with the ghost, but can also be performed on a number of other vehicles, such as choppers and Banshees. Due to the fact that Ghosts and the like are only found on larger maps, if you are performing this glitch via matchmaking, then consider entering the Big Team Slayer playlists to increase the chance of a vehicle map.
 You will need to run over and kill five opponents without killing anyone else in any way to do this. Due to their maneuverability and boost, ghosts are excellent vehicles to splatter others in, but although cumbersome, brute choppers can also complete the job.
 Via a glitch in the medal system, this will reward you with a second splatter spree medal, even if you have only splattered five people in a row. For example, if you have just received a splatter spree medal while in a Ghost, kill your next victim with your plasma guns to receive a second medal in addition to the first, or shoot several enemies to receive that amount in medals.
 You will need to splatter ten enemies in a row without killing anyone else in any way to do this. If you shot someone to glitch a second splatter spree medal after your first, this will not "reset" the count, so you should still be able to acquire the vehicular manslaughter medal without beginning again.
 Like the splatter spree, you will receive another vehicular manslaughter medal once you do this. This may be more desirable as the Vehicular Manslaughter is harder to achieve than the splatter spree.
 This glitch can be repeated multiple times, in some cases allowing players to obtain several splatter sprees and vehicular manslaughter medals in a single game. Simply continue to shoot enemies to obtain as many medals as you desire, but take care not to splatter anyone, as this will end the glitch.
 If you performed the glitch correctly, you should see a splatter spree or vehicular manslaughter medal for every enemy you shot after receiving the first.

