 Where do you see yourself five years down the line? Ten? Do you have a plan, or are you still waiting for things to just happen? When you're a kid, your mindset is in the here and now. Maybe you think about what's going to happen tomorrow or this summer. You know you're a grown-up when you think seriously about your life many years down the line. You might want to take action to influence your future life. You may look more for stability instead of adventure.This can manifest in a few different ways:


You invest in a retirement fund.
You purchase more expensive but sturdier products that will last you for years instead of cheap goods that you plan to throw out.
You’re planning to have children. If you have children already, you’re planning for their futures as well as your own.
 The more mature you become, the more you realize how your decisions can impact your health. You start thinking about the long-term effects of your diet and exercise regime. You may even start working out more to keep a youthful figure. You might worry about dying.Reflect on your health habits.


Do you worry about joint pain or flexibility?
Do you exercise so that you can live longer?
Do you exercise because of your cardiovascular (heart) health or to improve a medical condition, such as high cholesterol?
Do you worry about high salt, sugar, or fat intake?
Do you often think about your own mortality?

, When people are young, they often care a lot about what their peers, family, and conventional society will think of them. They may make decisions based on what their parents wish for them or what is a "normal" path for people in their community. Making decisions based not on these influences but instead on what is best and most fulfilling for you is a sign of true maturity. There may come a point in your life in which you care less about prescribed or conventional opinion and focus on what will bring you satisfaction. This may end up being in line with what is "typical" or expected, or it may look very different., What did you like 10 or 20 years ago that you don't like anymore? What do you enjoy now that you hated when you were a kid? You may have changed your mind on things you used to think were boring or gross. Some signs that you are growing up include:


You may start to think that the music teenagers and college students are listening to is awful compared to the music you listened to at that age.
You might start to like movies and TV shows that you would've thought were boring in the past.
You might take the time to decorate your home instead of just slapping up posters.
You may typically prefer cooking for yourself rather than getting fast food.
 Mature adults tend to have many routines and habits that they adhere to religiously. Think about all of your routines and habits. What do you do every day? Is there something you can’t do without? Are there certain rituals that help you get through tough patches? These may include:


Drinking a cup of coffee every morning
Having a date night with your significant other on the same day every week
Not being able to fall asleep without brushing your teeth
Eating dinner at the same time every day

, Adults often love to reminisce about their past. If you find yourself daydreaming about your youthful glory days, you may be experiencing one of the key markers of adulthood.While you can remember the old days fondly, try to have fun in the moment, too. Perhaps in ten or twenty years, you will consider this period of your life to be the best.
 You may find yourself more concerned with current events than you used to be. Perhaps you read or watch the news more often than you used to. You may find yourself more politically active. You might be worried with how global markets or disasters affect your lifestyle. You might also be more persuaded to donate to charities. These are all signs of a mature interest in world events and causes.
 Recall a time when sleeping for ten hours straight was a treat. If it’s now impossible, you're probably growing up. Older people need less sleep.

They will often use the extra time to take care of their responsibilities. You may find yourself waking up earlier, or you may not take as many naps as you used to. Getting up early to do extra chores may not bother you as much anymore.