 Giving your dog a durable chew toy can mechanically remove plaque buildup on your dog’s teeth and massage your dog’s gums. As the dog chews, the friction between the teeth and the toy can remove plaque and stimulate saliva production and will help whisk away any plaque buildup.These toys will also help keep your dog entertained and will exercise the dog’s jaw.Nylon or hard rubber chew toys are safe options and are recommended for their durability. Visit your local pet store and ask an expert what toy would be appropriate for your dog.Be sure to select a safe chew toy for your dog. Avoid giving your dog a chew toy that is small enough for your dog to swallow. If your dog starts to destroy the toy, discard it so your dog does not swallow any small pieces it may have chewed off.A textured, nylon or rubber bone is a popular toy that can help remove and prevent plaque buildup. The soft nubs on the surface of the toy help to clean your dog’s teeth as it chews.;
, When your dog chews on a rawhide, the friction between the treat and your dog’s teeth helps to lift plaque and minimize tartar buildup. This creates a smooth, polished surface on the tooth, which prevent plaque from clinging to your dog’s teeth.Do not give your dog real animal bones. These can file down or break your dog’s teeth and cause injury.If your dog chews aggressively, do not give it small rawhide chips or sticks. Your dog may choke on these small treats. Give aggressive chewers a larger rawhide bone instead, and monitor your dog as they chew the treat., A dental chew can help keep your dog’s teeth clean and can be a tasty treat for your dog. These treats come in a variety of shapes, such as crosses and toothbrush shapes, that help remove plaque from your dog’s teeth. They often come in a range of tasty flavors such as bacon, beef, and chicken. Mint flavors are also available to help freshen your dog’s breath. Be on the lookout for the Veterinary Oral Health's Council seal when looking for a dental treat to ensure the treat’s quality and effectiveness.


Some dental treats contain fatty acids, antioxidants, or other vitamins and nutrients that support your dog’s overall health.Dental treats can contain added sugars. Be sure to read the label and discuss the sugar content with your veterinarian. This is particularly important if you dog suffers from obesity or diabetes., Looking for signs of gum disease or other dental issues is important for your dog’s overall dental health. A routine, at-home check-up can help you keep track of any developing problems. Share your findings with your veterinarian to help prevent more serious health issues from developing.


Make sure your dog is comfortable while examining its mouth. Be gentle, speak to your dog in a calming voice, and give him praise or a treat afterward. With time and patience, your dog will get used to this examination routine.
Check the symmetry of your dog’s face. Notice if there is any swelling, discharge, or growths.
Gently pull back your dog’s lips and check both sides of its teeth and gums.If your dog’s gums are red, swollen, bleeding, or are sensitive to touch, your dog may have gingivitis.
A yellow or brown discoloration around the gumline may be tartar buildup.
Make note of chipped teeth or any bumps or masses within your dog’s mouth and discuss them with your veterinarian., Weekly brushing is an important step in keeping your dog’s mouth free from plaque and tartar accumulation. Use toothpaste and a toothbrush that are specifically designed for dogs. Place the brush inside your dog’s mouth at a 45-degree angle to its gumline, and gently move the brush across the outside surface of the dog’s teeth.


The tongue often keeps the inner surface of the dog’s teeth free from plaque, so there is no need to brush this section.
Give your dog praise or a treat when you have finished brushing its teeth., A routine examination of your dog’s teeth can help stop plaque and tartar buildup. Your veterinarian will examine your dog’s teeth, gums, tongue, and tonsils, as well as the salivary glands and the lymph nodes.A routine examination can help identity the early signs of plaque or tartar buildup, periodontal disease, mouth tumors, and other mouth problems.


Talk to your veterinarian about any specific problems you have noticed with your dog’s dental health. “I have noticed that my dog’s gumline often bleeds when I exam its mouth. What can we do to address this?”
Ask your veterinarian if your dog may be prone to any particular dental issues, and ask “How should I monitor that?” He or she will be able to target the issue and offer guidance for improving your dog’s dental care.
 If your dog has tartar buildup, daily brushing at home will not remove it as it strongly adheres to the teeth. Although it is an expensive procedure, your veterinarian will need to remove the tartar and polish the dog’s teeth to ensure your dog’s overall health.


A blood test will determine if your dog is healthy enough for this procedure. Under anesthesia, your veterinarian will provide a full cleaning beneath the dog’s gumline, will scrape away the tartar buildup, and will finish by polishing your dog’s teeth. The final polish will help prevent future plaque and tartar accumulations.