 Wear a tight-fitting shirt and pants so it'll be easier to hula hoop and so the hoop won't get caught on any loose clothing.


Comfortable shoes will also make it easier for you to hula hoop. They don't have to be athletic shoes, and the choice of even wearing shoes at all, is optional. It will neither influence nor harm your attempt to hula hoop.
Avoid wearing any bracelets or any dangling jewelry that can get caught in the hula hoop.;
, Choose a hoop that reaches your chest or waist when you stand it on its side. Larger hoops are ideal for beginners because they spin more slowly, which gives you more time to adjust to the rhythm of the hoop.









If you're really committed to hula hooping, you can try hoops of a variety of weight and size to see what works best for you.
, Place your hands apart at a comfortable distance.
 Step one foot in front of the other to gain balance.
 Relax the hoop against one side of your torso.
 If you're a righty, firmly spin the hoop counter-clockwise. If you're a lefty, spin it clockwise.
 Push your stomach forward as the hoop moves across your stomach. Push the hoop back when it moves across your back. Or you can rotate your waist in small circles and when the hoop touches your left hit your waist towards the left side and when the hoop touches your right hit towards the right.









Eventually you will find a perfect motion for pumping your torso.
 Keep moving your waist in a circular motion as you let go and aim to get the hoop to wrap itself around your waist like a barber's pole, round and round and round.









If the hoop falls below your waist or even falls to the ground, pick it up and try again.
When the hoop falls, try spinning it in the other direction. Though righties prefer to spin the hoop counter-clockwise and lefties prefer to spin it clockwise, you should still find the direction that works best for you. The direction you prefer is called your "first direction" or your "in-flow.", Just pick up the hoop again and keep going. It is as much about getting the feeling for the motion as it is about following instructions.









Once you become more experienced as a hula-hooper, you can discover some tricks for recovering a falling hoop.
