 Saving money on transportation is easy and can actually make your life more convenient. Though many people are reluctant to give up sitting cozily behind the wheel of their car, cutting costs on transportation can help you save a lot of extra money each week. Here's what you can do:


When you can, walk instead of drive. Instead of driving to the grocery store that is five minutes away, take a nice leisurely walk. This will not only save you gas money, but it will give you great exercise and will keep you from buying more than you need.
Take public transportation instead of driving. If this is an option, take it. Not only will you save money, but you will be able to avoid traffic and read a good book while you travel.
Carpool. Carpooling will save you money and it will help you get places faster if you're driving on a highway with a carpool lane.
 You will be amazed by how much extra cash you have left over if you pay attention to how you spend money when you're shopping. Whether you're looking for a new outfit or buying your weekly groceries, there are always a few things you can do to save money:


Instead of shopping at a fancy name-brand store, check out the funky clothes at your local thrift store.
Buy things used instead of new. If you don't really care if the item is new, get the old version on Amazon or at a used book or thrift store. Buying your textbooks or books for reading pleasure used will save you a lot of money.

Save money on groceries. Make a point of shopping at reasonably-priced store in your area, to stock up on items you use that are on sale, and of buying only what you need.
 You may be spending more money than you think on entertainment such as the movies, shows, or going out to bars or restaurants. It's easy to forget how much you're spending when you're out having fun, but keeping an eye on how you spend money on entertainment will lead to some serious savings.


Make a point of only eating out on special occasions. If you eat out all the time, set a goal to eat out just once or twice a week, and see if you can trim down that figure as you go along. In some cases, going out for a nice dinner can cost as much as a week of groceries, and you have to ask yourself if its worth it.
Rent a movie in the comfort of your own home instead of going to the movies. You will save big and be about to avoid buying that ridiculously overpriced tub of popcorn that you can't live without at your local theatre.
Minimize your time at bars and go to house parties instead. Going out to bars with your friends is a great way to unwind, but if you do it too often, you can rack up quite a bill. Just one fancy cocktail can cost more than an hour of hard work at your part-time job. If you do go out, try to pick cheaper bars with happy hours, or to drink a little bit before you head out (as long as you aren't driving) so you don't have to spend as much money on booze when you're there.

