 Compensatory vision therapy focuses on stimulating the brain area involved in vision. It includes training with prisms, scanning, and visual field awareness systems. The movement of images from a non-seeing site to a seeing-site helps adapt the visual field and the associated brain area, improving vision.
 The goal of restorative vision therapy is to stimulate the various neural connections involved in vision within brain. It includes many specific components for each type of vision impairment that occurs after stroke. It focuses particularly on the point of the eye which has the highest amount of neuronal connections.


This therapy has the highest level of recovery potential.
 Prisms are used to correct different types of visual problems. The kind of prism and their placement may vary, depending upon the presenting signs and symptoms. For example:


In the case of double vision, the prism is placed on a glass lens to realign the abnormal positioning of the eye's gaze.
In the case of visual neglect, an individual with visual neglect on the left side of his visual field would use a prism that can mirror items on his left side, to the right side of his visual field.
 Low vision aids are designed to help the partially sighted population. They are divided into three categories, including optical aids (hand held magnifiers, stand magnifiers, telescopes), non optical aids (enlarged prints, high intensity lamps, high contrast objects, microfiche readers), and electronic low vision aids (closed circuit TV, opaque projectors, slide projection). All of these things can greatly help your vision.


Some other aids are tactile visual aids, auditory vision, spelled speech, and direct stimulation of visual cortex.
 Surgery is usually not an option to solve post stroke related visual problems, since the cause is not a physical trauma to the eye. However, in some instances. surgery can be recommended to correct double vision. Eye muscle surgery is usually helpful for cases of double vision caused by the narrowing of the eyes.


The procedure can help in re-positioning of the eyes.
The decision to undergo surgery should be done with an extensive assessment of the benefits and the possible risks.

