 A big part of loneliness is mental and boredom. Stewing in your own thoughts and fixating on how lonely you are can exasperate the problem. Finding a new hobby is a great way to occupy your mind and to stop dwelling on your loneliness and funnel your energy toward something new and exciting. Many hobbies include other people but there are plenty of fun things to do alone. Try getting artsy. Even if you're not naturally artistic, something as simple as doodling or painting can calm your mind and divert your focus from your loneliness.
Write. Whether it's a journal or a creative story, writing can be a great way to express your thoughts and to be creative.
Take a free online class. With the rise of open online education, many major universities are offering free classes to anyone. Do a simple Internet search for "Massive Open Online Courses" (MOOC) and find something that piques your interest.
Read. Reading is a great way to transport yourself to another world that leaves behind anxiety. Grab a book on your shelf you've never read. If you don't have any, run to your local library and grab some free books.
Get creative! There are no limits on the fun activities you can do by yourself. You can learn to knit, work on puzzles or get outside to garden or hike.;
, If you are feeling really alone, it's always great to lean on family. You won't feel so lonely anymore and you'll be able to talk to or see someone who is familiar with you and cares about you. Technology is great to reduce the feeling of distance. Whoever your closest family members are, ask them to webcam with you so that you can see their face and talk to one another just like you're in the same room.
 You may not know anyone where you choose to volunteer, but it's a great way to help a cause and get around people. You can volunteer to help animals, teach people how to read, help out at a nursing home, or give your time to a soup kitchen.


Search a local newspaper or use the internet to find volunteer options in your area. A lot of shelters for animals or homeless people are constantly using social media and the internet to ask for volunteers. If you can't find anything, call a local animal shelter, library, or nursing home to inquire whether they need help.
 Buying an animal is a huge commitment and responsibility, but also a great way to ease feeling lonely. Depending on your work and home life, you can choose the best pet for your lifestyle and expectations.

