 Many commercial hair masks come with special instructions. Some may only be designed for weekly use and some may need to be kept in for specific timeframes. Not all hair masks can be used interchangeably in terms of the duration and frequency of use. Make sure to read instructions carefully before applying a hair mask. If you use a mask and find it has adverse results, you may have missed certain instructions., Hair masks can get messy. When applying a hair mask, put an old t-shirt on or another item of clothing you don't mind spilling on. Clothing can easily get damaged during the application process.You can also try wrapping yourself in a towel while applying a hair mask.
 Before applying your hair mask, wash your hair as you normally would. Then, pat your hair dry with a towel so it's damp. Do not blow dry your hair before applying a hair mask. Your hair should be slightly wet when you apply your mask., It's easiest to apply a mask if you separate your wet hair into roughly three or four even sections. For example, try two sections on either side of your head, one in front, and one in back. Secure the sections with clips or hair ties and apply your mask to one section at a time.If you have very short hair, however, sections may be unnecessary.
 Start to massage the mask into your scalp. Then, work the mask downward to the tips of your hair. Try to disperse the mask evenly throughout your hair, using gentle massaging motions to apply the mask.Pay extra attention to your tips. Tips are often prone to dryness and need extra care.
 After applying the mask to your full head of hair, take a comb. Comb through your hair once with the mask in place. This will ensure the mask is more evenly distributed throughout your hair.This may not work on all hair types. If you have curly hair, for example, you may want to skip this step.
 After wearing your mask for the necessary timeframe, rinse it out in the shower. Then, apply conditioner as you normally would to rehydrate your hair.

