 Determine the industry, job type, position level and pay scale of your desired position.;
, Some recruiters are industry-specific and others focus only on filling executive or administrative positions. One type of recruiter may be devoted to finding only temporary personnel. Becoming familiar with the variety of recruiter types will assist you in narrowing your search.
 Online recruiter directories allow you to search by staffing agency name, keywords, industry and location. These directories come in both free and fee-based varieties. The subscription-based directories typically feature advanced search capabilities and a greater number of resources, such as recruitment newsletters, guides and articles.
 Enter the name of the recommended firm into a search engine to find the company's website.


Look for other sites mentioning the particular search firm. You may see recruiters from the recommended firm interviewed in business magazines or encounter related discussions on professional forums.
 Professional networking sites often have a section devoted to recruiter profiles. Enter "recruiter" or "recruitment firm" into the search field to find the profiles.


Post a message to your personal online social network. Ask your social network connections if they recommend a particular search firm for the specific industry and job you are seeking. This is also a good way to let personal contacts know that you are seeking a particular type of position.
 Some business articles, particularly those linked to by job search engines, highlight specific recruiters and interview them about job search topics.
 An online search for a recruiting association will take you to websites devoted to linking job seekers with recruiters. Online recruiting associations may be free or fee-based. A quality association will offer links to useful information and resources for job seekers.
 Join professional discussion forums in your specific industry. Often, online discussion groups offer useful information and potential leads. Another professional who becomes familiar with your career background and needs may refer you to a recruiter who works with his company.
 Reviews written by various individuals about specific recruitment firms give you a window into their recruitment processes and practices. Look for patterns of opinion and limit giving too much weight to a single negative or positive review.

