 It would be polite to invite him or her in if you were interested in the product. However, you have no obligation open up your home, even if it is raining or cold. Open the door enough just to talk for a minute. Keep your hand on it to make it clear you are in charge of your home.;
, You don’t have to slam the door in his or her face or use profanity, but make it clear you aren’t interested. The main part of his or her job is making sales pitches to people, the majority of whom will not buy the product. Don’t let your time be wasted by fruitless persuasion techniques. State firmly and definitively that you wish to be left alone.


Tell him or her something like this: “Thanks for coming by, but I’m not interested in buying a new vacuum cleaner right now. Have a nice day.”

, Being confronted with annoying salespeople face to face requires that you also provide non-verbal cues as to how you feel. Looking serious or like you have somewhere you need to go are good ways to convey that you don’t have time for the sales pitch. It is ok to look stern, but again, there is no need to be outright rude or unfriendly.Making eye contact with him or her is the cue that you are being direct about not wanting the product.
Close your posture. Don’t throw the door wide open and open your arms. Instead, keep the door mostly closed, and consider crossing your arms. This body language indicates you are not inviting him or her into your day.
Maintain a stern, straight face. Smiling may indicate that you are at least enjoying the conversation, preventing him or her from realizing you want to end the conversation.
 If the salesperson is still insisting on making a pitch to you, you might have to butt in. Try to wait for a pause, but remember that salespeople have been trained to talk fast to prevent this from happening. Raise your voice slightly, while staying friendly, and let him or her know you aren’t interested again. Hold up your hand to signal you are about to say something, for added effect.You might say, for example: “Thanks for the information, but I really don’t need a vacuum cleaner right now. Thanks for stopping by.”
If he or she really isn’t getting the message, start closing the door immediately after you say this. You don’t need to slam it in his or her face, but a slow, yet determined movement will indicate you are ending the conversation.
 An easy way to get out of these conversations is to tell him or her you’ll be considering a new vacuum cleaner, for example, in the next year. Tell the salesperson you will make contact if you decide you need assistance. Many salespeople will be happy to know that he or she will get another shot at the sale later.


You can make this an honest statement or not. It’s not like you’ll need to follow up with him or her.
 When dealing with salespeople you find to be uncomfortably aggressive, it may be necessary to ask to speak to a supervisor in order to remedy the situation. If very little has occurred, you can ask him or her for the company phone number. If you don’t feel comfortable doing this, a simple web search should tell you who to call.


Make sure you get his or her full name to report.
Jot down some of the details right after the incident so you remember everything to tell the manager.

