 Using a punching bag may seem like a no-brainer, especially if you just plan to work it for basic fitness or stress relief. However, there are very specific punching techniques and rhythms that are nearly impossible to learn on your own.

By meeting with a boxing instructor or gym attendant, you can quickly and safely learn basic technique and the different types of training available.
An expert will also help you figure out which type of punching bag is right for you.
If you don't have access to a gym or boxing club, try watching instructional videos online.;
, You want to buy a punching bag made of top grain leather, heavy-duty canvas, or vinyl. The average punching bag weighs around 80 pounds, though lightweight bags are about 35 pounds and heavy bags can weigh as much as 200 pounds.For general fitness, choose a lightweight bag.
For karate, boxing, or mixed martial arts training, choose a heavy bag.
You can buy punching bags at sporting good stores or many online retailers.
 If you plan on using the punching bag on a regular basis, invest in a quality pair of boxing gloves with extra padding to reduce the risk of injury.


You can also use hand wraps under your gloves to supply additional padding and protection.
 Keep loose or long hair pulled back, dress in gym or fitness clothes that fit your form but don't restrict your movement, and wear athletic shoes and socks. It’s important to dress properly, so that you avoid hair or clothing getting caught by the swinging bag.

It’s also important to wear good shoes so that you don’t slip.
 Some basic ones to start out with include lead, hook, and uppercut strikes, elbow strikes, and front, knee, and roundhouse kicks.Consult a punching bag book or browse online videos to review any specifics on form and technique that you might have missed at the gym or boxing club.
 You'll want to choose a place where you have plenty of space to move around the bag and to allow the bag to swing. The space should be clear of debris and barriers, so that you don’t back up or run into other objects or equipment while working with the bag.

The amount of space you need will depend on the type of training you are doing, but an 8 feet by 8 feet (or 2.5 meter by 2.5 meter) square space is good for getting started.
Basements are a good place to hang a punching bag because they usually provide better, safer mounting options and will help muffle the sound of the punching on the bag.
 You want the beam to be at least 24 inches (61 centimeters) from a side wall. It is crucial that your bag is hung from a stud or it could fall and hurt you and anything else under it., The hole will be used to install an eyebolt screw. When you drill the hole, choose a drill bit size that is slightly smaller than the size of the eyebolt. This will ensure a snug fit., Once your hole is drilled, insert the eyebolt and turn it by hand. As it becomes harder to turn, use a screwdriver or a pair of pliers inserted through the eyebolt to finish the tightening., By adding a swivel hook to the top of the chains, the bag will be able to spin as you work the bag. This reduces tension on the eyebolt., The S hook allows for easy connection between the swivel hook and the eyebolt.

If you are using a lightweight bag, you may also need to secure the bag to the floor, to keep it from swinging up and hitting the ceiling.
Follow any specific hanging instructions that come with your bag.
 If you don’t have the option to hang your bag from the ceiling, a heavy duty wall mount or stand is a safe alternative. Be sure to follow the directions that come with the mount or stand to ensure safety.Wall mounts are sturdy, but they restrict the swing of the bag and your movement around it. They also make kicks and follow-up punch angles more difficult to set up.
A bag stand restricts your movement and mobility even more than a wall mount, but it is much easier to remove and store, if you don’t want the equipment sitting out all the time.
 You reduce the risk of injury and muscle ache when you stretch and prepare your body for your workout routine. Be sure to stretch your hands, arms, back, and legs before approaching the punching bag.


You may also want to warm up with some cardio, such as a light jog or short jump rope session.
 Punching bags are primarily designed to help you build and develop striking power, and it takes time to build that up. Take your time, especially in the beginning. Start by working the bag for 30 seconds and increase your time by another 30 seconds with each new session.


Intense striking sessions shouldn't last longer than 5 minutes.
Limit yourself to 3 to 4 sessions a week working the bag.
Don’t overpower your punches and kicks or you could risk an injury.
 When you punch the bag, make sure the knuckles of your index and middle fingers are hitting the bag first. Striking with smaller knuckles increases your chances of a break., Balance and posture are important when working a punching bag. Speed and force will come once you’ve achieved a punching rhythm with balance and good posture.Throw punches at the bag, but don’t throw yourself or fall into the bag. When you punch, keep yourself balanced by keeping both your feet planted on the floor.

By focusing on balance and good posture, you keep your whole body aligned during the workout, which burns more calories, offers better fitness, and reduces risk of injury.
 When you hit the bag with your fists, be sure to keep your wrists straight or you risk strains and sprains. Keep your elbows tight when you punch, but don’t tense them.


It will take time to build up your tendon and wrist strength. Never try to hit the bag at full force when you are just starting out.
Tensing your elbows can cause harmful strain.
 This may seem obvious, but it’s easy to start pushing the bag around with your fists instead of giving it swift punches, especially if you start to get tired. You know you are properly punching the bag and not pushing it when the bag makes a sharp “smack” sound rather than a thud.
 In a real fight, you always need to be on the defense when you’re not punching. The same rules apply to a punching bag. Keep your feet, your hands, or your head moving in between punches., Professional boxers never take more than 2 seconds between punches. Don’t wait to throw punches., Focus on breathing rhythmically while you’re punching. If you're moving fast, you'll want to breath fast. If you're movements are relaxed, you'll want to relax your breathing.Breathing while punching is more important than punching, and breathing well will help conserve your strength and build up your endurance over time.

A common mistake is to hold your breath when you punch. Always exhale during a strike.
 Never strike the bag with your toes or your ankle. Make sure you hit the bag with your instep or the side of your foot following proper techniques., Once you’ve built up some technique and stamina, try working the bag with punching and kicking combinations.For combination ideas, search for online articles and videos using the search terms “punching bag combinations.”

, Professional athletes and boxers rarely spend more than 5 to 7 minutes working a punching bag with consecutive hits, kicks, and combinations, so be sure to pace yourself! If you're working the bag for fitness with lots of movement in between strikes, it's okay to work the bag longer., Once you’ve finished working the bag, take time to cool-down with a light jog, a brisk walk, and then some relaxing stretches.

