 You'll need:


1 cup of superfine sugar
6 tablespoons of butter or margarine (softened)
1/2 cup of cocoa powder
1 cup of powdered sugar
1/3 cup of milk (whole or 2%—not skim)
1 tablespoon vanilla extract.;
, In a large bowl, whip room-temperature butter at medium speed with an electric mixer, or with a whisk, until it is fluffy.


Beating the butter with an electric mixer will be quicker than beating it by hand with a whisk. Either way, using room temperature butter will make it easier to whip to the right consistency while minimizing the risk of lumps.
Similarly, use butter over margarine when possible. When opting for margarine, use softened stick margarine over soft spreadable margarine, since both butter and stick margarine will hold their form better, resulting in a thicker frosting.
 In a small bowl, sift and whisk to combine the cocoa powder and granulated sugar.


Sifting the ingredients should help break up and eliminated lumps that may negatively impact the consistency of your frosting.
Superfine sugar is actually preferable since granulated sugar can give the frosting a grainy taste, but granulated sugar can be used if you are unable to find superfine sugar. You can also substitute additional powdered sugar, but only use 1 cup (250 ml) during this step, and be aware that it will make the frosting much sweeter.
 Add the cocoa/sugar mixture to the creamed butter alternately with the milk. Do not add too much milk, or the mixture will become too thin.


Add the milk about 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) at a time, mixing well after each addition, and stop once the mixture seems thoroughly moist.
 If it's too thick, add more milk, 1 tsp (5 ml) at a time. If it's too thin, add more cocoa/sugar mixture, 1 tsp (5 ml) at a time.


Additional cocoa/sugar mixture should be prepared in a ratio of 2 parts granulated sugar to 1 part cocoa powder.
The mixture should be spreadable, but still somewhat thin at this point.
 Once the frosting has reached the right consistency, add the vanilla extract. Blend well to combine., Whisk in the powdered sugar, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) at a time, blending well so there aren't any clumps.The powdered sugar should make the frosting even thicker, allowing it to hold its form better.
 You can spread this frosting on your cake or cupcakes, or refrigerate it in an airtight container for two or three days before use.

