 If you have any cramps, a backache, or other discomfort such as a headache, take an over-the-counter pain reliever.Take an NSAID (Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug) such as ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen sodium (Aleve), or try another pain reliever like acetaminophen (Tylenol) to help reduce your discomfort.Use the medication according to the instructions on the packaging.
Ask your doctor for a prescription pain medication if you suffer from severe pain related to your period.;
, If you have pain, especially in your back from cramping, stretch out your back and other muscles. This may help relieve any pain or discomfort.


Lie on the floor and bring your knees to your chest, which can help stretch out cramping lower back muscles.
Bend forward and touch your toes to relieve back pain or cramping as well.Put your arms above you on a wall and bow out your back to help stretch your lower abdomen.
Increase your stretch as the discomfort ceases.
You might want to walk around between stretches to help relax yourself.
 Putting warmth or low heat on cramping muscles can help relax them and relieve pain or discomfort. Try heating pads, rubs, and hot water bottles to help relieve your pain.Place a hot water bottle or heating pad on your abdomen or back.
Check the manufacturer’s instructions for how long you can leave the heating pad on your skin. The Food and Drug Administration recommends no more than 20 minutes per application as a general rule.Make a homemade heating pad by filling a clean sock or pillow case with dry beans, rice, or lentils and place it in the microwave for about a minute.Apply over-the-counter heat rubs or patches to any area causing you discomfort.
 Take a warm bath when you have pain or discomfort, or are even just feeling unwell or unhappy. Warm water can relieve pain and any tension you feel, helping you to relax and not be interrupted by your period.Draw water that is between 36 and 40 degrees Celsius (96-104F) to minimize your risk of burning yourself. Check the temperatures with a thermometer. If you don’t have a thermometer, check the temperature first with your fingers and place your hand in the water slowly to make sure the temperature is not too hot for you.
Sitting in a whirlpool can also help with pain and tension.Pour some Epsom salts into your bath, which can further relieve discomfort and tension.Take a warm shower or use a steam room if you don’t have a bathtub., Some forms of birth control (pills, the ring, patch, shot, progesterone-containing IUD, or implant) have hormones that can control a woman’s menstrual cycle, including relieving pain or other discomfort associated with your period. Ask your doctor about trying hormonal birth control, which could help you feel better and happier during your period.If you are taking birth control pills, skip the placebo, or pill-free, week, to help manage your discomfort.Schedule an appointment with your doctor to discuss your options. None of these options are available over-the-counter, requiring either a prescription or a minor procedure from your doctor.
 You may hear that taking quinine can help relieve cramping and pain. According to doctors, quinine is dangerous and may cause health problems such cardiac arrhythmia, vomiting, headaches, and ringing in your ears., There are some medical studies linking decreased levels of potassium, calcium, and magnesium to cramping. Eating enough of these nutrients and others such as protein can help relieve pain and may help with water retention and moodiness.Fruits including oranges and bananas provide potassium.Eating almonds, brown rice, and avocados can help you get magnesium.Try yogurt and cheese, as well as dark green vegetables like spinach for calcium.Eat Vitamin B foods like meat or eggs to help with food cravings and prevent moodiness or fatigue.Eating complex carbs — like green veggies, whole grains, beans, lentils, peas, and starchy veggies — can help.
You can also try supplements like calcium, vitamin E, and magnesium to help relieve PMS symptoms.
Avoid too much sodium, which can cause water retention that may increase your discomfort.Examples of foods high in sodium are: processed foods, soy sauce, canned vegetables, and deli meats., Many women retain fluid during their periods. Making sure you drink enough water can help minimize water retention and may also help reduce cramping and tension. Drinking enough throughout the day may help you avoid back spasms and tension.Water is the best choice to flush extra sodium that causes water retention. Try sports drinks or juices if you want something with flavor. Drink nine to 13 8-oz glasses of liquid daily, depending on how active you are.Red raspberry leaf tea may help relieve cramps., Limit or stay away from tobacco and caffeine during your period. Not only can these substances can promote cramps, but they may also make any negative feelings you might have worse.Give up or limit your alcoholic beverage intake while you’re menstruating. Alcohol can dehydrate you, constrict blood vessels and cause cramping, and generally make you feel worse.Stay away from tobacco products, which can also make cramping worse and may also make you feel worse. If you are not able, chew nicotine gum or “smoke” an electronic cigarette.
 Getting enough rest, especially sleep, can help relieve the physical and mental side effects of menstruation.Sleeping comfortably in loose bedding and on your side may help relieve the physical symptoms, while getting seven to nine hours of sleep per night may help with stress and tension.Try removing your flat sheet because it can constrict movement and cause further discomfort.Sleep on your side with your knees slightly bent to help relieve any cramping or back pain., Studies have shown that regular exercise can ease menstrual cramps and discomfort as well as helping your mood.Aim to get 30 minutes of exercise every day to help minimize pain, discomfort and mood swings.Do any type of exercise you like such as walking, swimming, jogging, or riding bikes.
Exercise can also help stretch out your muscles.Try gentle yoga to help yourself stretch out and relax, both of which can make you feel better and happier.
 Breathing deeply can naturally invigorate you as well as reduce tension and muscle tightness or cramping.Practice deep breathing techniques to help relieve your discomfort and any emotional symptoms you may have related to your period.


Inhale for two breaths and then exhale for two until you feel better.Deep breathing may help ease cramping and back pain by helping your body get enough oxygen.
Sit straight up with your shoulders back to get the most benefit from deep breathing. Pull in your belly to expand your lungs and rib cage to get optimal amounts of oxygen to your muscles., Take some time to meditate while you’re feeling tense and unhappy. Studies have shown that meditation is a powerful tool that can help relax you and improve your mood during your period.Just five to 10 minutes can help you feel better physically and emotionally. Increase the amount of time you meditate as you like.Find a quiet and comfortable place where no one will interrupt you. Eliminating distractions and giving yourself some alone time can make it easier to focus on your breath, relieve pain, and let go of any unhappy thoughts or sensations that may arise.
Sit upright and still and close your eyes. Proper posture allows your breath and blood to flow. This can helps your brain focus and let go.Let your breath easily come and go without controlling it. Aid your concentration by saying “let” on the inhale and “go” on the exhale., Framing is a behavioral technique that can help shape your feelings and may help decrease or eliminate negative emotions and pain. If you’re feeling down, think of being someplace or with someone that makes you happy.For example, if the winter is making your period especially unbearable, you, take a deep breath and think of yourself on a beach in Bali reading a book, enjoying a massage or just napping in a hammock.
 Menstrual symptoms such as cramping, mood swings, and other pain can causes an actual physical change in your body. Visit a massage therapist to minimize pain and help you relax.Studies have shown that getting a massage can minimize muscle tension and relieve your pain.
Consider Swedish or deep-tissue massage to get rid of pain and any discomfort you have.
Find qualified massage therapists online or by asking your doctor for a recommendation.

Self-massage can also help you feel better.
 Studies have demonstrated the benefits of acupuncture or acupressure to relieve pain and other period-related discomfort, as well as promoting relaxation. Locate a certified practitioner and schedule an appointment to help yourself have a happy period.Acupressure can relieve cramping and tension by increasing blood flow in your body.
Balance out your brain’s hormone regulator with acupressure or acupuncture. This may also minimize pain and discomfort associated with your period.

