 Even the most flattering types of clothes will look better with an exact fit. Use flexible measuring tape to measure the bust, waist, and hips. Use these measurements to accurately pick the correct pattern size to work from., You can buy sewing patterns from fabric stores or download them online. Most pre-printed patterns you can buy will come with multiple sizes on the same sheet. On the other hand, many pattern websites have separate files for use each size. Because wrap dresses are often worn loose and flowy, it's fine if the pattern is slightly larger than your measurements.


Consider what style of wrap dress you would like. The classic wrap dress has long sleeves and stops just above the knee. However, there are variations that include all sleeve types and skirt lengths. You will also need to decide between a real wrap or a faux wrap., The best fabric for a wrap dress is stretchy. Good choices are knit or polyester. You may choose any weight fabric, from light to heavy. It can also be a solid color or patterned.You can also make a wrap dress with non-elastic fabric. However, it will not hug your curves or drape the same way.
 Cut along the black line as guided by your pattern's specific instructions. Use a pair of scissors especially designated for cutting paper. Do not use your fabric scissors, as the patterns will dull them.
 Use straight pins to secure the pattern pieces to your fabric. Mark the pattern using tailor's chalk or some other non-staining writing utensil. Remove the pattern pieces and then cut along these lines.


The typical wrap dress will have about six pieces: two fronts, two sleeves, one back, and one for a tie or belt., This step will be dependent on the specific pattern you've chosen and varies widely. In general, remember to keep all seams at 5/8" inches. All free edges, such as the bottom of the skirt, should also be hemmed to 5/8".
 Either wear it yourself or place the dress on an appropriately-sized mannequin. Make sure you like how it looks and check for any areas you may have missed hemming. Re-hem any areas where the hem is uneven or doesn't fit right. If the dress is too loose, try widening the hem in that section. Test run the new seams using straight pins before you actually begin to sew.

