 Be sure to include the following information:



What is it? Be specific here; there are several different types of baseball glove, so rather than say “glove,” indicate whether it is a catcher’s mitt, an outfielder’s glove, a batting glove, or some other type.

Who owned it? A baseball bat from the 1920s is valuable enough. A baseball bat from the 1920s that once belonged to Babe Ruth is a real treasure. If you have a piece of baseball memorabilia that was once the property of well-known player, you need to make sure it’s high in your listing.

What era is it from? If you don’t know the exact year your item is from, do your best to identify the era. A 1930s baseball has different value than a 1950s baseball, and the more information you can provide for prospective buyers, the more likely you are to generate a sale.

Is it autographed? Autographed memorabilia tends to hold its value better than non-autographed items. If you took the step to have your autograph authenticated, make sure you mention that in the listing. Most collectors prefer authenticated material, and some won’t even bother with any signed item that hasn’t been authenticated.

What condition is it in? Condition is everything for memorabilia collectors. Take multiple pictures of each item, detailing any flaws or imperfections that buyers should know about. Failing to disclose nicks, scratches, or scuffs can earn you a bad reputation in the memorabilia industry and make it difficult for you to sell anything.

How can interested parties contact you? Try to leave two ways in which buyers can get in touch with you. Some people prefer email to the phone, while others feel the opposite. More contact options will appeal to a larger cross-section of buyers.
 Use every avenue at your disposal, including newspapers, classified ad magazines, online buy-sell-and-trade sites, and message boards. Be willing to pay a little extra for prime listing placement, if it’s offered. A little investment can make a significant difference in the level of interest in your item.
 Make sure you leave enough time for the buyer to sufficiently inspect the item(s) and ask any questions he or she may have.
 Be polite and helpful as you close the transaction. You may be dealing with the buyer again down the road, so leaving a good impression is vital.

