 Being shot in crystal-clear, high-resolution video as opposed to grainy cellphone footage never hurt a viral video's chances. If you want your video to look as good as possible, be willing to make the investment in professional equipment (or borrow a friend's.) Consider browsing our photography articles for technical information on how to get your shots looking amazing.


You don't necessarily have to break the bank to get great-quality footage. For instance, a good-quality voice recorder and an HD camcorder, which is all you'll need for basic videos, will run you about $500.
 The longer your video is, the greater you'll have to fight to keep your audience's attention. Thus, it's much easier to make a short video go viral than a long one. This isn't just common sense — academic research has found that the majority of videos that go viral are under three minutes in length.Some of the most successful videos ever, like the world-renowned "Charlie Bit My Finger," are much shorter.
 There's no disputing that YouTube is the most popular video-sharing platform in the world (official data from Alexa, an online statistics company, puts YouTube as the third-most-visited site in the world behind Google and Facebook.) However, it's not the only place to upload your videos. Hosting sites like DailyMotion, Vimeo, and more sometimes offer attractive features to video providers. For instance, DailyMotion is sometimes ranked higher in terms of video quality than YouTube.


If you're interested mainly in making very short clips, consider joining Vine, a video sharing app meant for videos up to about six seconds long. Vine has its own active user base, so it's possible to become a viral Vine sensation entirely outside of YouTube (though you'll ultimately be able to reach fewer people.)

, As a very general rule, people like viral videos that make them feel good about themselves and/or the world more than they like pessimistic ones (though there are, of course, plenty of exceptions.) Academic research has found that, while viewers typically prefer content that evokes a strong emotional response, "happy" content tends to get shared most of all.A look at the top 10 most-viewed YouTube videos of all time seems to confirm this: the only one that isn't a music video is "Charlie Bit My Finger," which is certainly lighthearted and funny. Of the music videos, about six or seven would generally be classified as lighthearted, depending on your personal tastes.