 Use scissors to cut a ¼ inch (½ cm) wide lock of dry hair from close to the scalp in the darkest or grayest part of your hair. Tape the cut end to keep the hair together., Place the swatch of hair in a plastic bowl. Apply the color rinse solution to the hair evenly, using enough product to completely saturate it. Be careful not to get any on your hands or clothes., If the hair you are coloring has been permed, relaxed, or previously dyed, wait for only 10 minutes. If the hair you are testing has not been chemically treated, wait for 15 minutes. Use a kitchen timer or set a timer on your phone., Take the swatch of hair out of the bowl, and using a paper towel, wipe the color rinse solution away. Dampen your paper towel with a tiny bit of water, and wipe it a second time., If you are not yet satisfied with the intensity of the color, return the swatch of hair to the coloring product left in the bowl. Continue checking the strand of hair's color every few minutes. Make a note of your hair's coloring time. This is the length of time you will color the rest of your hair.In general, you should only about 20 more minutes.
However for stubborn gray hair, this could take up to 45 minutes.
 Shampoo your hair 12 to 24 hours before doing the color rinse. This will remove any build-up from styling products and allow for a nice even color. For best results, use a clarifying shampoo (such as Neutrogena Clarifying Shampoo) to remove build-up., Hair should be completely dry when applying color to it. Wash your hair with enough time to allow it to air dry (thus inflicting less damage on your hair), or if you are short on time, use a blow dryer., Any type of hair dye, including a color rinse, can seriously damage your clothes. Change into clothes that you are not afraid to ruin, such as an old t-shirt you no longer wear., Just as with your clothing, color rinse products can damage your home. Place an old towel under your feet and another one on your bathroom counter. This will help you avoid dying your bathroom the color of your hair., Anytime you are dealing with dye products, it is a good idea to wear rubber gloves. Color rinse solution can stain your hands (particularly your fingernails) for several days or even a week. Be sure to wear some kind of gloves. Disposable rubber gloves or plastic dishwashing gloves will work great., Begin by applying color at the temples, hairlines, or wherever your hair is most gray. Then, parting your hair in ¼ inch sections, apply the color to your roots, and then work through to the ends. Use your gloved fingers to help distribute the color throughout your hair, but do not rub the color into your scalp., Use a damp paper towel to wipe away any color product that gets on your skin or a household surface. Pay particular attention to an excess product around your hairline, on the top of your ears, or on the back of your neck., Let the color remain on your hair for the length of time determined by your color test. (Remember, in general, chemically treated hair will need less time than non-chemically treated hair.) Set a timer and wait the allotted time., After waiting the appropriate time, add a little bit of warm water to your hair. Massage your hair gently to work the water and hair coloring product into a lather., Dip your head into the sink, under running water. Use your gloved hands to guide the product out of your hair. Rinse your hair thoroughly until the water looks clear., If your hair is dry, has been chemically treated, or is otherwise damaged, you will probably need to condition. Add conditioner to your hair (focusing on the tips, and avoiding the scalp). Then rinse again until all the conditioner has been removed.