

Boot w12r2a10, if it is not running.
Log on to the server when it completes booting.
Notice that Server Manager is displayed upon a successful login using the Administrator account at the console logon prompt.
Click Add Roles and features to display Add Roles and Features Wizard, Before you begin; it is this wizard that helps you manage roles, role services, and features.
Click Next to display Select Installation Type.;
,

Note that this is a role-based and feature-based installation.
Click Next to display Select destination server.


Note that this selection lets you select the server on which you want to do the installation. However in this example, there is only one server so there is only one option.
Click Next to display Server Role and Feature Wizard so you can make a server role selection.


Note that you can highlight a name in the center pane, so you can read the description in the right pane.
Click the checkbox next to DHCP Server.
Click Next to display Add Roles and Features.


Observe this popup is informing you that for DHCP Server to be installed, additional features, not already on the machine, needs to be installed.
Click Add Features, the popup disappears, and you are shown the DHCP Server checkbox checked.
Click Next to display a list of features from which you can select.
Note that in this step no additional selection is needed.
Click Next to display a screen that gives an overview of DHCP Server.
Click Next to display the Confirmation installation selections.


Observe the confirmation step, gives you a chance to make changes to the items previously configured, or continue to accept the selection.
Click install.
Click Close when it completes.
Move on to Configure DHCP Server, and keep learning.

Click Administrative Tools.
Double click DHCP to display DHCP Server root.






Expand w12r2a10.kim.com to display DHCP branches.







Right click IPv4.
Click New scope to display the New scope wizard.






Click Next to display Scope Name.






Type net17216150, in Name.
Type Scope for 17216150 subnet, in Description.
Click Next to display IP Address Range.

Type 172.16.150.100 In End IP address.
Change Length to 24 in Configuration settings that propagate to DHCP clients.
Click Next to display Add Exclusions and Delay, leave the default.
Click Next to display Lease Duration, leave the default.
Click Next to display Configure DHCP Options.






Click No, I will configure these options later, because in this example, there are no additional parameters to configure.
Click Next on Completing the New Scope Wizard.
Click Finish to display Authorize the DHCP Server.







Right click your DHCP Server root, w12r2a10.kim.com, and click Authorize DHCP, if necessary.
Right click your DHCP Server root, w12r2a10.kim.com, and verify it says Unauthorize.

Click Scopeto display Contents of Scope.
Click each item under IPV4 and view it in the center pane.
Notice that there are populated and unpopulated ones.
Right click ScopeClick Activate.
Right click ScopeNotice it says Deactivate.


Power on w7a15, if it is off.
Type ipconfig, to see the IP settings you configured at the start of the lab.
Ping 172.16.150.10, which should be successful.

Type ipconfig and verify a valid address is displayed and it is not .15.
Type ipconfig/release, if not valid.
Type ipconfig/renew, which displays a valid address that is not .15.
Go to DHCP Manger on w12r2a10 and verify that w7a15 is listed in Address Leases.
Right click the white area and click Refresh, if w7a15 is not listed.


Click Address Pool and notice the address range you allocated is listed
Right click Address Pool
Click New Exclusion Range
Note that you can configure a range of addresses or single addresses neither or both
Type 172.16.150.1 in Start IP address and 172.16.150.30 in End IP address
Click Add.
Click Close.
Click File.
Click Exit.


Type ipconfig and verify a valid address is displayed.
Type ipconfig/release.
Go to DHCP Manger on w12r2a10 and verify that w7a15 is not listed in Address Leases.
Right click the white area and click Refresh, if w7a15 is listed.
Type ipconfig/renew, which displays a valid address that is greater than .30.
Go to DHCP Manger on w12r2a10 and verify that w7a15 is listed in Address Leases.
Right click the white area and click Refresh, if w7a15 is not listed.


Type ipconfig/all.
Take a screenshot of the result and save it.
Verify that the IP address for the DNS server is not displayed.
Type ping kim.com which should not be successful.
Notice that this fails, because the DNS server is unknown to w7a15.
Expand Scope on w12r2a10.
Right click Scope Options.
Click Configure Options.
Click checkbox 006 DNS Server, in Available Options.
Type w12r2a10 Server name.
Click Resolve to populate the IP address field.
Click Add.
Click OK.
Type ipconfig/release.
Type ipconfig/renew.
Type ipconfig/all.
Compare this display with the one you previously captured, and notice that the DNS server is shown.

