 Most vaginal cysts are called inclusion cysts. These small, painless cysts usually go unnoticed and clear up on their own. If you have cysts that you can see on either side of your vaginal opening, these may be Bartholin's gland cysts. Normally, the glands secrete fluids that lubricate the vaginal lips and opening. But, these can become blocked, creating fluid-filled cysts.Less common types of cysts that develop inside the vagina include:


Gartner's duct cysts: these form during fetal development and they should disappear after birth. If cysts develop later in life, an MRI is usually needed to diagnosis them.Mϋllerian cysts: these develop from fetal structures that should disappear after birth, but often don't. These cysts are filled with mucus and can develop anywhere inside the vaginal walls.;
, While most cysts won't cause any discomfort, you may notice signs that the cyst has become infected. It's important to pay attention to these symptoms so you can get immediate medical attention. Signs of infection include:A lump near the vaginal opening that is tender or painful
Redness and swelling around the lump
Discomfort when walking or sitting
Painful intercourse
Fever

, You should call your doctor or gynecologist if you have any symptoms of infection or if the cyst becomes painful. A normal bacterial Infection or sexually transmitted infection can make the cysts uncomfortable. These require medical treatment. You should also let your doctor know if you have recurrent cysts, even if home treatments work. Recurrent cysts might need to be surgically treated.


If you're over 40 years old and have Bartholin Gland cysts, you need to have the cyst removed. Your doctor will probably want to have it tested for cancer, though this is extremely rare in a Bartholin gland., In addition to testing the cyst for cancer, your doctor may want to treat infected cysts. Treatment can involve draining the Bartholin's cyst by making an incision, then keeping it open with sutures or packing, which will be removed after a few days. A tube may also be used to drain the cyst. Your doctor may want to surgically remove a cyst if it returns, is large, or is painful.


Remember that most vaginal cysts don't need treatment. Instead, they can reabsorb on their own. If they don't resolve on their own, these cysts remain small and painless.
 If you have a cyst removed, you should have the area checked periodically to see if the cyst returns. It's a good idea to be in the habit of getting regular gynecological exams anyway. These can catch cervical cysts and cancer early. The American College of Physicians recommends that women of average risk for cervical cancer get pap smears and exams according to this new schedule:Ages 21 to 29: once every three years
Ages 30 to 65: once every three years (or an HPV and Pap smear every five years)
Over age 65: none are needed if recent tests come back normal

, Fill the sitz bath with warm water and place it over the toilet. This will allow you to sit and soak just your genital area. Add 1 to 2 tablespoons of epsom salts in the water and stir the mixture till the salts dissolve. Sit on the bath for 10 to 20 minutes, twice a day. You should do sitz baths three or four days or till the cyst improves.You can buy a sitz bath at a pharmacy or medical supply store. If you don't have a sitz bath, you could also just run a few inches of water in your bathtub.
 More research is needed, but ACV can be used to try to reduce the size and swelling of vaginal cysts. Either run a sitz bath and add 1 cup of ACV or you can soak a cotton ball or swab with ACV. Apply the soaked cotton ball or swab directly to the cyst and hold it there for 30 minutes twice a day until you notice swelling reduce.


While ACV is a popular home remedy, scientists caution against relying on vinegar as a medicinal treatment., Fill a hot water bottle with hot water and wrap it in a clean towel. Place this against the cyst to provide some pain relief. You might also try applying a heat pack, so long as you keep another cloth between the pack and your skin. Take care not to burn the delicate tissue in the vaginal area.


You can also dip a flannel or cotton cloth in hot water, wring the water out, and apply it directly against the cyst., Mix 1 to 2 tablespoons of aloe vera gel with 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon of turmeric powder. Stir until the mixture forms a paste. Use a cotton ball, tampon, or swab to apply the mixture to the cyst. Leave it on for 20 to 30 minutes once a day. Don't rinse or clean off the paste. Just let it run out naturally.


You may want to wear a sanitary napkin so that the bright turmeric doesn't stain your clothing.
Studies have shown that turmeric (curcumin) is an anti-inflammatory.This can reduce the irritation caused by vaginal cysts.
 Since it may take a few days for the cyst to clear up, you may want to take OTC pain relievers like ibuprofen or acetaminophen. If you feel severe pain that doesn't go away after taking OTC medications, contact your doctor.Always follow the manufacturer's instructions regarding dosage and how often to take the medication.
 Never rub the cyst, even when cleaning or washing the area. Gentle soaks in the sitz bath or tub are enough to keep the area clean. You should never douche. Douching is unnecessary, can irritate the cyst, and is considered to be harmful to women's health in general.Since you'll want to avoid irritating the cyst, consider using a sanitary napkin instead of a tampon, if you're menstruating.

