 If you cannot find an empty wine bottle, you can use another empty glass bottle. Keep in mind that the larger plant or flowerpot is, the larger bottle you will need. Here are some other types of glass bottles that you can use:


Any sauce bottle, such as hot sauce or soy sauce.
Carbonated water bottle
Old-fashioned soda bottle
Olive oil bottle
Vinegar bottle;
, You will be using this later. It your bottle does not have a cork or cap, you can still make it work. Follow the steps for removing the label from your bottle, then click here to learn how to turn it into a plant waterer.
 Fill the bottle with hot water and a few drops of dish soap. Close the bottle and shake it. After a few minutes, open the bottle and pour the soapy water out. Fill the bottle with water again and pour it out. Keep doing this until the water runs clean and there are no soap bubbles left.
 Try using your kitchen sink instead of your bathroom sink; it is more likely to have more space. If you do not have enough room in your sink, use a large plastic bin or bucket.









Consider leaving the label on. Some wine bottles have interesting labels. You can leave it on your bottle for an interesting look. If you wish to remove the label, keep reading.
 Stir the water with a spoon to dissolve the washing soda.
 You want it to be completely submerged. During this time, the hot water and washing soda will dissolve the glue on the label, making it easier to remove.
 The label should slide off on its own. If not, you may have to pull it off. Dry the bottle off with a soft cloth once you have the label off.









If there is any residue, you can clean it off using rubbing alcohol or acetone. Dampen a paper towel with rubbing alcohol or acetone, then rub the residue until there is none left.
 This may make it easier to poke the hole into the cap.Place the tip of a flat-tipped screwdriver between the edge of the padding and the inside of the cap. Gently push down on the handle. This will cause the padding to pop out.


If you don't have a screwdriver, you can use a craft knife instead.
 The top of the cap should be facing you. The bottom of the cap should be facing the wood. This will help protect your table or work surface from getting damaged if you punch the hole too deep.


You can also use an old cutting board instead.
 If you are worried about smashing or hurting your fingers, put on a pair of work gloves.
 Take a sharp nail and position it in the center of the cap. Hold it steady between your thumb and forefinger. Hit the top of the nail with a hammer. Remove the nail when you are done.
 Keep in mind that this will be more effective on plastic caps, and less effective on metal ones. Simply hold the bottle cap between your fingers, and hold the tip of the drill against the top of the cap. Turn the drill on and push down lightly on it until the tip goes into the cap. Stop the drill and pull it out of the hole you made.
 You may have little to no reside if you used a hammer and nail, but you may have some dust if you used a drill. Simply wipe the top and inside of the cap using a damp cloth. This will help prevent any clogs.
 This may help prevent the cork from crumbling when you try to make a hole in it., Keep twisting the corkscrew until the metal spiral goes all the way through the cork. Twist the corkscrew in the other direction to take it out.









You can put the cork into the wine bottle for this step. The neck of the bottle will help keep it steady while you work.
 Use a screwdriver to twist a screw into the cork. Make sure that the screw goes all the way through the cork, from top to bottom. Twist the screwdriver in the opposite direction to take the screw out.
 Place the cork down on a piece of wood and hold it steady between your thumb and forefinger. Place the tip of a drill against the top of the cork and turn the drill on. Gently press down on the drill until the tip goes all the way through the cork. Turn the drill off and pull it out of the cork when you are done.
 You can do this by gently blowing into the hole. You can also place the cork under running water, and let the water flow through the hole. This will help prevent any clogs later on.
 Use the base of the bottle to trace a circle onto some fabric. You will be attaching this to the bottle opening to prevent clogging.You can also use wire mesh instead of fabric.


Try using a thin fabric, such as cotton. Thick fabric, such as linen or canvas will be too thick and won't let the water pass through.
 You can also add some plant food into the water at this point. Do not fill the bottle all the way; fill it up just to where it starts to narrow.
 Make sure that the circle is centered over the mouth of the bottle.
 Press the edges of the fabric circle down against the neck of the bottle. Tie a piece of string around the neck and fabric, just below the lip. If you do not have string, use a rubber band or twist tie. When the bottle becomes empty and you need to refill it, simply pull the string and fabric off. Refill the bottle, then put the fabric and string back on.
 They are shaped like cones, and are made for wine bottle plant waterers. You can find them in nurseries or in the garden section of a home improvement store. Stick the stake into the soil, and place the wine bottle down into it. You do not need to keep the original cork or cap. You also won't need any fabric or mesh.


You may also find these plant stakes labeled as "Wine Bottle Plant Nanny Watering Stakes."

, Do not fill the bottle all the way. Instead, fill it up to just where the neck begins to narrow. You can also add some plant food into the bottle at this point.
 If you have a very large plant, such as a tree, you may need to make a second bottle.
 If the soil is too dry, the water in your bottle will empty too quickly., The soil may also get forced into the bottle opening and create a clog.If you are going to use the bottle in a flowerpot, make the hole close to the edge of the pot. Try to make the hole at an angle, with the bottom pointing away from the pot's rim. This will allow you to insert the bottle at an angle, and rest the bottle against the edge of the pot.If the bottle's neck is shorter than 2 inches (5.08 centimeters), make a shallower hole.
 Keep pushing the bottle until it won't go in any further. The mouth of the bottle should be pressed firmly against the soil.








Consider wearing work gloves for this step, in case the bottle breaks., If there are any bubbles or the water level is changing, take the bottle out and try again. This happens when the bottle mouth didn't seal against the soil., This bottle is ideal for the forgetful gardener, or if you are going away on vacation.
 You can find these vase fillers in most arts and crafts stores. You can also find them in the fish department of a pet store. Spread a thin layer of glass adhesive, such as E6000 or Weldbond onto the bottle, and stick the marbles on. Work in small patches, from the base of the bottle to the top. Leave the neck uncovered. Wait at least 24 hours for the glue to cure.If the marbles keep sliding off, try holding them in place with some masking tape. Simply place a piece of masking tape over the marbles. Stick both ends of the tape to the sides of the bottle.
Consider using other items, such as gemstones or sea shells.
 Stick an adhesive stencil onto the bottle. Brush on a thick layer of glass etching cream; you can find it in the glass and mosaic section of an arts and crafts store. Wait 15 minutes, or the amount of time recommended on the label, then wash it off. When you are done, pull the stencil off.To create the designs, you can use adhesive glass stencils. You can also use letter stickers. The area around the stickers will be frosted. The area covered by the stickers will be clear.
 Buff the bottle with fine-grained sandpaper, and wipe it clean with some rubbing alcohol. Shake a can of chalkboard spray paint until you can hear it rattling. Hold the can 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) away from the surface of the bottle, and apply a light, even coat of paint. Wait for the paint to dry before applying a second coat. Let the paint cure for at least 24 hours before priming it.To prime the chalkboard paint, rub a piece of chalk over the entire surface, then wipe it off.
Because you won't be able to see inside the bottle, consider writing down the last time you filled it right onto the chalkboard surface.
 Make a square or rectangle on the bottle with masking tape. Paint over the square using chalkboard paint and a paintbrush. Let the paint dry before applying more layers. Once you are done painting, pull off the masking tape and allow the paint to cure completely. Prime the paint by covering it with a piece of chalk, then wiping the chalk off.Write down the name of the plant or herb on the label. The bottle will double as a plant marker.
 Use flat-backed marbles instead of round ones, as they are less likely to fall out of the bottle. They will not only add color to the bottle, but also help regulate the water flow.

