 This can affect how well a dye will take to your hair. Cool categories are based on your skin tone, eyes, and natural hair color.People in the cool category will have deep brown eyes, hazel eyes, gray-blue, or dark blue eyes.
The cool category includes both light and dark skin tones. Very dark skin and olive skin tones are included in the cool category. Medium skin tones, both with color and without color in the cheeks, and medium skin with golden undertones, are also considered cool. Pale skin with pink undertones, or pale skin with no color in the cheeks, puts you in the cool category. If your skin gets brown or bronze when you tan, you may be in the cool category.
In the cool category, your natural hair would be blue-black, very deep brown, medium ash brown, golden brown, dish water blond, salt and pepper, or white.;
, Warm categories are determined by the same factors as cool categories. Consider your natural hair color, skin tone, and eye color.


Golden brown, green, green-blue, turquoise, and hazel eyes with gold or brown flecks are considered warm.
Brown skin with pink undertones, brown skin with golden undertones, pale skin with peach or gold undertones, freckled skin, and ruddy skin are part of the warm category.
Deep brown hair with gold or red highlights, red hair, strawberry blond hair, gray hair with a yellow cast, and natural golden blonde hair are all considered warm hair types.
 If you've determined you fall into the cool category, not every hair color will work for you. While you may be able to get around this issue with the right stylist, understand some colors will be more difficult. Other colors, however, would work more easily with your hair.Gold, yellow, red, and bronze tones in the hair are hard to achieve with cool hair colors. They may not come out well, and have a tendency to make you look somewhat sallow.
Shiny black hairs, ash browns, and cool blonds work well with a warm complexion. They also may be easier to dye over your natural hair color.
 Some colors may look bad, given your complexion and skin tone. Other colors would compliment your skin tone and complexion.Blue, violet, and ash-based colors can make your skin tone look washed out.
Darker colors work best. Warm browns, chestnuts, auburn shades, golden browns, gold and red highlights, and golden blond colors would compliment your skin tone and eye color well.

