 The amino acid cucurbitacin in pumpkin seeds paralyzes works and expels them from the digestive tract. These seeds are very potent and effective, particularly against tape- and hookworm.Grind up pumpkin seeds into a fine powder and add one teaspoon for each 10 – 15 lbs. of body weight daily. Do this for two weeks and then add wheat bran to the dog’s diet; soak the bran in water and add an eighth teaspoon per 10 lbs. of body weight to larger animals and just a pinch for smaller ones.
You can even feed the seeds to him directly as a treat. Just make sure you use the same measurement guidelines. Also be sure to use unsalted, organic pumpkin seeds.
 These incredibly healthy seeds have many positive effects on the bodies of both humans and dogs. Proven to fight 800 bacterial and viral strains, it also supports the immune system, fights cancer, and, in this instance, are a natural for killing, weakening, and repelling parasites.Grind up the seeds to a find powder. Sprinkle 8 mg for every 2.2 pounds of body weight (OBW) onto your dog’s food. There are no restrictions as to how long to continue this treatment as grapefruit seeds are highly beneficial to your dog’s overall health.
Try GSE (grapefruit seed extract). Purchase this at your local health food store. For a minimal dosage, give your pooch .5 drops for every 2.2 pounds OBW orally. For maximum dosage, give your dog 10-15 drops per every 10 pounds OBW.
 Rich in papain, an enzyme that will destroy the worms’ outer coating and cause them to get weak and lose their hold on the intestinal wall, papaya seeds are also a great digestive aid.


Grind the papaya seeds into a fine powder. Sprinkle 8 mg for every 2.2 pounds of body weight (OBW) onto your dog’s food. There are no restrictions as to how long to continue this treatment as grapefruit seeds are highly beneficial to your dog’s overall health.
 If your dogs will eat it, the flesh of the papaya is also rich in papain. You might want to use this in combination with another method – even the papaya seeds. That way they will get all the health benefits and not rely solely on a small amount of papaya to do the job.


There is a reason you only want to feed them a small amount. Feeding them a lot can lead to the same problems you can have with all fruits: too much in one end can lead to a loose result on the other.
Feed your best friend fresh or dried papaya. Try to make it organic though. That will have the most papain and be the healthiest option for your dog.
 Rich in the enzyme ficin, eating figs will destroy the worms’ outer coating and cause them to get weak and lose their hold on the intestinal wall. Same general fruit warning: too much of a good thing can lead to too much of a bad thing. Feed your dog dried figs in moderation. One or two as a treat after meals is fine.