 You can also breathe through your shirt or use an odor-eliminating spray.;
, Never venture into the bathroom with bare feet. You never know what bacteria or viruses are living on the floor. Especially in the shower, wear flip-flops or some kind of sandals. Footwear will help keep you from developing meningitis, plantar warts (caused by HPV), athlete's foot, and staph and strep infections. Many types of bacteria, viruses, and fungi thrive in warm, moist environments like bathrooms and showering areas. To prevent warts on the feet, never wear another person's sandals or flip-flops, and don't lend out your own.
 Make sure not to touch the walls of the shower or the bathroom stalls. Wash your hands before leaving.
 Because of poor lighting, it may be difficult to shave without seriously injuring yourself. If you find shaving in the shower problematic, consider waxes, depilatory creams, or an electric razor.
 Signs will decrease the amount of gross things occurring in the bathroom. However, you may need to post different messages every so often if students stop being complaisant. The best place to put a sign is on the inside of every stall door: people will definitely see it, and they have a moment to read it while they're on the toilet. Attract attention to your sign with lots of color and some clip art. Short and sweet messages are best; longer ones tend to be ignored., For girls: hover over the seat whenever possible. Not touching the seat is always the most hygienic option. If you must sit down, wipe the seat off and line it with a few layers of toilet paper (this may be a waste of paper, but for the sake of your health and hygiene it's worth it).
 Find good bathrooms that you can resort to every once in a while in order to get away from the almost unbearable bathrooms in your dorm. Try to find a less popular or less messy restroom on another floor.
 If you do nothing else, at least perform this step! Also, if it doesn't create privacy issues, prop the door open when you enter the bathroom. Try to avoid touching door handles on your way out, or use a paper towel, a napkin, or even some toilet paper to open the door. Provided that you wash your hands, most restroom messes are more unpleasant than unhealthy. Washing your hands frequently will help stop the spread of illnesses as well.

