 Understanding law is fundamental to understanding scientific terminology: a scientific law is a statement, based on repeated long-term observation, which describes any phenomena of nature.Laws have never been refuted (hence their relatively small number) and are not explanations; they are descriptions and are often stated through relatively simple mathematical equations.
Scientific laws, despite their formality, can change or have exceptions as scientific understandings of phenomena evolve.;
, Helping someone understand scientific law—an admittedly abstract concept—will allow them to differentiate between theory and fact. In many ways, laws are a starting place; they are often observed and have never been refuted, but do not explain why something occurs.A common example is the Law of Evolution: this law describes a phenomenon that has been observed throughout nature, but the law does not explain why evolution occurs.
As another example, the Law of Gravity has been known in the scientific community since the late 17th century. The law describes the natural phenomenon of gravity, but does not provide an explanation as to how and why gravity functions.
 Scientifically speaking, a theory is a rational explanation of why an aspect of our world functions in a certain way. The definition of a theory will incorporate facts and laws, although the three are fundamentally separate.A theory builds from initial hypotheses (educated guesses) and can be revised in accordance with the development of a scientific understanding of a phenomena’s cause.
A theory is confirmed by all available evidence such that it can be used to predict new, as yet unobserved phenomena.
 This will help clarify your point and make a clearer explanation. The theory is used to explain an occurrence, while the law describes a phenomenon under specific circumstances in nature.


For example, the scientific Theory of Natural Selection corresponds with the Law of Evolution.While the law states an observed natural phenomena (life forms develop new characteristics based on external circumstances), the theory describes how and why this happens.

