 Varicose veins typically appear in the later stages of pregnancy, when the weight of the baby is pushing down on your pelvis. Try to do low-impact exercises throughout your entire pregnancy to keep your blood flowing and minimize your chance of developing varicose veins. Talk with your doctor about what exercises are best for you, especially during late pregnancy.Walking and swimming are good low-impact exercises.
You can also do foot exercises by bending and rotating your feet at the ankles. Bend, stretch, and rotate your feet throughout the day to keep the blood circulating well.;
, Varicose veins are more likely to develop if your circulation is poor. This can happen if you have to sit in the same position for a long period of time or don't get to move around much. To improve your circulation, try to stand up and change positions occasionally.


Don't cross your legs when you're sitting, since this can slow down your circulation.
 If you have to sit in the same position for a long period of time, try to elevate your legs occasionally. For example, if you have to sit in a chair, rest your feet up on an Ottoman or small stool. This will relieve some of the pressure on the veins in your legs. If you can, stand up and go for a short walk before elevating your legs to improve your circulation.


For a comfortable way to elevate your legs, stack several pillows under your feet and knees.
 Deep breathing is a great way to improve your circulation, relax, and prevent varicose veins. Sit comfortably with your feet elevated above your hips. You might try sitting with your feet raised up on pillows. Breathe in deeply, so your lungs are full. Breathe out slowly as you feel the air release from your diaphragm. Do this for 10 minutes every day.Try to keep your chest in place as you breathe in. Your shoulders shouldn't move up or down as you inhale or exhale.
 If you frequently wear high-heels or shoes with tight straps, switch to flats or shoes with low heels. Wearing high heels can actually increase the pressure on your veins and increase your risk for developing varicose veins. Flats or low-heeled shoes will allow your blood to circulate easier and keep your veins healthier.


You may find that you need to buy new shoes anyway, since many pregnant women's feet swell during the final months of pregnancy.
 There may not be much you can do about the pressure your belly is putting on your body, but maternity support hosiery can help. These are thicker than standard women's hosiery and they're designed to be looser near your thighs while being tighter near the ankles. This will reduce some of the pressure from your belly and improve your blood circulation.You can find maternity hosiery at maternity clothing stores, pharmacies, and medical supply stores.
 A major vein runs down along the right side of your body (the vena cava). To prevent additional pressure on this vein, sleep on your left side if you can. You can also pressure and swelling in your legs by sleeping with your legs elevated. Just lay a few pillows underneath your knees and ankles before you sleep.Don't worry if you roll onto your right side while you're sleeping. The important thing is that you're comfortable enough to get a good night's rest.
 Although most varicose veins develop on the legs, pregnant women can develop varicose veins in the vulva area, especially during the third trimester. If you begin to feel pressure or pain in the vulva area, elevate your hips using pillows. You can also place an ice pack in the area to reduce swelling.Talk with your doctor if you experience sharp pain or are concerned about vulvar varicose veins.

