 Gold leaf can be applied to a number of materials, including cardboard, wood, glass, ceramic, and plastic. You can create your own cut-outs from cardboard or wood, you can purchase ornaments in a variety of shapes and colors.Keep in mind that ornament bases with textures such as glitter will change how the gold leaf looks once applied.
Check your local craft stores, home goods stores, and thrift stores to find ornament blanks or supplies to make your own cut-outs.;
, If you do not plan on applying gold leaf to the whole ornament, decide if you want to add a base color to your ornament. Find acrylic or craft paint at your local craft store, along with brushes for application, to paint your ornament base.Keep in mind that you can purchase some ornaments such as ball ornaments in a variety of different colors, which can eliminate the need for the base paint.
 Paint the ornament in thin layers, and allow a full day for the ornaments to dry before you apply the gold leaf. Use a sponge brush or spray paint for the most consistent finish.


You can create a minimalist glass ornament by only applying gold leaf.
If you decide to paint your glass ornament, paint the inside by squeezing in a small amount of paint and rotating it around the ornament. This maintains the ornament’s polished surface.
 Gold leaf comes in a number of forms and colors. Check your local art supplies stores, craft store, or online to find a leaf that fits your needs. Decide if you want real or imitation gold leaf, whether you want a brilliant or antique finish, and what karat weight you want.True gold leaf is often more expensive and more difficult to find. A number of imitation leafs are available that look comparable to genuine gold at a fraction of the price.
 Gold leaf is traditionally applied with gold leaf sizing, but you can also use spray adhesive, which offers faster application for less precise or more abstract patterns. Decide what type of sizing method you want to use.


For a more precise pattern, traditional gold leaf sizing may work better, as it offers greater control over where the leaf is applied.
For more abstract or non-precise patterns, spray adhesive allows you to work faster and with greater ease.
 Decide roughly where you want your gold leaf so that you know where to apply the size. It may be as simple as deciding you want the bottom portion of each ornament to be covered in leaf, or you may have a more precise pattern.For more precise patterns, consider using a colored pencil or wax pencil for glass to draw out the shapes and patterns you want.
You can also use vinyl stickers that you peel away after apply the leaf to create a specific shape or pattern.
 Use a brush to apply the sizing to the area where you want the gold leaf. Size generally needs to sit to become tacky before the leaf is applied. Check the instructions on your particular brand of size to see how long you need to wait before applying the leaf.Rest your ornament on a side not covered with the size. If you plan on applying leaf to the entire ornament, do so one half at a time so that you have an area where you can hold and rest the ornament at all times.
 Once the size has had the chance to dry and become tacky, it’s time to apply the leaf. Hold the edge of the backing sheet and place the leaf down against the size. If you are using an imitation leaf, you may use a paintbrush or your finger to apply pressure to the gold leaf and transfer it to the size.If you are using genuine gold leaf, you will need a gilding brush to pick up and apply the leaf. Rub the brush against your palm or hair to create a static charge, then use it to pick up and dab on the leaf a little bit at a time.
Use a thin, soft-bristled brush such as a fan brush to wipe away the excess leaf once the gilding has been applied to all of the sizing.
 Use a spray setter meant for metallic leafing to set and seal your ornament.Hold the spray can in the hand opposite the ornament at a distance of around eight to twelve inches. Spray the ornament lightly, rotating to ensure full coverage.


Spray the sealant outside, if possible, and cover the ground in a tarp or newspapers for easy clean-up.
A water-based varnish also works to seal the leaf. You can generally find this any craft or art supplies stores.
 Decide where you want to apply the gold leaf and outline your design or pattern. If you want an abstract pattern, you may choose not to outline the area. Otherwise, you can use a colored or wax pencil to create a rough sketch.Wax pencils work best on glass.
 If you are using imitation gold leaf, hold the leaf by the backing sheet and spray a thin layer of adhesive directly on the leaf. If you are using genuine gold leaf, apply the spray adhesive to the ornament and use a gilding brush to pick up and apply the leaf.If you are spraying directly on the leaf, spray small sections at a time to avoid adding too much leaf. You may also cut the leaf sheets to achieve more precise patterns or shapes.
 Immediately after applying the spray adhesive, apply the leaf. If you sprayed directly onto the leaf, use a blunt tipped object to rub leaf onto the ornament. Otherwise, use a gilding brush to pick up and blot on the leaf.


Wipe off excess leaf using a fan brush in between layers of application.
 Use a water-based varnish or a metallic leaf setting spray to seal your ornament. Apply the setting spray in a well-ventilated area, holding the ornament about eight to twelve inches away from the spray can.Rotate the ornament to ensure that you get complete coverage on all the leafed areas.

