 Ways to reduce pollution in your home:


Buy biodegradable products.
Store all liquid chemicals and waste in spill-proof containers.
Eat organic foods that are grown without pesticides. Look out for fertilizer or pesticide free products when you go to the market.
Don’t use pesticides if you can.
Use a drip tray to collect engine oil.
Buy products that have little packaging.
Don’t dump motor oil on the ground.;
, Researchers fear that such plastic bags may never fully decompose; instead, they gradually just turn into smaller and smaller pieces of plastic. How to reduce the amount of plastic you use in your home:


Don’t use garbage bags—just empty your trash into the garbage bin.
If you don’t like that approach, get yourself some recycled or biodegradable, compostable garbage bags.
Request that your daily newspaper not be wrapped in plastic when delivered. (Or cancel your newspaper subscription and go totally online for your news fix– you’ll save hundreds of trees as well.)
Take your own plastic or metal container to the restaurant to take home your leftovers when you’re eating out. Sure they’ll look at you funny, but remember you’re an eco-trend-setter!
Remind your favorite take-out place to leave out the plastic utensils, straws, napkins, and condiment packets when they pack your food to go. And politely decline the bag if you only have one or two items to carry home. Better yet, dine in the restaurant where you can use a real plate and fork.

Take reusable bags with you to the store. Decline the bag if you only have a few items.
Ask your favorite dry-cleaners to eliminate the plastic wrap on your clothes. Don’t forget to choose an eco-friendly, non-toxic dry cleaner too.

Pack a waste-free lunch to take to office or school.



Properly maintain all underground storage tanks, like oil, septic, and sewer lines. Have your septic tank pumped on schedule and look for signs of leakage, such as soggy areas in the yard, odor, slowing and backups in the home, and excessive plant growth over a particular area. Most septic systems need pumped every three to five years.
Be diligent about picking up and disposing of trash. Dispose of animal waste into a septic or sewage system as promptly as possible--do not leave it on the lawn or place it in a storm drain.
Do not burn trash, particularly plastics or tires, because the residue in the smoke will settle and pollute the soil.



Choose digital subscriptions, statements, and bills.

Ask to be removed from junk mail lists and avoid signing up for new ones.
Say no to receipts.

Dry your hands using just one paper towel. Use a washable fabric towel when you're at home. If possible, carry a small fabric towel with you to school or work, too. Bring it home occasionally and wash it with the rest of your laundry.
Use reusable fabric cloths, a feather duster, or a broom instead of paper towels or Swiffer.

