 Being anxious or angry can make you drive more erratically. Maintaining control is key to resisting the urge to speed. Before you start your vehicle, relax by taking some deep breaths. As you drive, try listening to light music such as classical instead of tense-sounding music like hip-hop or hard rock. Focus on the road and let go of negative, emotion-laden thoughts.It’s okay to stop on the side of the road or in a parking lot if you need to reorient yourself. Start over by breathing and shaking out the tension. It can take a while before this becomes second-nature to you.;
, Many people speed because they feel like they’re running late. Don’t put yourself in a situation where you feel pressured to get to work or an appointment on time. Take care of tasks at home, such as preparing breakfast or choosing an outfit, ahead of time. Give yourself plenty of time to get to where you need to go., Occasional glances at the speedometer will keep you in check. Take a quick look down to see how fast you’re going. Adjust your speed accordingly. The act of looking forces you to stay engaged instead of zoning out and driving by instinct. Remember to keep your glances brief so your eyes stay focused on the road., Cruise control is useful for straight, open roads that many people are tempted to speed on. Find the “Set” button on your car. Accelerate to the speed you wish to go, then press the Set button to maintain that speed automatically. You may use accelerate and decelerate buttons in your car to adjust the speed.The cruise control setting differs between car brands. Consult your owner’s manual for instructions on how to engage cruise control.
Cruise control is not appropriate for winding roads, city roads, or rainy weather. In addition, the car’s speed is affected by hills. Watch out when you go down hills, since you’ll pick up speed. Braking usually stops cruise control in addition to slowing you down.
 Dropping 5 mph (8 km/h) won’t significantly decrease your travel time. Staying aware of the speed limit and choosing to stay below it reduces your chances of accidentally going over it. Even if you notice a big difference at first, you’ll adjust the more you drive at the reduced speed., Racing games give you a chance to go fast without putting everyone at risk. Find these at arcades or on home computers and game consoles. You may also try joining autocross events or club racing with the SCCA. Get your speed fix before you have to head out onto the road.
 Find ways to cut down on your driving. Check your area for bus routes. Sometimes you can park near the bus station and use the bus to travel the rest of the way to your destination. Biking or walking are also options for shorter distances. Is your office right around the corner? Take the opportunity to refresh yourself with some exercise., Your car may not have manual transmission, so you’d have to consider switching cars. With manual transmission, you have to shift up a gear using the gearstick to go faster. This is an easy way to limit your maximum speed. You’ll also learn to identify how fast you’re going by the sound of your engine., Mentally calculate how much that ticket will cost you. Tickets in the USA can set you back hundreds of dollars. Going faster than 65 mph (105 km/h) burns more fuel and causes more wear and tear to your vehicle. In addition, an accident you are at fault for can cost you much more.


Even if money isn’t an issue, think of the cost in lives. Your speeding is a risk to yourself, your passengers, and everyone else on the road. Remember what will happen if you, for example, hit a child who runs out into the street. Now think of how you’d feel if that was your child.
The time you save by speeding doesn’t make up for the costs, so don’t rely on that as an excuse.

