 Often the idea of having their work on the Internet motivates students to be more creative and productive.


Look for student publishing websites that feature various areas of the curriculum such as art, literature, math, and science. There are many legitimate safe websites that exist to promote student work, some involving contests which can further motivate students to participate. There are also sites, for instance, which encourage students to nominate people in the community as heroes or ones which allow kids to share stories and information about their pets.
Create your own class or school website where the students can upload their work. You can post information about any class project with which you are involved, giving the community a view into your classroom. There are many tools available to educators which teach how to design a web page.;
,


Always get parental permission to post their child's work on the Internet. Involve the parents with the projects and encourage them to check on any posting their child makes.
Teach your students how to use the Internet safely. Many schools have an acceptable use policy (AUP) which students and teachers must strictly follow. All parties involved in any online project must be made aware of this policy, including teachers, students, parents and administrators.
Many schools have a policy of not posting students' full names. Sometimes a first name is used or many prefer to use nicknames. This policy protects students and helps ensure their privacy.
Before posting any student pictures, get parental permission. Since it is most likely that parents already have signed permission slips to have their child's photo printed in the local or school newspaper, it would be easy to add permission for online posting of pictures as well.
Make sure students realize from the beginning that all content must be school related and not have a social agenda. Monitor whatever your students place on the Internet. Check frequently to be sure the material they upload or post is appropriate. Comment on their work to let them know you are keeping an eye on things. Encourage parents and others in the school to be vigilant as well.
 Most school technology departments already use a filter of some sort.

