 If your best friend is in a romantic relationship, it may be hard to see them as much as you would like. Plus, when you do see them, they will likely be with their partner. If you feel like you could use a little one-on-one time, talk to your friend and set up a time to hang out, just the two of you.Try setting up a coffee or lunch date in advance, this will make it easier for both of you to commit to it.
 If you find that you are spending a lot of time with a couple, get to know your friend’s partner. You may find that you really enjoy their company as well. At the least, getting to know your friend’s partner will help you feel more comfortable around them and make spending time with them a little more enjoyable.If appropriate, try hanging out with just your friend’s partner. You might develop a friendship on your own.
 Your friend’s relationship might be a great time to do your own thing. Instead of doing things with your friend and their partner, do stuff on your own. Indulge some of your hobbies or try out new things.Take some classes on your own, like cooking or karate.
 The easiest way to handle being a third wheel is to spend less time with the couple. You do not need to do everything with your friend and their partner, and they would probably appreciate a little more space.Try to call or text them less, and be less insistent about hanging out. Put the ball in your friend’s court and let them initiate friend time.This is particularly important early on when your friend is figuring out the new dynamics of their relationship. Give them some space and let them get their bearings.
 Let your friend know that you are there for them and that you have their best interests at heart. This will help strengthen your friendship and make things less awkward when you hang out with the couple. Jealousy may rear its ugly head but, if you are a good friend, you will tamp it down.However, this does not mean that you should turn a blind eye to bad behavior. If your friend’s partner is bad news, let them know about it.
 One easy way to deal with being a third wheel is to quit being one. Look at your friend’s relationship as an opportunity to find romance. Try dating around a little and see what happens. You might go from being a third wheel to going on double dates.If you are not looking for a romantic relationship, try developing some of your other friendships or get to know some acquaintances.
Your friend’s partner might even be able to set you up with someone.

