 Water helps your body break down bulk and flush out toxins that can interfere with natural digestion. It also makes your stool softer and easier to pass.


Carry a water bottle around with you throughout the day. This will help you remember to drink more and give you something to do when you're bored. Drink extra water after exercising, as you lose a lot of fluid through sweat.
You will know that your body is adequately hydrated when your urine remains clear throughout the day. The more dehydrated you are, the yellower your urine will be.Choose fruits and vegetables that have high water content, such as watermelon, cucumbers, and oranges.
 Regular exercise can assist in benefit digestion.


Exercise speeds up digestion by increasing blood flow to your organs and stimulating the muscles in the intestines, helping them to process waste more quickly.Try cardio exercises such as walking, swimming and jogging, which get the entire body moving. Also, try to make small changes such as taking the stairs instead of the elevator.
 When you feel the first urge to move your bowels, go to the bathroom. If you delay, water will be reabsorbed in your colon, and the stool will become harder and more difficult to pass., Excess weight can put pressure on the abdominal area and cause a condition whereby the valve between the stomach and the esophagus fails to close properly, resulting in acid reflux and heartburn.Relieve the pressure caused by any extra pounds by losing some weight. You can do this safely and effectively through a combination of healthy diet and exercise.
Some other handy weight loss tips include controlling portion sizes by eating from smaller plates, drinking a glass of water before meals to fill yourself up, and eating your last meal at least four hours before bed.
 Eating on the go or taking large, hurried bites can cause you to swallow a lot of air. This air turns into gas in your body and may cause severe cramping and discomfort. Eating too fast also causes you to overeat, which puts more pressure on the digestive system, slowing down the process.


Chew each bite of food at least 20 times before your swallow - this gives your stomach time to prepare for the food it is about to receive and your brain time to register that you're full.
Avoid eating while watching TV, checking your Facebook, or reading a magazine or newspaper, as you tend to eat more when you're distracted. Eat dinner at the table, and focus on each bite you put into your mouth.v

, Press firmly and slowly with your fingers at a 3–5 centimeter (1.2–2.0 in) radius all around your belly button, in a clockwise motion. For best results, do for 2 to 5 minutes. When practiced after meals or at least once a day — in the evening before going to bed — this simple technique quickly helps your digestion.
 Try a few days with no sugary snacks, processed foods, alcohol, nicotine, and caffeine. This will give your digestive tract a chance to regain its natural balance.


After this break, you may want to try a natural detoxifying program for digestive health. These can be found in many health food stores and nutrition centers. Read all directions fully, and follow the program exactly to avoid compounding your digestive problems.
 This simple trick may also improve digestion by helping the muscles of the stomach and intestines to relax.
 If any of your medications list gas, bloating, nausea, or other digestive stress as side effects, it may be a good idea to take a break, or ask your doctor about switching to an alternative option.

