 If you think your baby has a milk allergy or intolerance, you should first talk to their doctor. Your child’s doctor can confirm whether this is what is making your baby sick. They can also recommend the best way to go about changing your baby’s diet and possibly tell you which formulas are best for your baby.

Be prepared to discuss your baby’s diet and symptoms with your doctor. It might help to write down what they eat and how it affects them for a week or two before the appointment.;
, If your infant has a milk allergy or intolerance, you will need to eliminate milk and milk proteins from their diet. Doing so will keep them from having an allergic reaction or suffering symptoms of intolerance, like diarrhea, spitting up, or gas. If you are bottle-feeding your baby, this means you’ll need to switch their formula to one that does not contain milk products. In general, switching to a hydrolysate formula in which the milk proteins are already broken down is recommended.Formulas that do not contain milk are still a great source of nutrients for infants and many doctors will recommend continuing to feed it to children who are on restricted diets because of allergies well into their toddler years.Switching to a soy-based formula or goat’s milk is not usually a good solution. Many babies that are allergic to milk are also allergic to these things., If you are breastfeeding, you should eliminate dairy from your diet. This includes such things as milk, butter, cheese, cottage cheese, half-and-half, pudding, sour cream, and yogurt. You should talk to your doctor about what foods to eliminate, as well as what foods to supplement your diet with to ensure you’re still getting enough calcium and other nutrients.Be sure to read the labels on the food you are eating. Food manufacturers are required to state if their product contains milk or milk products., Diarrhea is a symptom of milk intolerance and can cause your baby to become dehydrated. When your baby is having significant diarrhea, make sure you are providing them with plenty of liquids, such as Pedialyte®, Naturalyte®, and Infalyte® if their recommended formula isn’t effective.Refrain from giving your child fruit juices that are high in sugar, as these may cause your baby to become more dehydrated.

Check with your pediatrician if you are concerned that your baby may be getting dehydrated or if you want to know which liquids are safe for your baby to have.

