 Chimichangas are usually classified by the type of meat or protein source filling them, and you have a lot of options. The two most common are ground beef and shredded chicken, but feel free to experiment. The only real criteria is that the meat needs to be tender enough that it can be cut into small pieces -- large steaks may be difficult to maneuver.


Vegetarians can make incredible chimichangas with spiced rice and beans. Cook the rice according to the packaging, but use vegetable broth instead of water. Add the beans afterwards and heat them up together before continuing.
More adventurous eaters should try out Lengua (cow tongue), Tripe (intestines), or Cabeza (cow head).;
, The oil should be hot but not smoking. Save the rest of your oil for later -- you'll need it to fry the chimichangas at the end.
 Add your meat to the hot oil and cook until browned, then add the chopped onions and garlic. Cook an additional 2-3 minutes, or until the onions are slightly translucent (clear, but not completely). Add your spices to this mixture so that the meat and vegetables have time to absorb them.


Once the meat is brown and the outside is starting to caramelize, it is time to add the vegetables.
If you are adding chopped bell peppers, chili peppers, or jalapeños, add them with the onions.
For slightly sweeter filling, you can caramelize the onions before you add them.
 This is where you get to customize your chimichangas to your liking. Mix in red chili sauces for a spicy flavoring, enchilada sauce for a smokier filling, or sour cream for a richer taste. Mix in any beans and rice if desired. Stir the filling so that everything is coated in your sauce and spices once everything is added.


Avoid making the mixture soupy or watery. Add enough sauce so that there is a little extra liquid at the bottom of the pan but no more than 1/4 of an inch.
Some people prefer to keep the rice and beans separate as a "dry" component.
 This step is not strictly necessary, but it allows the flavors to meld together to create a richer filling. The longer you cook it, the better the flavor, but stir it periodically and sure there is still liquid at the bottom of the pan.


You can periodically taste the mixture and add more salt, pepper, or spices to suit your preferences.
 Once you've finished with the filling you'll need to let it rest before stuffing the chimichangas.
 Using a fork or a food processor, cut the filling up so that there are no large chunks that will make rolling your chimichangas difficult.
 The only limit is your creativity. Simply follow the steps above to create any filling you want, substituting different meats, vegetables, or sauces. Try pulled pork, onions, and barbecue sauce for a "Southern" chimichanga, mix it up with sauteed squash, carrots, and peppers for a vegetarian option, or be bold with a dessert chimichanga.

