 You don’t want to leave your dog in the hotel room all day. That defeats the point of bringing your dog. Some dog websites, such as BringFido, list dog friendly restaurants from around the world.You may also be able to call restaurants or check their websites to figure out if dogs are allowed.
 If you can’t find many dog-friendly restaurants in your destination, consider other options. You can find parks and outdoor areas where you can take your dog and eat a picnic lunch or dinner. Food trucks are a good option since they are outside and you can just walk up to the window.


Ordering takeout and eating it in your hotel or in a dog-friendly destination is another option.
 As you plan your vacation, decide what activities your family can do with your dog. Many outdoor activities, such as hiking or swimming, are in places that are dog friendly. State and national parks, and some national monuments, are also generally dog-friendly.


Think about what you want to do on your trip. Some things, like museums or aquariums, are not going to be dog-friendly.
Before buying tickets or deciding on an activity, call ahead or check the website. This way you will know if you can bring your dog with you.
 Most cities have dog parks. Dog parks can be a good place to visit when on vacation. You can let your dog get exercise and expend energy, and you can relax. Look online or contact a visitor's center or local chamber of commerce. Ask them about dog parks in the area.
 Some vacations may not be right for every dog. If you have a senior or overweight dog, or if your dog has health or mobility problems, you should think about that when choosing a destination. Your dog’s size may also influence what you can do.


If your dog has never hiked or kayaked, you may not want to choose an outdoor adventure. If you want to do that, you may want to limit your activities.
Small dogs with small legs may have more trouble walking long distances.
Dogs that are brachycephalic, like bulldogs or pugs, or long-haired dogs may not do well at the beach or in super hot climates.
 If there is a day you want to do something without your dog, you may find that you need a dog sitter or a doggy daycare service. Before you travel, research available dog sitters and daycares in the area.


Many dog travel websites list these resources. If you can't find any for your particular destination, search online for dog sitting businesses in the area.
You may want to contact the dog sitter or doggy daycare ahead of time to find out if they have openings or how early you need to book the service.

