 Try to eat small amounts of solid and easily digestible food and eat more frequently. You want to provide a constant supply of energy so that the immune system has all the necessary components to do its job.
 You want to include quality protein such as fish and skinless poultry as well as complex carbohydrates. Some examples of the best foods to eat are:Breakfast: Egg and mushroom omelet. Eggs contain zinc — zinc can help boost the immune system. They also contain protein that tends to be easily digestible for most people. Mushrooms contain glucans that boost the immune system. Adding a pinch of cayenne pepper can help break up the mucus and increase drainage.
Have yogurt as a snack or for lunch. The active cultures can boost your gut bacteria and boost your immune system at the same time.
Eat foods rich in Vitamin C and antioxidants. Foods that fit the bill include red peppers, oranges, berries, and leafy green vegetables. You can also include foods rich in beta-carotenes and vitamin A. These include carrots, squash and sweet potatoes.
Eat chicken soup! Keep it light with brown rice and a few vegetables.
 Drink water, water, and then more water. You can add honey and lemon (another source of Vitamin C), and warm up the water. Green tea contains antioxidants and fruit juices contain vitamins, minerals and can provide a quick “pick-me-up."You can also drink chicken broth.
 If you cannot get all the essential vitamins and minerals from the foods you are eating, you may need to supplement your diet. Harvard Health Systems newsletter recommends the following vitamins and minerals to help boost your immune system:Vitamin A. You can find Vitamin A in dark, leafy greens, plus carrots, fish, and tropical fruits.
B complex vitamins — specifically, riboflavin and Vitamin B6 have been shown to boost the immune system. Leafy green vegetables are good sources of B vitamins.
Vitamin E is an antioxidant — avocados are a good food source of Vitamin E.
Vitamin C has long been considered important in fighting off colds, even though the research is somewhat contradictory. It may be that Vitamin C works best with an overall healthy diet, so try to get food sources of vitamin C. Citrus fruits and citrus juices as well as tropical fruit (papaya, pineapple) are good sources.
Zinc is essential for immune function, but don’t overdo it (15-25mg/day) and don’t use zinc-containing nasal sprays. These have been associated with loss of the sense of smell.
Selenium is an essential mineral and is lacking in some because the soil in many areas of the world is selenium deficient (selenium is taken up by plants and plants grown in selenium-deficient soils will not contain selenium). Do not take more than 100 mcg/day.

