 The easiest way to prevent a bathroom injury is to make sure your child can’t get in there without you! Your lock should be on the outside of the door to prevent anyone from being locked inside. Of course, you should still childproof the rest of the bathroom in case the door is left unlatched.The simplest way to lock any door from the outside is a basic hook and eye latch, installed at adult height. This is also best for sliding and folding doors.
You can install a barrel bolt or similar latch on standard doors.
If you don't want to add anything permanent to your door, there are childproof door locks made to temporarily fit on any doorknob.;
, Make sure your bathroom windows are locked and that your child cannot reach them by climbing on furniture, fixtures, or towel racks., Bathroom cabinets and drawers often store very dangerous things--cleaning supplies, cosmetics, medication, and sharp objects. All of your cabinets should have child safety locks added, even if they are at adult height. Your child could climb up onto the sink or toilet and reach it. Keep everything inside a locked cabinet, including mouthwash, vitamins, natural supplements, and over-the-counter medications. These can be just as dangerous to children as prescription medicine., Your toilet is a drowning hazard--most small children don’t have the coordination to pull themselves out of a toilet once they fall in. Keep your toilet closed and locked with a special toilet lock at all times. Make sure everyone in the household, including visitors, knows to lock the toilet., Don’t leave razors, curlers, or blow dryers lying out on the counter--always unplug them and return them to a locked cabinet when you’re done. Don’t use electric razors or curlers while your child is in the bathroom. They could pull the cord and injure themselves on them., Buy a locking wastebasket or keep it in a locked cabinet. Children can rummage through the wastebasket and injure themselves on disposable razors, glass cosmetics bottles, or leftover medication., Water above 120 °F (49 °C) can scald a child, which could be fatal. Turn the temperature down on your water heater to prevent this. 120 °F (49 °C) is warm enough to wash dishes and clothing, but your child’s bathwater should be no warmer than 90 °F (32 °C)., If your child is toilet training, use a training potty that is appropriate for their size. A smaller child should be using one that rests on the ground instead of on the toilet seat, to minimize the risk of falling in. Do not keep training potties full of water when you aren’t using them., A bath seat can help prevent drowning by keeping your child secure in one position when in the bathtub. This is not a substitute for direct supervision--never leave a child alone in the bath for even a minute!, Grab bars can prevent slipping when getting in or out of the tub. These are especially useful if you have a child who is just learning to bathe alone, or if you plan to get in the tub with your infant., Children can be seriously injured by slipping and falling on slick bathroom surfaces. Add a rubber suction mat to the bottom of the bathtub and rubber-backed carpet mats to the floor., Kids splash around a lot, and water accumulation can cause dangerous mold and mildew! Clean your bathroom regularly with child-safe cleaners, and be sure to check under mats, inside potties and bath seats, and even on your child’s bath toys., If you have a glass shower door, windows a child can reach, or a large full-length mirror in your bathroom, replace them with safety glass. Any banging, hitting, or pressure on the glass could cause it to shatter!, If your bathroom counters or fixtures have pointed corners, your child could be injured on them. You can replace them entirely, but you can also install rubber bumpers on sharp corners to prevent cuts and bruises., Your towel rack looks like a towel rack to you, but to your toddler, it’s a perfect ladder onto the sink. Make sure that there is nothing your child could climb up on in the bathroom--this can include towel racks, shelves, and hampers., Tub faucets are at a perfect height to bump or even cut your baby’s head. Install a safety faucet or buy special tub faucet padding to go around it., GFCI outlets prevent shocks, burns, and electrocutions by cutting off the current if it detects a dangerous electrical imbalance. They are required for bathroom outlets in most newer homes, but if your home doesn’t have them an electrician can install them. All outlets should be outfitted with child safety plugs.