 Social media has the same chemical effects on your brain as nicotine and other addictive substances. This results in the emotional highs and lows associated with getting your fix and the subsequent withdrawals.Look for signs like feeling nervous if you don’t check your accounts, the inability to go long periods of time without social networking, feeling sad or lonely if you don’t have any notifications, or neglecting offline responsibilities or daily functions in favor of online interaction.
Studies show social media might be even more addictive than cigarettes, and that withdrawal symptoms can mimic those quitting a drug or alcohol addiction.If you find that an Internet or social media addiction is interfering with everyday life, consider talking to a mental health professional.;
, Try deleting social media apps from your mobile device to discourage yourself from checking them every few minutes. You could also take them off your device’s home screen to make them a little less accessible. Work on keeping your phone out of sight for as long as possible, especially when you’re with another person.Pay attention to how long you can go without checking your social media accounts, email, or texts. Note that duration and challenge yourself to go twice as long, then three times as long, and so on during the course of the day.
Each time you feel tempted to check social media, try doing something else. Try sketching a doodle or handwriting a little note to a friend.
 Designate spaces in your home where mobile devices are not allowed. Your bedroom is a great start, since staring at a screen before bed can keep you from getting a good night’s sleep. Choose several times of the day during which technology is off limits and commit to following your routine.For example, don’t check your phone an hour before going to bed and keep it off limits for an hour after waking. If you depend on it as an alarm to wake up, consider getting a separate alarm clock to avoid tempting yourself to check for emails, texts, wall posts, or “likes.”
Try limiting yourself to two or three 10 minute social media checking sessions per day. You can also use checking social media as a reward. For example, you might allow yourself to check social media for 10 minutes after working for a few hours, and not check it at any other time during the day.
Make sure to turn off your automatic notifications so that your phone will not be buzzing all day long.
 Social media can present images that make us feel like we could never achieve a certain look. Bombarding yourself with images you find unattainable can make you feel less confident about your body, the clothes you wear, or any of the other ways you choose to represent yourself. Filter out content that makes you self-critical, and go for constructive, positive sources of instruction or education.Instead of content that’s simply image-based, look for instructions, like how to put together a particular look, create a better diet, or follow a great exercise routine.
 Suppose someone posted a long comment responding to your status, and you can tell it's negative from the first sentence. Don't even bother reading it! As soon as you see anything negative on your page, stop reading it, delete it, and move on.


Try not to read comments on public pages' posts or get involved in comment wars. It's a waste of time, and you don't need the unnecessary drama!

, It's tempting, but try not to use social media as a way to boost your self-esteem. Avoid posting pictures just to get compliments and "likes." Try not to let the number of retweets or comments you receive be a measure of your self-worth., Try not to look at how someone represents themselves on social media and make judgments about yourself based on their posts. Remind yourself that there's plenty of happiness to go around when you see pictures of someone having a great time and start to feel jealous.For example, don’t look at an image on Pinterest or Instagram and say to yourself, “They look so much better than me,” or “I could never pull off that look.” Instead, say something like, “Their style is really inspiring - I really love how those patterns look together," or "That looks like so much fun; I should try it sometime."

, When you see other people’s social media accounts, remind yourself that they're edited versions. They don't give the bigger picture with all its ups and downs, so try not to think of what you see as the full story. This will help you avoid getting jealous, criticizing yourself, or judging others based solely on what you see online., Avoid using social media as the primary means of maintaining your key relationships. Limit its role in your most important friendships, but take advantage of its practical values. Use social media to keep in touch with long-distance acquaintances or to build your professional network.Studies show social media has become necessary for developing social capital, but overdoing it can interfere with how we relate to others, which in turn affects our self-esteem. Try to see social media as a practical tool rather than primary means of socializing.
 Social media bullying is a serious problem. If you are being harassed by someone online, such as by making mean comments to or about you, posting embarrassing photos of you, or doing other things that are making you feel harassed, then tell someone. Talk to a trustworthy adult, such as a parent, teacher, school counselor, or religious leader.

