 There are three types of plastic pipe, and each will only work with certain glues. The easiest way to identify them is to look for the worldwide recycling symbol, a triangle formed from three arrows with a number or letters to identify the type of plastic. Learn how to use this and other identification methods before selecting a glue.PVC pipe is common in residential plumbing, although it should not be used for distribution lines or other high-temperature applications. It is usually white, or grey if used for electrical or industrial purposes. Its recycling symbol is 6 or PVC.
CPVC pipe is PVC pipe treated to withstand higher temperatures. It has an identical recycling symbol (6 or PVC) but is usually tan or cream colored.
ABS is an older and more flexible type of plastic piping, usually black in color. It is not suitable for drinking water purposes and in some regions may not be legal for any plumbing uses. Its recycling symbol is 9, ABS, or 7 (other).
PEX pipe is the newest type of plastic piping, available in many colors. It is not recyclable. It cannot be glued, and must be attached using mechanical fitting tools.
 The material that bonds plastic piping together is called solvent cement. Find the specific solvent cement you need after you've identified the type of plastic.ABS solvent cement will join two ABS pipes together. PVC solvent cement and CPVC solvent cement similarly join two pipes of that type.
Transition solvent cement is used to join an ABS pipe to a PVC pipe. Its distinctive green color makes it easy to identify.
If you can't find a more specialized product, universal solvent cement will do an okay job for any combination of PVC, CPVC, and ABS. You should still identify your pipe beforehand to rule out PEX pipe, which must be fitted instead of glued.
Read the label of the solvent cement to make sure it will work on the size of pipe you're using.
To attach a plastic pipe to a metal one, you may need a specific adhesive for that specific plastic and specific metal combination, or a mechanical fitting method. Contact a plumber or hardware store employee for advice.
 Primer and solvent cement release dangerous vapors when used. Either work in an area with excellent ventilation (large open windows, outdoors, etc.) or wear a respirator that blocks organic vapor.
 Roll 80-grit sandpaper into a tube and sand the inside and outside of the pipe where it will be attached. The goal is to remove uneven pieces and "burrs" created from sawing, which can otherwise catch debris and cause clogs.Flatten the sandpaper roll against the tube to match its shape before rubbing.
If you don't have sandpaper, use a file or remove the obvious burrs with a pocketknife.
 You won't have much time to arrange the pipes once you've applied the solvent cement, so first fit the pieces together dry. Turn them to the alignment you need and use a permanent marker to draw a line across them.
 Of the three types of plastic pipe, PVC is the only material that requires priming, but CPVC may attach better after priming as well.Wipe PVC primer or CPVC primer as appropriate onto the outside of the pipe segment and the inside of the pipe fitting, where they will be attached. Let dry 10 seconds before continuing.
 Wearing gloves, use a brush or cotton ball to wipe an even layer of solvent cement on the outside of the pipe segment and the inside of the pipe fitting. Only apply a thin, even layer to the fitting socket or excess may be pushed into the water piping and create blockage., Directly following the application of solvent cement, attach the pipes a quarter turn from the alignment marks you made, then twist them until the marks line up. If you didn't have to make any alignment marks, simply attach and give a quarter turn twist. Hold in place for about fifteen seconds to give the cement time to grab., The attachment may shrink slightly when the solvent cement dries. If your final piece is too short, saw it apart and lengthen it by gluing a new fitting onto it. If it is too long, remove a section of the pipe entirely by sawing and join the two remaining ends together with a new fitting.

