 Make sure you only attempt to perform this exercise if you have a healthy back. If you have had back injuries in the past, it is probably best not to try this exercise. At the very least, ask your physician if he/she would recommend this exercise and reduce the amount of stress on your back by lessening the amount of time you hold the position.;
, It is critical to always stretch thoroughly before attempting any physical activities. This will help you avoid common injuries like pulled muscles. You will want to pay special attention to your back when stretching before this exercise. To learn more about how to properly stretch your back, click here.You may wish to lay down a mat or rug to avoid laying directly on the floor.
You can also place a pillow or towel under your head to decrease the amount you must lift yourself.
 To begin, you need to lay flat on your stomach with your face towards the floor. When getting into position, keep your arms straight along your sides., Extend both of your arms out in front of you. Keep your elbows slightly bent. Make sure to stretch your arms as far out as you can while still keeping your elbows bent and position your arms so that your palms are facing the floor.
 Lift your legs and arms off the ground as if you are flying. You want to keep your core in the stationary position. Make sure you lift your arms and legs simultaneously to maximize the effectiveness of the workout.









If you find lifting both arms and legs too difficult, you can lift alternate legs and arms at one time. In other words, lift your right arm while lifting your left leg and vice versa. To work all the muscles in your back, you will need to alternate., You want to lift your chest up off the ground using your back muscles to keep your arms and legs elevated. Raise your chest so that your head is no more than 8 inches (20.3 cm)off the floor. Using these lower back muscles will help make them stronger and more flexible.
 Hold this position for one minute or two to five seconds per set, depending on how many sets you intend to do. Keep your body completely rigid and don’t relax your muscles at all. Holding the position is when your lower back muscles get their greatest work out.
 After you’ve held this position for the predetermined amount of time, release it. You want to relax your muscles completely. This will give your muscles a break while also preparing them to undertake another set.
 Repeat this process of lifting and releasing. You should try to do at least three sets if you are holding the position for one minute. If you are holding for 2-5 seconds, repeat the process at least 5-10 times.
 To make this exercise more challenging, try lifting just your right leg and right arm at the same time. Hold and then alternate, lifting your left leg and left arm. This helps to target more specific muscle groups on the sides of your back.
 In order to start seeing or feeling the results, aim to do 3 sets, 3 days a week for 6 weeks. For faster results, increase the number of sets or times per week you do this exercise.

