 There are big differences in dress codes and expectations depending on where you live. Different regions of the United States have different expectations and dress codes. Before you go to work on day one, try to understand the norms where you are and follow them. If you are not sure, be cautious and dress formally and conservatively. If you are making a court appearance, always wear a suit or other professional business attire.


In places where the weather is warm and/or where the culture is more laid back, you may find that it is appropriate to dress casually. For example, in San Diego, lawyers often dress more casually because of the warm weather and laid back atmosphere.
If you live in an area that is colder or where the weather is more unpredictable, you may dress in layers and maybe even more formally. For example, in Washington D.C., the weather can be unpredictable and cold so more people may wear a suit and jacket.
In places where a suit and tie are the norm, you may be expected to follow along. For example, in New York City, most people always wear a suit and tie to work. In all likelihood, you will be expected to do the same.
Think about the culture of where you work and live. In some places, lawyers may have a reputation for dressing formally and luxuriously. In other places, lawyers may be expected to dress conservatively. For example, in New York City, many lawyers dress extremely formally and wear very nice clothes. You may even see lawyers walking around with expensive suits and bags. However, in a place like rural Iowa, you may be more likely to dress professionally but conservatively. While you may wear a suit, it may not be a name brand and you may not want to be flashy.;
, Apart from making wardrobe decisions based on the climate, attorneys also make wardrobe decisions based on their clients. For example, in big law firms in New York City where clients are often wealthy business people, you may be expected to dress formally in order to match the attire of your clientele. In contrast, if you work in Silicon Valley and represent young tech executives, you may be expected to dress casually and comfortably (there are even jokes that tech people do not trust someone wearing a tie).
 Different work environments have different dress codes. Know what your employer expects before you go to work. For example, if you work in a big corporate law firm, you are likely going to be expected to wear a suit and tie to work every day. However, if you work for a nonprofit organization, you may dress more casually and comfortably. Even better, if you work for yourself, you may be able to wear whatever you like.

