 To count the beats in a piece of music, you must understand the two components of rhythm: meter and tempo. Tempo is simply a description of how fast or slow a piece of music is. Meter is the regular pattern of beats in a song and how those beats are stressed. Time signatures are fractions that describe the meter of a piece of music.


Time signatures can represent simple time, compound time, or complex time.
 This will help you familiarize yourself with the process of figuring out and understanding the time signature.Simple time can be duple, triple, or quadruple, which means the top number will always be 2, 3, or 4.
In simple time signatures, the bottom number indicates the value of the beat, and the top number gives you the number of beats per measure. For example, in the most common time, 4/4, one beat is a quarter note, and there are four quarter notes per bar.
Unlike compound time, in simple time, you feel the beat in multiples of two. This means that you can divide each note in each bar into two. For example, in 2/4 time, the two quarter notes per bar can each be subdivided into two eighth notes. The natural accent falls in multiples of two or three.
Tap your feet. When figuring out the time signature by listening to a song, pay attention to the beat of the bass line. Try to determine whether or not the pulse you hear can be naturally divided into two. Listen to determine a repeating pattern of rhythm, and count how many notes occur between each repetition.
Remember common time signatures. A lot of Western music uses 4/4 time, so when in doubt, try counting in 4/4 and see if it fits. Familiarize yourself with other time signatures. For example, 3/4 has a waltz feel to it.
 Unlike simple time, compound time is felt in groups of three.For this reason, the dotted note often defines compound time. The top number of a compound time signature is always 6, 9, or 12.


In compound time, divide the top number by three to get the number of beats in a bar. The units of the beats are found in the bottom number. For example, in 6/8 time, there are two beats per measure, and each beat lasts three eight notes, or a dotted quarter note.
The common children’s song “Row Your Boat” can be counted in 6/8 time, beginning with two dotted quarter notes in “row, row.” Try tapping your feet while you sing this song to understand how compound time feels.
 This means a time signature doesn’t fit into the duple, triple, or quadruple categories. For example, 5/8 is a complex time signature because of the odd number 5.


It’s easiest to look at complex time signatures as a combination of simple and compound time signatures.
For example, in 5/8, there is one simple beat (two eighth notes) and one compound beat (three eight notes). The order these beats appear in the measure doesn’t matter.
When you listen to a song that utilizes a complex time signature, you will notice that some of the beats subdivide into two and some into three.
Use your simple and compound counting skills to keep track of complex meters.

