 Why are you sharing this work and opening it up to a discussion? There are many potential reasons to accept criticism on your writing, but knowing them ahead of time is essential to get the most out of your work.


Do you need an outside perspective to solve a problem or fix a chapter? If so, then you should be able to keep an open mind and accept criticism as the help that it is.
Do you need to be criticized for class or your job? If so, remember that you are here to learn and that the best way to learn is from your own mistakes.
Do you want to be criticized to hear your work praised? If so, you're not really looking for criticism -- you're looking for validation. Remember, however, that you will not become a better writer until you face your weakness as and find ways to fix them., There are some people who, no matter how you ask, will not give you any negative feedback or risk hurting your feelings. There are other people who will hate everything you put in front of them, nitpicking each sentence. But the majority of people will fall somewhere in the middle, giving your some problems they had as well as parts they enjoy. Generally, good critiquing partners are:Honest -- you know they will not sugarcoat the problems or lie about the parts they like.
Thoughtful -- a good critique doesn't just talk about issues, it suggests solutions.
Knowledgeable -- this doesn't mean they are an expert of literature, but they should have a basic knowledge of the work and its background. While it is helpful to ask someone if they liked your poems, you will not get a lot of usable feedback if they rarely read verse., It's difficult to listen to 30 minutes of critiques on grammar and spelling when you really need character development work. Keep your preface brief, but state your hopes for the critique so that the group/person knows how best to help you.


Consider giving these goals in advance, saying "I'm having trouble with the rhyme in these poems, would you mind giving me some feedback." This allows people to approach your work with a specific eye towards what you want criticism on.
 You cannot sit silently while the group is workshopped and expect people to leap out of their seats to critique you on your turn. Showing your engagement, taking your time to note something you like as well as the things you don't, and giving good notes will ensure that most people do the same to you.Attempt to make at least 3 points with each piece of writing at a minimum: one thing you like, and two suggested places for improvement.
 Why should someone spend an hour of their time giving you nice notes and critiques when you haven't even taken the time to run spell-check? Dismissing a problem someone raises because "you already know it's a problem" but haven't fixed it tells them that you aren't there for a serious critique. Putting out the best work you can ensures that you are given the best critique you can get.


Never turn in work, especially to an employer or professor, until you're sure it is the best you can possibly make it.

