 No matter how committed your girlfriend is to studying, there’s going to be a certain point when she starts getting bored, losing focus, or becoming distracted. For example, she may be able to study for 45 minutes without her mind wandering. Point this out to her so she can study in the most effective blocks of time.Your girlfriend may need help recognizing what her optimum study time is. If you’re studying or reading nearby, try to look for signs that she’s losing focus, such as fidgeting, looking around the room, or falling asleep.;
, Your girlfriend may find that there’s a particular time of day that allows her to study more effectively. For example, if she can concentrate better in the morning, she should schedule her study time earlier in the day. If she’s a night owl, it may be better to study at night., If your girlfriend is stressed because she doesn’t feel like she has enough time to study, help her create a schedule. Go over all of her daily activities, such as classes, an after school job, or sports, so you can find free blocks of time. Have her choose the time slots for studying and write them down in a planner or her phone’s calendar., While your girlfriend may need your help to study at times, she also needs quiet time when she can read or go over the test materials. If she tells you that she’s studying for the next hour, don’t call her, text her, or stop by her home because you may distract her.Don’t get upset if she’s unable to make plans with you for a certain night either. For example, if you want to see a movie on a night that she needs to study, offer to go see the film the next night instead.
 You can help your girlfriend go over the the material for her test is by asking her to repeat the information aloud to you. She shouldn’t use her notes or books to provide the facts, and you can ask questions where appropriate to make sure she really knows the facts.If your girlfriend is studying a subject that you’re not familiar with, you can simply ask her to repeat certain pieces of information. That can be particularly helpful if it seems like she’s struggling with certain facts.
 Practice tests are often the easiest way to go over material for a test. Sitting down to take one by yourself can get a little tedious, though, so you can help your girlfriend by asking her questions from a practice exam.Make sure to have the answer key for the practice test nearby so you can go through the exam as efficiently as possible.
If your girlfriend gets a question wrong, tell her the right answer. Mark the question, and come back to it after you’ve gone over the rest of the questions.
 Flashcards aren’t just for little kids; they’re one of the more effective memory retention techniques because they allow you to focus on key points. Your girlfriend can put the information the cards since you might not know it, and you can make them more colorful with markers, stickers, or other images to get her attention. You can read the cards to your girlfriend or she can go over them by herself.Flashcards work well for both individuals who learn better through listening and those who learn better by reading or using graphs, charts, maps, or diagrams.
 While she’ll want to make the most of her studying time, remind your girlfriend that it’s important to take breaks. They allow her to clear her mind so she can refocus on the material. Advise her to take a 10 minute break every 90 minutes or so she can concentrate more effectively.If she’s studying in front of a computer, encourage her to take a break from all screens. Looking at her phone won’t be as energizing as getting up and walking around.
If possible, suggest that she take a break outside. The fresh air can help make her more alert and refocus on her studying. A little exercise, such as yoga, can help energize her too.
 Your girlfriend needs to stay energized to keep her focus on her studies, and that means she needs fuel. Giving her some snacks to munch on as she studies can be a big help, but make sure that they’re healthy so they don’t make her feel tired or sluggish. Fruit, veggies, nuts, granola bars, yogurt, and pretzels are all good options.Your girlfriend may also appreciate a caffeine pick-me-up in the form of coffee or an energy drink. A little is okay, but try not to load her up on too much caffeine or she may get jittery and jumpy.
Bringing her a couple of bottles of water can help her stay hydrated too.
 If she’s got a big test to study for, chances are that your girlfriend is nervous. Encourage her to take a deep breath and relax when she’s getting worked up. It may seem like a small thing, but it can help her stay focused and calm.If she’s into meditation, you might even suggest that she meditate to help her relax.
 In some cases, your girlfriend may just need a little support to feel more confident about her exam. Jot down a quick note telling her that you believe in her and wishing her luck and tuck it inside her notes or books so she’ll see it when she’s studying.You can also send a quick text or a message through social media to let your girlfriend know that you support her. A funny YouTube video or meme could be a nice touch as well.

