 On many web pages, advertisements take up a large fraction of the load time. Install Adblock Plus or another ad-blocking add-on to prevent these ads from loading.


Many web hosts rely on ads for most of their revenue. Consider disabling ad block on sites you'd like to support.
 Click the menu icon (three horizontal bars), then the help icon (?), then Restart with add-ons disabled. If Firefox runs much faster in Safe Mode, a faulty add-on is slowing you down.
 Enter about:addons in the address bar, or click the menu icon (three horizontal bars) and select Add-ons. Disable one add-on at a time, and browse for a while to see if it speeds you up. Visit the same page to remove the add-on permanently or re-enable it, depending on your test.
 If you have a custom theme, it could be slowing down your browser. Visit the Appearance tab on the add-ons page, and switch to the default theme.
 If you've just closed a bunch of tabs, Firefox might lag for a while until it deletes the contents of those tabs from its memory. Get rid of them right away by visiting about:memory and clicking Minimize memory usage., The cache is another feature that speeds up browsing in general, but can slow you down if it gets too full for your hard drive. To adjust the cache size, visit about:preferences#advanced, click the Network tab, and check "Override cache management." Increase the cache if you have a fast drive with plenty of space, and reduce it to about 250MB if you have a slow or mostly full hard drive.



Clearing your cache every couple months is a good idea, or whenever your browser gets unusually slow. You should also clear the cache before reducing its size.
 If you are experiencing major slowdowns on a broadband connection, you might have to reset Firefox to remove a buggy add-on or setting change. This will delete all your add-ons, themes, and download history, and return your settings to default. Visit about:support and click Refresh Firefox, or see this article for more detailed instructions.

