 The basics include your bed and nightstand, your desk and closet. Make sure they look good. They don't even have to look incredibly expensive, but just make sure they look decent and clean. Also make sure the color of the basics and the style sort of match.;
, It's best to have 2 or 3 colors in your bedroom. It is advisable to look to the furniture. If all your 'basics' are white and you have a wood floor or neutral carpet, you're lucky. You can put any colors with it.


If, for instance, your carpet is dark blue, start from there. Add whites and black and keep it in those colors. If your walls are for instance yellow(like mine ones were) add white/black or other pastel colors. That way, you make sure your bedroom looks more chic and mature if the colors match and if you use the least amount of color.
 No clutter, don't stuff it with furniture. In this case less really is more. The less you have in your room, the better. So don't be afraid to throw away stuff you don't need or doesn't look good anymore or just looks messy. And if you have doubts about putting in an extra decoration, you probably shouldn't.
 Try to keep out the little clutter-y knickknack decoration thingies. Those look childish, messy and just makes it look like you're trying too hard.


For example, instead of having a lot of posters or postcards on your walls, put up one or two big black-and-white pictures in a frame. Or try to hang a couple of matching photo- frames in one area instead.
 Make sure everything has its place. For example, if you used to have your shoes laying around in your bedroom or just standing in a line on the floor, buy a shoe rack and they will get much more positive attention.


Same goes for makeup and hair-products. It's so much better to put them in a drawer than to have them standing on that dresser while you could have just put your prettiest perfumes on a platter with a pretty vase and flowers on there. Try to keep a lot of stuff in your drawers to make it look as if it's a hotel room.
 They don't have to be expensive. But just look for the stuff that looks the most expensive. Examples of expensive looking things in your bedroom are silk bedding, mirrored surfaces, crystal lamps, white flowers, big statement pieces like a big bedside lamp, etc. You can find these type of things at stores like Ikea and others for low prices.
 Except if it's a decoration like a floor lamp or a tower of boxes. Keep your shoes in a shoe rack or in your closet, keep piles of schoolbooks in your dressers etc.
 For instance, if you have a trashcan with an open top, keep it behind the door instead of at the wall you see when you walk in. Put all the beauty products in drawers. Make sure you show people the prettiest things you own only.
 It's one of the biggest mistakes people make when trying to get a chic bedroom. Don't make your bed too neatly. Don't try to over decorate your room with cheap-looking things like Christmas-lights, or put a lot of decorations on your bedside-table.


Remember that less is more. Don't make your bed too neat, if you are going for the effortless chic look. Statement pieces are gold.

