 Try to be prepared for every lesson so that you can follow along easily. Make sure you have the right supplies, books and completed assignments for each lesson. When you go into class, be ready to learn. When you're doing your homework the night before, write down any questions you have about it.


Make sure to ask your teacher those questions the next day.
This will show your teacher that learning is important to you.;
, Try not to drift off or get distracted. If the teacher asks the class a question and you know the answer, raise your hand. Get involved in group discussions whenever you can. When you do join in, never talk over a classmate or interrupt your teacher. If you aren’t sure how to join a class discussion, ask a question.You could say something like, “Mrs. Bell, can we talk more about the main character’s motivations in the book?”You could also say something like, “Mr. Turner, can we please go through that equation one more time? I’m not sure I understand the last part of it.”

, When the teacher gives in-class assignments, always do them when you’re supposed to.Work during the work period provided so that you can finish your assignments on time. Try not to distract anyone nearby who’s also working on their assignments.


If you have a question about something on the assignment, raise your hand and ask the teacher politely for help.Then say something like, “Ms. Miller, I’m not sure if I understand this part of the assignment. Can you explain it?”
After the teacher helps you, always say “thank you.”, Always doing your homework is a way to show your teacher that you care about the class and what you're learning. Teachers work long hours teaching kids all day, so when students don’t do their homework or complete assignments, they feel ignored. Teachers, like everyone, want to feel that what they do matters. When students show that they are learning things, it makes their teachers happy. Doing your homework is one of the easiest ways to be nice to your teacher!
If you’ve been out sick and missed class, always ask your teacher what you missed. Be sure to get your makeup assignments and homework.
 Do your assignments the way the teacher told you to. Whenever your teacher verbally asks you to do something, always do it without making a fuss.


Never do anything disrespectful, like make a face or roll your eyes, when the teacher asks you to do something.
If you don’t understand the directions given, don’t be afraid to raise your hand and ask a question or for assistance.
 Never make excessive noise or talk to your classmates during a lesson. Don't shuffle papers around loudly, dig noisily in your back pack or slam books around. This will interrupt your classmates’ concentration and your teacher. If you can’t pay attention when you sit by your friends, try sitting elsewhere. You can save small talk with your friends for after class.


If you have assigned seats, go to your teacher privately after class and ask to be moved.
Let them know you'd like to be moved so that you can concentrate on lessons better. Your teacher will appreciate that you are taking an active role in your education.

