 Turn of the power switch on the back of the power supply, but leave the cable plugged in if possible. This will help keep you grounded. If you have to unplug everything, be sure to follow Step 2 closely. Open the case using the thumbscrews (or a screwdriver if necessary). You will need to remove both side panels on many older cases and some newer ones in order to properly secure the drive.
 Before you begin working on the interior of your computer, make sure you discharge any electrostatic charge you may have. If your computer is still plugged into the wall (with the switch off), you can touch any of the exposed metal of the case to discharge. You can also touch a water tap to discharge your electrostatic charge.


The safest way to work inside of a computer is to wear an antistatic wrist strap while working on the computer.
 Most optical drives are inserted from the front of the case. You may need to remove a drive bay cover from your case’s front bezel before you can insert the drive. Refer to your case’s documentation for specific instructions for your case.


Secure the drive using two screws on each side, or by using rails if your case has them.
 Use the SATA power connector to plug into the larger SATA slot on your optical drive. The cable can only be inserted in one direction, so don’t force it. If your power supply is older, it may only have Molex (4-pin) connectors. If this is the case, you will need to use a Molex-to-SATA adapter.
 Use the smaller SATA data cable to connect the optical drive to the motherboard. Use the SATA port on the motherboard directly after your last hard drive. For example, if your hard drive is in SATA1 on the motherboard, install the optical drive into SATA2.


If your hard drive does not have any SATA ports, your motherboard does not support the SATA connection. You will need to install a new motherboard if you want to use your SATA drive.
 Once the optical drive is secured and connected, you can close up your computer and power it back on. Your new drive should be automatically detected, and any necessary drivers will be installed automatically. If they are not, you may need to use the driver disc that came with the drive, or download the drivers from the manufacturer’s website.