 You want a nice, tight grip on the disc, as you'll be "ripping" it out of your hands when you release the disc. Your four fingers should all be inside the lip on the underside of the disc. Your thumb is on top, on the softer part of the disc and close to the edge.









Make sure your arm and wrist are loose, allowing them to move freely as you throw.
For precision shots, some players extend their forefinger along the outside rim of the disc. This lowers power but increases accuracy for some people during putts or mid-range shots.;
, So, if you're a righty, you start your run up with the right foot. Square your shoulders up to the basket and work on taking three smooth steps up.









This is sometimes called the "X-Step.", This is step one of a good drive. If you're a righty, step with the right foot and raise the disc just below your pecs. As you turn, your body will naturally turn away from the basket.
 As you do, continue rotating your body so that your back is turning towards the basket in front of you. Again, this is for a righty. This naturally coils your body back, turning your shoulders, hips, and the disc back behind you.


You should end this step with the disc behind you, body swiveled away from the basket. Think of a spring or coil being wound up, ready to release with power.
 As you take this final step, let your body naturally rotate back towards your front foot. Keep the disc "flat" the other time, leaving it at the same height as you started at as the disc comes around your chest. Your back leg will naturally pull forward, and your shoulders, hips, and head should turn to face the basket.
 You don't want to arc the disc around you, nor do you want to windmill or curl around the disc. For a straight throw, you want to pull the disc straight across your chest. To do so, start by pointing the disc straight ahead of you, at your target. With your first step, pull the disc straight back as your turn. For the release, bend at the elbow as you pull the disc in a straight line towards the basket. As you pass your chest, you'll feel your elbow naturally unbending in order to keep the disc on a straight line.
 You want to think about your power coming smoothly from your hips, moving up from your footwork to your wrist. A good way to think about this is by thinking about your body as it "uncoils." The smoother you make these motions, the better your throw. In order, your body should rotate from the hips, through the shoulders, along the elbow, and finally releasing with a flick of the wrist. If you let your momentum carry your body around in this order your throws will be smooth and accurate.









This is a bit like a baseball batter uncoiling from the feet up to hit a fastball., As you finish, make sure you keep your palm up. This will keep you from turning or spinning the disc on release, which leads to inaccurate throws.

