 Exercises that work several muscle groups at the same time make your time in the weight room more efficient, so you can spend more time running and less time in the gym.For example, if you're doing a lower body exercise, such as squats, you can turn it into a compound exercise by adding a dumbbell press to work your arms, back, and shoulders.
Using a stability ball or other fitness tools that require you to maintain balance will add a core component to any exercise.
 Lunges build strength in your quadriceps, hip flexors, and glutes, important muscle groups for runners. Hold dumbbells to add resistance to this exercise.Step out into the lunge position holding your dumbbells at your sides, arms straight. Lower your hips, bending your back leg. Keep your knee straight over your ankle and your spine neutral. As you lower, don't let your back knee touch the ground. Rise back to the starting position and repeat 10 to 15 times. Then switch sides.
You also can do this exercise while holding the dumbbells up at your shoulders to add an upper body component to this exercise. To compound this exercise, do the lunge and then lift or press the dumbbells from the squat position, then return to the starting position.
 When you think about a bench press, you probably think about using a barbell with massive weights attached to either side. But using dumbbells instead makes this a much more flexible exercise that can improve upper body strength and stability.Start in a seated position with the dumbbells in your lap. Slowly lean back until your back is resting on the bench or stability ball. Lift the dumbbells towards your shoulders, palms facing each other.
Extend your arms forward and away from your body. Slowly lower the dumbbells back towards your shoulders. Repeat.
You can raise and lower both at the same time, or you can alternate arms (something you couldn't do if you were using a regular bar).
 Barbell squats increase your lower body strength as well as getting your upper body to work in tandem with your lower body. This can improve any imbalance you have in strength between your upper and lower body.Place the weight on the barbell and hold it over your shoulders, behind your neck. Make sure to keep your spine neutral and avoid crunching your neck. You may want to practice by holding a dowel down your back to make sure your back is in proper position.
When you squat, take care that your knees don't push out over your feet. Your knees and shins should stay aligned vertically as you hinge from your hips and contract your glutes to initiate the squatting motion.
Do one to three sets of eight to 12 repetitions of this exercise.
 Doing standard weight-lifting exercises while balancing on one leg helps build back and hip strength and stability, which over time will greatly increase the economy of your running stride.Use a dumbbell in one hand for these exercises, so you can hold a bench or bar to help balance. Extend one leg straight out behind you and find your balance on the other leg before you begin the movement.
Bend over so that your body forms a capital "T" shape. Your back should be neutral, shoulders dropped down your back, so there is a straight line from your shoulders to the heel of your back foot. Be careful not to hunch over — your back and extended leg should be parallel to the floor.
Begin with your arms extended towards the floor, then lift your elbows up towards your rib cage. Hold the contraction and then slowly lower the dumbbells.
Do one set of 10 to 15 reps of each exercise, then switch and do the same set while balancing on the other leg.

