 If you and your veterinarian were unable to resolve the problem between you, you should stop using their professional services. Although you do not need to alert your vet that you’ll be looking elsewhere for veterinary services, it would be polite to inform them via email or voicemail. This message should be short and to the point.


For example, send an email or leave a voicemail saying, “Due to our mutual inability to resolve the problems , I’ve decided to take my pet(s) elsewhere for their veterinary services.”

, Beginning to search for a vet can be an arduous process. It’s best not to put this off, even if your pet does not need a vet appointment soon. Accidents and emergencies can happen any time, and you should have a go-to veterinarian for your animal’s sake. You can start by searching online to find veterinary offices in your area. The American Animal Hospital Association (AAHA) also has a listing of AAHA-accredited veterinarians on their website.Also ask pet-owning friends, family, and co-workers in your local area for their veterinary recommendations, and find out which vet they take their animals to.
 Call many different offices in your area and let them know that you’re currently looking for a new veterinarian. Ask the office if it would be okay for you to come in for a visit to decide if you would like to be a client. By visiting more than one local office, you’ll be able to compare several and determine the best office for your animal. While you’re there, it’s probably best not to mention your problem with your previous veterinarian. When you’re in each new veterinary office, pay attention to important factors:The facility should be clean, well-lit, and modern looking.
Find out how many vets are on staff. A larger number means that vets will be able to cover each other’s shifts in case of illness or vacation.
See if the vet seems personable and easy to communicate with.
 After you’ve visited a few local veterinary offices, you can decide which will be the best to take your pet to. If you’re having trouble choosing between two or more veterinary offices, ask the vet and staff some of the following questions:“How do you monitor animals kept here overnight?”
“What is your protocol for managing animals in pain?”
“Does this office refer its animals to relevant specialists?”
“Do you have licensed veterinary technicians on staff?”
“Is your practice accredited by the AAHA?”
“What types of medical equipment does your office use; is all equipment kept up-to-date?”

