 There are many things that can make hair appear frizzy, including genetics. One of the leading causes of frizz is damage. Learn to prevent damage to help keep your hair frizz-free., Both the sun and the wind can wreck havoc on your hair. If it is going to be a hot, sunny day, try to wear a hat or use a hair product with built-in SPF. If it is going to be cold and windy, try to wear a hood, scarf, or hat to protect your hair.
 Once you finish rinsing your hair after washing and conditioning, give it a final rinse using cool water. This will help seal the hair cuticles and help them lay flat. Your hair will appear smoother afterwards., Most cotton pillowcases will soak up the moisture from your hair, making it look dry and brittle. Also, coarse fabrics, such as cotton and linen, can snag your hair and cause minuscule rips and tears. A satin pillowcase is smooth, and will help reduce hair-damaging friction.
 This is important, even if you are planning on growing your hair out. As your hair grows, the ends become split. There is no real way to permanently fix split ends, and if you leave them untended, the damage will only creep further and further up the hair shaft. As such, you will want to trim the damaged ends off.


There are serums and creams that can temporarily seal split ends together. Look for products that say they will mend or seal split ends.
 Aim for washing your hair two to three times a week instead. Excessive shampooing can really dry your hair out, which can lead to frizz.
 While playing with your hair won't necessarily damage it, it will cause it to appear frizzy. The more you touch your hair, the more you mess up the cuticles. This is especially important for those with curly hair.
 Too much heat styling, such as straightening and curling, can cause hair to become brittle and dry. A heat protection spray will help prevent this from happening. It is better, however, to leave your hair natural, and give it a few days break between straightening and curling sessions.


When blow drying, straightening, or curling your hair, try to use a lower heat setting. Avoid using a high heat setting. It will take longer, but it will be gentler on your hair.
 While silicones are great for making hair appear smoother, they can cause build-up if not properly washed out. This build-up can make your hair appear limp and dull. Unfortunately, silicones can only be washed out with sulfates, which are harsh cleaning agents. Sulfates can make hair dry and brittle. This can lead to frizz.
 All of these can lead to frizz. Alcohol, caffeine, and smoking are all diuretics. This means that they absorb moisture from the body. No moisture means dry, frizzy hair. Processed foods offer little nutrition, which hair needs to be healthy. They can make frizz worse.
 Coloring, bleaching, and perms can all damage and weaken hair, causing it to become brittle and dry. All this can make your hair appear frizzy.
