 The gentle, warm moisture from a hot towel can help soothe dried-out skin and leave the cat feeling refreshed. Follow the steps below:


When your cat is in a calm, approachable mood, find a clean towel or rag and soak it in hot water. The water shouldn't be too hot for you to hold your hand in.
Once it's soaked, take the towel out and wring it until it is not dripping wet anymore.
Drape the towel over the cat where the dandruff spots are. Gently keep the towel in place while you hold the cat. Let it sit this way for five minutes while you offer it petting and affection to keep it calm.
 Sometimes, a cat simply isn't getting enough of the right nutrients to keep its skin healthy. In this case, its diet may call for a little more fat. Try switching to a slightly fattier cat food or adding more fat to its meals yourself.


One healthy way to do this is to offer the cat fish, which contains healthy Omega 3 fatty acids. You can also try adding healthy oil supplements to

, Dehydration can also cause dry, flaky skin. Most cats don't need a lot of water, but since it's important for the cat's health and it doesn't contain any calories, there's no reason not to provide your cat with plenty of clean water every day.


Change its bowl frequently to ensure it always has good water to drink. It's also a good idea to wash the water bowl from time to time to kill any bacteria in it., An occasional brushing can remove dead skin flakes, reducing dandruff. Use a gentle cat brush and stroke in the direction of the hair. Don't use too much pressure — you want to stroke, not scrub.


Always brush gently and stop right away if you notice irritated skin or signs of pain.
 Believe it or not, there are moisturizing lotions and topical ointments designed for cats with dry skin. Your best chance for finding these will be your local pet store, but if you can't find any there, your vet may be able to recommend some. You can also easily find these products available online.


Only buy well-regarded, quality products for use on your cat. The best products will have lots of positive reviews from happy cat owners.

