 Unlike like becoming a real estate agent or accountant, there is no all encompassing license of exam for health and wellness consultants. The requirements for the career vary by state, field, and specialization.


Figure out what city or state you would ideally like to be employed in and figure out what their specific qualifications are to becoming a health and wellness consultant. If you're unsure of where to find this information, find the contact information of a working health and wellness consultant in the area and ask. Some states may require additional training via a certification program, and a subsequent licensing exam, while other states may allow you to begin practicing as long as you have a relevant college degree.Certification programs are available in most states, broken down by speciality. You can also find programs online, but many people prefer to learn hands-on skills. The certification program you choose should be catered to your interests. If, for example, you're interested in more holistic approaches to wellness and health find a certification program in holistic medicine and exercise.Do your research before committing to any single program. See what kind of training is offered. A program with a lot of hands on work may reflect higher on you in the job market as opposed to an online program, for example. However, an online program may also be cheaper and shorter. Weigh the pros and cons of each program you research., As you begin training and certification programs, begin to work on developing the proper skillet. You want to enter the job market with a diversity of skills specific to your field.


Communication skills are vital, so any part time jobs you take during training should involve working with people. Sales positions, customer service work, and volunteering to coach little league are all things that can help you bolster communication skills.Business skills are also important. It might not be a bad idea to take a college course in business or auditing online during your training. You can also ask universities about the possibility of auditing a course.A solid knowledge of nutrition and health is vital to becoming a health and wellness consultant. Make sure you stay up-to-date on the latest health and fitness trends and know how to research their validity. You might want to subscribe to a variety of health and fitness magazines to get a sense of what's currently going on in the field.Empathy is also important to the career path. This is something that's difficult to learn directly, but doing volunteer work that involves working one-on-one with those in need can help.
 Certifications and licenses generally come with a set expiration date. Make sure you understand when your license expires and what you can do to renew it. For most programs, you'll have to take additional coursework and seminars once a year to maintain your license.

