 Resting in between sets will allow your body to adjust and decrease the amount of fatigue that you'll feel. It's important that you keep up a decent tempo, but that you also don't tire yourself out. Test out different times and determine the right amount of time for your workout.On your last lift, you should give yourself an adequate cool down period of a minute or two before starting your actual routine.
 Determine the type of routine or muscles that you are going to work out and do a very light warm up of those muscle groups by performing the exercise at a light weight. For example, if you are going to use a bench press, use the bar to warm up. Do not start off a high rate or repetitions that exceed eight or you may tire yourself out before you can start your real weight routine.The only exception to this rule is if you are performing deadlifts. At many gyms, you'll need to use at least 45 lbs (20.41 kg) on each side to begin the lift at the right height.If you are using barbells, use a low weight like 10 lbs (4.5 kgs) to start., At this point, your workout should still be somewhat explosive with the lower weight.Increasing the amount of weight and decreasing the number of reps is known as "ramping up." Doing so will allow your nervous system and your muscles to adjust before you begin your actual workout.

Ramping up also increases the range of motion of your muscles and joints and can decrease the chance of injury.Exercises  like the kettle ball swing, seated box jumps, and medicine ball reactive throws can help with your explosiveness., Continue to increase the amount of weight onto your bar. Remember that at this point you should not be tired because these are just the warm up lifts. If you do find your muscles to be excessively tired, consider reducing the weight for your warm up routine., Once you get to your fourth set, you should start to lift with a moderate tempo. Typically, the lighter the load, the quicker your pace needs to be for your lifts to be effective in warming you up., Once you do this, you've finished your warm up routine and can start working with your actual weight. Make sure that you don't feel fatigued or tired. The point of the warm up is to acclimate your body to lifting so that you can lift heavier weight for a longer period of time during your actual warm up., Figuring out your one rep max will help you ramp up because you'll be able to calculate how much weight you should lift during a warm up. To determine your one rep max, divide the max weight you can lift by the number of reps you can do as a percent. For instance, if you can lift 250 lbs (113.39 kg) for eight reps, then you divide 250 (113.39 kg) by .80 to get 312.5 (141.75 kg) one rep max. You can also determine your exact one rep max by using an online calculator and plugging in the amount of weight and reps you can usually do in a regular workout.

For example, if you can lift 150 lbs (68 kgs) 10 times, your one rep max would be 200 lbs (90.7 kgs).There are also apps available that can help you determine your one rep max.