 Bold and sexy are close cousins. You can't be sexy if you're afraid try do anything wild or out of your comfort zone. To be sexy with your boyfriend, you can try being bold in the following ways:


If you're talking to him on the phone, surprise him with casual dirty talk. He'll be surprised--and turned on--by your sudden sexy mood.
Take risks. Try an adventurous food, go sky diving, or go mountain climbing. This will make you a more open--and more sexy--person.
Be open about what you want. If you're really in the mood for something, telling him what you crave. He'll respect you for sharing your true feelings and will be turned on in the process.
Be bold, but know when to strike. Surprising your boyfriend with something sexy is a plus, but trying to get it on when he has a bad cold or just isn't in the mood is a big no no. Before you go in for the kill, ask yourself if your boyfriend is really in the mood for what you have to offer.
 Some of the most sexy times you have with your boyfriend will be totally unplanned. Leave room for sexiness any time in your life, even if you're just having an ordinary dinner or watching a television show. Here are some ways to be spontaneously sexy:


If you're feeling sexy, take the initiative. Even if you're not in the middle of a sexy activity, let your man know by kissing or touching him in a subtle way. And if subtlety fails, try for some dirty talk to let him know what's on the table. He'll be more than just pleasantly surprised.
When he comes home from work, turn off all the lights, pull the shades, and lay naked on his desk. When he turns the lights on he will get a real surprise. However, do not do this unless you plan on further sexual activities. A guy is not going to be surprised by a naked girlfriend on his desk and then just walk away to read the newspaper.
Surprise him in public. Though you don't have to go for it in the back of your car or some untoward place, a special touch or kiss at the right time can show him that you're ready for more. And if you're isolated and not offending anyone, you make time for romance.
Remember that a good soldier is always prepared for battle. Be ready for sexy time--any time. Try to keep your legs shaved, your skin washed, and your breath nice and minty as often as you can so you'll be ready to get it on.
 You can be sexy with your boyfriend even when he's on the other side of the country. If you two are sexy while he's away, he'll be even more eager to return. Here are some ways to keep it sexy when he's far away:


If he is out of town, arrange a video chat with him. At some point during your conversation start doing a striptease. Don't take off too much too soon. Keep it a tease.
Send him sexy--but tasteful--text messages at night.
Give him a sexy picture to take with him, so he can be reminded of what he's missing.
 Even when you're not in the bedroom, your boyfriend should be thinking of what your body has to offer. Here are some ways to be sexy without having sex:


Walk in a sexy way that emphasizes your derriere or your cleavage.
Take him hiking or do another physical activity where you can really strut your stuff. He'll feel sexy just by looking at your body.
Dancing can be very erotic. Perhaps learn to belly dance or strip tease; this type of dancing will give you sexy poise and irresistible body confidence.
 There's a reason that "food" rhymes with "nude." The right meal can go a long way in helping you be sexy with your boyfriend.


Bake for him. Make your boyfriend something sweet like a cake, a muffin, or cookies, and then feed it to him in the nude. Your nudity will no doubt lead to further activities.
Give him chocolate. Kiss him while putting it into his mouth. Afterward, simply walk away without saying anything. He will surely follow.
 Don't be so busy acting sexy that you forget that your man is sexy, too. Reinforce this by simply telling him exactly how sexy or manly he is.
 Don't throw your appetizer, main course, and dessert on the table at once or your boyfriend will have a stomach ache. Instead, be subtle with your sexiness without throwing it all on the table. There's a difference between being sexy and being easy. Here are some ways to leave him wanting more:


Don't move right into sex after a makeout session. Let him linger over your body so his passion builds.
Don't have sex with him every time he wants to--unless you're in the mood, of course. Instead, be sexy when you're feeling right.

