 Some people who think they are unproductive are in fact productive people who just expect too much of themselves. Don't bite off more than you can chew. Productive people aren't 'super-humans'; they know what they can accomplish (and their limits) and focus on getting the job done.


Consider whether you would ask someone else to accomplish as much as you're attempting. If you would feel bad asking someone else to do that much, you're probably asking too much of yourself.
At the end of the day, write down a list of all that you did accomplish. It might surprise you, and it will give you something else to look at other than that lengthy to-do list you started with that morning.
 Think about the essential element(s) of what it is you want or need to accomplish. It is easier to hit a clear target.


Focus on your results, not on the time it takes to get there.After all, we're usually judged on results. We don't care how long it took the baker to make our wedding cake or what methods he used; we just want it to look and taste great.
 Like a good general (and pretty decent President) should, Dwight Eisenhower knew how to get things done. He made a point of determining what was truly important and truly urgent, and was known to say "What is important is seldom urgent, and what is urgent is seldom important."


The Eisenhower Box breaks tasks into four categories: Important and Urgent (do those now); Important but Not Urgent (decide when you want to do those later); Not Important but Urgent (delegate those to others); Not Important and Not Urgent (delete those from your list).Of course, not everyone has the same ability to delegate tasks as does a general or President, but such tasks can also be opportunities for collaborative work. Know your strengths, and the strengths of those around you.
 We all want to be more productive, but if your quest for productivity is severely curtailing you family time or damaging something else of great value to you, take a step back and prioritize your values. If you gain exceptional productivity at the cost of something far more precious to you, what have you truly gained?

