 If your home is in the path of an oncoming natural disaster, then you may be able to apply for federal disaster assistance early, before the disaster hits. You should visit the Disaster Assistance homepage at www.disasterassistance.gov, which is where you will apply for assistance.


You can also apply early if a major disaster has hit but your area has not yet been declared a disaster area.Be sure to bookmark this page because you may have to return in order to check on the status of your application.;
, This tool should pop up on the homepage. You can check whether you can apply for federal disaster assistance early by entering your address. Provide street number, city, state, and zip code.If your county is listed, then you can create an application.
 FEMA recommends creating an account. To begin, you must confirm your identity. At the home page, click on “Check Your Status.”Then click on “Create Account.” You will be asked for the following information:your date of birth
your Social Security Number
answers to questions to confirm your identity

, After confirming your identity, you will be asked to provide an email address and to create a user name and password. A temporary PIN will be sent to your email address within 24 hours., Before applying for disaster assistance, you should gather required information so that completing the application can go as smoothly as possible. Be sure to gather the following:Social Security Number. Someone in the household, whether an adult or minor child, must have a Social Security Number. Someone must also be a U.S. citizen, qualified alien, or non-citizen national. If you are applying for a business, then enter the Social Security Number for the party responsible for the business.
Insurance information. Take out your homeowners, flood, automobile, or mobile home insurance.
Financial information. You need to provide your total annual income (before taxes) at the time of the natural disaster.
Direct deposit information. This is optional. The government will deposit funds directly into your account. You should gather your bank name, routing number, and account number.
Damage information. If the disaster hasn’t hit yet, then you will need to wait and enter this information later. You will have to report the type of disaster and the type of dwelling or vehicle that was damaged.
 You can begin your application by visiting the homepage and clicking on “Apply Online.” You will have to enter a CAPTCHA code and then check whether you accept the Privacy Act Statement., It typically takes 18-20 minutes to enter all requested information.You must answer all questions with an asterisk (*) beside it.


If you want email updates, then check the “Yes” box at the end of your application and enter your email address. You will receive a notification when the disaster is declared.
 If you need help accessing your account, then you can call 1-800-745-0243, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. This number connects you to FEMA’s help desk.If you have questions about information in your account, then you will call a different number, 1-800-621-3362. This helpline is available from 7:00 am to 11 pm Eastern Standard Time, seven days a week.
You may also email FEMA at FEMA-Contact Us@fema.dhs.gov to ask questions about information in your account.
 Your application cannot be submitted until you enter information about the damage you suffered as the result of the disaster. If you created your early application before the disaster struck your area, then you will need to go back into the application and provide the disaster information.You might have completed the early application after the disaster struck but before the government declared your area a disaster area. In this situation, you might already have entered your damage information. If so, then the application will be automatically submitted as soon as the government declares your county a disaster area.
 The disaster might have wiped out your Internet access. In this situation, you can always complete your application over the phone by providing information about your damage.You should call 1-800-621-3362.
 You can check the status of your application by visiting the home page and clicking on the “Check Your Status” button. You then need to log in with your user name, password, and PIN.You will need the PIN that was emailed to you in order to log in. On your first log in, you will be prompted to change your PIN.Be sure to write down your new PIN.
 FEMA might ask that you complete this form and send it to them. You should only fill it out after applying and only at FEMA’s request.The form will ask for the following information:name
signature
date of birth
date signed
FEMA application number
disaster application number
inspector ID number
address of the damaged property

