 In creative mode, you can spawn a wolf and it will automatically be tamed, but if you're in Survival, you'll need to find a wolf and tame it



Right click on the wolf to give it the bone. If you see the hearts rising from the wolf, you've done it right. If the wolves eyes go red, you've attacked it by mistake. Feed the wolf enough times, and a shiny red collar will appear on your new pet's neck.
When you right click on the wolf, it should sit or stand. When it's sitting it stays put for you while in the standing position the wolf will follow you.;
, For a wolf, the safest place would be nowhere up high, because if your wolf falls, it will die. For the rest, you can build your wolf den virtually anywhere.
 This way it won't wander off while you make its real house.

The easiest way to make a pen is to build a 10x10 square from fences around your wolf, then attaching the wolf to one of the fences with a lead. Make sure you put a fence in this pen, so you can go and get your wolf when you're done.
,,, The widened room should be at least a 20x20 square. This will give your wolf enough room to roam about, instead of being cramped up in a pen.
 If the bed doesn't fit, make the room bigger. Light up the whole place with torches, and then go back to your waiting wolf, whom should still be locked up in the pen you made earlier.
 You can destroy the small pen if you want, or leave it. You could even build the same one directly next to your bigger one!


Let your wolf into its new den and let it sniff around. You may have to walk around to get it to follow you around the den.
Once your wolf has settled in, you can build a whole better house for yourself, or do anything for your wolf. But with this perfect den, you can be sure that your wolf is safe, and you have your very own room to be right next door to your furry friend! You could even get more wolves and raise your very own wolf breeding centre!

, Just don't put a chicken with a wild wolf! Create your own animal farm or a place to live! There is always something to do in Minecraft!

