 Focus on one goal per session. Pick a goal that is important to you and which you are anxious about achieving. Imagining yourself accomplishing the goal and receiving the ensuing rewards can help to build confidence and provide the incentive to reach your goal.The Best Me technique can enhance performance geared towards many goals, including:


Academics
Singing
Dancing
Athletics / getting in shape
Creative writing
Getting in shape
Starting your business / achieving a work goal
Losing weight or quitting smoking

, From within your safe place, you will now imagine in detail the accomplishment of your goal. The more detailed your scenario, and the more steps it involves, the better.Increase the incentive value of your recreation by imagining further rewards associated with your goal, like the vacation you will take afterwards.
Consider pre-experiencing the rewards of sub-goals as well. For instance, if quitting smoking, you might imagine the dinner you will treat yourself to after one week, or a conversation where you proudly tell a friend you have not smoked for a month.
 Think of yourself receiving a raise or your diploma, or the rewards for whatever you goal is. Recreate the moment as fully as possible, just as you did in creating your safe place. See it, hear, it, smell it, feel it. Think of precisely what you will do and say; of what people around you will do and say., Think of the admiring looks from friends and relatives. Think of what they will say to you. Imagine how proud and happy you will feel. Allow yourself to fully experience these emotions., If other thoughts intrude, gently push your attention back to the scene you are acting out. Experience the accomplishment of your goals so intensely that it feels as if you are willing it into existence., Experiencing the accomplishment of your goal and the attendant emotions, even if only in your mind, will create powerful memories that help you believe you are headed towards certain success. This will allow you to act confidently, expecting to succeed., Think to yourself that you will gradually come back to the world around you by the time you reach five.


One – Begin returning.
Two – You are happy, confident.
Three – Coming back more and more. Focus on yourself – your breathing and the feel of the floor or chair beneath you.
Four – Almost back. Become aware of the sounds and sensations in the room where you are.
Five – Open your eyes. You are back, feeling wonderful.

