 When it comes to modifying a commercial loan, you have several options for how you wish to proceed. You can hire a loan modification company, hire a private attorney to work with you, or negotiate on your own.


The main benefit to going without outside help is the cost. It's much less expensive to work solo and if you're modifying the loan due to financial strain this is a great way to cut back on unnecessary expenses. However, if you don't have a background in law, property management, real estate, or business you may lack the expertise to negotiate on your own. The contracts involved and the process of working with a lender require a certain of knowledge and experience. Unless you're comfortable navigating legal and financial documents solo, it's recommended you seek outside help.
If you're a residential home owner, consider going through a loan modification company. The majority of loan modification companies in the US work with residential property owners rather than commercial property owners or businesses. When selecting a loan modification company, always ask them about their success rate ahead of time to gauge what your chances are of successfully modifying the loan. You should also ask as many questions as possible during any initial meetings to make sure you understand the process of loan modification as best you can. If you want to work with a company but own commercial real estate, there are some loan modification companies that work with businesses. They may, however, be harder to find.A private attorney is a good option if you're looking for a modification on residential or commercial property. If you're facing legal action, such as foreclosure, a private attorney will be able to represent you in court and help lessen the legal consequences. Attorneys generally know the ins and outs of the system better than individuals and can help you read legal documents and better understand the negotiation process.;
, The first thing you should do in regards to modifying your loan is review all documents related to the loan. You need to understand your rights in the situation in order to determine what your options are regarding the loan's modification.


The first thing you should look for is whether the loan is "non-recourse." This means, in the event of defaulting on the loan, the lender will be forced to foreclose on the property but cannot seek additional repayment or seize other collateral. The lender may be more willing to negotiate the loan, as its in his or her best interest to get what money can be gained from the property.In the even the loan is not "non-recourse," there is still hope you can modify the loan, especially if the estimated cost of foreclosure is greater than the cost of modifying the loan. Additionally, many lenders find that the administrative difficulty of pursuing recompense from debtors is greater than what they could get back. An attorney or loan modification company can help you determine how much you'll need to pay once the loan is modified to assure its in the lender's best financial interest to work with you., While reviewing the documents, you need to check whether your loan provides for modification. Unfortunately, not every loan document sets out a pre-determined process for modification.


Loans are typically able to be modified if the loan is at least 60 days delinquent, foreclosure is not imminent and the borrower is not currently bankrupt, and the loan is not on a second home or investment property.One of the most popular means of loan modification is the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP). Unfortunately, this does not apply to most commercial properties. However, this could apply if your company is a rental company. Talk to an attorney about HAMP and whether it applies to you.If your loan does not meet these qualifications, it does not necessarily mean you cannot modify the loan. You just may have to work a bit harder with an attorney or modification company to work out a deal with the lender., You should also determine what is a reasonable amount you can be expected to pay given your current financial situation. This process is where most people would require a company or attorney, as the calculations involved can be complicated for someone not well versed in finance or law.


All your financial information must be available for you to calculate a reasonable payment. This includes your monthly income, bills, and any other debts or loans you have.Usually, the amount you can reasonably pay is determined by calculating what percentage of your monthly income can go towards this loan without your being unable to pay other monthly expenses. An attorney or company should be able to help you determine the absolute maximum amount you can pay on your loan. This will be helpful to know for the negotiation process., Open communication is important throughout the process. If you are unable to make a scheduled payment or are going to violate any agreements of the loan, you need to let the lender know. You should also let him or her know that you would like to renegotiate to avoid such problems in the future. Tell the lender about any steps you've taken so far, like reviewing documents and talking to an attorney, and explain you're open to a fair, mutually beneficial negotiation process., When making contact with the lender, you should have certain documents ready to show your reasons for wanting to negotiate the loan. These documents should provide an overview of your current financial status and help the lender understand why modification is necessary. Have the following documents ready, most of which can be obtained from your bank, mortgage company, accountant, and landlord:


Updated PFS (personal financial statement)
Updated I/E (Income and Expense Report)
Updated Rent Roll (if applicable to the loan)
Current Mortgage Statement

, You need to work with your lender in order to find an agreement that works for everyone. You want to avoid foreclosure, which can seriously affect your credit score for many years if you are personally liable for the payment on the loan. This means you have to reach a settlement that is beneficial for the lender. As previously stated, the cost of modifying the loan should be less than the cost of foreclosure.


Discuss raising or lowering the interest rates. A lower interest rate can help you make payments on time, while a higher one could make modifying the loan a more enticing prospect for the lender. How to modify interest rates depends on your current financial situation as well as how your situation may change in the future.You can also discuss reducing the overall loan amount. While the lender might be wary to do so, it might also cost less to do this than foreclose.Altering payment dates can also help. If you can make some payments later than originally scheduled, this may allow the total loan amount to stay the same.Remember, if you are not familiar with the legal process behind modifying a loan have an attorney or company representative present throughout the process. This person will protect your best interests while striving to reach an agreement that makes sense for the lender.
 Once you've reached an agreement on your loan, sign a new contract. You need to make sure you get everything discussed in writing and the new paperwork is signed with witnesses. Unofficial agreements made over email, phone, or face-to-face will not hold up in court if anything should go wrong in the future.

