 If it's under 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 F), then they'll think your faking.;
, The best thing to do is to put your clothes on very slowly, "forget" to brush your teeth, don't eat anything, just say that you're not hungry (or if you have the kind of parents that will mix you something up before school, then just say no first. If they start asking you: "Would you like some pancakes, honey?" Just answer no. If they ask: "Are you sure, sweetheart?" Just say that you're not very hungry). Before going out, ask your parents to give you some medicine, probably because of a headache. Tie your shoelaces (if you have them) slowly, or "forget" to tie them at all. Leave as you usually do.
 If you think you are going to vomit, then DO NOT vomit at your school bench (or school desk), some teachers will make you clean it up after. Just ask your teacher: "Could I go to the bathroom please? I don't feel so good." Appear to be a bit shy about your situation.
 Because the strong pill in an empty stomach, will appear as something your stomach doesn't like which equals getting rid of it. Just be sure that you leave your hands a bit in the way so they get a bit of messy (If your hands get too messy, or if someone else was in the bathroom, go to the sink and try to wash your hands. Still leave a bit of vomit on your hands). When you enter the classroom again, be sure to show "unknowingly" your hands to either your teacher, or your classmates. This will make them send you to the nurse and wash your hands. (There is a chance (1/25) that the teacher will ask you only to wash your hands, then come back to the class)

, If she takes your blood pressure, try to breathe as rare as you can, this will make your blood pressure lower. If she takes your temperature, say that you have to go to the bathroom again, because you think your going to throw up again. In the bathroom, put hot water on your body. If it's an ear thermometer, just put hot water on your ear, and rub it hard. Then return to the nurse. Your temperature should be higher now. She will probably tell you to go tell your teacher about it and then return home.
 You got free from school, even though your parents thought you were faking!