 If you're feeling gutsy, place them lining your sidewalk; however, know that if they're outside they risk getting smashed and ruined. You can buy pre-made, decorative jack o' lanterns at any big box store or at craft supply stores. But making them yourself is always better!



Carving your own jack o' lantern can be very messy, but great fun. All you have to do is hollow out a pumpkin, trace on a face, and cut it out. Then place a tea light or an LED light inside to light the way for your trick or treaters.
 Have a good stock -- you never know how many children will be knocking on your front door. If you have any left over, well, all the more for you!


You may want to have some spare change available. Since about the 50's, UNICEF has started a trick or treat program where children collect spare change to help children in need in over 190 countries all over the world.If any come to your door with a small orange box, that's your first clue. Make sure it says UNICEF on it, though!

, You can choose a theme (like a haunted house or cemetery) or you can just swallow your house in orange, black, cobwebs, and stuffed witches, like many choose to do.


If you're going for the haunted house feel, make sure to keep dim lighting inside and out. Line the walk, but little else. Play Halloween noises and cover your entrance in fake cobwebs. If you can, have someone in costume outside your house, beckoning the children to your door.
If you'd like to try turning your house into a cemetery, put gravestones throughout your yard. Dead flowers are a nice added touch. Fake crows, hands clawing out of the dirt, coffins, screams playing in the background, and fog rolling in will seal the deal.

Of course, if you're handing out candy, you have to dress up too! You're part of the show as well. It's not complete without you.
 Why only have your decorations up only for kids 2 or 3 hours one day a year? You went to all that work -- might as well put those fake skeletons and dry ice to good use. At your party, have halloween games, finger foods, drinks, and music. Not every party has to be scary, but you certainly can add a "room of horror" if you so choose.


One annual game for the holiday is bobbing for apples. This is only advised if you're not having a costume party -- or all the makeup will run off! Grab a huge bucket or barrel and fill it with water and some apples. Tie guests' hands behind their backs while they duck their heads into the water, trying to catch the apple with their teeth.
Halloween food decorations get better and better each year. Buy eyeball candies to place on Red Velvet cupcakes with white icing for the blood vessels. And sugar cookies can easily be molded into witches' fingers (think of an almond slice for a fingernail).

Make dry ice (or buy some) to perfect that witch's cauldron. Your drinks will be smokin' in no time.
If you're really intense, you could always stage a blackout or, with enough tight-lipped friends, a zombie attack (blood capsules will come in handy). Halloween is a great excuse to fulfill your strangest fantasies. (But don't let your guests in with weapons.)

, The time has come. Make sure all the right lights are on, the music is playing, you're in your costume, and the candy is ready. You'll probably get a few that come before your city's designated time, so stay on the lookout.


If you run out of candy and have no substitutes (and can't go out for more), turn your lights off. Do this as a courtesy to the children so they know that your home is off the Halloween market.This time comes only once every year, be nice to them and give them open heartedly. Children are going to love you for that! Make your Halloweens magical by just following few steps!

