 Don't alter your style for the latest fashion; don't purposely oppose it either. Dress how you feel and how you like. If others don't like it, just don't care. It will be hard at first, ignoring them, but if you keep on doing it, they will stop taunting you. This will be a great way to see who your true friends are, because they are the ones who will accept you anyway.;
, Don't shut everyone down before you know them. Don't judge a book by its cover. Check everyone out and see who they truly are, because the odds are that they are also just pretending to be someone they're not and there's someone else inside. Who knows, you just might find you have things in common with people you never even dreamed of.
 If other people that you find "cool" likes something you can't stand, don't pretend like you like it as well. You have to respect it, but you don't have to like it. Even people that you have a lot in common with might have that one thing they like that you don't. But don't forget that no person is exactly like another, so it's alright to befriend these people, because you have enough in common.
 You've accepted that you are different, now you have to love it! Be happy that you're not like every other idiot in your class. Trust yourself before you can trust anyone else. You have to understand the true meaning of trust before you tell just anyone your deepest darkest secret.
 Don't just act original, dress original. If you go to a school with a dress code, try to accessorize or break the rules a little. If you're willing to go to the extreme with your look, go ahead, but you must know the consequences of breaking the rules. Wear what you like. Go through the different groups and styles and take out aspects of them YOU find fashionable and collaborate the different genres to create a style that is you.
 They were to used to the you they wanted to believe really was you, but it wasn't. Do you follow? With this I mostly mean your family. They say that family accepts and loves you unconditionally, no matter what. I've learned from my own experience that family members, especially parents, may not really like the new changes. Don't care. Do whatever you want to do and whatever makes you feel happy*. Don't be stupid and do illegal crap, but if they fuss about silly stuff, just ignore it. You can't ditch your family, but if they can't take you for you, it won't be a crime to distance yourself from them a little. Your own originality is at stake here. Bottom line, don't let anyone try to run your life and make you what they want you to be. Be who you want to be. Don't take it too far, but it's no problem to be yourself.
 We can ALL be happy, even when on different pages.

