 You can be fined for various infractions. If you commit any of them, you will receive a violation notice in the mail. Violations include:You drive through an E-ZPass lane without a valid E-ZPass tag properly mounted on your vehicle.
You drive through an E-ZPass lane without sufficient funds in your account.
You drive through an E-ZPass lane but the vehicle class for the tag you are using does not match the class of vehicle you are driving.;
, When you receive the notice in the mail, you should read it closely to find the date and time of the violation.


Also read your itemized statement. The statement is sent every month for the first six months and then every other month after that.Make sure that there are no charges you cannot account for. You will want to dispute any deduction that is erroneous.
 The Turnpike Authority assesses an administrative fee of $50 for each violation. The Turnpike Authority may adjust this amount from time to time, depending on the cost of assessing and collecting violations., You begin the dispute process by submitting a violation inquiry at the NJ E-ZPass website.If you already have an account, then you can log in at the account login page to manage your violations.Otherwise, you will need to enter the following information on the Inquiry form at https://www.ezpassnj.com/vector/violations/violationInquiry.do:The violation number
The eleven-digit E-ZPass tag number or the license plate number that appears on the violation notice

, If you do not want to submit an online inquiry, then you may call 1-973-368-1425 to speak to a Violation Processing Center Representative.If you are hearing impaired, then call 1-866-205-4000.
 You will need to provide documentation that you did not commit the alleged infraction. This can be very difficult. For example, if the Turnpike Authority alleges that you drove through an E-ZPass lane without a pass, then you would need to prove you paid the toll with cash or somehow that the vehicle was not yours.


Sometimes the photograph the Turnpike Authority takes of the offending vehicle will show a license plate that is your when you paid cash. You could then send a copy of the receipt as proof of payment.
Sometimes the photograph the Turnpike Authority takes of the offending vehicle will show a license plate different from yours. You could then take a photograph of your license plate to show the discrepancy.
Also, you could try to get witness statements that explain where you were when the violation occurred. Look for receipts that can place you somewhere other than at the toll booth when the infraction was committed.
You can mail any supporting documentation to E-ZPass Violations Processing Center, P.O. Box 4971, Trenton, NJ 08650., If you do not succeed with your dispute, then you will need to pay your violation. You might get a first violation waived.If not, you can send your payment by mail to the Violations Processing Center address listed above.

