 Before you even open the work, search online for the author’s history. Find out where they graduated and when. Look up their other publications and what they focused on. You might even find an article discussing why they chose to write this particular work and why they think it is important.


This also helps to make the reading process more personal and less of the “same old boring history.” Now you are reading something that someone worked on, for years, to create.;
, Reading isn’t about memorizing a list of facts. As a critical reader, you will focus on how the author interprets historical knowledge. What this means is that different historians can (and do!) come up with widely varying interpretations of the same event, person, place, or thing. It is your job as a critical reader to approach the work with an open, but skeptical mindset.A good example of varying interpretations are the numerous works discussing the development of women’s rights in the United States. Some historians argue that the 1840s is the most important period, while others choose the 1890s, 1920s, or even 1960s. As a critical reader, you will want to make up your own mind based on the evidence presented to you.
 Paging through the text quickly will give you a foundation for a deeper read later. When you skim you want to start by looking closely at the titles and subtitles of chapters. Look for what they tell you about the topics that will be covered and the dates that will be discussed. Next, read the first and last sentences of each paragraph in the introduction and conclusion. This will give you a glimpse of the thesis and how the argument unfolds and concludes.Don’t get bogged down with questions at this stage. Write down any questions that you have in your notes and you can try to answer them when you spend more time with the text.
 In the page margins, write down any questions that you have about what you are reading. You can also write brief phrases to remind yourself why a particular passage is important. For example, “Our class lecture overlaps here.” Use a pen to underline or a highlighter to highlight important passages as well.Please don’t write in library books or books that don’t belong to you. Even pencil leaves marks and diminishes the reading experience for others.
You may be tempted to highlight whole sections of a book or article. Resist this urge as it will only confuse you later on.
 In addition to your in-text notes, you will want to keep a longer set of notes on paper or on your computer. Stick to bullet points as they will keep you from re-copying whole paragraphs. Don’t doubt yourself either. If you think something might be useful for later, write it down. , If you encounter a word, phrase, or concept that you don’t understand, stop reading and look it up online (or ask your classmates if that is an option). You don’t want to miss out on a later point because you ignored a paragraph that was confusing to you.
 As you read, note the author’s writing style and tone. Are they overly formal or do they seem more relaxed? This will help you to determine the intended audience for the work. Look for word choice and sentence structure patterns. Being aware of the author’s writing traits will make it easier to identify instances of bias or open interpretation.


For example, if an author describes a historical character as “evil” or “ruthless,” you will have to decide if you agree with these words based on what you’ve read so far.
 A historical work is only as good as its evidence. Look at the bibliography or works cited pages to see what types of sources are used by the author. You want a fully traceable paper trail whenever possible, enough so that someone could reproduce the research if they desired. Look at the footnotes and endnotes to see if they appear complete.


There are three different types of sources: Primary sources are first-hand accounts of historical events. They are the building blocks of history. A diary is one example. Secondary sources are sources created by using primary and other secondary accounts. A book written by a historian about Pearl Harbor is one example. Tertiary sources are factual overviews. An encyclopedia is one example.When you look at the sources, try to see if they are pulled from works over the years. If they just stuck to one decade, it could tell you that their work might be out of date or that the materials about this particular event can only be found in that period.
 If you are reading a work of history, then it presents an argument or thesis. This is a statement (sometimes multiple sentences) that tells you what the author intends to prove to the reader. The argument will be debatable and it is the heart of the work. Once you’ve identified the thesis, you can understand how the rest of the work is structured to present a compelling case.Locating the thesis is not always easy. Most authors will place it near the start of the work, almost to provide a roadmap for readers. However, in other works, it is almost impossible to identify the thesis until the concluding paragraphs.
Watch for keywords such as, “This work argues,” “I argue,” “I contend,” “This work presents the case that.” Some authors will use these phrases to direct your attention to their main argument.
Also, read very carefully when it appears as if the author is disagreeing with another historian. This can often lead into a work’s argument. For example, “This work takes issue with McSweeney’s study and instead finds that…”
Tracing a work’s argument is like peeling the layers off an onion. You will find a main “outer” argument and then other small arguments or “layers within” to support it. This entire structure is designed to convince you that the author’s point is valid.
 When an author creates a work, they do not do so in isolation. Their work is influenced by those who have come before them and their work then shapes the future works of others. Historiography is the study of historians writing history. To read like a historian, you will want to think about how the work you are reading is connected with other historians.Looking for these moments of interaction between authors can be really frustrating at times, especially if you are unfamiliar with a particular field of history. Watch for when your author mentions the names of other scholars. For example, “Patrick Smith makes an excellent case in his work….”
As a critical reader, you will also find that scholars frequently call attention to where they disagree with others in the field. So, they might write, “While Sally Risch believes this event signaled the end of an era, this work argues something quite different.”

, After you’ve finished your deep read, do a final quick skim read. Look over the introduction and conclusion once more, paying attention to the areas that you’ve identified as particularly important. Maybe make a few extra annotations. This skim read should allow you to see the book as a whole package, instead of just pieces and parts.
 Discuss your reading with your family, friends, classmates, or co-workers. Find anyone who will listen and tell them at least one interesting thing about the text. If you can explain an argument to someone else, you are one step closer to truly understanding it.


For example, you might say, “I just read this book about WWII. The author says that…”

, Look up reviews online by searching for the author’s name or the book’s title. Only read those reviews that you find on reputable websites or in established history journals. H-Net puts out a variety of digital reviews that are always a good starting point. For history books, reviews are often not available until at least three months post-publication. Books written for the wider public, instead of primarily academics, will get reviewed sooner.When you read the review look to see if they picked up on the same general argument as you. It is okay if there are slight variations, but reviews provide a good touchstone. Read them after you’ve completed your read, however, so that the review won’t influence your initial take on the work.
If you have to write a paper over your reading, make sure to be very careful when looking at reviews. It is quite easy to accidently include sections of a review within a paper, thus committing plagiarism.
 Sit down and write 250 words discussing the reading from a critical perspective. Explore the strengths and weaknesses of the work. Offer suggestions for further study. Spend time examining both the content and the writing elements. This is a quick way to test your knowledge of both the details and major points of a reading., After you’ve finished that final skim, leave your notes and the book and walk away for a bit. This will give you time to formulate your overall impressions of what you just read.


If you have an exam or book discussion coming up for a class, try your best not to rush reading. Cramming weakens your retention of details and larger points., Everyone has a personal, preferred reading location. Consider where you feel the most comfortable, mentally alert, and focused. A library, your room, your home office, or a coffee shop are all possible spots. Try out a few different places to see what works the best for you.


If you choose to study in your bedroom, avoid working on the bed itself. It will possibly make you drowsy and can lead to gaps in reading concentration.
Choose a reading site where you will have a desk or table to take notes on while reading. Juggling a book, notepad, highlighter, pen, etc., in your lap could impact your productivity in a negative way.
Make sure that your reading area is well lit. You want to be able to see the text clearly without squinting or straining your eyes. Bright lights can be just as bad as dim ones, so go for subtle lighting. Many people prefer to read near a shaded lamp for that very reason., Tell friends or family in advance that you will be using a certain time to study or read. If it helps, you might place a sign on the door asking for quiet. In you will use your computer to take notes, close all windows and avoid social media until you are done. Turn off your phone as well. You want to be able to read at your own pace until you feel ready to stop, as opposed to stopping because you are interrupted.Be aware that your room can be a distraction too. If you have a mess that needs to be picked up, you may keep dwelling on that instead of concentrating.
It may be helpful to set aside a specific time for reading and to stick to that schedule. Many historians look for a time when they feel the most mentally energized and that is when they do their heavier reading and writing.
 Turn on some instrumental music and dive right into your work. The music can signal your brain that it is time to concentrate. Music can also drown out other distracting noises. Sip some coffee or tea while you read. Do whatever you need to do to boost your concentration., Arrange your space so that you can take notes quickly and easily. You will want a reliable pen, a highlighter (yellow is often a good choice), and paper. You can also take notes via computer if you like. If you’ve borrowed the book or can’t write inside it, you can purchase multi-colored note flags that stick to the pages or you can use post-its for more writing space.

