 Doing some simple flirting is a good way to determine if someone is interested in you and it may also help you to determine if the person is single or not. If you flash a smile at someone and the person returns it, then this is a good sign.If you are standing across the room, try by making eye contact and smiling at the person. Doing this will send him or her the message that you would like to talk. If the person returns your gaze and smiles back, then you should approach him or her.
If the person looks away or does not return your smile, then he or she may not be interested.;
, Some people find small talk annoying, but keep in mind that it can help you to find out if someone is single and may even lead to a deeper discussion later on.After you approach someone, introduce yourself and strike up a conversation. Chatting with the person for a few minutes before you ask if he or she is single will give you a chance to learn a bit more about the person and decide if he or she is someone you’d like to date. Try chatting about:


The place you are at. For example, you could say something like, “This place has the best coffee! What are you drinking?”
The people you are with. For example, you could say something like, “That’s my friend George over there. Did you bring anyone?”
A recent event. For example, you could say something like, “Did you catch the game last night?”

, When you feel like you’ve made a connection with the person you like, then you can ask if the person is in in a relationship. Make your question as direct as possible to avoid any confusion.


Try saying something like, “Do you have a boyfriend/girlfriend?” or “Are you seeing anyone?”
If he or she says "yes," try not to show your disappointment. Just say something like, “That’s cool,” and then talk for a little longer before excusing yourself.
If the person says "no," don’t react with too much excitement. You might just say something like, “Cool. I’m not either.”

, If this person is single and seems to be enjoying your company, then you can get his or her phone number and/or set up a date. There are many ways to ask someone out, but a simple approach might be best.


Try saying something like, “I am enjoying talking with you. Would you like to get together for dinner sometime?” Or, "We should talk again sometime. Can I get your phone number?" Or, "I'm going for a hike on Saturday. Want to come along?"
If the person rejects your invitation, then try not to get discouraged. It is possible that the person recently go out of a relationship and is not ready to date yet.

