 If you haven't logged many hours of gameplay yet, avoid playing as the Spy. Everybody knows he's fun, but know that spying is best left to more experienced players. Chances are, you won't have any of the equipment that will make him easier to play (Eg. Dead Ringer, Cloak & Dagger, etc.) and you haven't seen a decent Spy in action or what his most crucial roles are. Starting out, try playing as the Soldier. The Soldier is versatile in a game that was not intended to be. He is easy for new players to understand (basically, point and shoot), and his health is not so ridiculously low that he is difficult to play. You can really help your team out by playing as him. If this does not appeal to you, or you don't feel like you're helping your team enough, play Medic. The Medic can turn the tide of battle in his own way. Teammates constantly failing, because everyone is too interested in the action to play a class as "boring" as him? Do NOT be afraid to step up to the challenge. It will give you a large sense of satisfaction seeing your teammates succeed thanks to your brilliant medicine skills. See Play a Medic in Team Fortress 2 and other class-specific wiki-hows for more.;
, A dead teammate is utterly useless to the rest of the team. Enough said.
 TEAM Fortress 2! What does that suggest? That you should play it using TEAM work! The first step after learning how to use a class is learning how to use it in conjunction with your team. An example of this would be the Pyro: he can help his teammates by checking regularly for Spies, putting out flaming teammates or heroically pushing an ÜberCharged Medic away from the one he is ÜberCharging.
 It will help everyone know the who's, where's, and etc., so they can contribute to the effort. Timing your offensive push along with everyone else is a stellar use of communication. You should also take time to listen to others. If everyone is griping for a Medic, maybe you should respawn as one, etc. It is possible to play the whole game without a microphone, but the amount of chat spammers, trolls, etc. out there right now makes it difficult to do so. The set of voice commands get ignored a lot. Bind short sentences to effectively communicate when you're in a pinch.
 Simply doing your best and logging hours on the servers will help your teamwork tremendously (not to mention help you become better as an individual). MGE Servers are really good for developing your death match skills.
 It's a game. Don't take it too seriously. If you get killed by that same guy over and over again, just laugh it off, tell him he's doing a good job. It doesn't matter what team you're on- you have to play with/against them, so you might as well get along, make some new friends, and have fun doing so.

