 Pain in the jaw is often caused by grinding your teeth, also known as bruxism, or putting tension on muscles around the jaw while you sleep. A bite splint, which you can get from your dentist, is a removable protective device that covers the surface of the teeth and gums while you sleep. Wearing a bit splint at night can help decrease this tension and, therefore, relieve the pain in your jaw.


Symptoms of bruxism can include flattened, flat, loose, or chipped teeth, worn tooth enamel, increased tooth sensitivity, headaches originating in the temples, pain that feels like an earache, and indentations on your tongue., It won’t be easy, but training your brain to stop doing behaviors that aggravate your jaw issues can help ease the pain you feel. For example, pay attention to when you clench your jaw. You can help train your brain to recognize when you’re clenching your jaw by checking it for tightness when you perform certain activities.For example, check your jaw for tightness every time you walk through a doorway, close a browser window, or go to the bathroom. Choose actions you know you perform multiple times on a daily basis., Opening your mouth too wide can also cause your jaw to pop out of place. To help prevent this from happening, keep your mouth closed as much as possible when you do things like yawn, talk, or eat., You should also make an effort to stay away from foods that require excessive mastication. Having to chew more than normal can cause pain in your jaw. In general, you’ll want to stay away from things like gum, sunflower seeds, chewy candies, and ice chips., Stretching and massaging your jaw can help relieve pain and relax the muscles. Start by massaging your jaw once a day before bed. If you are experiencing more pain than usual, add a second session in the morning until the pain has subsided and return to massaging it only once a day.


To massage your jaw, place your fingertips on your lower jaw and move them up, pushing on the skin while you do this. Once your fingers reach your scalp, remove them and start the movement again from your lower jaw. Do this for about 2 minutes., Most jaw pain will go away on its own or through self-massage and stretching. If you have consistent, severe pain, however, you should seek professional help. You should also visit a professional if you’re having trouble swallowing your food or if it hurts to open and close your jaw. Your dentist or doctor can both diagnose TMJ and guide you as to what treatment is best for your situation., If your jaw is locked in either an open or closed position, you should go to the hospital or emergency room to get help. To treat a locked jaw, the doctor will sedate you to a comfortable level and then manipulate the jaw until it returns to the correct position.