 Separation anxiety is one of the most common behavioral disorders in elderly dogs. Typically, a dog suffering from separation anxiety will become very anxious when its owner prepares to leave. Once the owner has left, the dog may become destructive, bark and howl, urinate and defecate, or salivate excessively. This increase in anxiety may be the result of cognitive decline or decreased hearing or vision.Talk with your veterinarian if you believe your dog is suffering from separation anxiety.
 Your dog is sensitive to your routine. It knows that you are about to leave when you pick up your keys and put on a jacket. In order to mitigate your dog’s anxiety, change your leaving cues so the dog does not know when you are leaving.For example, pick up your keys and then sit on the couch instead of walking out the door. On the weekends, do your normal get-ready-for-work routine but stay at home.
 Leave your home for small increments of time, a few seconds to a few minutes, and reward your dog when they remain calm. Start with short excursion and work your way up to bigger ones, always returning before your dog gets anxious. Over time, your dog’s anxiety about you leaving will diminish.This method may take weeks or months, so you will need to be patient.
 As you leave, give your dog a treat, some praise, or some physical affection. This will condition your dog to have a positive association with your leaving. You may also want to consider leaving your dog a treat inside a hollow toy, which will distract it while you leave., You can also create a positive association with your departure by creating a comfortable and relaxing atmosphere for your dog. Leave soft music playing, set the right temperature, and provide some natural light. If your dog likes being outside, let it be in your backyard while you are gone. Find out what your dog likes and do that when you leave., You may also want to have someone come over and hang out with your dog for a while during the day. This person should be a friend or family member who you trust in your home and around your pet. Have them walk your dog or take it outside. This will help break up your dog’s day and keep its anxiety from building.