 Cashews are readily available in the bulk section or nuts section at most grocery stores. They can often be found either raw or roasted. Keep in mind that approximately 2 cups of cashews will make 1 ¼ cups of cashew butter. Use this as a guideline for determining the amount of cashews to buy.


Cashews are not available to purchase with their shells still intact. Cashews are in the same family as poison oak and poison ivy, meaning that their shells release a toxin called urushiol that produces skin irritations and rashes. The nuts themselves are typically roasted or, if sold as “raw” in stores, are typically steamed to eliminate the toxin.Cashews are also available already flavored, such as honey roasted cashews. These can be used to make cashew butter as well.;
, If you are purchasing cashews as a replacement for peanuts because of a peanut allergy, you need to make sure that the cashew processing plant does not also process peanuts. The risk of cross-contamination can be dangerous or even deadly for those with peanut allergies. Also, check to make sure the person with a peanut allergy does not also have allergies to other types of nuts. Peanuts are ground nuts, while others, like walnuts, hazelnuts and cashews, are tree nuts. Some people are only allergic to peanuts, while others are allergic to all kinds of nuts.
 If you purchased raw nuts, you may decide to soak and dehydrate them first before processing them into cashew butter. To soak nuts, place 4 cups of nuts into a glass or ceramic bowl. Fill the bowl with water so the nuts are completely submerged, and add 1-2 tablespoons of unrefined salt. Cover the bowl and let it stand for about 2-3 hours.Raw nuts contain high levels of phytic acid and enzyme inhibitors, which can cause irritation and digestive difficulty, and can inhibit the absorption of some of the nutrients contained in nuts. Soaking nuts can neutralize the acid and enzyme inhibitors, maximizing the health potential of nuts.
 Use cool water to remove any salt residue that remains on the cashews.
 Spread the cashews in a single layer on a cookie sheet or on a dehydrator rack. Heat your oven or dehydrator to 150 °F (66 °C). Periodically check on the cashews and toss them to ensure they dry on all sides. Monitor them to ensure that they do not burn. Dry the cashews until they are slightly crispy, or about 12-24 hours., Heat your oven to 325 °F (163 °C). Preheat a ceramic dish for 5 minutes, and then place a single layer of cashews in this dish. Bake them in the middle of the oven for approximately 20 minutes. If so desired, add a little olive oil or salt to coat the cashews at this time. Stir the cashews thoroughly.
 Cashews, like most nuts, are dense and heat can get packed away inside them. Giving the nuts time to cool will reduce the risk of burning yourself when processing them into butter.
 You will need at least 2 cups of cashews to produce 1 ¼ cups of cashew butter. You may also want to add salt; for this amount of cashews, include ¼ teaspoon of salt. You do not need any other ingredients, such as oil, water or flavorings, unless you are planning to make a flavored cashew butter. Plain cashew butter consists of only cashews and a little salt if desired.
 Have a food processor ready, as well as a spatula. The food processor should be sturdy and able to operate for an extended period of time. Alternately, you can use a coffee grinder (which will likely process smaller quantities of cashews at a given time), or a high-powered blender. Using a Ninja Master Prep blender will reduce the amount of time you need to blend the cashews. Have storage containers ready to transfer the cashew butter when you are finished processing it. You might use glass jars, freezer-safe containers, or other food storage containers.
 Turn the processor on high speed to chop up the cashews. Watch the consistency of the cashews, which will transition from big chunks to fine grain after a few minutes, and to a sticky paste after another 4-5 minutes. Adding oil or water is not necessary, as the cashews will turn to butter after several minutes of processing.
 Your food processor may overheat slightly and could use a rest from running. Take a break for 2-3 minutes to let the food processor cool down. Use this time to scrape the sides of the bowl and give a little stir to the cashews.
 As you resume processing the cashews, they will start to release oils, which causes them to get sticky. Process the cashews for another 2-3 minutes as they begin to turn into a creamy butter. Stop to scrape the sides of the bowl again, and continue to process until you reach the desired consistency. The entire process can take up to 15-25 minutes, depending on your equipment, so be patient.The food processor might seem like it is just spinning and not mixing anything. It is still working on turning your cashews into cashew butter, so keep at it. Give your machine a rest every few minutes so you don’t risk a blown-out machine.
 If you choose to add salt, use ¼ teaspoon of unrefined salt per 2 cups of cashews. Honey, raw sugar or maple syrup (1-2 tablespoons) can also be added to sweeten the cashew butter. Blend the cashew butter to mix in additional ingredients thoroughly.
 If you want crunchy cashew butter, add more pieces of cashews that have not turned into butter in your food processor. These finely chopped cashew pieces will add a little crunch to your butter and give it more dimension.
 Transfer cashew butter in a glass jar with a tightly sealed lid. Store in the refrigerator and use within one week. The oil and solids will separate after sitting, so you will need to give it a good stir every time you use it.
 Pour cashew butter into candy molds or ice cube trays. After they are frozen, you can store these mini-blocks of cashew butter in a freezer-safe container or storage bag for approximately 4 months., Cashew butter has a creamy, buttery, rich flavor, which many people prefer over peanut butter's flavor. The butter is rich in protein and unsaturated fats, making it an ideal healthy energy snack.
 Put a frozen cube of cashew butter in a small container and include it in a sack lunch with some crackers, celery sticks or apple slices. After sitting for a couple of hours, the butter will be nicely thawed and easy to dip into, but it won't have sat so long that its oils and solids separated.
 Cashew butter is especially useful and flavorful in Indian, Thai, Chinese or West African cuisine (such as cuisine from The Gambia or Senegal). Cashew butter can be mixed into recipes as a nut flavor or as a thickener. It can be used in Szechuan chicken dishes, spring rolls, curries, chicken tikka masala, and soups. It can also be a replacement for any recipe that calls for peanut butter, almond butter or tahini.
 Substitute cashew butter in a peanut butter cookie recipe for a nuanced flavor change in this classic cookie. Because of cashew butter's softer texture, you may need to experiment with the quantity that you are substituting in a peanut butter cookie recipe. Add more flour if the cookie batter seems too runny. Shape the cookie dough into balls and roll them in sugar before baking. Or, use a fork to make the criss-cross pattern in the dough before baking.Bake the cookies according to the peanut butter recipe's directions. Watch them carefully to make sure they do not burn; sometimes, ingredient substitutions can change the time necessary to bake the perfect cookie.
 Make batches of cashew butter and store them in pint-sized mason jars. Make personalized labels for the jars and tie a ribbon around the jars. Give your homemade cashew butter to friends or family as birthday or holiday presents.

