 This procedure, also called “photoprotection,” is essential to prevent the worsening of the condition because UV irradiation can cause darkening of hyperpigmentation spots.Apply broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF factor of at least 30 daily over the affected area.
Regular application of sunscreen is particularly important if you do not normally wear sunscreen due to the color of your skin.;
, In order to prevent the darkening of the hyperpigmentation spots, cover the affected area from direct sunlight and/or avoid prolonged exposure to sun.If the spots are on your face, wear a hat or a scarf to cover your face.
Opt to sit in the shade if you are outside during a sunny day.
 The best way to prevent the post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation spots is to prevent or treat acne itself.Mild acne (whiteheads, blackheads, pustules) should be treated by washing your face twice per day with warm water and a gentle cleanser.
Use an over-the-counter acne lotion or cream per the label directions. Do not overuse as they may dry your skin.
If over-the-counter creams do not work, your doctor may prescribe a lotion or cream containing benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, a topical antibiotic, a topical retinoid, sulfur, resorcinol, or an oral medication (such as antibiotics, hormonal contraceptive or isotretinoin).Consult your doctor if your acne does not get better after 6 to 8 weeks of treatment or if you suffer from severe acne.
 You might be tempted to scrub the skin to remove the spots but this can actually worsen the condition and prolong their duration. It can also worsen acne., Many creams and cosmetics available over-the-counter contain plant-based and other natural ingredients that may help lighten the skin. These are usually safe for daily use.Soy (derived from the soybean plant) is commonly used in skin-lightening moisturizers. It works by inhibiting the transfer of melanosomes into the top layer of the skin.
Niacinamide (a form of vitamin B) acts like soy and is used in many cosmetics.
Ellagic acid, derived from strawberries, pomegranates, and cherries, works as an antioxidant and inhibits enzyme needed for melanin production.Lignin peroxidase (enzyme derived from a fungus) breaks down melanin in the skin and may have skin-lightening properties.Arbutin (a natural derivative of hydroquinone) is available in many skin-lightening cosmetics up to 3% concentration.Kojic acid (derived from a fungus) is an antioxidant that works by breaking down melanin. It is available in skin-lightening cosmetics in 1-4% concentrations.Licorice extracts (such as liquiritin) have been shown to lighten skin and are available in some cosmetics.Use these products according to the product labels and consult your doctor if you have any questions or side effects.
Please note that although some clinical studies have shown promising effects with the above products for the treatment of hyperpigmentation, larger studies are needed to confirm these results.
 Certain natural remedies may also help reduce or eliminate hyperpigmentation. However, keep in mind that there is little or no scientific evidence to back these approaches, although some evidence suggests that they may be beneficial. Consult with your doctor or dermatologist to determine whether natural remedies are safe for you and your skin.Aloe vera gel is used for numerous ailments, such as sun burns and dry skin, and it may also work to reduce hyperpigmentation.Create a mask by combining aloe vera, seaweed and raw honey. Allow the mixture to settle for 10 minutes before applying it over the affected area. Leave it on for a few minutes and then rinse it away with lukewarm water.Lemon and potato juice. The citric acid in lemon juice has bleaching qualities, while the catecholates in potatoes help lighten the skin. Blend the juices and apply the mixture over the pigmentation.
Alternatively, use the lemon juice alone or in combination with almond or coconut oil..
Lemon, milk, honey and orange peels. The combination of citric acids, fruit peels, honey and milk make a paste that soothes your skin and may help lighten hyperpigmentation spots. Make a powder using dried orange peels by adding lemon juice, milk and enough honey to create a proper consistency for a mask. .
Honey and almond. Make a mask by mixing together a tablespoon of almond powder, a teaspoon of honey and a teaspoon of lemon. Apply the mask over the affected area for 15 minutes, then rinse away with water.
Cucumber and mint. Make a mixture using six leaves of fresh mint and one raw egg white beaten until frothy. Crush a half of a cucumber to form a fine paste, then add it to the mint-egg mixture and blend. Apply the mask over the affected area for 15 minutes and wash away with water.
Other natural ingredients to try include wheat germ, argan, tamanu, and rosehip oils, rhassoul (red) clay, and turmeric.Do not use the remedies if you are allergic to any of the ingredients.

