 Before continuing, you will need to know what version of Windows you are running. In order to see this information, do these:


For Windows 8, open a file explorer window. Click “This PC” on the left-hand side of the window, and then hit “Properties.” A new window should open, under the subheading “System” and to the right of “System type,” it should say 32- or 64-bit. Remember this for the next step.
For Windows 7, click the Start orb, right-click “Computer,” and then select “Properties.” A new window should open. Under the subheading “System,” and to the right of System type, it should say 32- or 64-bit. Remember this for the next step.
For Windows XP, click “Start,” right-click “My Computer,” and then select “Properties.” A new window will pop up with the General tab already selected. To the right of the Windows logo, under the System subheading, you should see Microsoft Windows XP. If there is nothing else next to it, you are running a 32-bit version of Windows XP. If it says 64 next to it, you are running 64-bit version of windows. Remember this for the next step.;
, Open any Internet browser on your PC, and navigate to the WinRAR download page. There are basically two different download options (32-bit and 64-bit) based on the type of processor your PC is using.


If you are running a 32 bit version of Windows, click the blue “Download WinRAR” button to continue. Once finished, follow the step-by-step install instructions on the screen.
If you are running a 64 bit version of Windows, click under the blue “Download WinRAR” button where it says “click here for 64-bit version” to continue. Once finished follow the step-by-step install instructions on the screen.
 After the installation has finished, open WinRAR. Once open, in the upper left-hand corner click File >> Open archive . A window will open, and from this window, navigate to the location of the files you wish to open.


The icon for RAR files may look like 3 small books stacked on top of each other. Double-click the RAR file to open it.
 Once you can see the files inside of the RAR file, you will still need to extract the files in order to be able to use them. Click the top file on the list, hold down the Shift key on your keyboard, and then click the last file on the list. This will select all the files in the RAR.


Click the “Extract To” button at the top left of the window. A small window will open. Use the box to select a location to extract the files to. You can use the + icons to expand the folders and view the folders inside of them, or double-click the folder.
Highlight the folder you wish to extract the files to, and when you’re finished, click the “OK” button on the bottom of the page. Now you have opened your first RAR file!

