 Civil service requires a lot of determination, hard work and aptitude, make sure that the aspirant has all the above. Middle school might be too early for an aspirant to choose a suitable career but preparing for civil services can help them in discovering their aptitude.;
, The syllabus for civil service exams are revised periodically, but the basic structure remains the same with, English, history, civics (polity), geography, science and maths, which are taught from middle school itself. Learning is easier at school since it will be at a pace and level that is suitable for the aspirant.
 This is the most important step. IAS exams rely heavily on current affairs and government policies and requires the aspirants to be knowledgeable and have opinions regarding them.
 Most of the topics for IAS exams are too dry for a child, documentaries and videos can make them interesting.
 Reading fiction and non-fiction books in English and regional languages will increase their knowledge and language skills.
 Sometimes books and newspapers might be difficult to understand, discussing with your elders will help in understanding issues better and in forming and expressing opinions.
 If you are a parent, train the child to face real life situations and in public speaking. These will help them in tiding through aptitude questions, interview and eventually in the job.
 Books, TV and the internet will have its limitations compared to actually seeing and experiencing your country. Use school trips and trips with your parents to observe and understand the diverse cultures, ethnic and social background of the citizens of the nation.
 IAS is a position of power from where you could do a great deal of good things for your fellow citizens. Learn to respect and love your country and its rich and varied heritage. Learn more about the people who have worked for its freedom and well-being and learn the spirit of unity and integrity from a young age so that it lasts for a lifetime in the service of the nation.

