 A modular 5-point star begins with a square piece of cardstock origami paper and results in a 5-pointed, partially raised star.








Begin with the paper face-down on a flat surface. Fold the paper in half vertically. Crease well and unfold.
Still keeping the paper face-down, fold the paper in half horizontally. Crease well and unfold.
 Fold down the top right corner so that the tip touches the center of the paper where the vertical and horizontal creases meet.









Crease well and leave folded.
 Fold the bottom left corner so that the tip touches the center of the paper where the vertical and horizontal creases meet.









Crease well and leave folded.
 Fold the top left corner so that the tip touches the center of the paper where the vertical and horizontal creases meet.









Crease well and unfold.
 Fold the paper over along the pre-existing horizontal crease.









Re-crease and leave folded.
 Grasp the right-most triangular panel (it should be the only panel with the backside facing toward you).









Fold it backwards (mountain fold) to form a diagonal crease.
Crease well and unfold.
 Fold the paper in half along the vertical axis.









Crease well and unfold.
 You’ve completed your first modular unit; repeat the previous steps with four additional squares of paper.









You should ultimately have five units.
Each modular unit will have two partial pockets, one on the front and one on the back of the unit, each ending with a paper tip.
 Pick up two units. Slide one of the paper tips from the first into one of the pockets of the second.









The result will form an “L” shape.
 Pick up a third unit and slide its tip into the pocket at the tip of the “L” shape.









The result should look like a square.
 Pick up the fourth unit. Slide the tip of the fourth unit into the pocket of the square shape.









You can identify the pocket by its triangle of backside paper.
 Simultaneously, slide the tip of the fourth unit into the pocket of the fifth unit.









Then, slide the tip of the first unit into the pocket on the other end of the fifth unit. Simultaneously, slide the remaining tip of the fifth unit into the pocket of the first unit.
The result will form a five-pointed star.

