 Unless you have good self-control or are keeping to a strict diet, it will be difficult not to splurge on the foods you like.;
, One or two mini egg rolls and a margarita is fine every now and then, but you will quickly intake unnecessary calories if that literally becomes a fourth meal.
 This is because the meal is sit-down style and you will be waited on, instead of having the temptation to get up frequently for additional helpings. While there may be several courses, dining this way allows for portion control since you will only be receiving one plated serving.
 This includes low fat, low sodium, low carbohydrate, vegetarian or kosher. It may not be as plentiful or tasty as the full fat version, but it will save you calories and perhaps a visit to the ship's gym in the long run. Requests should be made when you make your cruise reservations if you want the best chances to receive a special meal, but they can also be made as soon as you board with the dining room maître d'.
 Soft drinks and other beverages will also contribute to weight gain aboard a cruise. Limit your soda, juice, sugary drink, and alcohol consumption and instead opt for water or sugar-free beverages.
 There aren't as many food choices for lunch as there are for breakfast and dinner, so you won't be tempted to take as much.
 Just because it may be "all-you-can-eat" doesn't mean you should stuff yourself until you feel like you're about to explode. Take a plate and fill it with one appetizer, one entrée, one side dish and one dessert. If you can manage to get full by finishing a meal served on a smaller plate, even better.
 Do you really need a heaping slice of chocolate cake or berry cobbler at two in the morning? Try to stick with regular mealtimes to avoid going to sleep uncomfortably with a full stomach. Instead, call it a day for snacking at least an hour before you go to bed.
 For example, try eating a large dinner on the first night but a small one the next, or get a room service breakfast one morning instead of a full-scale meal in the dining room. It will be difficult to keep to, but if you can it will save you lots of guilt and heartache.
 If you must have that fattening dessert or other snack, compromise by doing something to work it off later on. Tell yourself that if you're going to eat that double cheeseburger or banana split sundae now, you'll go to the gym before bed or sign up for that challenging hike excursion at the port-of-call tomorrow.
 You're on vacation, after all! You can and should have that extra appetizer or dessert at some point during your cruise, but don't go overboard. (No pun intended!) Set limits for yourself, build up your self-control and walk off the ship weighing the same you did when you stepped on - or less!

,