 The first step toward independence as an entrepreneur is turning your dream into a tangible strategy, clearly defined in your business plan. A well-written business plan will not only help you focus on the structure of your coin-operated laundry, but will help others realize your vision as well.;
, You'll want to be in a position to move quickly if you come across the right laundromat. Arrange to meet with your banker, a private investor, or even a trusted family member to raise the funds you'll need.
 Consider established locations in a safe area, in proximity to a university or multiple family dwellings. People who live in more short-term housing situations are less likely to own a washer and dryer. Your prime location should have a good mix of residencies and businesses. Traffic flow is essentially the best advertisement, and a busy shopping center, in a busy location could save on marketing expenses.
 A consultation with a business broker may save time and give you valuable information on an existing business for sale. A reputable local business broker will have crucial knowledge not available to the general public.
 Once you've found a coin-operated laundry in a prime location, respond quickly. The seller is a good source for information about the history and profitability. But validate the details. Speak with other business owners in nearby shops. Gather demographics as you observe the routine of their customers. Remember, if the price seems low there may be a legitimate reason, but you need to know why.
 Regardless of how they appear, have a professional test each machine. Commercial laundromat equipment should be thoroughly evaluated for mechanical integrity and safety. The age and condition of the machines will help you and the seller agree on a price for the business.
 With a turnkey business, especially a laundromat where prior experience is not essential, you could have existing customers visit the same day. Subcontracting certain duties like equipment maintenance and janitorial services allows you to minimize full-time labor expenses while reaping the rewards of a self-service laundromat.

