 This gets your greens into the dips your children eat. This makes for a much healthier alternative to conventional sour cream or other dips.Boil a pot of water and prepare an ice bath in the sink. Then, add kale and spinach to the boiling water and cook for two minutes. Remove them from the boiling water and throw them in the ice bath in the sink. Once the greens are cool, you can puree them with garlic, pine nuts, and vinegar. Add olive oil as you are mixing the ingredients., You can use raisins, almonds, pretzels, or sunflower seeds. Find ingredients that are tasty, healthy, and store well in the pantry.


Add sunflower seeds. Sunflower seeds are low in sodium and cholesterol, and are a good source of thiamin, magnesium, and phosphorous, amongst other nutrients.Add raisins. Raisins are a great source of energy, antioxidants, and vitamins. They also contain resveratrol which is an antioxidant that has anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties., Use as many fresh fruits as you can. You could use nonfat yogurt, orange juice, bananas and strawberries. Your children will get creative and enjoy the smoothies.Try adding avocado to your children's smoothies. A serving of avocado has 160 calories, 2 grams of protein and 15 grams of healthy fat. It also has 26% of the recommended daily intake of vitamin K, 20% of your recommended folate intake, and 17% of your recommended vitamin C intake. Avocados are also low in saturated fat and do not contain any cholesterol or sodium.Try adding mangos to your children's smoothies. One cup of mangos has about 105 calories, 76% of your vitamin C intake and 25% of your vitamin A intake. It also covers 11% of your vitamin B6 intake plus other B vitamins. It also has plenty of fibre. They can help boost the immune system, improve digestion and clear your skin., Apple chips are a great alternative to potato chips and are perfect for the fall season.Preheat the oven to 200 fahrenheit. Slice apples very thinly, then arrange them on a lined baking sheet. Try not to let them overlap. Bake for one hour. Flip them, and then bake for one more hour. Store them in a cool place and an airtight container.