 If you see a tiger that may have escaped captivity, do not assume it is docile or friendly towards humans. Tigers that have been captive will be agitated in unfamiliar environments, and are especially likely to attack., Leave your possessions behind as you walk away, as these may momentarily distract a curious tiger. If you cannot vacate the area entirely, attempt to hide. Tigers are not as capable of climbing as are some other jungle cats, so climb a tree until you can escape.Once you've hidden, you may attempt to distract the tiger by throwing things away from you to lead them in that direction. However, use extreme caution in doing so, as you're probably more likely to attract attention to your hiding spot. As such, it is better to throw stuff off of your path before you hide.
 Never antagonize a tiger or large animal of any type. Tigers in particular respond to aggression with aggression and will defend themselves by attacking.Do not throw anything at a tiger or attempt to hit it with something.


In the event that you are attacking a tiger in order to distract it from mauling someone else, use whatever you have to strike the tiger as hard as you can.
Keep shouting at the tiger, both to intimidate it and to distract it from its victim.
 While an old or injured tiger may seem feeble or in need of your help, they may actually be especially dangerous. Even if a tiger is in poor health, it should be treated with extreme caution.In the wild, you’re actually more likely to see a tiger in poor health, as tigers that are unable to hunt as well as they are when healthy will seek out easily accessible prey, such as livestock.
This will bring them into closer proximity to humans than tigers are usually comfortable with.
 No matter how tempting it may be or how cute they may look, you should never interact with a young tiger. Tiger mothers are ferociously protective of their young and will readily come to their defense if they feel they are threatened in any way. Do not approach or attempt to interact with a cub in any way if you see one.In the wild, it is very rare to spot cubs because they are fiercely protected by their mothers. With that said, just because you see a cub all by themselves wondering around aimlessly doesn't mean that the mother isn't somewhere nearby.

