 This is a Tyvek product that can easily be stretched to cover the corners of window and door openings. Choose a width, typically 7–9 inches (18–23 cm) that can easily cover the sill and provide a couple inches (several centimeters) of overlap. While ordinary Tyvek wrap is typically cheaper, it will not provide as durable and effective a water barrier for window sills.
 The windowsill should be level or sloped slightly outward, to provide adequate drainage. If it is sloped inward or sloped severely in either direction, install a sloped sill pan before continuing.
 Wipe the sill and surrounding surfaces with a dry cloth to remove all moisture, grease, dust, and frost from the area.
 Cut the FlexWrap at least 12 in. (30 cm) longer than the sill surface. This extra space ensures the entire sill will still be covered once the Tyvek FlexWrap is stretched around it and fastened.
 Primer is only necessary in areas of severe weather conditions, severe cold temperatures, or certain building materials. Apply primer if the sill is made from concrete, masonry, or fiber-faced exterior gypsum board. DuPont, the manufacturer of Tyvek, recommends using a DuPont-approved primer for this purpose, such as the following:








SIA 655 or Perma-grip 105 (Henkel)
Hi-Strength 90 (made by 3M)
Butyl Primer (Denso)

, Place the Tyvek FlexWrap over the sill, so it completely covers the base and hangs over the surrounding vertical sides. Do not stretch the Tyvek while laying it across the sill. Smooth it out with your hand or a roller to make it flat and even.
 Hold the FlexWrap in place over the sill, then pull one corner to stretch it onto the surrounding wall surface. Use a staple, washer head nail, or other fastener to attach the FlexWrap over the wall. Repeat for the remaining corners.
 Follow the window or door manufacturer's instructions for installation. However, make sure not to caulk the FlexWrap base of the sill. After installation, you can provide additional protection by installing FlexWrap strips over the exterior jambs (sides), then cover them with a strip over the head (top) of the window.








