 This is the place that you spend most of your quiet time, such as a bedroom. Having an entirely clean space can eliminate some stress. So put those clothes away, mop up the floors, and dust those blinds. This is the first step of getting rid of that stress.;
, When you're stressed, it's easy to let important things pass you by quickly. Write down the most basic to the top priority of things you need done. (ex. brush-teeth, eat breakfast, complete English assignments, bathe the dog, etc.)

, Get all assignments done before they build up.
 Get off the internet, get off that TV and enjoy the beauty of nature. Even if it's cold and raining (then, you may want to bring a jacket), get some fresh air.
 If you work online or go to online school, this could be difficult for you. However, you want to limit as much time as you can on the internet. Of course you need some entertainment, but over 30 minutes of pure "nothingness" on the internet is not healthy. You'll waste so much time and not even be aware of it. Stay off that net!

, Music is mental medication and it can get you that jump start in the morning that you need to start the day.
 Coffee and energy drinks work great for keeping you awake temporarily. However, they can cause unhealthy effects on your body. They both contain caffeine which can make anyone more anxious throughout the day, suppress your appetite, and interrupt sleep patterns.
 Get strong and do some weightlifting, have a healthy heart and work that cardio everyday. Exercising is great for getting rid of that stress, so make sure you do it. Also, it doesn't count if you don't break a sweat.
 Talk to your girlfriend, sister, best-friend, therapist, or your dog. Just talk

, Go out to a movie, mall or a park. Do something that makes you feel good.
 Take care of your body. Don't smoke anything, don't drink a full cup of alcohol often (yes, including wine). Make water your main beverage and drink it at least 5 times a day. Try to be only around positive people. Stay away from those racist, sexist, homophobic, and ethnocentric, unfriendly, negative, jealous people. They have issues and will try to bring you down with them. Don't try to argue with the stupid. Don't argue with family. Spend time with your pets. Laugh. Go out with your friends or family. Be selfish for once and buy yourself a bundle of roses or a nice watch. Appreciate the person you are. Get plenty of rest.

