 Be aware that whatever life throws at you, you can get right back up - stronger. When a bad mood knocks the life out of you, understand that you can find motivation to improve your mood and to smile. So when that person cuts you off on a highway filled with traffic, don't let it get to you.;
, A simple test to show you how smiling help you stay positive is to smile, and then try to think of something negative, but keep the smile. You should soon realize that it is hard. When we smile, our body and mind are sending us a message that everything is okay, and that life is great. Smiling will help get rid of sadness and depression, and works better than any type of medication to get rid of stress.


Know that smiling can help you be more forgiving and tolerant of frustration. Unhappy people are usually more antagonistic that happy people, and to be happy you should definitely try to smile. Frustration can quickly drain the best out of you by picking you up right out of peacefulness and dropping you off in a horrid mood. Take into account that despite the increased tolerance, this may make others think that you are a push-over. In addition, be aware that smiling in order to increase your tolerance of relationship problems is never okay, because it can and will have dire consequences, which may lead to depression.
Know that smiling can relieve stress. Stress is easily shown in our faces. Smiling helps people avoid looking fatigued or overwhelmed. Try to put on a smile when you are stressed, because it will make you be and appear happy. Your stress will also be quickly relieved, and your smile will be contagious to others. When others are happy, you will become even happier making the people around you even happier. You will start laughing, and so will others. That shows you that from being sad, you can start laughing with the help of only a single smile.
Know that people are attracted to other people who smile. This works well with positivity, as others being attracted to you and thus conversing with you can greatly improve positivity. Practically everyone wishes to know a smiling person and figure out what is so good. Frowners all repel people, because they put negative energy into the room. Nevertheless, one who smiles attracts people, as they are sending out positive thoughts and energy, which in turn makes you and everyone happy. This also works the same way with laughter. Laughter is contagious; did you ever notice that in television shows, there is background laughter in parts of the show that aren't even that funny? That is because the producers know that laughter is contagious, and when the audience hears laughter, things seem funnier than they actually are. Smile around your spouse. Various studies have shown that happiness can play a heavy role in marriage, as spouses' moods are easily influenced by one another. An increase in one of the spouses positive mood can affect the other spouse, and vice versa. Clearly, this is the case as smiling has been shown to be contagious. In the occurrence of a phenomenon known solely as "health concordance", the health behaviors of partners tend to influence each of the partners' good or bad habits including smiling. Despite the above information, understand that smiling to increase your own tolerance of relationship problems is not okay, as this can have disastrous effects, effects that may even lead to depression.
Smile to be more kind and charitable to others. The righteous person is generally happy for the happiness of others, and can easily escape a bad mood due to just that, so help others and make them happy, which will probably lead to them smiling and the smiling becoming contagious. Go the extra mile; allow the cashier to keep the change, let the woman behind you cut you in line, avoid road rage, and do anything you can to act nicely and righteous toward others. , Are you overjoyed by the influenza virus? You probably are not. Various studies have shown that smiling can help the body in various ways:


Smiling boosts your immune system. Functions that occur to better your immunity work better when you are smiling, possibly due to the fact that you are more relaxed. Say goodbye to the flu!
Smiling has been shown to reduce blood pressure. When you smile you become more relaxed, thus causing a measurable reduction in your blood pressure.
Smiling releases endorphins, natural pain relievers, and serotonin. When these three work together they make you feel great. If you are looking for a natural pain-relieving drug, try smiling.
Smilers live an average of seven years longer than non-smilers; smilers live an average of 79.9 years, partial smilers live an average of 75 years, and non-smilers live an average of 72.9 years. So smile every day! Obviously you need to exercise, eat right, and live a healthy lifestyle, in addition to smiling. Living longer makes people happier, because you have more years to be happy and to enjoy life.
 The muscles used to smile lift your face up, making you appear much younger. Don't go for an unnatural and dramatic smile, just try to smile throughout the day naturally. Be happy when your friend compliments you on your "youth-like appearance".


Learn to Smile With the Eyes.

Try the smize.

