 Your instructor may draw inspiration for problems and questions from your past homework assignments. Review your assignments, and pay close attention to any concept or problem that you struggled with. Familiarize yourself with these types of problems and questions in case you come across them on the exam., Write down the homework problems on a separate sheet of paper and return to it at a later time. Try to solve the problems again without referring to your homework assignment.If you get stuck or get the incorrect answer, refer back to your assignment to check your work.
 Look for sample problems in your textbook, workbook, or notes that you have not attempted to solve before. Work through each of these problems individually, or use them to construct your own practice test. Try to work through these problems without referring to your study materials, books, or notes.Practicing key concepts and reviewing the characteristics of each problem type will help you understand how to approach similar problems on the exam., If you need to memorize several formulas, theorems, or equations, write them on to flash cards to help you study. Flash cards have been shown to help improve your memory recall, so using them can help you remember key information.Review these cards before you go to sleep, and flip through them again right before the examination., After you have reviewed your assignments and completed several practice problems, begin to think about the key concepts. Ask yourself what the problem is solving for and the information needed to solve it. Make notes the describe each step, and highlight which rules and steps are the most challenging for you. Reiterating the steps for solving the problem will help you commit it to memory.If you are allowed to use notes during the exam, having a page that details how to solve the problem will be a huge help. It will also help remind you to review and check the steps that you have the most trouble completing.Writing down information with pen and paper can help you remember information more effectively than if you were only typing it. Writing helps the brain commit ideas, concepts, and information to memory and boosts your ability to learn.