 One good way to help protect your dog is to look for any potentially hazardous items underneath the furniture. Look under sofas, chairs, beds, and tables - any place where your dog can squeeze under and find something to eat or chew on. Remove any items you find under the furniture.Remember, anything your dog can see and get to, he is liable to chew. Look for children's toys, electrical cables, magazines, cleaning products, e-cigarettes, chocolate, small objects, and anything else that could harm your dog if chewed.;
, If you decorate your house for different holidays, some of your decorations can get on the floor, which can then be eaten by your dog. Keep an eye on the floor to make sure nothing gets knocked off or dropped. Place all decorations high enough or away from edges so your dog can't grab them with his teeth to pull them down. You may also want to choose decorations that will be pet-friendly if they do end up on the floor.For example, you may want to avoid glass ornaments, which if broken, would cut paws. You can instead decorate with pet friendly plastic ornaments. You may also want to avoid tinsel or foil icicles, which could be swallowed and cause a bowel problem.
 Dogs love to chew, and few things are more tempting than the squishy texture of the insulation around electrical cables. However, the dog risks burns and electrocution if his teeth chomp down to the cable.Make all electrical wiring inaccessible by either locating it behind heavy pieces of furniture, tunneling it under carpet, or using electrical ducting.
You can also place all cords in protective plastic tubes. However, your dog may still be able to chew through this.
 Kids love to leave their toys lying around the house. A dog sees your kids' toys as a dog toy. This means your dog may take any toy on the floor and start chewing on it. A dog will chew on the toys, and if he swallows a piece of plastic, it this will cause a bowel obstruction. Small parts of toys might also cause choking.
This is great excuse to get the kids to tidy up their toys.
 Put all laundry in covered baskets or baskets tall enough that your dog can't get into it. Dogs love to grab clothes they find on the floor to hide, and then chew on. Socks and underwear are favorite objects for larger dogs to swallow, which puts your dog at the risk of a bowel obstruction.


Clothing can cause choking hazards for some dogs.
You also may end up with some of your favorite clothes ruined from your dog eating them.
 It's nice to bring greenery into the home, but if you want to bring houseplants into your home where you have a dog, do some research first. Check out each of your plants to make sure they are pet safe and not toxic to dogs.For example, common plants such as elephant ear, dieffenbachia, and spider plants are all potentially toxic if enough is eaten by a dog.
If you must keep a toxic house plant, use a hanging basket or place on a table or shelf that is kept well out of the dog's reach.
 If you put small items away in plastic bags, or keep things in a junk drawer, make sure not to let these things get on the floor where your dog can get to them. You should also refrain from leaving them lying around on low-sitting tables that are at dog height.Batteries, coins, and plastic bags are all hazards to dogs. A swallowed battery can cause serious stomach ulcers. Coins can form obstructions in the bowels, and coins containing zinc are toxic. Plastic bags can cause a bowel blockage or suffocation.
Half of the battle is to be aware and then put these objects away out of harm's reach into a sealed container, a drawer, or high up out of reach.
 Dogs love to play with long stringy things, but if swallowed they can get stuck in the bowel and cause serious life threatening problems. Stringy items include string, yarn, twist ties, and dental floss.Don't leave stringy materials within reach of the dog. Be careful in the bathroom not to leave floss in the trashcan where your dog can reach it or let it accidentally get on the floor.

