 Face shape is an important way of deciding what type of hair cut will look best on you. To determine your face shape, take a wash-off marker (such as a dry erase marker) and stand in front of a mirror. Try to outline your face with the marker, and decide which shape best describes it: oval, round, heart, or square.


Oval face shapes look good with any type of cut. You might try a pixie or a bob.
Round face shapes benefit well from soft layers or asymmetrical cuts.For a heart shaped face, you might try wispy bangs, an asymmetrical cut, or a chin-length bob.
If you have a square face, you might try styles that are parted to the side, or you might soften your face with layers or curls., A haircut can bring attention to the best parts of your face. Decide what your favorite feature is. You may want to alter the length of your cut based on what you are trying to emphasize.


If you want to bring attention to your smile, choose a style that is lip length.
If you want to bring attention to your cheekbones, either a pixie-cut or cheek-length cut may help.
You can bring attention to your eyes by choosing a cut that ends around your ears., Haircuts can also help conceal or reduce certain features. If you are uncomfortable or unhappy with a certain feature of your face, try to find a haircut that will either draw attention away from it or that will gently cover it.


If you are worried about the softness of your face, you can use an angled cut that helps create shape in your face.
If your jawline is causing concern, a jaw-length cut with soft layers can hide and distract from it.
If you do not like your forehead wrinkles, you can use sideswept bangs to bring attention to your eyes instead., The texture of your hair is defined by the thickness of each individual strand. If your strands are thin and fragile, you have fine hair. If your strands are sturdy or thick, you have coarse hair.If you have thick or coarse hair, you may be able to pull off a straight pixie cut. Add tapered ends or an angled side swept bang for a more youthful look.
As women age, they may find that their hair is changing texture. Perhaps it is becoming thinner or more brittle. It may be losing volume as a result. To add volume to thinning hair, try a fringed, layered look. You can also go for a stacked haircut, where the lower layers are cut longer than the higher layers., It is important to avoid blunt, straight lines in your hair. These can age your appearance and are generally not flattering to older women. Instead choose soft looks with layers, tapered ends, curls, or angled cuts. These can add both volume and style to your look.


Instead of straight-cut bangs, go for bangs that are swept to the side or wispy bangs.A one-length hairstyle without layers may not be the most flattering hairstyle for an older woman. If you want to get a bob, consider having it cut longer in either the front or the back.

