 If you're older, you may not be able to stay awake for late nights or get up very early in the morning. Choose travel times that work for your energy level to assure a safe trip.Mid-morning or afternoon departure times may work best if you're a senior. If you're driving yourself, plan to drive around this time of day. If you're taking a plane, bus, train, or other mode of transportation, look for departure times around this timeframe.;
, As a senior, you may want to limit how often you move around while traveling. One way to do this is to look for non-stop flights. Layovers can cause extra strain from moving your bags and getting on and off an airplane multiple times.If you have to have a layover, minimize the amount of layovers and look for shorter layovers when possible.
 Some airlines and other transportation options, like busses, may offer senior discounts. If you can get a senior discount for travel, this can save you a lot of money. While booking tickets, always check to see if an airline or other company offers senior discounts.Some senior discounts are misleading and do not save you as much money as they advertise. You can use websites like FareCompare to evaluate which discounts truly save you money.
 Traveler's insurance may be more worth it as you age. You may be more prone to certain injuries and accidents, so always opt for the traveler's insurance offered by airlines and hotels.Traveler's insurance can cover medical costs if you have an accident while traveling. For example, it can cover your medications if you go to a hospital out of state.
Traveler's insurance is particularly important if you're on a lot of medications. Many insurance policies cover the cost of medications in the event they get lost when you travel.
 If you have any age-related disabilities, make sure you get them taken care of while traveling. You may need special accommodations for things like planes and hotels on your trip.If you're taking a plane, check with the airline about how to alert people to your disabilities. Some airlines allow you to alert people of your disabilities online while booking your trips. Others require you to call the airport.
If you need a wheelchair for the airport, make sure to book a wheelchair ahead of time. You can do this by booking online or calling the airport directly. After your flight, someone will bring the wheelchair to your gate.

