 You need to be careful with this process. If you haven't read through a reloading manual yet, stop. Go buy one and read through it for your safety as well as the safety of others.
 Whether you are reloading spent rifle cartridges or new brass, you want to make sure that you’re starting with clean brass. Inspect your cartridges for cleanliness and determine the level of attention they deserve. You may use a case tumbler (most common method) or you may use soap and water but, avoid harsh chemicals as they may react with your metallic casings and damage them. Make sure your casings are dry before proceeding.


It’s much more important to clean the outside of the case rather than the inside of the case.;
, Cases from different manufacturers are too different to provide the kind of accuracy we are looking for. Settle on developing a load for one headstamp and set the other cases aside for plinking.


If you're using rifle cases that have already been reloaded 2 to 4 times, they may have become work-hardened. Now is a great time to anneal them.
 Regardless of whether or not you are using new or used brass, you should resize your brass. Since uniformity and consistency translates to accuracy on the range, the goal is create as much uniformity as possible between this set of reloads and the next as you get better at tailoring your reloads to your specific rifle.


Due to the differences between equipment manufacturers, be sure to follow the usage instructions for setting up your resizing die as outlined in the manual since doing so will insure that you achieve the correct resizing dimensions for your cartridge.
During this stage, you will also notice that the old primers will be punched out of the bottom of the case and the primer pocket will be empty. This is normal, we will replace the primers after case preparation is complete.
When resizing the brass, you need to lubricate your brass but, avoid lubricating it all at once. Lubricants can dry and harden and introduce modest inconsistencies as you resize your brass cases. Instead, lubricate as needed, as you go. Then, wipe away the excess lubricant from resized cases before it dries. Also, clean the excess lubricant from the resizing die when you done.
 If you’re using new brass, you should already have clean primer pockets and be able to skip this step. If you’re working with brass from ammunition that has been previously fired, the resizing die will have removed the old primer from the bottom of the case during the resizing process. The empty primer pocket from one of these cases will be dirty and fouled with soot after the process of ignition and should be cleaned before a new primer is installed. A clean primer pocket will insure that the process of seating a new primer is easy and results in a tight and even seal at the back of the case.


If you’re using military brass, you may need to also ream the primer pocket to remove military crimps or rough metal edges from primer pockets. Now is a good time to do that.
 Never skip this this step when reloading bottlenecked brass. Now that the cases have been resized using the resizing die, you need to carefully trim each one to insure they are all uniform in length. Again, consistency is the key to improving accuracy. With practice, you should have no trouble turning cases down to a uniform length that is accurate to 0.001”.


Check your reloading manual for the suggested trim length of your specific cartridge.
Also, be sure to follow the instructions for use as outlined by your manufacturer since there are a wide variety of case trimmers.
Make sure that you are carefully following the manufacturer's instructions for operation and that you’re using good quality calipers to check the length of your cases.
Making sure that your case trimmer is mounted to a solid surface will increase the consistency of your trimmed length.
Check the length of your trimmed cases often to guard against any over-trimming that may result from loosening of the settings on your case trimmer. If parts on the trimmer become loose with use, be sure to keep them tight.
 After trimming, any burrs and sharp edges on the outside of the mouth of the case should be removed. Be careful to not remove much material since you do not want to change the length of the case. All you want to do is smooth the outside edge of the case mouth and remove the sharp edge and burrs.


Try to give all cases the same treatment. Deburring can have a slight effect on the bullet crimp later in the reloading process, which can have a modest effect on the accuracy of the cartridge.
 The process of chamfering a case cuts a small chamfer on the inside of the mouth of the case which allows bullets to easily be seated in the cartridge without any damage caused by sharp edges and burrs.
 Look for uniformity of length and discard any cases that may be significantly shorter than the suggested minimum case length as suggested by your reloading manual.
 As long as the cartridges are approximately the same length, a measurement of their weight will be a good indicator of the case capacity. Record a measurement of the weight of each cartridge and take the average of the lot. Set aside those cases with a weight of +/- 0.5 grains or more in difference from the average case weight.


You may have significantly reduced the number of cases you have to reload for this lot. That’s the price of precision and accuracy but now you have grown your separate lot of brass for plinking purposes.
Having a uniform case capacity across your lot of brass is important for the purposes of having uniform pressures inside the case when the rounds will be fired. This is an important step for increasing the accuracy of your ammunition that requires a discerning eye and careful attention to detail. Don't waste your time and blame your trigger finger at the range.
 Before you move on to charging each case, we need to do a final inspection of our cases and set aside those with irregularities.


Set aside any other cases which have irregular flash holes that are poorly cut or poorly centered in the primer pocket. These are now for plinking.
Check each individual case for damage that may have been caused during the case preparation process (such as hairline cracks) and discard those cases that cannot be mended.
Cases that have scrapes which may inhibit proper functioning of the rifle now become decorative souvenirs and Christmas tree ornaments.
If you've reloaded your cases 2 to 4 times now, you may have noticed at the end of this process that they have become a bit work-hardened and may need to be annealed. Since you've minimized the size of your lot, now is a good time to anneal your cases if you haven't done so already.
 Now that your cases have been properly prepared, you can now begin the process of charging the round by priming your cases. This part should be relatively simple. Make sure the primers seat firmly into the primer pocket and flush with the bottom of the case because doing so will ensure they form a uniformly tight seal.


If the primer does not fit snuggly in the primer pocket, throw the case away.
Attention to consistency in this step becomes more important as pressures increase with more powerful loads.
 For the purposes of accuracy, this is arguably one of the most critical parts of the reloading process. For the best results, either use a high quality electronic scale that has the ability to trickle powder or, use an analog scale and trickle the powder up to the exact charge weight.


Avoid using the recommended maximum loads in your manual because they leave too little room for error.
Lower power compressed charge weights with are recommended for precision shooting because they ensure that the powder will not shift during the operation of the rifle and generally result in more uniform ignition. Also, compressed loads generally require a crimp to keep the bullet from working it’s way out of the case.
Using a slightly faster burning rifle powder for your cartridge can help to ensure that all the powder is burned before the bullet leaves the barrel. In this condition, you may see the most uniformity in performance between rounds. Be careful though, powders that are too quick may rob you of velocity and thus, terminal performance. Compare charging information from the manufacturer carefully and weigh your options.
If you are used to reloading pistol cartridges then you may notice how shockingly full your rifle cases appear to be with powder. This is normal for rifle cartridges as long as the powder is a slow burning powder that is recommended for use in your rifle cartridge. Do not go above or below the recommended charges recommended by your reloading manual.
 As a precaution, do not skip this step. Visually inspect each case and make sure that each case is charged and that all charges look the same. Once you are satisfied with the consistency of your charges, move on to the next step.
 Inspect your bullet seating die to make sure it is clean and extend your bullet seating pin as far out of the die as it will go, do not remove it from the die.
 Insert a trimmed case into the case holder and actuate the press into the up position so that the case is poking through the area where the die will be placed. This case should be checked to make sure it is approximately the average case length of your lot and preferably the same as the case trim length

, Once you feel the the die engage the case mouth, back it out one eighth of a turn and lock the die into place.
 If the bullet is not pushed downward firmly into the mouth of the case, lower the bullet seating pin until you meet resistance. Back the cartridge out of the die and lower the bullet seating pin by two more turns and actuate the press again, pressing the bullet firmly into place.
 Compare the cartridge length with the length of the magazine and incrementally adjust the die until the bullet is seated deep enough into the case to fit into the magazine.
 Gently chamber the round and apply very little force as the round slides into battery. If you encounter any force before the chamber can be completely closed, back the cartridge out of the action and seat the bullet a little deeper in the case. Repeat this step until the cartridge can be chambered completely.
 Now that the cartridge can be fit into battery, we are ready to use the "sharpie test" (most common) to seat the bullet precisely to the depths of the lands (no more or less). Color the tip of the bullet with with a sharpie marker and load it into the magazine of the rifle you will be using. At this point, the bullet should be slightly engaging the lands of the bore of the barrel when chambered. These lands will disturb the sharpie ink and leave marks on the bullet which indicate contact. Using very small increments, seat the bullet slightly deeper into the case until a round can be chambered without creating these marks. This should result in a cartridge that has an overall length that is custom fitted to your rifle where the bullet is seated just off the lands of the bore of the barrel.


The point of this procedure is to find the cartridge length which will allows the bullet to remain supported as it leaves the case mouth and enters the bore of the rifle barrel during firing. Therefore, extreme precision tools are not required though you can spend your money on them anyway if it makes you feel better.
This test should be repeated if you change the configuration of your rifle or if you change case or bullet models.
 Once the correct length is achieved, lock down the die with one or two die lock rings to preserve this setting.
 Now that you've dialed in your rifle's ideal settings, go ahead and finish making this lot of cartridges. Head to the local range and see how they perform but, be sure preserve your die settings when you're done and make good record of your load's recipe. You should now consider load development methods that will help you tune your powder charge to your rifle.

Dry erase markers are great for those who want to remove permanent ink from their cartridges without exposing their ammunition to solvents. Simply draw over the permanent ink with the dry erase marker and wipe away the residue.

