 You can do so by tapping the Pinterest app (mobile), or by going to https://www.pinterest.com/.


If you haven't created a Pinterest account yet, you'll need to create an account before continuing.
You may need to sign into Pinterest by entering your email address and password when prompted (on desktop, click Sign In in the top-right corner of the page).;
, This is where all of your favorited topics will appear, as well as followed boards and users.


You can get back to the Home page at any time by clicking or tapping the Pinterest logo. It's in the top-left corner of the screen for Android and desktop users, and the bottom-left corner for iPhone users.
Android users won't see the Home page button when in another menu (e.g., the profile page); instead, you'll have to tap the "Back" button in the top-left corner of the screen to return to the Home page.
 You'll do so by clicking or tapping the person-shaped icon that's in either the bottom-right corner of the screen (iPhone) or the top-right side of the page (Android and desktop). You can view your personal boards--and their accompanying pins--here. You'll also be able to change your settings by tapping or clicking the hexagonal "Settings" icon near the top of the page.
 To do so, tap or click the speech bubble icon that's in either the bottom-right area of the screen (iPhone) or the top-right section of the page (Android and desktop). This is where you'll see messages alerting you to new posts from people you're following, new followers, and your friends' activity.


You can also select the Inbox tab at the top of the Notifications page to view private conversations and send your own.
 You'll use the search bar to do this; the search function is accessible by tapping the magnifying glass icon (iPhone and Android), or by simply clicking the bar with "Search" written in it at the top of the page on desktop. As you type, you should see search suggestions related to your typing appear below the search bar.


You can select a search suggestion to search Pinterest for that suggestion exactly.
You can also press your device's "Enter" button to search for your search term verbatim.
 Clicking Explore to the right of the search bar will open a page with currently trending topics, rising and new topics, content suggestions tailored for your preferences, and more.
 This will take you to your profile page, where you can get started by creating your first board.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen on mobile. Desktop users will instead click Create board on the left side of the page.
 It's toward the bottom of the screen on mobile. If you're on desktop, skip this step.
 This title should reflect the kind of content you plan on posting to this board.
 Doing so will create your Pinterest board. Now that you have a place to store content, you're ready to upload and save some pins.


You can also hide your board from other Pinterest users by selecting the Keep board secret switch (called Secret on desktop).
 This applies to desktop as well (you'll find it in the bottom-right corner of the page). You should see a couple of options appear:



Photo (mobile)/Upload a Pin (desktop) - Allows you to select a photo from your device's default "Pictures" album.

Website (mobile)/Save from a website (desktop) - Lets you search for a website (or enter a link to one), then search the resulting site for pin-compatible items.
On mobile, you also have the option of tapping Copied Link to navigate to the last link you copied. This option is functionally the same as tapping Website.
 From here, uploading a pin will vary based on your choice:


If you chose to upload a photo, you'll have to allow Pinterest access to your device (mobile) or click Choose photos (desktop). You can then browse through your device's pictures to select the one you wish to upload.
If you chose to use a website, you'll enter the website's URL into the provided text field. Once the site finishes loading, you should see a list of all media that you can pin--though, on iPhone, you must first tap Save in the top-right corner before you see this list.
 Again, this process will vary slightly depending on your chosen upload path, but you'll tap or click the photo you wish to save.
 Doing so will add your pin to the board in question.


You can also add a description to your item in the field to the right of the item's icon.
 Remember, it's a magnifying glass on mobile, and a "Search" bar at the top of the page on desktop.
 You can do this by typing a search query into the search bar, or you can simply return to the Home page to view Pinterest's suggestions.
 Doing so will open it.
 This option is in the top-right corner of pinned items on iPhone and desktop, and in the bottom-right corner of items on Android.
 Doing so will add your pin to the board in question.


As with uploaded pins, you can also add a description to your item in the field to the right of the item's icon.
 You can use keywords or more specific search terms to find boards and people to follow.
 For example, if you want to follow a board that posts pictures of kittens, you might type "kittens" into the search bar.
 You don't need to do this on desktop, since the "Filter" options are in the second row of tabs below the search bar.
 You'll select Boards to show only boards displaying your search term, or People to find Pinterest users to follow.


On Android, tap Pinners to filter based on people.
 This option is below a board or person. Doing so will cause you to follow the board or person in question.

