 In the United States, the TANF program provides tax assistance to households with severely limited or no income. However, several other welfare programs are available through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services--so review each option and determine which applies best to your situation.


If you are raising a child on a low income, consider a child support program. Child support and child care programs provide families with government-regulated child care aid. As a caregiver, you can spend more time working, taking classes, or training for work when you are provided with full or partial financial aid for the cost of child care.
If you cannot afford to pay your utility costs, consider applying for energy or utility assistance. This type of program provides full or partial financial aid to people who cannot afford to pay for essential utility needs (e.g. heat, electricity, gas, and water).
If you need help paying for food, consider applying for food stamps. *Food assistance programs, often referred to as "food stamps" or SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program), help out low-income households with the cost of food. A special type of food aid known as WIC (Women, Infants, and Children) only applies to single women who are raising young children.
If you need help paying for healthcare, consider applying for Medicare or Medicaid. Medical assistance programs offer some form of medical insurance to those who cannot obtain it on their own. You do not need to be eligible for welfare in order to be eligible for Medicaid.If you are disabled or a veteran and you need help finding work, consider looking up vocational rehabilitation services. This type of program provides people with job training and skill training that can hopefully allow them to find adequate employment.Find the U.S. Veterans Affairs VR&E (Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment) website here: http://www.benefits.va.gov/vocrehab/
;
, Welfare programs are set up by the federal government, but many are regulated by the state in which they provide aid. Thus, certain welfare programs in your state may list requirements that are not shared across the nation.


Explore the DHHS (Department of Health and Human Services) website for both the federal government and your own state government. Start here, with the federal DHHS website: http://www.hhs.gov.
In order to find the DHHS website for your state government, Google "department of health and human services ". (e.g. "department of health and human services California").
 Not just anyone can apply for welfare. You must meet various financial and non-financial requirements, and these exact requirements can vary by state and by program. There are, however, a few basic federal requirements that apply to most U.S. welfare programs. Review these requirements in the following bullets:


You must lack gainful employment opportunities. This can either be caused by a lack of potential employers or a lack of positions for which you are qualified for.
You must be willing to enter into a formal agreement stating that you are committed toward the goal of becoming self-sufficient within a certain specified time frame.
Each of the heads of your household must sign a commitment to cooperate and comply with all the rules and requirements of the program. You must also commit to be accurate and honest during the program.
In most cases, you must have dependent children living in the household. All minors must attend school and be fully immunized.
You must be 18 years of age or older to receive benefits.
You must be a legal and permanent resident of the state you are applying in, as well as a citizen or qualified non-citizen legal resident of the United States.
You must be willing to reveal all your monetary resources. Additionally, you must be willing to create a household budget and stick to it.
 The process varies by state and by program, but the following steps should give you a general idea of what you will need to do.


Schedule an appointment with your state Department of Health and Human Services or a local branch of that office.
Fill out an application that may include various forms, most of which can be found via your state's DHHS website.
Bring any filled out applications to your appointment along with any requested identification information.
At the interview, you can ask questions and the interviewer will review with you what your needs are and offer consultation on the best way to address those needs. If your application is successful, you will usually know by the end of the appointment.

