 Having a low-energy-dense diet is the simplest way to lower your intake of calories and still maintain feelings of fullness and keep the hunger pangs at bay.This is code for dishing up the veggies, opting out on the french fries, and still feeling full.


Energy density is the amount of calories (or energy) in a certain weight of food. If a food has a lower energy density, it provides fewer calories per gram. That means if you stock up on these foods you can eat till the cows come home and not see the result on your waistline. After all, 400 calories of fried chicken is a lot less food than 400 calories of salad.Basically, foods like fruits and vegetables fill us up more quickly without the calories. Protein and carbs have 4 calories per gram; fat has 9. Fiber has between 1.5 and 2.5 and, of course, water has 0.
To maintain a low-energy-dense diet, load up on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean dairy and meats (foods that have high water and fiber content), and avoid processed goods.

The easiest way to avoid processed goods is to skip the fast food and restaurants. If you make it, you know exactly what's going into your body.
 In addition to three small meals, keep on snacking (healthily). Your meals should be smaller, but you'll feel more full.


There's a science behind it, too. When we eat, our thermic effect of food (or TEF) raises. A high TEF raises our metabolism, reduces feelings of hunger, and ultimately leads to weight loss.Because you're eating more often, your meals need to be smaller portion sizes. You're not eating more; you're just spreading it out through the day.
Your snacks should be healthy and a healthy portion size. Munch on fruits, nuts, or low-fat yogurt. If rationing and time are issues, pre-measure your snacks and put them in resealable baggies. You won't overeat and you can grab one on your way to work.
 By portion control standards, an adult should eat 3 oz. (90g) of protein, 1/2 cup (87.5g) of starch and 1 cup (175g) of vegetables per meal. Eating any more than what your body needs will only increase your weight; however, understand also that eating less than what your body needs will lead to weight gain (or a stagnated weight) as well.


You must eat in order to avoid your body shutting down and retaining weight. Use visual cues if portion-sizing is Greek to you. 1 bell pepper is a serving of vegetables--about the size of a baseball. An apple is 1 serving, that's a tennis ball. A serving of pasta is the size of a hockey puck. A serving of cheese is the equivalent of four playing dice. And chicken? Think of a deck of cards.
 Add a glass before bed and one when you wake up, and drink a glass (or two) before each meal. Cleaning the body of daily toxins is one of the best ways of losing weight. What's more, the added liquid gives you the sensation of feeling full even before you start eating.


Carry a bottle of water with you daily and make a habit of drinking from it often. The more you drink, the more you will want and the better you will feel. A hydrated body has more energy.
The Institute of Medicine advises that men and women try to consume about 3.7 and 2.7 liters of water a day, respectively, including water found in food and other beverages.

