 Beauty is subjective—it’s all in the perception of the person beholding it. Therefore, you shouldn’t get caught up in media messages that claim a certain size or body shape is ideal. Learn to recognize and challenge these unrealistic messages.For instance, if you read something in a magazine that portrays a thinner woman as being perfect, dispute this claim. Look out into the world for curvy or heavier women who are attractive, too. Then, tell yourself, “They clearly don’t know what they are talking about. There are so many examples of large women who are extremely attractive.”

, When you view your imperfections as a normal part of the human existence, you adjust to these disappointments in a healthier way.When you look in the mirror and spot an imperfection with your appearance, remind yourself that virtually everyone has something about their appearance that they are dissatisfied with.
Remind yourself that we all have challenges with personal body image from time to time. Even people who you see as beautiful and flawless may have internal struggles with their own body image occasionally.
 Most women and men are guilty of comparing their bodies to peers or people in the media. This sends the message that you are in competition with others instead of being allied with them. As you develop an attitude of self-compassion, reduce your own body comparisons and deter friends from doing the same.Let’s say you hear a girlfriend say, “Oh, how I wish I had Jennifer Lopez’s body! She’s so fit!” You might respond with “She’s beautiful, but so are you. Plus, it’s unfair to compare yourself to someone with a different genetic background, and tons of professionals who help her achieve physical fitness. Don’t beat yourself up for being unable to live up to unrealistic standards.”

, At some point you will be teased or compared to others due to your physical characteristics. Instead of bullying yourself for being imperfect, respond to body threats or feelings of inadequacy with self-compassion. Refuse to mistreat your body or use it as a punching bag to release negative emotion. When you feel overwhelmed by failure or flaws, be gentle with yourself.Name what you feel (e.g. “I feel unattractive.”) Then, repeat self-compassion affirmations aloud like “Everyone has moments of inadequacy. This moment will pass.”
Then, speak to yourself aloud in a loving voice the way you would to a small child (e.g. “It’s okay, sweetie”). Caress and hug yourself.
Take the opportunity to make a list of your positive attributes, both physical and emotional. Keep this list with you. When you feel down or self critical, take the list out and review it for positive affirmation of the beautiful person that you are.

