 No one actually knows from where or from whom they pick up the "skill" of being stubborn and the value it brings to them. And another fact is that many of us were stubborn when as children. When the maturity within grows, most people get to thinking and realizing that stubbornness is not all good and not all bad. Indeed, it can turn into determination and tenacity if channeled well.;
, Most likely they won't listen to you at all––it takes a few attempts before you can really get the children to stop being stubborn and to start listening to you. If you realize that children become stubborn mainly when they want something they desire badly that is not given or taken away from them. That includes food, toys or a trip out. If their wish is fulfilled they get no reason to be stubborn. But, it is not always easy or even appropriate to fulfill children's needs or to give in to their demands.
 Ask them for reasons or why you should comply that special request by them. Make them think to help them to calm down. Treat the child like an adult or your peer and give them a chance to explain themselves or their needs. If they can really think of the reasons and you can't avoid further, try to negotiate with them.
 Many adults believe that children can't be brought into a successful negotiation. but the truth is they can actually be brought into it. When you tone down your voice, keep a sad face and start explaining to them, you can notice that they do pity you and agree to agree with you.
 Never raise your voice or use violence to a stubborn child. They tend to get more aggressive and would imitate you instead of cooling down.
 Children would become silent and under control if they are scared of someone or something. If your kid is scared of the mom or dad, or any specific uncle or aunt, then you can use their names to make a temporary relief. But never scare them about ghosts or neighbors, since that would become long term phobia or cause some misunderstanding between your neighbors. Children are very straightforward. Threatening them on the scariest uncle or aunt won't last long since children nowadays are brilliantly attuned to what's realistic. After sometime they would go back to the same issue and make you scream again. So, always look for permanent solutions rather than temporary stops.
 Another trick to be played when children get stubborn is to ignore them or to pretend nothing is happening. Try to concentrate on your own chores or keep watching television, and after a while your child would be tired of crying or shouting and automatically starts to do other stuff.
 Divert the child's attention by offering a ride to the park or just for a window shopping. Ninety nine percent (give or take a few) of children love sightseeing and going out. If you are not busy or have possibilities to go out of home, take your kid out.
 You may counteroffer your children to buy them something if they stop demanding or stop being stubborn. From something as simple as an ice cream, you can win the deal when it comes to children. Understand them and be a kid at heart to know them better.
 Believe that your children will be okay soon because their very responsible, successful and super duper mom and dad used to be stubborn too when they were children.

