 At this age, young children are beginning to form close friendships and might even have one or more best friends. It is important for the parents to support this social interaction as much as possible. You can do this by allowing the children to have more extensive play dates.


Play dates could include things such as attending parties at the homes of their friends or even arranging an outing for the families to attend together.
 During this time, children might also start to develop dislikes of some other children and find out that others might not like them. Both of these circumstances are natural parts of social development, but can lead to hurt feelings if not handled properly. At this stage in social development, you can talk to your child about their feelings in order to help them understand that everyone is different and has different likes and dislikes.


There is nothing wrong with preferring the company of one child to another, but it is wrong to say or do things that are hurtful toward someone else.
This is another part of the development of empathy.
You should reassure your child if he or she feels disliked and help them believe in themselves.
If the child has done or said something hurtful to another child, it is important to help them understand why it is wrong. Simply having the child apologize may seem socially correct, but if it is just meaningless words, they aren’t learning an important social skill.
Help your child understand why their actions or words were wrong. A good way to help a child grasp this is to ask how they would feel if someone did or said those hurtful things to them.
If the child has trouble putting feelings into words, you can give suggestions until they find one that the child can relate to in regards to the situation.
 Allowing children to solve problems themselves allows them to develop a variety of social skills. React only when necessary, and intervene if there is a dangerous problem.


Parents who often react before their child hinder their child’s social development, because social skills are best taught through experience.
 When you see that he wants to perfect a skill or a try out something new, give him support. For example, if a child is trying to overcome self-feeding, help him, give him cutlery and let him learn to feed himself. With the other fork, you can feed your child because the first steps of self-feed can be clumsy.


When you respond in this way to your child's needs and desires, noticing their efforts and helping them, your child will develop self-respect and self-esteem.

