 Disney depicted its first princess as a 14 year old maiden, but no one says you have to follow suit.If modesty isn't your style, a sexier Snow White-look is well within your grasp.


To be a sexy Snow White, start with the traditional concept and make it shorter, tighter, more revealing, and more dramatic.
 For a sexy look, your clothing and accessories should be skimpy, suggestive, naughty, and more than a little improper.


Wear a much shorter dress (knee-length or higher)with a lower neckline and corset-style bodice.
Add a crinoline petticoat in a contrasting color
Complete your outfit with thigh high stockings and high-heeled Mary Janes in red or black

, Take out the safety pins and shake out your hair. The tousled look will give you a more tempting appearance. Whether your hair is long or short, the goal is to get more relaxed and sensuous.


Style your hair in long, tangled curls or waves.
If you have short hair, use styling product to create a tousled or spiky look.
Add a sparkly red bow clip on one side.
Instead of a hair accessory, consider putting a single streak of red in your hair with spray-in hair color.
 This is not the time to be shy! Use a heavier hand and more dramatic colors with your makeup. Be bold with all your choices, including everything from eyeliner to lipstick.


Apply more blush and eyeliner. This is a great time to try a smoky eye or a cat eye look.
Choose a bright, glittery eyeshadow instead of a neutral
Use long, false eyelashes or lots of layers of mascara
Use a siren red lipstick.
 A sexy Snow White turns traditional Snow White's personality on its head, making it naughty rather than sweet. Where should would be polite and sensitive, you can be overt and suggestive!


Be seductive and flirty. Look a guy in the eye and then lower your eyelashes, sway your hips as you walk, flip your hair, or even lick your lips slowly.
Offer to refill your guy's drink, but when you do so, make sure you show off your assets.
Speak in a low, sultry tone, or put a little purr in your voice. This huskier tone will put you at the opposite end of the spectrum from Snow White's typical sing-song way of speaking.Rather than hold your her hand out for the prince to kiss, run your hand over his chest and admire his physique.
If you're more sweet than sensual, go that route instead. Take Snow White's high, sweet voice and make it coy (think Betty Boop). Act a little helpless or airheaded. Flutter your eyelashes innocently.

