


If you're old enough (and of the right gender), you can try growing out your own mustache. Dye it blonde if necessary (temporarily, unless you're really hardcore) and there you go.
For those unwilling or unable to grow a mustache themselves, you can try fake mustaches (easily obtainable at any costume shop), dyed cotton balls held on with spirit gum, or just some yellow eyeliner, depending on your budget and how authentic you want to look.;
, Depending on which Hogan era you're going for, you'll need a different color bandana. "Classic" Hulk Hogan (the one from the 80s that body-slammed Andre the Giant) typically wore a yellow bandana. "Modern" Hulk tends more toward red bandanas, and "Hollywood" Hogan from the mid-90s had a black one. If you're looking to make a Hollywood Hogan costume, look elsewhere, brother.


In either case, you need to write something on the bandana. Choices include "Hulk Rules," "Hulk STILL Rules," "Hulkster," and "Hulkamania." As for getting it on the bandana, you can either hand-paint it on with fabric paint (will yield good results, but is time consuming,) Magic Marker it on (faster, but less "professional" looking) or simply buy an authentic Hulk Hogan bandana from the WWE store and wear that (best-looking, but expensive.) The coloring of the letters should be opposite of that of the bandana (IE yellow on red or vice versa).
 Hulk's shirt should be sleeveless, though not necessarily a wife-beater. Again, your choice of red or yellow, but make sure its color is whichever one the bandana isn't.


The shirt must also have a slogan painted on it, but make sure it's a slogan you haven't put on the bandana. Choices for the shirt include "Hulk Rules," "Whatcha gonna do, brother!?", "Hulk STILL Rules," "American Made," "Hulkamania," "Runnin' Wild!," or simply "Hulkster."

, What good is a Hulk Hogan costume if you can't dramatically rip open your shirt? Note that this part is for male Hulksters only. The simplest way to make a rippable shirt is to cut a small downward slit at the neckline of the shirt, cut off the bottom seam of the shirt entirely, and simply rip when (and where) appropriate. This, while best-looking and dramatic, has two downsides: One, you just tore apart a perfectly good shirt. Two: Now you have no shirt. To get around this, buy a cheap shirt you're willing to part with, pre-cutting down the middle, and applying velcro to either side. velcro the two halves up, rip when so desired, then simply velcro it back up, that it might be re-ripped later. Repeat as necessary, brother.
 Classic Hogan wore yellow wrestling trunks, which are easy enough to obtain, and if not, a yellow speedo is pretty much indistinguishable. For those who don't want to walk around all night in what amounts to tighty whities, Modern Hogan wears spandex pants to the ring. Tye-dye is your friend here. Get some white spandex pants and tye-dye them red and yellow. Done. A less sophisticated solution is simply wearing solid red or solid yellow spandex pants. The spandex aspect is key, though; people will call you on it if you try to get away with regular pants.
 Hogan’s hair is about halfway to shoulder length, and is bleach blonde. Additionally, you can wear a bald cap for added authenticity, but if you don’t plan on removing the bandana, then don’t bother.
 Easy enough to obtain. If all else fails, get some white ones and spray paint them red.
 The somewhat hardcore will get themselves a pair of actual yellow wrestling boots. The really hardcore will then paint red flames and the Hulksters' face on the boots, but only for the Modern Hulk. Classic Hulk wears plain boots. Everyone else will simply hit the Army surplus store, get a pair of cheap combat boots, and spray paint them yellow. Don't forget the soles. In any case, Classic Hulk has white laces while Modern Hulk has red laces, so obtain accordingly.
 Classic Hulk wore white tape on his wrists. Modern Hulk wears yellow wristbands.
 Yellow-rimmed sunglasses and both red and yellow boas are optional, but only for Modern Hulk. Classic Hulk needed not such things. Also, Modern Hulk, seeing as he's pushing 60, wears a red weightlifter's belt with "HOLLYWOOD" painted on it in yellow, but only the truly hardcore wrestling fans will "get" that on Halloween night. A suggested alternative is to paint "Hulkster" on it, simply for added recognizability.
 the WWE sells foam-and-plastic championship belts. They're easy enough to find at toy stores, and they run about $15, so it’s not too big a budgetary strain. There's no good way to fake a championship belt. Any homemade belt is going to look it; this is the one area you can't skimp out on.
 Strut your stuff on Halloween night, prepare to be stopped for photos frequently, and remember to stay in character. Use phrases like "Well ya know something, brother..." "Whatcha gonna do..." and calling people "Hulkamaniacs." Advise people to train, say their prayers, and take their vitamins. Claim to be a Real American, and that you fight for the rights of every man. Strike the Hulkster's signature poses, and generally have a great time.

