 Children take on a great deal of the beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors demonstrated by their parents. Therefore, it’s incredibly essential that your presence in their lives reflects that of a positive role model. The popular saying “Do as I say not as I do” simply won’t cut it here. If you smoke, drink, use swear words, or demonstrate prejudiced viewpoints, there’s a good chance your children will, too. Instead of telling them what to do, try showing them with your own behavior.


Be mindful of your behavior around your children. If you tell them not to lie, then you should also be honest in your words. If you want them to minimize time on technology, then you should also limit your usage. Eliminate the potential for back-talk like “But, you do it!” and try your best to practice what you preach.;
, In a similar vein, be sure to encourage good nutrition and health practices for your whole family. As much as your budget allows, select fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables, lean sources of protein, whole grains, and low-fats. Make sure your children get adequate exercise by going on walks around the neighborhood or playing sports in the park.

Get them to bed at a decent hour so that they can get at least 9 hours of sleep each night.

Be sure that you are taking strides to support your own health and wellness, too. Avoid drugs and alcohol or other forms of unhealthy coping. Manage your own stress by practicing regular self-care.
 Another way you can use your home environment to build good character and well-being in your children is by supporting their confidence and self-esteem. Children with positive self-esteem have more resilience, feel accepted, and have positive views about themselves.


Build an “I can” attitude in your children by giving them opportunities to develop new skills like dressing themselves or riding a bike. Show them how to do it and then give them the chance to try on their own. Then, offer genuine praise for their effort.Promote their self-esteem also by encouraging a healthy body image. Voice a zero-tolerance for teasing about weight or food in your household. Change your own language if you often make self-deprecating comments about your body. And, remove negative media sources that reinforce unrealistic body sizes and shapes., When children feel supported by their parents to build competencies, the sky is the limit. Notice what your child is passionate about and find ways to help them develop those passions.Your child’s interests may run the gamut of academics, music, sports, or collections. Get them involved in extra-curricular activities that allow them to grow their skills and meet other children who share the same interests.
Take it even further by making sure that you show involvement and interest in their passions. For example, if you have a child that is on the debate team, you might help them practice at home as a family. Then, the family might all attend events together to show support.

