 Regular hand-washing throughout the day can keep your child free of germs and bacteria that cause illness. Before sending your child back to school, refresh them on how to wash their hands by demonstrating the proper technique.First, show your child how to wet their hands beneath the running water.
Next, show them how to rub the soap between their hands to work up a lather.
After that, instruct your child to scrub their hands by moving them back and forth, not forgetting to scrub the webbing between fingers and the backs of the hands.
Finally, tell your child to rinse their hands under the running water to remove the soap, turn off the tap, and dry their hands on a soft towel.
 Limit your child’s screen time and find ways to keep them active. For instance, go on family bike rides together at the park, or take walks around the park. Play catch in the yard. In winter, go ice skating and skiing with your child.Make physical activity a family affair to get your child in the habit of exercising.
Provide your child with opportunities to participate in team sports through community sporting leagues.
Getting your child in the habit of exercising will help them maintain their health throughout their life.
 Help encourage your child's overall health by teaching them proper nutrition. Encourage them to choose fruits, vegetables, and lean protein. Don't focus on the scale, though. Instead, focus on portion sizes by doing things like reading food labels with them, and encourage them to stop eating when they feel full.Try to avoid demonizing foods like sodas and candies. Instead, be positive about foods like fresh produce and whole grains. Teach your children that sweets are alright in moderation, but that other foods, like veggies, can be eaten more often.
Keep healthy food in the house. Kids are not going to make healthy choices if they do not have access to tasty, nutritious options.
Allow kids to be active in their meals. Give them options and let them pick what they want to eat, and allow them to help you in cooking process.
 If your child doesn’t get enough sleep, they will be more likely to be cranky and moody the next day. Lack of sleep can also result in an inability to focus in school and an overall lack of energy. Give your child a regular bedtime so that they will always get the right amount of sleep and wake up fully rested.The amount of sleep your child needs depends on its age. Preschoolers need 11-12 hours of sleep each night. Primary school-aged children need about 10 hours of sleep. Teens need between 9-10 hours of sleep.Keep your child’s room dark to encourage deeper sleep.
 Influenza (the flu) is one of the most common ailments among children. A flu shot will prevent the flu and is often included in the back to school checkup. Without a flu shot, your child is at greater risk of dehydration, sinus infections, pneumonia, and complications related to other conditions like asthma and diabetes.Do not insist on getting your child a flu shot if your child had a previous reaction or if they’re not feeling well.
Your child’s doctor will determine if your child needs a flu shot, but it's ultimately your call.

