 Get away from the person that you want to beat up. If you feel very angry, it’s better to just walk off (even without telling anyone why) and give yourself time to cool down than to get into a physical altercation.If you are with a friend, decide whether it would be better for you to be alone or to talk through your anger with your friend.;
, To benefit from the potential relaxation of deep breathing, you need to take deep breaths into your abdomen. Place your hand on your diaphragm (between your belly and chest) and breathe so deeply that you hand moves as your belly begins to expand. Then slowly breathe out.Keep your focus on your breath, breathing in and out 8-10 times or until you feel like you have regained control of your emotions.
 Progressive muscle relaxation involves tensing and releasing your body in progressive stages. Consciously tensing your own muscles can help you redirect the outlet of the anger you’re feeling. To practice progressive muscle relaxation, take a few deep breaths, then do the following: Begin with your face and head muscles. Hold the tension for 20 seconds, then release it.
Work your way down your body, tensing and releasing your shoulders, arms, back, hands, stomach, legs, feet, and toes.
Take deep breaths, feeling relaxation from your toes all the way up to your head.
 Repeat a helpful mantra such as “I can control my actions” to yourself. Try to reframe your negative thoughts towards the person in a more positive way. Changing your thinking (known as “cognitive restructuring”) from focusing on unreasonably negative or angry thoughts to more realistic, positive thinking may help you resist violent actions. For example, instead of thinking “I hate this person and I want to beat him up,” you can think, “I do not care to spend time with this person, but I am above violent behavior.”

, Finding a pleasant distraction from the person who is making you angry can help you move on and maintain control of your actions. A distracting activity can be something you enjoy such as playing a video game, shopping, going for a walk, engaging in a hobby, or playing a game of pool with a friend.
 Even if you think you may feel some genuine satisfaction from punching someone you hate, it is unlikely to make you feel better the way you think it will. Additionally, you could end up getting arrested or sued for assault, which could be expensive and time-consuming.


You might say to yourself, “This guy, even though he is irritating me, is not worth my time. I cannot afford to lose time at work to be in jail or at a trial, and I am not willing to give this guy power over my walk. I am going to walk away instead of engaging with him.
 If you are going to be in a situation where you may be around someone you don’t like, do not consume alcohol. Alcohol consumption can interfere with reason and hinder your ability to control your actions effectively.