 Credit card debt is usually unsecured. Unlike mortgages and car loans, nothing backs up the credit card debt. Once you receive a bankruptcy discharge, your unpaid unsecured debt is eliminated.You don’t gain anything by paying unsecured creditors. If you stop paying, they can report the default to the credit reporting agencies. However, your bankruptcy will be reported in any event.
If you stop paying credit card companies, then be sure to file for bankruptcy fairly soon. It usually takes credit card companies a few months to file a lawsuit against you.;
, Unfortunately, not all credit cards are unsecured. You should check to see whether your credit card is actually secured with the following:Some credit cards are secured with your car. For example, you might have a car loan and a credit card with the same bank. When you took out the credit card, you pledged your car as collateral. You should check your documents. If this is the situation, then you should consider refinancing the car with another lender.
Other credit cards are secured by your checking or savings account, especially where you received a credit card from the same bank where you have accounts. In this situation, the bank can take all of the money in your accounts to pay your credit card debt. If this describes your situation, then switch banks before you stop paying your credit cards.
 Medical bills are also unsecured debt which will be wiped out in a bankruptcy. For this reason, you can stop paying your medical bills.Of course, your doctor might stop treating you if you stop paying your medical bills. Ask your doctor how you can find a new doctor to treat you.
 If you were sued and lost the lawsuit, then the person who won got a court judgment against you. You might be on a payment plan to try and pay off the judgment. Some court judgments are dischargeable. If so, then you can stop paying them.


You can’t discharge any judgment that is based on a non-dischargeable debt. For example, child support or alimony arrearages cannot be discharged.You also can’t discharge a judgment if the lawsuit was brought for fraud, embezzlement, or a willful or malicious act like assault or battery.
 You might have received a loan from friends or family. Or you might have taken out a payday loan. You can stop paying these debts because they are unsecured.If you continue to make payments on unsecured debts, those payments might qualify as “preferential transfers,” which the bankruptcy trustee could retrieve by suing the creditor.
 After you file for bankruptcy, the trustee who runs the case will take a hard look at all the bills you have paid. One purpose of bankruptcy is to treat all of your creditors fairly, so the trustee is looking for preferential transfers, which is money you paid to one creditor instead of to others.


Generally, if you spend $600 in the three months before bankruptcy, then this is a preferential transfer.The trustee can sue to get those transfers back.
Payments to a secured creditor are not preferential transfers.Neither is child support or alimony payments., You cannot discharge most bills in bankruptcy. For this reason, you should continue to pay certain living expenses, such as the following:rent
utilities (electricity, heat, etc.)phone bills
insurance

, A mortgage is a “secured” loan. This means the loan is backed up by the asset (your house). Although bankruptcy can eliminate the loan, the bank still has a lien on your property. Accordingly, the bank can foreclose on the property if you stop making payments.Determine if you want to keep your house. If you do, then you should continue to make monthly mortgage payments.
If you have unpaid mortgage payments (called “arrearages”), then you can include these in a Chapter 13 bankruptcy filing. You will spread out the arrearages over the course of your three to five-year repayment plan.
 A car loan is another secured loan. If you stop making your payments, then the creditor can seize the car. You should continue to make your car loan payment if you want to keep your car., These payments cannot be discharged in bankruptcy, so continue to make your payments. If you have arrearages, they can be spread out in a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, but you still must stay current on your payments.If you can no longer afford your child support or alimony, then you should look into modifying them. Only a judge can modify those payments, and you are responsible for 100% of the payment until a judge grants you a modification.
See Modify Child Support and Lower Your Alimony Payment for more information.
 You should continue to pay student loans, even if you are including them in your bankruptcy filing.You have little chance of getting student loans discharged in bankruptcy, so you might as well continue to pay them.


Work with your student loan lender if you are having a hard time making your monthly payments. You do have other options, such as deferrals or interest-only payments.
 You generally can’t discharge taxes in bankruptcy. There is a very narrow exception for certain income taxes that are at least three years old and not the result of fraud or willful evasion.Otherwise, you should continue to pay all of your taxes.


Federal tax liens are not dischargeable. Accordingly, if the IRS filed a lien on your property, you can’t get rid of it through bankruptcy.
Meet with a bankruptcy attorney if you have questions about whether you can discharge your unpaid income taxes.
 Once you start missing payments, your creditors should start calling you. The first call might be a friendly call to check up on why you missed your payment. You should tell them you are filing for bankruptcy.By law, creditors cannot contact you about a debt once you file for bankruptcy. However, they can continue to call you until then—even if you tell them you intend to file at a future date.
 When your creditors call back, you can expect them to try and intimidate you. You should remain as calm as possible. In fact, you should probably hang up the phone after telling them once again that you will be filing for bankruptcy., Federal law prohibits debt collectors from engaging in abusive behavior. If they violate the law, then you can sue them. Keep detailed notes of any phone call and hold onto your letters and notices. Examples of abusive behavior include the following:Calls you but doesn’t identify themselves as bill collectors.
Swears at you or uses other profane language.
Threatens to use violence or actually confronts you and uses violence.
Identifies themselves as a lawyer when they are not.
Claims you can be put in jail if you don’t pay your debts.
Calls you at work when your employer prohibits it.
Calls you non-stop or calls you at an unreasonable time depending on your schedule. The law will assume that calls before 8:00 am or after 9:00 pm are unreasonable unless you have an unusual schedule.
Calls third parties and talks about anything other than asking where you are.
Sends you paperwork that looks like a legal document.

