 Wash four plum tomatoes, one large onion, one medium yellow summer squash, and 1 1/2 cups (225 g) of green beans. Use a sharp knife to dice the tomatoes, onion, and squash. Put the onion in one prep bowl and place the other vegetables in a separate prep bowl. Trim the green beans into 2-inch (5 cm) pieces and put them in the bowl with the tomatoes and squash.You should also have a few cooked potatoes. If you didn't purchase them cut, dice them yourself. You'll need 2 cups (650 g) of diced cooked potatoes.;
, Pour 2 tablespoons of extra-virgin olive oil into a large sauce pot or Dutch oven. Turn the heat to medium and add the diced onion. Stir the onion and cook it for about 6 minutes. Sprinkle 1 to 3 teaspoons of hot paprika over the sauteed onions and let it cook for another 30 seconds.Use more or less hot paprika depending on how spicy you want the vegetable soup.
 Open two 14-ounce (414 ml) cans of vegetable broth and pour them into the pot. Stir in the diced tomatoes, squash, cooked potatoes, and trimmed green beans.You can adjust the vegetables in this recipe according to your taste. For example, if you don't want the cooked potatoes, substitute mushrooms or carrots.
 Turn the heat to high, so the soup boils. Reduce the heat to medium and let it bubble gently. It should simmer for about 12 minutes. The vegetables will become tender.Stir the soup occasionally while it cooks and leave the lid off. This will help the soup thicken a little.
 Once the vegetables are tender, stir in 2 cups (142 g) of frozen spinach and 2 tablespoons of sherry or red-wine vinegar. The vinegar will give the soup a tangy taste. Let the soup keep cooking for a few more minutes, so it's completely heated.You could also add chopped fresh kale or chard instead of the frozen spinach.
 Pour the soup into your serving bowls and divide 1/4 cup (5 g) of chopped fresh basil among the bowls. If you don't have fresh basil, you could add about 1/2 teaspoon of purchased pesto to each bowl of soup.Serve the soup with crusty bread or crackers.
Store the leftover soup in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two days.

