 Each tennis stroke has a specific application and a best time for it be used.









The forehand, considered to be the most basic of the strokes, is executed on the same side of your body that you hold your racket.
Forehand shots can be used to generate the most power as well as put a topspin on the ball which helps to keep the ball inside the court.;
, In order to hit a forehand, you first need to get into the proper positioning.









As your opponent takes their shot, perform a split step.
A split step is performed by jumping about an inch off the ground and landing on your toes while your opponent prepares to hit the ball.
 Keep your head straight and your shoulders parallel to the net.









As the ball approaches, reposition your shoulders into a 90-degree angle to the net and extending your opposite arm across your body.
Extend your racket arm backward as the ball comes toward you.
Shift your weight to your back leg, and point that foot toward the sideline.
 There are at least three different ways to grip your racket when performing a forehand hit. The most universal, and easiest to start with, is the Eastern Forehand Grip.








For this grip, place your index knuckle and heel of your hand at the third bevel (the indent on the racket’s handle at the 3 o’clock position) and with the heel of your hand at the bottom lug.
An easy way to set up this grip is to imagine you’re shaking hands with the racket.
 Keep the racket straight and the face open towards the net as you make contact.









Swing straight through as you make contact with the ball.
Add a slight downward action as you hit the ball to produce a powerful flat shot.
Use your entire body to generate the power behind your shot. Just before you strike the ball, push your foot off the ground. This starts the chain of kinetic energy that you're putting into your shot. Increase the force of your shot by rotating your upper body into the ball as you strike it.
 The follow through is a vital component in the forehand stroke because it affects the pace and spin of the ball.There are several types of follow-through that produce different effects, as detailed below.









The out-front finish is the easiest to learn and helps you control the direction of your shots. The racket head goes straight out and doesn't twist.
The downward finish is a powerful follow-through that is produced when you hit the ball hard, about waist high, and follow through across your body in a downward motion toward your opposite hip.

