 Make it clear to yourself why you think this time apart is important. You'll also want to be clear with yourself that spending time away from him doesn't mean that you don't like him. This will help you be confident in telling him about it. You don't want to use time alone or with friends to escape relationship problems.If you are trying to get away because the relationship isn't working, then you should probably consider ending it.;
, Everyone needs time alone, to be able to recharge their batteries away from other people. If you're looking for something to do by yourself, consider activities that don't require another person, like reading or painting. Additionally, you can look for activities that you enjoy, but your boyfriend doesn't, like browsing stores, or outdoor activities. You don't need to do everything as a couple, and liking different things is not a sign of relationship trouble., Be sure to make time for your other friends as well, especially without your boyfriend. Find fun things that you can do together as girls, like having dinner, going to a movie, or anything that you and your friends can do as a group. Don't let your (or anyone's) boyfriend show up. It is important to maintain the friendships you had before you started your relationship.Alternatively, your boyfriend may want, or would probably enjoy, a "guy's night" with his friends. Letting him have it on occasion can be a good opposite to your girl's night, or just a way to get some time for yourself., Make sure you both know what you are doing and why you are doing it. This doesn't need to be a long conversation, but it can be helpful to let him know where you are so he doesn't need to worry.Be specific. Say what it is for, even if it's as simple as "I need an afternoon to myself." Vague statements like "I just need some alone time" can make him nervous. Let him know where you are going and what you are doing.Make it about yourself. Talking about "needing space" makes it sound as if you are pushing him away. Instead, talk about "me time" or "time for myself.", You aren't trying to get away for good, just spend time elsewhere. Make sure you remind him of that. Something simple like "I like spending time with you, but I need some time alone too" lets him know you still care., Let him know in advance that you want plans for yourself or with other friends. This can give him a chance to schedule his own time away, rather than being surprised.Just make sure you are also scheduling time with one another as well.If your relationship has gone on long enough, you will probably be able to find some routines. These can involve times where you will have time apart from one another. Setting a schedule can be a good way to make sure both of you get the space you need, and quality time together., Time apart is important in a relationship, and you shouldn't feel bad about taking it. If you worry while you are gone, you won't be able to get the kind of recharging you need., This lets him know that you do want to include him in your life, and should make him more willing to accept it later. Also, it is a good sign if he is interested in the details and learning more about you.