 In a small bowl, combine the yeast, warm water, and 1 tablespoon (13 g) of the brown sugar. Stir the mixture to combine all the ingredients. Set the bowl aside for one or two minutes to let the yeast soften.Yeast pancake batter needs to sit for several hours or overnight before you can cook the pancakes.
Unlike traditional pancakes, which are a type of flat cake, yeast pancakes are more like bread, so the batter needs time to rise.
 Position a sifter over a large mixing bowl. Pour the all-purpose flour, buckwheat flour, and salt into the sifter. Sift them into the bowl below. Add the yeast mixture to the dry ingredients and whisk to combine.Mix until all the ingredients have been incorporated. Don’t overmix, as you could develop the gluten in the flour, and this can make for chewy pancakes.
 Cover the batter with a clean kitchen towel. Set the bowl aside on the counter and leave it to rise overnight at room temperature. You can also store the batter on top of the refrigerator, or in a cool oven to keep it out of the way., In the morning, uncover the bowl. Add the final 2 tablespoons (26 g) of brown sugar, the baking soda, and the oil. Whisk the batter until all the ingredients have been incorporated.Oils you can use in this recipe include olive, vegetable, melted coconut, canola, or melted butter.
 Add the butter to a large griddle and heat it over medium heat. Let the butter melt and the griddle warm for a few minutes.Drop a pea-sized dollop of batter into the butter. When the batter starts to sizzle, the griddle is ready.

As you're cooking, you may need to add more butter between batches.
 Ladle the batter into the griddle in ½ cup (118 ml) portions. Add two to three pancakes at a time, depending on the size of your griddle. Cook the pancakes for three to four minutes. Use a spatula to flip the pancakes when the bubbles that form on the surface begin popping.After flipping, cook the pancakes for another two to three minutes.
Add more butter as necessary between batches, and continue cooking until all the pancakes are done.
 Keep the cooked pancakes warm in a warming drawer, in a single layer in a 225 F (107 C) oven, or wrapped in foil until all the pancakes are cooked.When all the pancakes are ready, serve them with your favourite toppings.

Pancakes can be served buttered with syrup, with nut butters, with fresh berries, with slices of banana, or even with chocolate sauce and whipped cream.
You can also garnish these buckwheat yeast pancakes with savory toppings, such as cheese, cooked vegetables, or even eggs and meat.

