 Your body will absorb calcium better if you get it from food rather than taking a supplement. Before you decide to take a supplement, figure out how you can fit calcium-rich foods into your diet.If you are already getting most of the calcium you need from food, you may want to add a yogurt snack or a glass of milk rather than taking a supplement.
Keep in mind that taking too much calcium is not a benefit and may actually be worse for you than having too little, because it can negatively affect your heart health.
There are some circumstances in which you may find it difficult to get enough calcium in your regular diet, however. For example, it can be difficult to get enough calcium if you are vegan, if you're on a high-protein diet, or if you have osteoporosis or certain digestive or bowel diseases such as celiac disease.
 Before you start taking calcium supplements, you should talk to your doctor about whether they would benefit you. If you are taking other vitamins or medications, you also need to know if calcium supplements would interfere with those.There may be a link between calcium supplements and heart disease, so if you already are at a high risk for heart disease, your doctor may advise against calcium supplements.
Calcium supplements also may interfere with blood thinners, antacids, and even some cancer drugs. You also may experience side effects such as gas, constipation, and heartburn or indigestion that you find uncomfortable.Your doctor can evaluate the medications you're taking, your medical history, and your diet to help you determine whether calcium supplements would be right for you.
 There are several different types of calcium supplements available. Of these, calcium citrate is the one most easily absorbed by the body. Calcium harvested from oyster shells may contain heavy metal contaminants which can be harmful to your body.You also should avoid calcium carbonate. Studies have shown little to no additional calcium was absorbed from calcium carbonate supplements. Calcium phosphate is only slightly better, with approximately one-third of the calcium absorbed from these supplements.
To avoid damaging contaminants, make sure any supplements you take have been purified. In the U.S., you can look for supplements with the U.S. Pharmacopeia (USP) symbol, which indicates they meet high purification standards., You want to take no more than 500 milligrams of calcium at a time, since your body can only absorb a limited amount. Take your calcium supplements with food once or twice a day.There may be instructions on the label regarding the maximum amounts for people of different age groups. Follow these instructions carefully and don't take any more calcium than what is recommended for people your age.
If your doctor tells you to take a different dosage than what is recommended on the bottle, follow your doctor's instructions.
Taking your calcium supplement with food not only increases the amount of calcium your body absorbs, but also may decrease side effects such as indigestion or heartburn.
 You may be getting plenty of calcium in your diet, but your body has difficulty absorbing it due to a Vitamin D deficiency. You may need a Vitamin-D boost if you spend less than 15 minutes outside in the sun each day.People who live above 40 degrees latitude also may not get enough Vitamin D from the sun. This includes anyone who lives north of San Francisco or Beijing, as well as anyone who lives south of Buenos Aires or Wellington.
You can get Vitamin D from eggs as well as dairy products and fortified milk.
If you're taking a Vitamin D supplement, aim to consume somewhere between 1,000 and 2,000 international units (IUs) a day.
 In addition to a calcium supplement, you also should make sure your body has a sufficient amount of nutrients such as magnesium, manganese, and potassium, which help balance and manage your calcium intake.Cod liver oil is a good source of Vitamins A and D, both of which are important in enabling your body to absorb maximum amounts of calcium.
Boron and manganese can be found in supplements as well as in almonds and fruits such as apples and peaches.
Because your body needs stomach acid to absorb calcium, you should avoid taking antacids while taking calcium supplements if you want to maximize your body's ability to absorb this nutrient.

