 There's nothing wrong with buying things, but do so with some thought. Can you really do without it? Ask yourself if this is a want or a need? Is there anything about the advertising of this product that is making you think that you will be happier if you buy it?;
, on your own life and the life of others. This is an important step towards sustainable happiness!


Can this be recycled or biodegraded? When this purchase has outlived its usefulness, will it become landfill waste? If so, is that preventable (some things, like medical supplies, cannot be avoided).






Was this product produced ethically? If you are shopping for shoes, for instance, you may wish to research production and labor practices of the brands you desire. If you want to be a mindful consumer, such as where the item was produced, whether the people were paid properly and worked under fair working conditions.
Was this product produced with environmental sustainability?In doing so, you also prevent waste and the unnecessary manufacture of potentially damaging products.
 Supporting these products is a mindful act because it shows that you care about the production methods and impact of the products that you consume.
 Support local retailers, farms, and organizations. You will help support your community more effectively than giving your money to multinational corporations. You will also cut down the carbon emissions of products sent around the world.
 Be polite to retail assistants. A mindful shopper is a considerate shopper who understands the stresses of constant contact with people, including difficult customers and the strain of standing up all day, under bright lights, with scents, noise, and other unwanted invasions surrounding them. When you need help, ask for it politely and if you have a problem, deal with retail assistants and their bosses in an efficient, caring, and assertive way.
 Recycle, reuse, find someone who can use it after yourself. Sometimes, items have to be disposed of at a landfill, but minimize this.
 This won't be easy as some people refuse to worry about the issues surrounding the creation of products but with gentle persuasion, you can fill them in on the facts and help them to better understand and to make mindful consumption choices down the track.

