 Herobrine does not and has never existed in the game naturally.In order to have Herobrine appear, you will have to download a mod. If you don't know how to find and install mods for Minecraft, wikiHow can help.


The most common Herobrine mod is the burner Mod, available on MinecraftMods and in the Minecraft Forum. These instructions will be for summoning Herobrine using the Burnner mod, since it is the most common. Most mods will include summoning instructions however, so check the forums for instructions for your particular mod.;
, The Herobrine block is made in a 3x3 grid, with a Soul Sand at the center and Bone all around.


Bone is dropped most commonly by skeletons but also by Wither Skeletons.
Soul sand is found in the Nether, usually near lava.
 You will also need Netherrack and two Gold blocks, as well as something to set a fire. Weapons to protect yourself won't hurt either!


Netherrack is found abundantly in the Nether.
Gold blocks are crafted from Gold ingots which are in turn crafted from gold ore. Gold ore is found most commonly in the lower 32 layers of the map, in veins bordered by stone.
 Place a Gold Block on the ground. Place another Gold Block on top of it. Now add your Herobrine block that you made in Step 2. Top it off with the Netherrack block. You should now have a totem that is four blocks high., You'll need a Flint and Steel to light the Netherrack on fire and complete the totem. Flint and Steel are crafted by placing a flint at the center and an Iron ingot to the left, in the crafting box (sometimes with the ingot at an angle from the flint). Equip the Flint and Steel in your hand and right-click to activate it. Of course, you'll want to activate it in the direction of the Netherrack...otherwise you'll just end up setting everything on fire!


Flint is found when mining gravel. Iron ingots are made from Iron ore, which is found readily when mining.
 After lighting the totem, Herobrine will be summoned and can appear anywhere and at any time. Good luck and don't forget to bring a fresh pair of undies!

