 Most jobs in customer service will require a minimum of a high school diploma or equivalent education.If you're a teenager or someone without their diploma, customer service is still viable for you in places like retail, but it may be harder to get a job. Check with the employer or look at the application requirements before applying for the position.


If you are older than high school age, look into GED programs provided by your local school or community college.;
, There are a variety of industries that you can work in as a customer service representative. Some of the most popular industries include banking, finance, retail, and technology.Think of the environment you want to work in. Determine if you'd like to work with customers in-person, over the phone, or online by considering your best personality traits. For instance, if you're likable and approachable, working in retail may be your best move. If you've got a great phone demeanor, then working in a call center may be your best option.


Many customer service representative jobs offer training, but it helps if you already have some knowledge of the industry you are looking to work in.
Customer service in the technical industry is one of the most profitable sectors you can get into., Customer service representative jobs can vary in pay significantly depending on your industry. The average customer service representative makes $34,560 a year. Consider the benefits that the company is providing and whether or not other people in your house rely on you. Choose a job that can fulfill the financial need in your life.


Vehicle manufacturing customer service representatives make $55,570 while business support service reps only make $28,340.Benefits could include paid time off, vacation and sick pay, profit sharing, or seasonal bonuses.
 Type "customer service" into job websites to find listings in your area. You can also look up companies that you'd want to work for individually and apply through their website. Find a position that meets your skills and experience and apply to the job.


Take your time when filling out the application and make sure there are no typos in your resume.
Apply to more than one job and make sure always to provide the proper contact information.
Many customer service jobs will require a minimum of a resume and cover letter.
Experience increases the likelihood of getting the job.
 Once the company you apply to gets your resume, they will evaluate it and give you a call back if you have the skills or experience they are looking for. Make sure to keep your cellphone accessible and return the call as soon as possible if you missed it. Usually, during the callback they will ask short and general questions, then try to schedule a time for an interview. Make sure that you articulate your words clearly and keep an upbeat and positive attitude.


Be available for the interview and try your hardest not to reschedule, as it could hurt your chances of landing the job.
Be polite and energetic to the person who is calling you. It may be your future boss.
 To increase the chances of you getting the job, it's a good idea to review commonly asked questions for customer service interviews. Rehearse in front of a friend, family member, or in the mirror. Think of your answers ahead of time and be prepared to articulate answers as effectively as you can. Try to cater your answers towards what the interviewer would want to hear.


For example, if they ask you "How would you handle a rude customer?" the appropriate response could be something like, "I would try to reassure them and calm the customer down. Then I would resolve their problem to the best of my ability, before sending them on their way."
Other interview questions could include, "Why would you be a good fit for our company as a customer service rep?" "Tell me about a time that you helped resolve a particularly difficult customer issue." or "Do you consider yourself a team player?", Employers want customer service representatives that look put together and clean. If you are going for a retail job, they'll also want to see that you have a keen sense of fashion. Determine what kind of job you are going for and dress the part. If it's a corporate or office job, wear a suit and tie with slacks, or a dark blouse with black pants.Always go conservative if you're unsure of how to dress for the interview.
Avoid wearing loud colors.
Shower and brush your teeth before going to the interview.
 Once you apply and get a call-back, it's likely that the employer will call you in for an interview. This can happen at their corporate office, in-store, or at a call center. Make sure to be enthusiastic and positive while the interviewer is asking you questions. Your personality on the interview will reflect how you will interact with customers.


Remember to talk about your desire for helping people and having satisfied customers.
For more help with interviews, visit, Go-to-an-Interview


, Once you get the job, make sure to read the employee handbook and listen to others while they train you. While many customer service skills can translate from one job to another, the operations at different companies can sometimes be vastly different. When you first start working as a customer service representative, there will probably be a lot to take in at first. Concentrate on nailing the basic operations before going into more complex things. For example, if working in retail, you may want to learn how to tag products and the companies policies before you start working on more complex tasks like inventory management.


Keep good working habits and stay organized so that you can learn as much as possible and secure promotions in the future.
The hiring manager wants to see that you're personable, can resolve problems, and have the right demeanor to interact with customers.
Good work habits include coming into work on time and working well with your colleagues.

