 First, finely slice two chipotle peppers, if not already sliced, into thin strips. Place that in a small mixing bowl. Then add 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil, 1 teaspoon of garlic powder, 1 teaspoon of ground cumin, ½ teaspoon of dried oregano, and ½ teaspoon of black pepper. Stir until they are evenly mixed.For extra spice, be generous with the amount of adobo sauce you include from the chipotle peppers’ can.
To reduce spice, pat the peppers with paper towels to remove as much sauce as possible.;
, Put 4 chicken thighs or 3 chicken breasts (boneless and skinless) into a large sealable freezer bag. Then pour in the marinade. Seal the bag shut. Hold it by two corners and flip the bag over and over to soak the chicken. Then put the bag in the refrigerator and leave for one hour so the marinade soaks into the meat., Set your indoor or outdoor grill to medium-high heat (roughly 400 degrees Fahrenheit or 204 Celsius). Once it reaches the desired temperature, set your chicken on the grill. Cook each side for five to six minutes.The Food and Drug Administration advises cooking chicken to an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius) before consuming. Use a meat thermometer to verify each piece is safe to eat., Once the chicken has cooked, remove it from heat. Let it sit for about ten minutes so it can be safely handled without burning yourself. Once it’s cool enough to touch, cut each piece into bite-sized portions., First, line a heavy saucepan on your stovetop with 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil. Set the burner to medium-high heat. Allow the oil to heat up, then add 1 cup (185 g) of basmati rice and 2 tablespoons of lime juice. Stir to mix the juice and rice and spread the rice evenly. Let the rice sautee for one minute.


If starches are a concern, rinse the rice in a strainer under the faucet before adding it to the pan., Once the rice has toasted in the oil for a minute, pour 2 cups (473 ml) of water into the saucepan. Wait for the water to begin boiling. Then cover the saucepan and turn the heat down to low.For white rice, leave the pan covered for roughly 18 minutes before checking to see if the rice has become tender and absorbed all the water. For brown rice, wait for 30.Avoid checking earlier than needed, which will cause moisture to escape as steam.
 First, fluff it with a fork once it’s cooked. Then stir in 2 tablespoons of fresh chopped cilantro. Finally, dish equal portions out into four bowls.
 Divide your chicken into four equal portions. Use each portion to top one bowl of rice. Then top each bowl with ¼ cup of cooked pinto beans, ¼ cup of cooked corn, ¼ cup of guacamole, and ¼ cup of pico de gallo. Finally, divide ½ to ¾ cup of shredded monterey jack cheese into quarters, sprinkle it on top of each serving, and enjoy.Canned corn and beans are already cooked and ready to serve.
