 One of the advantages of clip-in extensions is that they are temporary and easy to both apply and remove at home. Removing your extensions will make washing them much easier.


Be sure to always remove your clip-ins before showering or swimming. Sometimes the metal used in the clips can rust or otherwise be damaged by water.;
, Just like your natural hair, it's best to detangle extensions before washing them. Gently run a wide-tooth comb to remove any knots. Start at the extension's clip and end at the hair tip.Hair extensions are prone to drying and may need extra care if tangling occurs. If you cannot remove the tangles with the extension dry, try wetting it with detangling spray and trying again. If you still have a stubborn knot, try wetting the hair completely and adding conditioner before combing.
 Fill up a clean bathroom sink or a small plastic tub with warm water. Avoid using hot water, as this can damage your extensions.However, keep in mind that too-cold water will not effectively rinse grime and shampoo from the extensions.
 Hold the extension by the clip and dip it into the basin. Avoid getting water on the clip. Run a wide-tooth comb through the hair to make sure it has been evenly wetted., Select a shampoo that is gentle, moisturizing, and free of sulfates. Lather a dollop of shampoo and work it into the hair from just under the clip to the tips. Try not to create tangles, but use the wide-tooth comb again if needed.


Lather the extension just like you would washing your own hair. The major difference is the hair in the extension is likely to be much dryer and delicate than your natural hair. Make sure it is soaked through before working in the shampoo to keep in from tangling., Start by dipping the extension back into the basin. Gently squeeze the extension from clip to tip while submerged. Then, delicately run the extension under warm water from the faucet.
 Use a light-weight moisturizing conditioner. Massage in a dollop of conditioner, focusing on the center of the hair and working up and down. Treat it as you would natural hair. Rinse again with warm water. Remove excess water by gently squeezing the extension with a towel., Hang up your hair extensions to dry straight. This type of hair extension can be conveniently clipped to many surfaces. Avoid blow drying hair extensions, as this may dry out and damage the already delicate hair.