 If you have lingering doubts, you aren't going to argue effectively, and there's a chance you could be wrong. Do your research until you're sure.
 If they are busy at the moment, then you can schedule the conversation for a later time, when they can give you their complete attention. Good times to talk can be...


During a long car ride
While doing chores together (laundry, cooking, cleaning)
After a scheduled event, like supper

, It helps to let your parent(s) know that you've listened to them, taken their concerns seriously, and put thought into your conclusion. This demonstrates maturity, and makes you sound more convincing. For example:


"Mom, I heard what you said about Asperger Syndrome. I was confused, so I researched it. I looked up a variety of autism-related organizations, read the DSM criteria, and read what autistic people had to say."

, Explain the symptoms that you don't relate to, and the symptoms that could be described by something else.


"I read about autistic people's experiences, and they all sounded so intense. I couldn't relate to their confusion about social situations, meltdowns, or dislike of eye contact. I love meeting people, and it energizes me. It didn't sound like me at all."
"I don't feel clueless around people. I feel scared. I worry that they're going to judge me. I avoid eye contact with strangers and people who might judge me, which is why I can look my little sister and my friends in the eye, but not Dad or other adults. I researched social anxiety, and this sounded closer to my experiences."

, While autism specialists aren't perfect, they can offer an educated and authoritative opinion. Your parent(s) are more likely to listen to them.


Be completely honest with the specialist: why your parents think you're autistic, and why you don't agree.
Read Be Ready for an Autism Assessment, adapting the steps to provide evidence that you aren't autistic. For example, reflect on your life to recall anecdotes that provide evidence how you don't have certain symptoms (e.g. your parents' surprise at how independent you are).
Many autism specialists are also therapists, who know how to deal with difficult people. If your parents are refusing to listen, the specialist can help convince them.

