 Granola bars, breakfast bars, and cereals are generally thought of as healthy, but they can be hiding trans fat. Some may also may state they are fat free, but contain hydrogenated oils.Prepackaged oatmeal can also contain trans fat.
Read the label carefully and make sure you’re buying granola bars with good ingredients.
 Many peanut butters contain hydrogenated oils, along with high amounts of sugar, sodium, and saturated fat. Read the labels on peanut butter jars and choose natural brands that don't contain trans fat., Many candies, especially those that are not made with chocolate, have trans fat. Fruit-flavored candies, gummies, candies with chewy textures, and candy coatings often contain partially hydrogenated oils.Many candies filled with cream contain trans fat.
 Companies are trying to phase out trans fat, so they are using other oils in place of them. Tropical oils, like coconut, palm kernel, and palm oils, are popular substitutes. While they don’t contain trans fat, they do contain high amounts of saturated fats. Limit the amount of foods that you eat with these oils. Instead, try olive, peanut, and canola oils.Read labels and try to choose foods that don’t contain these oils.
 Many frozen meals are healthy, but many contain trans fat, even if they are from a healthy, weight-friendly brand. Meats may be fried in hydrogenated oils, breadings or sauces may also contain the unhealthy oils or shortening. Trans fat is also added to help them last longer.Frozen pizza also generally contains trans fat in the crust.
Read the label carefully to make sure they do not contain these ingredients.
 Dairy products naturally contain trace amounts of trans fat due to their natural fat content. This type of trans fat isn’t believed to be as dangerous, but ice cream and other dairy products still have high amounts of calories and fat, so you should limit how much you eat., Beef also naturally contains trans fat. Eating burgers, ground beef, beef hot dogs, and steaks places trans fat into your diet. To help avoid trans fat, eat less red meat than other types of meats.