 This city is one of the busiest metropolitan areas in the world, and its people are adopting western customs at an rapid pace. During Ramadan, however, Dubai swirls into a colorful mix of religious tradition and modern culture. Bars and nightclubs close down; public concerts are banned; and the city comes alive inside traditional Iftar tents (majlis and jaimas) that spring up all throughout the streets., Each evening, the people of Dubai gather at Iftar celebrations in traditional Arabian tents. These majili and jaima tents feature fine Persian rugs, colorful cushions, and a rich array of food and drink. Once the daily fast ends at sundown, people come around to socialize, share food, smoke shisha, and play games. These celebrations may be held privately, in a home, or publicly, at a restaurant. In the UAE, large tents in the streets or near mosques hand out free meals to those in need.If you don't know any locals, take your friends or family to a hotel-based Iftar tent in the evening. Drink mint tea, coffee, and Arabic delicacies as you play games, relax, and absorb the culture. This can be a great way to experience Ramadan.If you are invited to an Iftar dinner, do not pass up the opportunity! It is considered rude to come empty-handed, so bring a box of dates or another simple Arabic dessert as a gesture of good faith to your host.
 Tap into the community spirit. Greet Muslims with the phrase "Ramadan Kareem," which means "Generous Ramadan." At the end of Ramadan, during the three-day Eid celebrations, greet people with "Eid Mubarak." (eye-eed moo-bah-rock). Think of these phrases as something akin to "Happy Holidays." Everyone uses these greetings during the month of Ramadan, so you may actually stand out more if you don't use them!

, Practicing Muslims refrain from excessive spending during the days of fast, but they flock to malls and shops after sundown. Indeed, the shopping nights of Ramadan have been compared to the way that U.S. stores burst with activity in the days leading up to Christmas; malls are often open and bustling until well past midnight. Business owners typically entice post-fast spending with a host of deals and promotions. These promotions may extend beyond retail stores and restaurants to realms like flight booking, hotel reservation, and short-stay apartment reservation – which may make it easier for you to plan and finance your stay.


Consider buying a house or signing a lease during Ramadan. This month is a very special period for people in the region, and the burgeoning economy means that skyrocketing housing prices are one of the biggest issues facing the public in Dubai today. Anyone who purchases property or signs a lease during Ramadan can pay the current rent for a full year without worrying about rising rates.
 Ramadan is typically a somber and holy time; indeed, it is essentially a month-long spiritual fast. The breaking of a fast, however, is cause for celebration. The three days that follow Ramadan are much more exciting: celebrations and partying are the order of the day in Dubai, and the city comes alive with wild festivity. As with the month itself, it is best to "go with the flow" and follow the lead of the locals. Once everyone starts to party, you can loosen up and have a good time.

