 The mind-body connection is critical for maintaining good health. If you don't physically feel good, odds are good that your mental and emotional health will suffer, too. Take care to keep your body in good health. One of the most important things you can do is to learn to control your stress. Take a time-out. For example, if you are having an argument with your partner, say, "I'm going to take a walk around the block to cool down before we continue this discussion."
Find coping mechanisms. Everyone experiences stress. The key is to be able to handle it.
Try different techniques such as slowly counting to 10 when you feel stressed. You could also try listening to music or taking a relaxing bath.

Focus on your breath. Breathe slowly and intentionally, in through your nose and out through your mouth. This will help slow a racing heart rate often caused by stress.
 Physical activity produces endorphins, which boost your mood. Regular exercise can help you to manage stress, feel more confident, and improve your overall health. Try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week.Find an activity you enjoy. You'll be more likely to stick to the program.
Do you like to dance? Try a Zumba class.
Socialize during your workouts. Ask a friend to go for a long walk while you catch up on gossip.
 Food can definitely impact your mood and your overall mental health. Take care to stick to a healthy diet. Make sure that you eat plenty of fruits and veggies each day. Combine these with lean proteins and complex carbs.Certain foods are mood boosters. Try adding salmon, walnuts, and avocados to your diet.
You should also look for blueberries and leafy greens, such as kale.
Avoid foods that can negatively impact your mood. Try to stay away from sugary snacks and fried food.
It's also a good idea to limit your alcohol and caffeine intake.
 You won't feel well if you don't get enough rest. Make getting a good night’s sleep a priority. Most adults need between seven to nine hours per night.Try to go to bed and get up at the same time each day. This will help your body adjust to a regular sleep schedule.
Limit electronics before bed. Power down the laptop and the television about an hour before bedtime. Avoid checking e-mail or social media late at night.
Lack of sleep can make you irritable, anxious, and unable to focus.

