 If you have no idea where the hill will spawn or move to you will have very little chance of being any better than your opponents. To get the edge on your enemy and win the game you'll need to know where the hill will be every time. Play King of the Hill custom games whenever you can and watch where the hill spawns and moves and record it down if you need to. Every map has a different rotation system so take note.;
, When attacking the hill, offensive weapons such as brute shots and rockets are excellent to clear the hill quickly, while once you control it, defensive weapons such as shotguns and Energy Swords are vital.
 If you know where the weapons on the map are and where the hill will spawn, you should be able to plan an effective route to reach the weapons and assault the hill before it moves. Consider letting the first hill go if you can reach the rockets, shotgun or sword and they're near where the next hill will spawn. Remember, it's a thinking match, not one of brute strength or just skill alone.
 Quite often lobbing a few frag grenades into the hill from afar can stop opponents getting too much of a lead and if you are about to lose the hill, plasma grenades can be invaluable to make sure your enemies can't get it either by sticking them. However, do not go out of your way to get them - instead pick them up on your way to either a power-weapon or the next hill spawn. They will not win a game for you alone.
 Don't just have everyone go straight for the hill, but have a few go for weapons to make sure you can secure future hills. Only one person needs to go to secure the first hill - getting the weapons you need is much more important early on in the game. You may also consider having one player go only for weapons and attacking the enemy rather than assaulting the hill.
 It is easier to attack it from higher ground and if you couple this with a power-weapon, then you will have a good chance of clearing the hill before you enter it. Before assaulting, make sure you are clear of where all the players in the hill are - there's nothing worse than thinking you've cleared a hill and having someone else who was hiding kill you from behind.
 They will help you tremendously when assaulting or defending the hill so if you can find them on your way, use them.
 If two players are killing each other in the hill, shoot a rocket or a grenade their way and you should be able to take the hill easily.
 Even if you are in the hill, don't sit in one place as you will be vulnerable to being stuck or getting hit by a rocket. Move in and out of cover in the hill if there is any and defend it until it has moved or you die. Always be aware of who's coming to try to take it from you and leap out to take them by surprise.

