 To reduce the fat content in traditional meatballs, swap out ground beef or pork for ground chicken breast instead. Chicken still has all the nutrients of beer or pork, but with a lower fat content. You will need a ½ pound of ground chicken breast to serve four people a meal of spaghetti and chicken meatballs. To make chicken meatballs, combine:½ pound ground chicken breast
1 small onion
4 garlic cloves
1 ¾ teaspoons Italian seasoning
1 ¾ teaspoons salt
1 tablespoon grated parmesan cheese
½ egg, slightly scrambled
¼ cup panko breadcrumbs;
, Another way you can reduce the fat content in the meatballs and have a lighter meal is to use lean beef for the meatballs. Go for lean beef that has an 8% fat content or less. This way, you still get beef in the dish without the extra calories.Substitute lean beef for regular beef or pork in an existing spaghetti and meatballs recipe. You will need about 1 pound of lean beef to make a spaghetti and meatballs meal for six.
 You can also try adding vegetables to the meatballs so you use less meat and get some added nutrients. This will also make the meatballs lighter and less fatty. Try adding mushrooms or spinach to the meatballs for added nutrients. Then, cut back on the meat content so the meatballs are leaner.You can also add fresh herbs like parsley to the meatballs to cut down on the meat content.
 To make meatballs that are light and packed with nutrients, try making lentil meatballs. Lentils are a good source of protein and lighter in fat than chicken, pork, or beef. To make lentil meatballs, you will need access to a food processor or a blender.To make the lentil meatballs:


Saute 1 shallot, minced and 3 cloves minced garlic in 3 tablespoons olive oil.
Combine the cooked shallot and garlic with:

1 egg
1 1/2 cup cooked green lentils
1 1/2 tablespoon Italian seasoning, such as dried basil and oregano
1/4 cup fresh Italian parsley
1 tablespoon tomato paste
Sea salt and black pepper to taste



, Rather than saute the meatballs in hot oil on the stove, which ups the fat content, bake them instead. Baking the meatballs in the oven can keep them from getting too heavy with oil. Place the meatballs on parchment paper and bake them in the oven until they are cooked through.If you want the meatballs to have a crispness to them, you may take them out of the oven early and saute them in olive oil in a pan. Only saute them lightly to keep the fat content down.

