 A trained mental health professional will use the criteria in the DSM-5 to diagnose Borderline Personality Disorder. The DSM-5 stipulates that to receive a diagnosis of BPD, a person must have 5 or more of the following:“Frantic efforts to avoid real or imagined abandonment”
“A pattern of unstable and intense interpersonal relationships characterized by alternating between extremes of idealization and devaluation”
“Identity disturbance”
“Impulsivity in at least two areas that are potentially self-damaging”
Recurrent suicidal behavior, gestures, or threats, or self-mutilating behavior”
“Affective instability due to a marked reactivity of mood”
“Chronic feelings of emptiness”
“Inappropriate, intense anger or difficulty controlling anger”
“Transient, stress related paranoid ideation or severe dissociative symptoms”
Remember that you cannot diagnose yourself or others with BPD. The information provided in this section is only to help you determine whether you or a loved one may have BPD.
 A person with BPD will experience intense fear and/or anger if faced with the prospect of being separated from a loved one. S/he may display impulsive behavior, such as self-mutilation or threatening suicide.This reactivity may happen even if the separation is unavoidable, already planned for, or time-limited (e.g., the other person is going to work).People with BPD generally have very strong fears about being alone, and they have a chronic need for help from others. They may panic or fly into a rage if the other person leaves even briefly or is late., A person with BPD usually does not have stable relationships with anyone for a significant period of time. People with BPD do not tend to be able to accept “gray” areas in others (or often, themselves). Their views of their relationships are characterized by all-or-nothing thinking, where the other person is either perfect or evil. People with BPD often go through friendships and romantic partnerships very quickly.People with BPD often idealize the people in their relationships, or “put them on a pedestal.” However, if the other person displays any fault or makes a mistake (or even seems to), the person with BPD will often immediately devalue that person.A person with BPD will usually not accept responsibility for problems in his/her relationships. S/he may say that the other person “did not care enough” or did not contribute enough to the relationship. Other people may perceive the person with BPD as having “shallow” emotions or interactions with others., People with BPD usually do not have a stable self-concept. For people without such personality disorders, their sense of personal identity is fairly consistent: they have a general sense of who they are, what they value, and how others think of them that does not wildly fluctuate. People with BPD do not experience themselves this way. A person with BPD usually experiences a disturbed or unstable self-image that fluctuates depending on their situation and who they are interacting with.People with BPD may base their opinion of themselves on what they believe others think of them. For example, if a loved one is late to a date, the person with BPD may take this as a sign that s/he is a “bad” person and not worthy of being loved.
People with BPD may have very fluid goals or values that shift dramatically.This extends to their treatment of others. A person with BPD may be very kind one moment and vicious the next, even to the same person.People with BPD may experience intense feelings of self-loathing or worthlessness, even if others assure them of the contrary.People with BPD may experience fluctuating sexual attraction. People with BPD are significantly more likely to report changing the gender of their preferred partners more than once.People with BPD usually define their self-concepts in a way that deviates from their own culture’s norms. It’s important to remember to take cultural norms into consideration when considering what counts as “normal” or “stable” self-concept., Many people are impulsive sometimes, but a person with BPD will engage in risky and impulsive behavior regularly. This behavior usually presents serious threats to his/her overall well-being, safety, or health.This behavior may be on its own, or may be in reaction to an event or experience in the person’s life. Common examples of risky behavior include:Risky sexual behavior
Reckless or intoxicated driving
Substance abuse
Binge eating and other eating disorders
Reckless spending
Uncontrolled gambling

, Self-mutilation and threats of self-harm, including suicide, are common among people with BPD.These actions may occur on their own, or may occur as a reaction to real or perceived abandonment.Examples of self-mutilation include cutting, burning, scratching, or picking of the skin.
Suicidal gestures or threats might include actions such as grabbing a bottle of pills and threatening to take them all.
Suicidal threats or attempts are sometimes used as a technique to manipulate others into doing what the person with BPD wants.
People with BPD may feel aware that their actions are risky or damaging, but may feel completely unable to change their behavior.60-70% of people diagnosed with BPD will attempt suicide at some point in their lives., People with BPD suffer from “affective instability,” or wildly unstable moods or “mood swings.”These moods may frequently shift and are often far more intense than what would be considered a stable reaction.


For example, a person with BPD might be happy at one moment and burst into tears or a fit of rage the next.These mood swings may last only a matter of minutes or hours.Despair, anxiety, and irritability are very common amongst people with BPD, and may be triggered by events or actions that people without such a disorder would consider insignificant. For example, if the person’s therapist tells him/her that their hour of therapy is almost over, the person with BPD might react with a feeling of intense despair and abandonment., People with BPD often express feeling as though they are “empty” or extremely bored. Much of their risky and impulsive behavior may be a reaction to these feelings. According to the DSM-5, a person with BPD may constantly seek new sources of stimulation and excitement.


In some cases, this can extend to feelings about others as well. A person with BPD may become bored with his/her friendships or romantic relationships very quickly and seek the excitement of a new person.A person with BPD may even experience feeling as though s/he does not exist, or worry that s/he is not in the same world as others., A person with BPD will display anger more often and more intensely than is considered appropriate in his/her culture. S/he usually will have difficulty controlling this anger. This behavior is often a reaction to the perception that a friend or family member is being uncaring or neglectful.Anger may present itself in the form of sarcasm, severe bitterness, verbal outbursts or temper tantrums.
Anger may be the person’s default reaction, even in situations where other emotions might seem more appropriate or logical to others. For example, a person who wins a sporting event might focus angrily on his/her competitor’s behavior rather than enjoying the win.This anger may escalate into physical violence or fights., A person with BPD may have transient paranoid thoughts. These are induced by stress and do not generally last very long, but they may recur frequently.This paranoia is often related to other people’s intentions or behaviors.


For example, a person who is told s/he has a medical condition may become paranoid that the doctor is colluding with someone to trick her/him.
Dissociation is another common tendency amongst people with BPD. A person with BPD experiencing dissociative thoughts may say s/he feels as though her/his environment is not real.

