 Make sure it is registered and protected with your Secretary of State or County. Spend time and some of your marketing budget to create this logo yourself, with a graphic designer or with a marketing firm.;
, Many businesses make the mistake of getting free business cards from a large online printing company, which means their business card looks generic and doesn't offer any extra information.


If you do not know of a graphic designer you would like to use, some online and local print shops employ graphic designers. You can engage their services at a fee. You can send them logos and other details and ask them to create a more unique or complicated design.
 It can be used to feature discounts, partnerships, reviews, quotes and more. The following are potential uses for the back of your business card.


Consider including a coupon on the back of your business card. A free consultation or percentage off goods will make people more likely to hold on to the card. If you have a brick-and-mortar business, this is a great way to drive people in the front doors.
Work with a charity and put it on your business card. Use extra space on the back to encourage donations to that charity. You can use it at charity events and in everyday use.
 If there is space, provide a website that links to reviews of your business or a short quote from a customer.
 Magnetic business cards are especially beneficial for service-related small businesses, because your number is at hand when you are needed. Include your logo, necessary details and a fun fact or quote to encourage its use.


Small businesses that can get a lot of benefit from magnetic business cards include plumbers, beauticians, restaurants, veterinarians, insurance companies, contractors and other important services. They are available through a number of online printing services.
 Provide them with a business card holder and encourage them to distribute them as often as possible. Younger or older employees have access to consumers in a different demographic.


Give incentives to employees who come up with creative ways to successfully distribute business cards. Hold a contest every month, with a bonus for the employee or employees who bring in new business with their business cards. Share the stories at a meeting.

