 If you have noticed that your friend seems to be doing badly, ask questions. You might notice an increase in self-harm, anger, sadness, unhealthy habits, reckless driving or drug use, or a lot of talk about death and disappearance. Tell your friend what you've noticed, and ask how she is feeling. If you are afraid your friend is contemplating suicide, ask her if she is.Don't be afraid of planting dangerous thoughts in your friend. Asking is more helpful than pretending you aren't worried.
Use "I"-statements."You" statements, like "You need to get better" or "You have a problem" can sound judgmental and shut your friend down.Try focusing on how you are feeling and what you notice instead.
Ask things like "Have you been feeling down? I notice you've been quiet lately."If your friend isn't ready to talk, say "If you ever want to talk about how you're feeling, or anything that's bothering you, I'm your friend and I'm here for that.", Listen without judgment or interruption. Don't try to reason with your friend or cheer her up. Serious depression or suicidal thoughts will not disappear with reasoning. Instead, listen to how she is, and ask what you can do to help. Say you are available for phone calls or time together if she is feeling down.If your friend is in immediate danger, stay with her until you are in the company of a responsible adult.
 When you know how your friend feels, say you are there to help however you can. Explain that you think an adult would be able to offer resources to get your friend through this feeling. Offer to go with your friend to tell a parent or another trusted adult. If there is a school counselor, offer to walk your friend to the office and make an appointment.If you cannot persuade your friend to get help, you may have to get help for her.
Say "I am here to help you however I can. We can talk, or I can help you tell someone you need help, or I can go with you to talk to an adult."

, If you cannot persuade your friend to seek help, you may be put in a difficult position. If your friend is suicidal, losing touch with reality, or engaging in harmful activities such as cutting, drug or alcohol abuse, binge eating, self-starvation, or unsafe sex, get help immediately. Even if you promised not to, tell a responsible adult. Talk to your parents for advice, or go directly to your friend's parent or guardian.If your friend's parent or guardian are untrustworthy, talk to a counselor at your school or to a trusted teacher.
It may cause a rupture in your friendship, but keeping your friend safe is more important than keeping a secret.
 It is easy to get swept up in the mental illness of a friend or romantic partner, especially when you are very close. You should not be the only source of support in your friend's life. Do not allow yourself to be manipulated into keeping secrets that put undue pressure on you. Confide in your parents, and make sure at least one responsible adult knows what is going on with your friend at all times.