 Some lariat necklaces are meant to be tied a specific way, whereas others can be styled in a multitude of ways. The most basic lariat looks like a long chain, with some kind of open shape (often a circle) at one end. The other end of the chain is meant to be threaded through the open end and then you adjust it to your liking.Some lariats do not have pieces on the ends that thread through one another, so these have to be tied or arranged in some other way.;
, This is the easiest way to style a lariat. Drape the necklace around your neck, with the center part at the back of your neck. One end will hang over each shoulder. Grab an end in each hand and cross the chain in front of you. Loop one end under and then through, exactly the same way you would begin to tie your shoelaces. Let the two ends hang down.You can adjust the loop higher or lower, depending on what kind of effect you want to achieve.
 If you want to do something a little different with your lariat, try a front knot. The result can look very classy and looks great with formal wear and high-end business suits. Put the lariat around your neck, so that both ends drape over your shoulders and onto your chest. Grab both ends of the chain in one hand. Create a loop with both strands, then pull the ends of the lariat through the loop. This will tie a knot in the front.The final look very closely resembles a bolo tie.
Pair a front-knotted lariat with a black formal gown or dressy business ensemble.
 Fold the chain in half, so that both strands are running parallel to one another. Hold one end of the doubled necklace in each hand, then wrap the folded necklace around your neck. Pull the ends of the lariat to be in front. In the opposite hand, the doubled chain has created a loop. Pass the ends of the lariat through the loop. Feed them all the way through and allow the ends to hang down.This is also called the “scarf” style, since it follows the same pattern as a popular scarf-tying technique.This can create a dramatic, chunky style. Pair it with jeans and a leather jacket to create one look.
You could also wear it this way with a tight cocktail dress and create a similarly dramatic result, but with a different vibe.

