 It normally becomes available in the late fall months. The vaccine offered each year is slightly different, as it is tailored to the 3 strains of influenza that are most likely to be problematical in the coming year.


To stay fully up-to-date on your vaccinations, it is recommended to see your family doctor for a flu vaccine every year.
This will not only decrease your risk of contracting the flu, it will also put those around you (such as the elderly and young children) at lower risk.
Increased risk patients include: the very old or very young, pregnant women, immunocompromised patients, those with certain chronic diseases.;
, When people present to their doctor with an open wound, they will be asked if their tetanus is up-to-date to prevent the wound from becoming infected. If not, a tetanus shot will be offered right then and there in the office. You can also book an appointment with your family doctor after 10 years have gone by to get your tetanus vaccine renewed.


It is recommended to get the tetanus diphtheria combined vaccine once in your life instead of the tetanus vaccine. The additional immunity from the combined vaccine will last a lifetime.
DTaP is given in childhood, then a booster shot at age 11 to 12.
 It is also recommended for young children under the age of 5.


If you are allergic to neomycin or gelatin, you should not get this vaccine.
 It is ideal to receive this vaccine prior to initiating sexual intercourse, which is why it is recommended for girls if possible (however, the vaccine is offered to young women under 25 who have not been vaccinated, even if they have already had their sexual debut).


The vaccine should ideally be given in females aged 11 to 12 for the prevention of cervical, vaginal, and vulvar cancer.
 If you have never had chickenpox before in your life, you are eligible to receive the chickenpox vaccine; however, it is very rare for an adult never to have contracted chickenpox in his or her childhood. This vaccine is generally given to children since most adults have already had chickenpox, which provides lifetime immunity to the disease.


Doctors recommend routine childhood vaccination with 2 doses The first dose should be administered at 12 to 15 months of age. The second dose should be administered at four to six years old, before the child begins school

, It is one of the vaccinations recommended in childhood. See your family doctor for further information regarding the recommended vaccination schedule for babies and children.
 Pneumococcal disease causes meningitis, bloodstream infections, pneumonia, and ear infections.The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) is recommended for infants and young children, adults over 65, and adults over 19 who are immunocompromised by conditions such as HIV infection, organ transplantation, leukemia, lymphoma, and severe kidney disease.The pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) is appropriate for high-risk children, adults 19–65 who smoke or have asthma, and anyone over 65 years of age., If you believe you may be one of these people, due to your occupation (such as working in the hospital) or your health status, book an appointment with your family doctor to talk about it in more detail.
 People with more severe diabetes, respiratory disease, heart disease, or other conditions such as HIV/AIDS, an organ transplantation, or general autoimmune disease will likely need more vaccinations than the general population.


Talk to your doctor about additional vaccinations if any of these conditions apply to you.
 It is important to talk to your doctor about which additional vaccines you are eligible for, and to plan appointments to receive these immunizations.You may be eligible for the meningococcal vaccine, hepatitis A and B vaccines, and the haemophilus influenzae vaccine, among others. Your doctor will be able to provide you with the exact details depending upon your age, your health history, and your occupation.
 Phone your doctor's office when you are thinking of booking the trip to consult about the timing of when you would need to come in for vaccines.
 When you go in to see your doctor, bring a list with you of the vaccinations you have already received. This way, he or she will be able to determine which new ones you may need, depending upon the area you are travelling to.
 Usually a few months notice should suffice to receive all necessary vaccinations (for trips to higher risk areas). You may not need additional vaccinations if you are traveling to a low risk area.
 However, missing any of these appointments may put you at serious risk of contracting a potentially dangerous illness while away. Following through with all of your appointments will minimize your risk and set you up for a smooth and successful travel trip.


Also, certain vaccines require a series of shots to be completed. It is for this reason that not missing any of your appointments is key.

