 Fan clubs are among those who get access to tickets first. Many fan clubs will hold pre-sales and make tickets available to club members. Fan club memberships may be free or paid. Joining a fan club will likely give you access to advance notice of the artist’s upcoming tours as well.If you’re interested in joining a band’s fan club, first look for any special offers. Some tours will offer new members a “Fan Club Bundle,” for example offering fan club membership with the option to purchase tickets during presales. There may be an additional cost, so read the terms carefully before buying anything., If you’re willing to pay the price, you can purchase a VIP bundle deal for the show. VIP packages offer special perks, for instance meet and greets, photo ops, or other bonus incentives in addition to tickets. Search online for the name of the artist and the keywords “VIP package” to find special offers.


The cost of VIP packages vary. They may be a couple of hundred dollars up to a couple of thousand dollars.
 Radio stations sponsor pre-sales for shows. Follow local radio stations on social media, and sign up for email alerts at the stations’ websites. There will only be a limited number of tickets available, but if you’re one of the lucky winners, you’ll get free passes!


To win a radio contest, you will likely have to answer one or more trivia questions correctly as well as being a specific caller number (such as caller number ten).
 Visit the websites of venues in your area. Sign up for their email lists and newsletters. Venues offer presales and will often notify their email subscribers of how to become eligible for such offers., You can purchase season ticket packages to a venue in your area. This is typically the most expensive way to buy tickets. Season tickets can cost thousands of dollars, because you’re purchasing seats for multiple shows.


There may be season ticket holder waiting list.
 Occasionally tours offer presales to fans who order the artist’s latest or upcoming album. Check the artist’s official website and look for sale promotions. Also subscribe to the website’s mailing list, and newsletter if they have one.