 Once you locate the main tunnels, determine the right trap for your rodent. Some traps require digging, while others can simply be placed near the entrance of the hole. Traps kill the rodent and are recommended for gardens or farms. Traps are reusable, and, unlike baits, they do not present the risk of poisoning other living beings or harming your crops. Try pincher traps, box traps, and black hole traps for gophers. These traps will either choke or smash the gopher causing it to die.Try cinch traps, scissor traps, and chocker loop traps for moles. These traps will either smash, choke, or impale the gopher as it passes through. Avoid live traps. Live traps are not recommended because rodents often urinate and carry lice or ticks. This may later spread disease throughout your area.
Gophers have an acute sense of smell. Wear gloves to cover up your human scent when setting a trap. Wash the trap with dish soap right before placing it in the hole. Afterward, cover the trap with leaves. , There are a number of companies that sell baits for gophers and moles. When used correctly, the rodent will eat the bait and die. Although baits are known to be effective, many warn against the use of chemicals, especially since traps and natural repellants are safer.


Be very careful with poisons. You may accidentally poison your pets or other harmless animals in your area. Poisons may also be dangerous for your crops or flowers., Cats, dogs, snakes, and owls may help you catch a mole or gopher. Predators alone will not always get rid of gophers and moles but they can be used in combination with natural repellants and traps. Set up an owl box or purchase a gopher snake. Gopher snakes are non-venomous and can be placed in mole and gopher tunnels. Be careful when attracting snakes or owls, as they can be harmful to smaller cats and dogs.Cats and dogs may scare off rodents with only their smell. Cats and dogs can be very effective but only if your pet has the personality for it. If you have several active pets, they may catch enough rodents to control the issue.