 Your older dog and new puppy should first meet somewhere quiet and safe where both will feel comfortable, but which your older dog does not identify as its own space. For instance, you might want to introduce the dogs to each other at a public park or the home of a friend. Introducing your old dog and new puppy when your old dog is sleeping in its bed, on the other hand, could make it uncomfortable.Say to your older dog, “This is our new family member. Can you say hello?” in a gentle, reassuring tone.
After your dogs have had 10 or 15 minutes of sniffing and studying each other together, head home. Let your older dog walk into the house first so it feels it is the leader of the new pack.
 If you keep your dogs apart all the time, they will not have the opportunity to bond and get to know one another. Provide opportunities for your older dog and puppy to play and interact. For instance, put them in the same shared space – a living room or enclosed backyard is a good choice. Allow them to share experiences like going for walks or swimming in the lake. Through these social interactions, your dogs will become friends and learn to love each other.


Monitor your dogs closely for at least two weeks to ensure they don’t play too rough.
Giving your dogs the opportunity to socialize doesn’t necessarily mean they will do so. They might be slow to get to know one another, but it is important to let them socialize at their own pace. Don’t force your dogs to play or interact together.
 Your old dog and new puppy might roughhouse, nip at each other, or wrestle a bit when they are getting to know each other. This is normal and expected socializing behavior. It’s how doggies say, “Hi, who are you?” If your older dog and new puppy seem excited or agitated around each other for a week or so, don’t worry.


Don’t step in to intervene every time your puppy and your older dog start pawing each other.
While some friction is normal, be on the lookout for more serious conflict. If either dog demonstrates growling, bared teeth, or assumes an attack position (lowered head, ears pointed back, bent forelegs, hair raised slightly on back), separate your dogs immediately and play with them one-on-one. Allow them to see and interact with each other only through a baby gate for 24 hours after a serious conflict.