 The first step to finding houses to flip is knowing your market. You want to make sure you understand what the average price is in the area you're looking so you can best identify undervalued homes.Look at a variety of homes currently on the market to get a sense of the average price. Not only will this give you an idea of what homes are undervalued, it will give you a sense of how much you should sell a repaired home for.
You should also look into factors that affect the value of a home. Is the home in a safe neighborhood? Is it near a school or a business district? Does it have factors that make it desirable for the average buyer? You'll want to target undervalued homes in these areas, as you're more likely to sell them for profit later on.;
, One of the best ways to start searching for houses to flip is using online tools. Online search engines will allow you to give a price range and search for homes in specific areas. Start your list by finding a variety of homes online.You can search for homes using sites like Zillow, Realtor.com, or Trulia. Tweak the search engine so the lowest prices are listed first. Look at a variety of homes and save listings of interest on your computer.
This will give you a sense of where cheaper homes tend to be in a neighborhood. This can help narrow your search down the road, when you're searching for homes through a real estate agent or other outlets.
Keep in mind undervalued homes are not always the cheapest. You want a home sold lower than market value, but one that can be repaired and resold down the road. The cheapest home in an area may have serious problems, and not be worth the investment.
 Homes going through a foreclosure process will generally be cheaper. Foreclosed homes are easy to flip, and may not require extensive repairs. You may be able to make an offer to the owner directly, which may be cheaper than going through a real estate agent. You can visit your local county clerk's office, or the county clerk's office in the area you're looking to buy, to find listings of foreclosed homes.Talk to a worker at the office about how to find foreclosed homes. You usually look for a Notice of Sale, Lis Pendens, or a Notice of Default.
You can also check the local newspaper. There is usually a public notice section that alerts you to foreclosed homes.
 Do not limit your search to larger cities. While homes in cities do tend to sell for more, you can still make a profit on flipping houses outside of a city. You can usually find low-priced houses 2 to 3 hours outside of city limits.Do not go too rural. A farm in an isolated area is unlikely to sell for a great profit. Stick to small towns near cities or suburban areas.
If possible, look at homes away from coasts. Homes in towns in the Midwest and the South have much cheaper prices than East or West coast homes.
 If you find a home at a good price, you want to be the first person to make an offer. This can give you an edge over the competition. It's a good idea to have some automatic alert system set up. Talk to your real estate agent about an automatic alert system. If you're not working with an agent, sites like Zillow generally allow you to set up automatic alerts regarding homes of a certain price in a certain area., If an owner needs to sell a home fast, they may forego talking to a real estate agent. Homes put up for sale by owner may sell cheaper. Homeowners may not know the true value of their property and let it go for a price well below market value. It's a good idea to drive through some neighborhoods where you're thinking of buying homes to flip. Keep an eye out for signs reading "For Sale By Owner.", It's always a good idea to have a professional on your side. If you're new to the real estate market, talk to a real estate agent about finding homes to flip. A qualified agent can help point you in the direction of high quality, low-priced homes that meet your needs.


You can find a real estate agent online or by browsing the yellow pages. You can read reviews of an agent on a website like Yelp to make sure they have a solid reputation.
You should also ask other people who have flipped homes for a recommendation for an agent. A real estate agent should also be willing to give you contact information on past clients. Talk to past clients and ask a variety of questions to make sure a potential real estate agent is solid.
 Do not limit your search when looking for homes to flip. Visit a wide-variety of homes in a number of different areas. Weigh the pros and cons of each home you visit so you can decide which homes are worth your investment.Attend many open houses in your chosen neighborhood. You should also talk to your real estate agent and ask to tour multiple homes in one day.
Get a sense of why homes may be cheap. Some cheap homes may need extensive repairs or be in bad locations. Other homes may only need minor repairs and may be priced down due to other factors, such as owners needing to sell fast.
 Some houses may be priced lower because they need some repair work done. Most homes you find when flipping houses will be fixer uppers to some degree, so do not balk at a repair job. If repairs can be done quickly and for a cheaper price, the home may be worth the investment.A lot of times, a home only needs cosmetic repairs. A bad paint job, poor carpeting, or a strong odor can leave a home on the market for a long time. This will result in the house being priced down. However, issues like this are fairly easy to fix.
Do some research on your own end. Call a variety of contractors and ask them how much certain repairs generally cost. You should also ask homeowners or real estate agents if there are any major repairs that need to be done on the home.
 It's a good idea to make a lot of offers when searching for homes to flip. The market will probably be somewhat competitive, and you will not be able to purchase every house you make an offer on. Professionals advise you use the 100-10-1 rule. This means you should look at roughly 100 houses, make an offer on about 10 homes, and end up actually purchasing 1 house out of the 10.Do not be afraid to make offers on homes that are not your first choice. Most of your bids will fall through anyway. If you end up with a home that was not your first choice, you can still make the most of the purchase.
However, do not make offers on homes you know you do not want. A house in a very bad neighborhood, for example, is probably not a worthwhile investment. Only make offers on houses you feel you can live with flipping.
 Never buy a property without having a home inspection conducted ahead of time. Hire a qualified home inspector to evaluate the home before you make an offer.A home inspector will be a neutral third party who's not interested in minimizing damage to make a sale. He or she will let you know how much work is needed on the home.
A house that needs minor repairs is a great investment if you're looking to flip a home. A house that needs major renovations, however, may not be worth your time and money.
 Unless you have a law degree yourself, you should never purchase a home without talking to a real estate attorney. There is a lot of paperwork and contracts involved in purchasing a home. A qualified real estate attorney will advise you carefully and prevent you from making poor purchasing decisions.You can find a real estate attorney online or in the local yellow pages. You should also talk to friends or colleagues who flip houses and ask for a referral.
Always read reviews before hiring an attorney to make sure you're choosing someone with a solid reputation.
 You want to make sure the cost or repairs does not outweigh the eventual profit of a home. Call a variety of licensed contractors in your area. Tell them what kinds of repairs you need, and ask them for estimates. Calculate roughly how much the total cost of repairs will be.Call a variety of places and look for the lowest rates. However, you should also read reviews online and talk to other customers before settling on a contractor.
If there are any minor repairs, like a bad paint job, consider doing them yourself. This may save you some money when flipping the house.
 You'll want to make sure any house you purchase can make a profit. To figure out how much you should offer, you'll have to do some simple math. Your real estate agent and attorney should be able to help you estimate certain costs, as well as the eventual sale price of your property.You will need what is referred to as the After Repair Value (ARV). This is the price the property will eventually sell for, and your agent can figure out this price for you by looking into recent sales in the neighborhood.
You want the AVR to be about 70% of what you would pay for the home. Multiply the AVR by .7 to figure out how much you should pay for the house. For example, a house with an AVR of $200,000 should not be purchased for more than $140,000 if it requires no repairs. You should, however, deduct the cost of repairs. If your home requires $40,000 worth of repairs, do not buy it for more than $100,000.
 You should always negotiate before settling on a final price. If you negotiate with the seller, you may even get the price lower than you wanted to begin with. Do not accept the first price the seller asks for, especially if it's lower than the maximum price you calculated.This is where it comes in handy to make a lot of offers. If you appear willing to let the sale go, the agent may be more likely to give in to your offer.

