 Even though you want to stop your cockatiel’s egg laying, you will need to know what do if and when she starts laying eggs. Egg laying can be very taxing on your cockatiel’s body, so it will be important for her to be in the best nutritional state possible. One nutrient that she will need plenty of is calcium. Cuttlebone is an excellent source of calcium and can be found at your local pet store.She may also need a multivitamin to add more vitamins and minerals to her diet, especially if she primarily eats birdseed.If your cockatiel is on a pelleted diet, she may not need additional calcium supplementation.Over-supplementation is not good for your cockatiel. Consult with your avian veterinarian to determine what supplements your cockatiel may need to keep her healthy for laying eggs.Make sure that she also has access to plenty of fresh water., Because your cockatiel will be able to sense when she has finished laying her clutch of eggs, removing the eggs from the nesting site too soon will essentially take that sense away from her. She will continue to lay eggs until she feels like she has laid enough, which could lead to a serious calcium deficiency and other medical problems.It is recommended to wait for anywhere from eleven days to three weeks after she has finished laying her eggs to remove them from the nesting site.A female cockatiel, whether wild or captive, will typically abandon her eggs three weeks after she has finished laying them.Remove the eggs gradually–one at a time and every other day–until you have removed all of them. Removing them slowly will help her understand that the eggs are not fertile.Consult with your avian veterinarian on what to do with the eggs that you have removed.
 The look and feel of the eggs can serve as an indication of your cockatiel’s overall health. For example, if the shell looks misshapen or feels soft and thin, your cockatiel may be suffering from a nutritional deficiency. Abnormal-looking shells could also indicate an infection in your cockatiel’s reproductive tract. Because nutritional deficiencies and infections are serious medical conditions that require immediate treatment, take your cockatiel to your avian veterinarian if your bird’s eggs are in bad shape.Eggs that are broken or cracked should be removed immediately, since they are more susceptible to bacterial growth.Replace these eggs with mock eggs so that your cockatiel does not sense that she has not laid enough eggs.
 There are a number of medical conditions that can result from excessive egg laying, all of which require veterinary treatment. One condition is egg binding, in which the egg becomes stuck in your cockatiel’s reproductive tract and cannot be expelled from her body. If your cockatiel is showing signs of distress or struggle with laying her eggs, take her to your avian veterinarian for immediate treatment.Other signs of egg binding are difficulty breathing and blood coming from your cockatiel’s vent (where the egg passes through).Excessive egg laying can also lead to your cockatiel’s reproductive tract being pushed through her vent.This would also require immediate veterinary treatment.
Your cockatiel could also develop hyperlipidemia, which means that too much fat is in her blood. This is caused by extra fat and protein being in her blood during egg development. Her blood could thicken if there is too much circulating fat, which could lead to a stroke.Your cockatiel may also have broken bones as a result of excessive egg laying, due to the loss of calcium.