 Expository prompts direct you to write an essay that explains or describes something. This type of essay is informative, but often does not require that you make an in-depth argument or state an opinion.


Other words that signal an expository writing assignment include "summarize," "clarify," or "tell about."For example, "Explain camping to a person who has never camped before" is an example of an expository prompt. So is "Describe how communication has changed in the last 20 years.";
, Make sure you don't try to cover so much that 5 paragraphs is inadequate. You should also avoid a focus that's so narrow that you have problems coming up with 5 paragraphs.


For example, for "Explain camping to a person who has never camped before," you could take several approaches. You could explain reasons why people might want to go camping, or you could explain how to set up a campsite. You might even want to try both approaches in your essay.
 For expository essays, the thesis statement says what you will be explaining or describing and how you will do it.


Strong expository essays have a theme or center of gravity that organizes them.For example, for "Describe how communication has changed in the last 20 years" you might want to focus your essay on how teens use communication differently, or the impact of communication changes on daily life.
An expository thesis statement does not have to present an opinion or even make an argument. It should be based on the facts you will examine.For example, "Over the past 20 years, communication has changed significantly. It is now affordable to stay in touch with people all over the world, easier to connect with people from different places and cultures, and keep others updated with even your minor doings."

, A topic sentence is specific, and gives a "preview" of what the paragraph will be about. Each paragraph needs a strong topic sentence at the beginning.For example, if you were writing an essay explaining camping, you might have the following topic sentences for your paragraphs: 1) "There are many reasons why people might want to go camping." (Paragraph about reasons to go camping.) 2) "You must consider several things when choosing a campsite." (Choosing a campsite paragraph.) 3) "Finally, you must set up your campsite." (Paragraph about setting up camp.)

, Your thesis statement will be the last sentence.


You'll want to open with a general statement about your topic that "hooks" your reader. Then provide any context your reader needs to understand your topic. Close with your thesis statement., Depending on your prompt, your answer may be as short as a paragraph. Most writing assignments expect several paragraphs, and many prefer the 5-paragraph form. For each paragraph, develop it by doing the following:Begin each paragraph with a topic sentence.
Explain your topic sentence.
Give an example that supports your topic sentence.
Analyze your example.
Write a concluding statement.
 Restate your thesis at the end of the paragraph. A good conclusion will show how your ideas progressed, give the reader something to think about, or present new directions for the information.For example, if you are explaining camping, you could conclude by saying something like, "Although some people who live in cities have never been camping before, it is actually fun and easy. Next time you're considering a vacation, why not consider camping?"

