 Before you can learn tax accounting, you'll need to have a basis in the standard Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). You can either sign up for a class in basic accounting, perhaps at a local community college or online, or you can teach everything to yourself by taking advantage of free online resources. Create a base in accounting by doing sample financial statements and studying various accounting procedures until you understand them clearly.


To locate a good online source, try simply searching for "learn basic accounting online" on a search engine. There are many reputable resources online that offer this for free.
You'll want to learn enough to have a basic grasp of the major financial statements, the dual-entry accounting processes, and proper transaction recognition.
For more information on basic accounting practices, see how to learn accounting on your own.
 The best place to start learning tax accounting by yourself is the same way that university students will be learning it: by reading accounting textbooks. Either search for common tax accounting textbooks online or check out your local used bookstore to get deals on used ones. Just be sure if you buy them used that they are up-to-date; tax law changes so often that older books are often quickly out of date.


As a starting point, look for widely-used tax accounting guides, like the US Master Tax Guide by CCH. Guides like this are expensive, but provide the most comprehensive guide to tax accounting available., One of the most important parts of learning tax accounting is understanding the slightly different practices used by tax accountants as compared to regular accountants. These differences may impact the tax rate or value of a taxable asset that is recognized by a company or an individual. These are generally small changes that need to be accounted for to comply with federal, state, or local tax code., The key method for calculating the final tax expense owed by your client is a formula. This formula adjusts their accounting income with tax adjustments and other adjustments to arrive at a taxable income that is then multiplied by the appropriate income tax rate and further adjusted with applicable tax credits.These adjustments vary by the type of tax accounting you want to focus on (personal or corporate) and also by your location and the type of business your client is in.
 As a tax accountant, it is crucial that you file your client's taxes properly and get them the largest possible refund. Doing this requires that you read the tax code to find places where your client can benefit from different tax credits and accounting strategies. In addition, you'll want to be sure that you are not missing any filing requirements. Both of these require an ability to know where to look in your applicable state and federal tax codes and a keen understanding of the language involved that can only be developed through trial-and-error practice.
 As a tax professional, you may be held legally responsible for any mistakes you make when filing or calculating a client's taxes. With that in mind, it is important for you to know that risk and what you can do to minimize the impact on your career. For example, if you advise the client to file an amended return immediately after realizing your mistake, this may lower the risk to you. Mistakes will happen, and knowing the proper procedure to follow in these cases can save you a lot of money and trouble.