 Unfortunately, many owners confuse the symptoms of metabolic disorders with the natural signs of age. In the end, vigilance to any changes your dog is going through may result in a better quality of life and a longer life in general.


Look for weight loss. While you should pay special attention to rapid weight loss, weight loss over time may also be cause for concern.
Be wary of weight gain.
Watch for skin problems.;
, Eating and bathroom habits reflect how your dog’s metabolic system is breaking down and processing food. Thus, these are some of the best signs of metabolic disorder in older dogs.


Watch for excessive urination. This might be problematic in older dogs, as many owners might dismiss this as a sign of old age. However, excessive urination is much different than your dog messing the house every couple of days. Be aware and be vigilant.
Look for increased appetite or thirst. The owners of overweight older dogs might dismiss this as usual behavior; however, they should not. To avoid this, have regular conversations with your vet about the amount of food your dog should be eating. In addition, monitor their eating habits closely.
Be wary of decreased appetite or thirst. Some owners might dismiss decreased appetite as “Sally is just getting old.” However, older dogs do not stop eating for no reason., A dog’s behavior can also tell you a lot about their general health and if they are suffering from a metabolic disorder. Ultimately, though, like with eating and bathroom habits, some owners may see changes in a dog’s behavior as owing to their advanced age. Certain symptoms, though, are important indications of metabolic problems. Watch for:


Nausea.
Muscular or general weakness.
Lethargy., Certain dog breeds are more prone to metabolic disorders than others. Thus, older dogs of certain breeds have high risks of developing life-threatening conditions.


Generally, mixed breed dogs have a lower risk of developing metabolic disorders.
German shepherds, boxers, spaniels, and certain types of terriers are prone to a variety of metabolic disorders.
Talk to your vet about conditions your dog may be prone to. The more you know, the earlier on, the easier it will be to diagnose certain conditions., You need to make sure to differentiate the symptoms of old age from symptoms of metabolic disorders. Without being able to tell the difference, you may ignore tell-tale signs of life-threatening conditions.


Older dogs usually lose energy over time.
Many older dogs may lose muscle mass and may appear more frail.
The signs of old age manifest gradually, over the course of years, rather than in a short period. 