 Keeping your nails trimmed down may be a good solution if your nails keep breaking. You don't have to stop wearing your nails long, but wearing your nails a little shorter might help. Try trimming your nails a centimeter or two shorter than you normally would.


Clip your nails when they are soft, such as after taking a shower or bath.Nails are more prone to breaking when they are dry.
You can also try soaking your fingertips in warm water for a few minutes before you trim them.;
, Rough edges on your nails may snag on your clothes and this can cause a nail to break.To prevent your nails from catching on your clothing or something else, try to keep the tips of your nails smooth.File your nails once or twice per week, as well as any time your nails appear rough along the edges.
File your nails in one direction.Do not use a back and forth motion because this can weaken your nails. Just use quick strokes and move the file in one direction.
 One of the reasons why some people experience a lot of broken nails is because they use their nails in place of tools. If yu tend to do this, then you can reduce nail breaks by using proper tools instead of using your nails. Avoid using your nails to scrape things, open things, and do other things that you might do with a tool.For example, don’t use your nails to open packages. Get a pair of scissors and cut them open.
Or, if you notice that something is stuck to your desk, don’t use your nails to scrape it off. Use a stiff metal object, like a paint scraper instead.
 Doing household chores can sometimes cause a broken nail because of all of the water and chemicals that you might be exposing your nails to. Protect your nails by wearing a pair of latex or vinyl gloves whenever you are doing chores.For example, make sure that you wear gloves when you wash dishes or clean the bathtub.
You can also wear gloves any time your nails might get in the way or snag on something, such as when you are folding laundry.
 If your nails are prone to breaking, then applying a base coat may offer some protection. Apply a layer or two of a clear base coat to protect your nails from breaking.








Skip nail hardeners. These products can dry out your nails, which may cause them to break more easily. A standard, clear base coat is fine.

