 First, pinch your nose together. Then, spin around in a clockwise direction, while singing "Row, row, row, your boat."


Continue this until you've sang the song 5 times. Once you've finished with that, immediately begin spinning around in a counterclockwise direction while singing "Mary had a little lamb." Singing the songs is for timing as well as inhaling as well as exhaling in a powerful manner.
 Lie down for a long period of time. Then, stand up suddenly. That is, if that's not how you got the hiccups in the first place!


If this doesn't work, stand up for a long period of time and lie down quickly instead.
 Find a straight-backed chair and sit down with your back fully pressed into the back of the chair. Slowly bend over in the tuck position with your arms crossed over your body - the same way you would when instructed by an airline stewardess to "get in the crash position." Do this until you feel slightly uncomfortable.


Slowly squeeze your arms and try to squeeze your body and hold your breath for 5 to 10 seconds, and release. Slowly sit back up and repeat if necessary.

This is not advised for those with back problems.
 Swallow air until you burp. Eventually, that air will want to come up in the form of a burp. It should reset your vagus nerve, ending your hiccups.
 Count the number of seconds between hiccups. Around the time a hiccup should be coming up, or when you feel it coming up, cough loudly and/or scream! Repeat 3 or 4 times, if necessary.
 To do this, breathe inwards quickly until you cannot do so anymore. Then, look downwards so your neck is bent. Stay like this for 10-20 seconds, forcing the air downwards.


Return to normal position, and think of the air staying down in your lungs. This disrupts the hiccup cycle, and you will no longer have hiccups!

, If you're ticklish, that is. The sensation will totally distract you from your hiccups and you'll forget all about it -- especially if the person doesn't stop! Not cool.


They may have to do this for 30 seconds or longer. Can you tolerate it? If not, just have them scare you. But it's got to be good! You have to be legitimately surprised, so you gasp and reset your breathing pattern.
 About time, right?! What are they there for anyway? Drink a normal-sized gulp of water, but don't swallow! Leave the water in your mouth. Then, pull down both your earlobes and tilt your head back. Swallow and tada! Hiccups, vamoose!

, Place your thumbs on the little flap in front of the ear canal (called the tragus) and press inward, closing the canal. Then, close your nose with your pinkie fingers. Finally, close your eyes, then take a deep breath and hold it as long as possible.


Try to breathe normally after coming out of the exercise. The natural reaction is to breathe hard or pant, resetting your breath.
 Stand upright with your feet hip-width apart. Lock one thumb in the palm of your other hand with fingertips outstretched. Then, lift your chin, look up and stretch your arms over your head (reaching for the sky). Pull your abs in as if trying to let your pants fall off your hips and breathe deeply several times.


If you don't have hiccups, this may induce yawning.
 Hiccups are caused by temporary muscle contractions of the diaphragm, so if you can manage to maintain a balance between the contraction and the expansion of your diaphragm, you can cure the hiccups.


Slowly breathe in.
Then slowly breathe out on 'Si' ,following a gradual crescendo and diminuendo, while sustaining the breath flow (namely, it starts from a quiet volume, gradually and smoothly made louder until it reaches a high volume, then similarly made quiet again). Done.

