 If you signed a written employment contract, it may include a clause outlining the circumstances under which you can be terminated.


If you were terminated for any reason other than those listed in your contract, or for no reason at all, you may have a breach of contract claim against your employer., Actions or statements on the part of your employer may create an implied contract in some situations, even if you never signed a written contract.


While a judge always will look at the totality of the circumstances, promotions, employee handbooks, and letters or emails assuring continued employment all may add up to an implied contract.Most employers will point out in any written policy, application, handbook, or other employment-related document given to you that you are an at-will employee. If you are employed at will, you may be fired at any time for any reason or no reason – with the exception of some illegal reasons. If your documents contain explicit statements that you are an at-will employee, they cannot reasonably be interpreted as creating an implied contract.Similar to the implied contract, some courts have determined that an employer wrongfully terminated an employee by violating an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing – essentially, that the employer cheated the employee by firing her. For example, an employer may fire a sales employee to avoid paying her sales commissions she earned. In such a case, a judge typically would find that the employee had been wrongfully terminated and require the employer to pay her those commissions.You might consider consulting with an attorney about your case, especially if you are basing it on an implied contract. This area of law can get complicated, and if you file your lawsuit on your own you'll still be expected to understand it just as much as an attorney would.
 If you have what you believe is an open-and-shut case that your employer breached your contract by firing you, send your employer a letter outlining your claim and offering to settle the matter without going to court.


Don't be rude or threatening, but be assertive in your claim. Give your employer a deadline to respond, and explain that you are prepared to file suit if he doesn't agree to your demands., If you decide to file a lawsuit, you must figure out which court has jurisdiction over your claim.


Usually you would file your contract-based lawsuit in the county where the contract was supposed to be completed.For example, if you live in one county but worked in the neighboring county, you would want to file your lawsuit in the county where you worked, not the county where you live.
Also keep in mind that different courts deal with different types of cases. For example, some courts only hear cases involving family law, or only hear juvenile proceedings. In larger counties, the civil courts may be divided based on the amount of money you want or what other remedies you're requesting., The complaint tells the judge about your former employer's breach of contract, describing how this injured you, and asking to be compensated financially for that injury.The summons tells your former employer that you're filing a lawsuit against him and he needs to show up in court and respond.Each court has its own format for civil court complaints. You may be able to find a form online or by contacting the clerk of court's office. If your county doesn't have a form, the clerk may be able to provide you with complaints filed in other cases that you can use as examples or guides.
Find out from the clerk if you need any other documents, such as a certificate of service or a notice of hearing, to accompany your complaint. Those forms should be available at the clerk's office or online as well.
 Typically, you must bring several copies of your complaint and summons. The clerk will file the original and may schedule a date for your first hearing in the case.


You will have to pay a filing fee to initiate your lawsuit. If you don't believe you can afford the fee, the clerk will have an application for a fee waiver that you can fill out. If your application is approved you won't have to pay court fees., After you've filed your lawsuit, it must be formally served on your former employer so he has notice that he's being sued.


You cannot serve the papers yourself. You must get someone else to do it. That person must be someone over the age of 18 who isn't part of your case.
You can also use certified mail for service. Sending something certified means you will get a signed receipt back when your former employer receives the papers.When service is completed, you'll have to fill out a proof of service form and file it with the court. This form tells the court that you served your lawsuit on the other party., Depending on how contentious relations are with your former employer, you may find it easier and less expensive to use a private mediation service than to go through with a formal trial.


Mediation uses a neutral, uninvolved third party to work with you and your former employer to resolve the dispute together.
Because mediation proceedings are less formal than trial, and because the outcome of a mediation can remain confidential, it may provide a more comfortable setting for both you and your former employer., During the pre-trial discovery phase, you will collect facts and statements about your case and share information and evidence with your former employer.


You may interview witnesses or request copies of documents from your former employer that are relevant to your case, such as personnel records.Because conducting discovery requires an understanding of the court's rules of procedure and rules of evidence, you should consider having an attorney assist you with the process.