 Mother of all virtues, it does not go amiss when trying to find your significant other for the night (or longer). The key to this guide is accepting that it is a process that cannot be breezed through, but demands a certain amount of luck and thus a high amount of waiting.;
, As opposed to uttering some lame pick-up line, where the aim becomes apparent immediately, the best way is to 'coincidentally' find yourself in a situation which you both experience emotionally the same way. For example when you both are waiting at the bar for that barman who takes an eternity to serve you. Now that's a conversation starter and moreover, doesn't come across as a predatory comment.
 Although this seems like a script, real-life seldom is. You now have your drinks and are chatting effortlessly and you already feel like you won. Naturally, you start planning your next move. Problem is, you turn around for a second and some other guy takes advantage and starts talking to the object of your current desires. Keep calm, accept that not everything can be planned. Navigate through the rocks as best as you can but know that uncertainty is part of the game.
 Remember: you do not want to come across as some sex-starved fool who will do anything for a quickie. Talk to her but not to much. If she leaves, don't follow her around. Let her go her way and bump into her later. Better yet, leave first and go talk to your friends or, for the daring ones, to another woman. The more you run after a woman, the less she wants you. Basic principle of offer and demand.
 This guide assumes you want to look more than the average Joe. be nice, be a gentleman. Make everything appear natural as if you were not on the prowl but had found yourself in that situation by chance, while all you wanted was to get a drink and join your friends.
 It is now late and you are still talking with your 'date'. If she hasn't left at this point, you're pretty much in the end zone. The little secret is pauses. While she talks to you, let your glaze drift in the distance and look like you are suddenly taken aback for a moment, to some other memories. Women love mystery, they crave it, it's biology. The fact that you will not give her your full attention will make her doubt about her self, thus lowering her self-esteem, thus making an already easy task a child's play.
 The last point is the only leap you will take throughout the whole process: at some point, a relatively small window of opportunity will open where you will be able to kiss her. Do it before, you're out, do it after, you're out. Defining the perfect moment is a skill that needs to be honed over and over again but once you have it, the prize is yours.

