 Take the extra 10 or 15 minutes you need to look your absolute best before you see your crush. Even just small things can change you from someone in the background to someone who catches their attention. Not only can looking your best make your crush notice you, it can also give you the confidence boost you need to approach your crush.Pay attention to your hair. Even doing a quick comb through can make a big difference. For girls especially, straightening or curling their hair can give them a confidence boost.
If you wear makeup, make sure that it is applied well and will last all day.
Also make sure that you are taking care of your body in general by getting enough sleep and taking care of your skin so you look fresh and healthy.;
, Dressing differently than the people around you is a good way to get noticed. This works especially well if you are in an environment where everyone dresses in a similar way.If people at your school dress similarly or in uniform, wear a statement necklace or a pair of cool sneakers to catch the attention of your crush.
If you are in a professional work environment, wear something that is appropriate but different. For instance, wear a collared shirt with an interesting pattern or a sparkly headband.
 If red is your color, go for it. Studies show that both genders are more attracted to people when they wear red. Pull out a red dress or shirt from your closet to get your crush’s attention. If you don’t like wearing red, choose another bright color to help you stand out from the crowd., When trying to impress a crush, it’s easy to take it too far. You want to look nice, but remember to wear clothing that’s appropriate for the situation.For instance, if your crush is in your yoga class, don’t dress for class like you’re headed to the red carpet.
Remember that everything is better in moderation. This goes for perfume and cologne as well.
 Do your best to be in the line of sight of your crush. If you are in the same class, try to sit near or in front of him. If you see him at the gym, work out nearby. Do this until you are sure that your crush has seen you and knows that you exist!Don’t do it to the point where you’re around your crush more than you should be. There’s a difference between making sure your crush sees you around and stalking your crush.
 Get involved in whatever space you see your crush. If you go to school with your crush, join a sports team or an extracurricular activity. If you volunteer with your crush, take on more hours. Becoming more involved will make you more visible and show you as a person with drive and purpose, which are both attractive qualities.