 There is 1 day, 2 to 5 days, 3 to 18 days and 12 to 25 day rafting trips that can be guided or noncommercial. Remember travel time to and from the Grand Canyon as well to adequately compute the amount of time needed for the rafting trip.;
, Changes in weather can greatly affect a rafting trip with the excursion actually being cancelled if the weather is too tumultuous. Also, an individual will have an idea of what to pack and wear for the trip.
 Clothing should be quick-drying like polypropylene, silk or wool. A splash jacket, sun hat with a strap and a rain jacket should also be brought.


The weather can be cold or hot or a mixture of both in one day. Layers allow to shed or pile clothes when the weather changes. Extra clothing should be stored in a bag for the trip home.
,,, While these guided trips do not require a 1 year advance reservation, rafting trips do fill, and the earlier a reservation is made, the better chances one can get the trip wanted. Interested parties should get in touch with the private companies that offer the trips to set up a reservation.
 Professionally guided rafting trips tend to require 1 year, if not 2, to reserve a commercial rafting trip. Noncommercial rafting trips are through a lottery or are first-come first serve, and an individual can wait at least 1 year on a noncommercial permit.
 Noncommercial Grand Canyon rafting trips require the boatman and trip leader to be experienced in whitewater safety, river equipment repair, whitewater navigation techniques, general first aid, and have first-hand involvement with whitewater river trips at the Grand Canyon or with comparable rivers. The boatman and trip leader must also be 18 years or older.
 There is 1 noncommercial permit that a rafter traveling the Diamond Creek 2 to 5 day trip must obtain, and the Hualapai Tribe also charges a fee. The permit through Hualapai land must be obtained in advance of the trip.
 It is recommended to also have a major first aid kit. Noncommercial trips must also have a signal mirror and 2 international orange colored panels that are 3 feet (0.91 m) by 8 feet (2.44 m) and can be placed in an X to be viewed by aircraft.

