 Gently rub 70% isopropyl alcohol over any small flaps or gouges in the surface. This clears away any grease or dirt to prepare the surface for leather glue.Do not let excess alcohol sit on the surface, as it can damage glossy, fully-finished surface coats.Use white vinegar instead on suede and nubuck.
You can use leather cleaner instead, but many of these products condition the leather (leaving a residue), or fail to remove greasy stains.;
, Nubuck, suede, and synthetics such as vinyl and bonded leather require a leather glue labeled for use on your material. On other types of genuine leather, you may get better results with super glue. Apply a small amount of glue to the underside of the flap using a large needle or toothpick, scraping it into a thin layer.
 While the glue is still wet, gently press the flap back into place on the leather surface. Align the flap so that none of the material beneath the flap is visible. Quickly wipe away excess glue with a paper towel before it dries.
 If you are using super glue on genuine leather, sand it by hand with 320 grit, wet-or-dry sandpaper before it dries. This makes a fine dust that combines with the wet super glue to create a filler. Sand in the direction of the crack until the surface feels smooth.








Use 500 grit sandpaper instead on aniline or other thin, delicate leathers.
Skip this step if you used leather glue.
 If the repaired area is a different color than the rest of the couch, apply leather dye with a damp sponge. Wait for it to dry.








Check the dye label to confirm it is suitable for your type of leather. Test on an inconspicuous area first if you are not sure.
If you feel your repairs need more work, gently sand the surface and repeat the process, starting with a new dab of glue.
 If the dye appears too dull or matte, dab some clear finish over the top, and wait for it to dry. The clear finish will add luster and protect the dye.
 Wait at least one hour before causing any flex in the surface of the material.This will give the leather glue the proper amount of time to set and bond to the material.


For best results, let the glue set on its own. Heat can damage leather, so using a hairdryer to speed up the drying is risky.

