 The best way to hide the fact that fight is fake is to keep the cuts moving. This allows people to see the flying fists without needing to see the landing, as the audience's brain will fill in the part where the punch hit's the opponent's face, even though it didn't actually happen. The quicker the cuts the more frantic and chaotic a scene looks, which is perfect for fights.


Don't be surprised, in a busy action scene, if many of your cuts are 2-3 second or shorter.
You can go too fast, which makes a scene too confusing to follow. Find ways to slow the scene down occasionally, like using a long cut of a character catching their breath before jumping back into the fray.
 This is especially important if the shot of a fake punch seems fake. Start with a shot of Kim throwing her punch at Ron. Right as she would hit him in a real fight, cut to an angle of Ron starting his reaction away from her fist. The cut tells a viewer that contact was made without ever having to show it.
 The visuals of a fight scene are hard to do, but it is the sound that truly distinguishes a good fight from a bad one. Timing up each punch with a bone-cracking sound effect, grunts from the actors, and whooshes of air as each kick flies takes hours of time, but will help your scene stand out. Go back and watch 2-3 of your favorite action scenes and pay attention to every single sound -- from footsteps to cries of pain.


For really incredible scenes, you'll need to do "foley." This is when you record and create all the sound effects yourself, such as watching the scene and stomping in time with the action to create perfectly timed footsteps., Get the actors mic'd up and have them grunt, scream, and breath heavily in time with their actions on screen. Let them watch the scene 1-2 times to get ready for each moment, then simply turn the mic on and let them improvise the noises they might make in a real fight.


You can make these noises yourself, but it is always better when the actual actors voice their own sound effects.
 Fight scenes are not easy to edit -- you want it to be clear what is happening, but also frantic and high-energy enough to mimic a real fight. Good ways to do this are to use lots of non-contact shots to show who is winning. For example, you might linger on a shot of the person getting hit to show they are losing, while showing lots of the winner throwing punches without getting hit back.


Jackie Chan solved this problem by staging simple, clear fight scenes then speeding them up very slightly during editing. The result is a coherent fight with long cuts that is also high-energy.