 Clear some counter space and have all your kitchen utensils and cookware handy. Start with a clean workstation by wiping your area down with a cloth or towel.
 For even baking, position the oven rack at the center of the oven and bake one sheet of cookies at a time.


If baking two sheets, it is recommended that you space the racks so as to divide the oven into thirds, then rotate the cookie sheets top to bottom and back to front halfway through baking., It will take several minutes for the oven to heat up, so save time by preheating it before you start mixing the cookie dough.
 Place a piece of parchment or wax paper on the cookie sheets and set them off to the side. Lining the cookie sheets with wax paper will prevent the cookies from sticking during baking.
 Cream together the sugar and butter until light and fluffy.


If the butter is firm, use the tines of a fork to press it down into the sugar.
If the butter is cold or frozen, it won't mix properly. Thaw it to room temperature or heat it until softened.
 This is recommended each time a new ingredient is added.
 If you prefer cookies with a stronger vanilla taste, use 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract.


Use a whisk or electric mixer to blend the ingredients in the bowl for about 1 minute or until smooth.
 Mix in each ingredient individually before adding the next ingredient.


Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl with a rubber spatula in between adding each ingredient.
Mix until the dough is a smooth, uniform texture.
 Use a large spoon to scoop balls of dough onto the cookie sheet.You can also grab the cookie dough with your fingers and roll it into a ball shape between your hands.


Clean your hands before handling the cookie dough.
If you prefer not to get your hands dirty, use two spoons to handle the dough.
 Your balls of dough will spread during baking. By placing the dough balls slightly apart, you won't have to worry about them spreading into each other.


Place the balls of dough a few inches apart.
Don't worry if the dough balls are slightly different in shape and size.
 Bake cookies for 10 minutes.


It is recommended that you rotate the baking sheet front to back after five minutes.
Always use a timer to avoid burning the cookies. To air on the side of safety, you can set a timer for 7 to 8 minutes, check the cookies visually, and adjust the cooking time as necessary.
 Once the cookies are golden brown on the edges, let them cool. The baking sheet will continue to cook your cookies as long as it is still hot from the oven. This is fine.


If preferred, use a spatula to gently lift the cookies into a cooling rack.
 Fill a serving dish for a party or wrap the cookies individually to share with friends.
 If you have a little extra time, you can create a creamy frosting to top the cookies. Assemble the following ingredients:


2 1/2 cup powdered sugar
2-3 tablespoon unsalted butter, softened
1/2 tablespoon vanilla extract
3-4 tablespoon milk or water.
 In a medium sized bowl, mix the ingredients until evenly dispersed.,, It is recommended that you let the frosting sit to give it time to set.

If you'd like, you can add sprinkles.
 While there's nothing wrong with the classic vanilla cookie, you might enjoy trying something new.


When mixing the dough, stir in some different flavors, such as: white chocolate chips, coconut flakes, nuts. Or, experiment with some of your favorite nuts, berries or sweet treats.
 If you like, you can roll the cookie dough out with a rolling pin and use cookie cutters to create desired shapes for your cookies. This can be especially fun for the kids, and will take their mind off these being merely "vanilla".

