 How do you come across to people? If the signal you're sending out is messy and unkempt, it's time to sharpen up a little. Follow a basic and sensible hygiene regime to keep your hair tidy, teeth brushed and face in good condition. Take good care of yourself.


Try a body mist for a nice fragrant touch.;
, If you don't want to, that's fine. If you do choose to wear makeup, don't wear a lot. Instead, go for this simple look that is nice and wholesome to behold. The simple look involves:


Apply brown mascara to your top lashes.
Apply concealer to any blemishes or red spots and blend well.
Apply a thin line of liquid eyeliner along the edge of your eyelids. Go for a light, peach blush and blend in a little on your cheekbones.
Do a top colored eyeshadow on your eyelids. You don't need to go any bolder.
 Don't copy other peoples' styles, and don't wear what the other people are wearing. Instead, focus on what you feel comfortable and look good in, all at once. You own unique style is what matters the most.


Don't be afraid to wear fun clothes.
 People will like to be around you if you're smiling and appear to have a positive attitude. Spread positive vibes. Everyone wants to hang around a girl with a positive attitude, even the guys.
 This includes people you're not that keen to spend time around––you can still be civil toward them. Respect everyone's dignity. This proves to people that you don't judge them or consider them to be beneath you.
 There is a difference in not being mean and being nice. If you are not being mean, then you aren't saying anything that hurts someones feelings. If you are being nice, then you are not only not hurting their feelings, but you are also complimenting them.


People don't like the mean girls. They wish they would stop and might even be scared. Don't be that girl.
Be nice to everyone. Sometimes people think that being nice means only to certain people. To be nice, you need to be nice to everyone, not just the popular people.
 Go out there, have fun, meet new people and be happy. Just try not to be too clingy or attached to your friends, and go out every single weekend. Also, try not to stick to one group; make friends from various groups.


Have parties of your own and invite everyone you know.
Hang out with kids in other grades. This means people in younger and older grades.
 Talk to everyone. Be friendly and easy to approach.
 Tell people how good they look in something or how nice they look today. That will make them that much happier!

, If you feel hyper, calm yourself by doing something relaxing. If you make it a habit, it will come naturally.
 Try to balance grades and parties as best as you can. Even though nobody's perfect, try to find that right balance. Don't be that girl who's out partying on a night before a quiz. Be prepared for class, and give your grades effort. Everyone loves a smart and witty girl.
 Exercise every day, whether it's running on the treadmill or softball practice. You always have to be fit and healthy, and guys will find that attractive.

