 Both in terms of frequency and amount, always limit the amount of treats you feed your horse. There are several important reasons to keep portions of treats small, many of which have to do with horse digestion.Your horse’s digestive tract contains a balance of bacteria and microbes that are vital to healthy intestinal function.
This balance is actually quite fragile, and too much of even a healthy treat can upset a horse’s digestive track, leading to discomfort, colic, or other illnesses.
Feed your horse only one or two carrots at a time. Small portions of treats are vital. Aside from digestive issues, avoid messing with your horse’s diet, as this risks lowering protein absorption and diluting vitamin and mineral amounts.;
, If your horse starts to anticipate receiving treats, this will likely negatively affect their behavior. Even the well-intended use of treats for training risks reinforcing bad behavior. Accordingly, you should:Never feed another person’s horse a treat without permission.
Never feed a treat to a horse that is in a pen with other horses.
Don’t ever feed a horse a treat “just because”.
Learn and follow a protocol on how to give treats to positively reinforce good behavior only.
 The good news is that treats can be used to effectively encourage good behavior. However, you must balance the use of treats to influence behavior by ensuring your horse does not come to expect treats.Employ a diminishing reward system. Reduce the frequency and portion of treats as a good behavior becomes a conditioned response.
Instead of treats, slowly transfer to friendly stroking and positive verbal encouragement following a desired behavior.
Only use treats intermittently in training regimes. Not everything you teach your horse needs to incorporate treats.
 Training, especially training with treats, depends on your consistent delivery of reinforcement and the clarity of the message you’re sending to your horse.One way to articulate your pleasure with positive behavior is to establish a word or short phrase, such as “good horse”.
Always accompany this phrase with affectionate touching and a positive tone of voice.
Use this phrase as a bridge signal to let your horse know they have earned a treat.
Only give a treat within three seconds of a bridge signal, which should immediately follow a behavior you are trying to reinforce.
The sequence you employ when giving treats must always stay the same.
 While you can feed a horse by bucket, trough, or hand, there are risks involved in feeding a horse by hand. Horses fed by hand are more likely to get nippy with you and others. Of course, to properly use treats as a training tool, you must feed your horse treats by hand.


If you do feed a horse a treat by hand, it’s important to do so correctly. Place a piece of carrot in the palm of your hand, with the fingers lying as flat as you can get them.
Hold your hand out in front of you, where the horse can easily see it.
As the horse reaches for the treat, gently and slowly raise your hand towards the horse’s mouth. Don’t withdraw your hand at the last second, as this may cause the horse to lunge for the treat and potentially chomp your hand.Do not carry treats in your pocket. Some horses will nip at your clothes if they know there are treats in them. This can end badly for all parties.

