 Taking care of yourself by indulging in activities that make you happy can help you be nicer to others as well.Doing something you enjoy can improve your mood by distracting you from a bad mood.If you can control your mood, you’re more likely to make reasoned decisions (not emotional decisions) about how to communicate with others.
 Particularly if you are an introvert,you may need to make time alone with yourself from time to time. This can help you be nicer to others because you will feel more refreshed. This can be of particular benefit if your loved ones are the recipients of your mean behavior; taking a break from them may help you be nicer to them., Studies have shown that having vicarious experiences through others (which happens with both reading and watching well-known characters on a favorite TV show) can make you feel happier.People also experience catharsis, or a second-hand release of emotions, by experiencing events through fictional characters. Releasing emotions in a controlled environment in that way can help you control your emotions in real life.
 There is a strong connection between moderate exercise and improved mood.Regular exercise can also help you regulate your emotions in general. All of this can help lead to you feeling happier, which can help you be nicer to others. \


Consider practicing yoga. It combines physicality and mindfulness, so it has the benefits of both exercise and meditation. If you can’t get to a yoga studio, try streaming an internet yoga video or downloading a yoga application to your mobile device.If you are feeling whimsical, you might try dancing to feel better. Dancing both gives you a bit of an exercise boost and activates the pleasure centers of your brain.You may find that getting daily exercise gives you more overall energy, which can help you be productive and patient without getting irritated with other people.
 Being hungry can make you feel irritable, which can lead you to lash out at others. Eating a nutritious diet full of whole foods can make you feel healthier and happier.


Include whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and protein in your diet.Getting healthy fats can also make you feel full longer.
Avoid fat-free and overly processed foods. These often lack adequate nutrition and may leave you feeling dissatisfied. Anti-inflammatory foods and those containing Omega-3 fatty acids may particularly contribute to your feeling happier.Some specific foods that fall into this category include leafy greens, avocado, asparagus, walnuts, dark chocolate, and green tea., You may be venting your frustrations on others because you feel isolated.Spending time with friends in person can be a great way to improve your mood if you are feeling disconnected from others. Go to an early or late lunch, happy hour at your favorite bar, or dinner. If eating out isn’t in your budget, go for a walk with them or visit your local park and sit on the swings and talk.


If you’re unable to get together in person, talking on the phone and having a 2-way conversation (particularly with a funny friend!) can improve your mood quickly.

