 Many women recommend herbal supplements to naturally increase the supply of breast. The most popular and effective herbs are fenugreek seed and blessed thistle herb.


In terms of dosage, it is recommended that you take three capsules of fenugreek seed (containing 390mg per capsule) and three capsules of blessed thistle herb (containing 610mg per capsule) three times a day, with food. You should start taking these supplements as soon as you start pumping milk.
You can also purchase an herbal tea known as "Mother's Milk", which contains a blend fennel, coriander, fenugreek, blessed thistle and aniseed. It tastes like licorice and can be sweetened with honey or sugar, if desired. It should be drunk up to three times a day, directly before feedings.
In addition to encouraging increased milk production, this tea may also help to reduce gas and colic symptoms in babies.
 Water is used in the production of breast milk, therefore it is very important to stay hydrated throughout the breast feeding process.


It is recommended that breast-feeding mothers drink between 6 and 8 glasses of water per day to avoid dehydration. You can also drink herbal teas and eat fruit and veg with a high water content to increase hydration.
You can tell if you are dehydrated by looking at the color of your urine. It will be very light or straw yellow in color if you are adequately hydrated and will be dark yellow if you are dehydrated.
It's a good idea to cut back on coffee and other caffeinated drinks while you are breastfeeding, as these are diuretics which cause rapid fluid loss., A common recommendation for breastfeeding mothers is to eat oatmeal in order to increase milk supply.


There isn't much scientific evidence to explain why, but many breastfeeding moms notice an increase in their milk production on days when they eat oatmeal for breakfast.
Some theories include the fact that oatmeal contains high levels of iron and helps to reduce cholesterol - both of which are important for healthy milk production.
Aside from those reasons, oatmeal is a warming comfort food which provides lots of energy - two things that new mothers definitely need., If your baby has not yet arrived and you are finding it difficult to increase your milk supply, then you may need to work on the psychological side of lactation.


As you are pumping or manually stimulating your breasts, it's important to focus on the reason you are doing it - to feed your baby. This will help your body's natural maternal instincts to kick in and promote milk production and let down.
If you are having trouble visualizing the need for milk, you can use some props to help you. Hold a photo of the baby you are adopting, watch videos of mothers nursing their babies online, or listen to the sound of a baby suckling. Even holding an article of baby's clothing or a baby blanket can help.

