 A living donor is someone who is willing to transplant their organs, or parts of their organs, while still alive. This can help people on donation lists because they do not need to wait for a potential donor to die. Agreeing to this means you will need to undergo major surgery to remove your organs if they are needed.Living donors can only offer certain organs and tissues for donation, as they are the only ones you can live while still taking them out. Kidneys, the liver, and bone and amniotic membranes are the only organs you can offer as a living donor. Kidneys in particular are needed in the UK, and kidneys from live donors are more likely to survive as transplants than those from a deceased donor.Most living donors are family members, donating to siblings, parents, or children. It is also possible to become what is called a Non-Direct, or Altruistic, donor. This is someone who agrees to donate to someone they may not know if their organs are a good match.As a live donor, you have the right to change your mind about donating, right up to the point where you go into surgery.;
, Many religions in the UK have varied viewpoints on the morality and ethics of organ donation. The NHS provides background from several of the nation's major faiths: https://www.organdonation.nhs.uk/about-donation/what-does-my-religion-say/. You should also check with your religious leaders if you have any concerns or doubts.
 There are restrictions on the people who can be donors, to ensure that their organs are healthy and will grow if placed in a new body. Your doctor can do the tests you need to pass in order to become a donor. If you are interested, just ask him about it.The only blanket age restrictions on organ donation are in Scotland, where you must be age 16 years or older. Most donors, though, are over 18, and those under 18 are usually only considered under extreme circumstances, and need court approval. Children cannot register as non-direct donors.
You cannot be an organ donor if you have had cancer that spread in the last 12 months, a severe or untreated infection, or a nervous system condition called Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD), The NHS maintains a confidential database of everyone in the UK who has agreed to be an organ donor. There are several ways you can sign up for the Register.The NHS offers an online form, which only takes a few minutes to fill out: https://www.organdonation.nhs.uk/register-to-donate/

You can contact the NHS Donor Line, either over the phone at 0300 123 23 23 (lines open 24 hours a day, year round), or by texting SAVE to 62323.
There is a paper form that you can mail in, available at GP surgeries and hospitals.
Additionally, you can agree to be an organ donor when you apply for a driving licence or vehicle tax, register with your GP, or register for a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC).
 Once you declare your desire to become an organ donor, you will be assigned a Living Donor Coordinator, who will help walk you through the process. You will then take a series of physical tests for your general health and the specific organs you wish to donate to make sure they are healthy and could help someone in need.You will also undergo a psychological assessment as part of the process. The exam will include discussing your reasons for donating and mental health history. Organ donation can be an emotional process, and the NHS wants to make sure that there is minimal risk to your mental health.
 You should let others, such as friends or close family, know that you have signed up for organ donation. They can provide moral support if it is time for you to donate, or confirm your wishes if you are unable to when the organs are needed. In addition, you may convince other people to sign up as well.