 If you have a well-defined product but no way to finance that product, consider using a site like Kickstarter to crowd fund your idea. This allows customers to pre-order your product well in advance, giving you the money to make that product a reality. You can also offer other goodies, like t-shirts and magnets, to smaller donors who don't pay for a full product.Visit Kickstarter or another crowdfunding website to make and account and post your idea.


In order to be successful, you'll have to sell your idea on your Kickstarter page. This involves creating an engaging and well-made video and writing out things like your development process, goals, and facts about your team. Make sure to keep your backers updated throughout the production creation process.
Other crowdfunding websites include Indiegogo, RocketHub, Fundly, and Fundable. Investigate these websites and determine which is best for your business's needs., Private lending is becoming more common through online platforms. These sites, like Prosper and Lending Club, offer loans of various sizes. However, the interest rates charged reflect the risks being taken by the lenders and tend to be rather high. Investigate these sites online and research your options. Always read the fine print of any loan agreement and be sure of the charges before signing., If yours is a product-based business and you have been running for a while, consider vendor financing to meet your short-term funding needs. All this means is that you call your product or production-input vendors and request more flexible repayment of your bills. For example, you may need 45 days instead of the standard 30 days to repay these vendors.


This strategy relies on negotiation and may not be available from your vendors., Another option for some small business is to enter in small business contests. These often allow business owners to pitch their ideas to a panel of judges in order to win startup financing. Contests vary widely and may not be applicable to your industry or specific business. Search for small business contests online to see if you quality for any of them.