 It is not always possible to record every move in real time. In this case, designate certain times or situations in which you will record your behavior. You can set a reminder such as an alarm to help you remember.For example, you could count the number of times you raised your hand at the end of a class instead of trying to count how many words you spoke.
 Having a chart with appropriate columns (e.g. one each for behavior, time, and frequency) can make recording much easier. You can hand draw a chart or print one off from a computer. If you are having trouble designing the chart, look for a chart template., In some situations, the behavior measured is impossible to keep count of alone. For example, if you want to know how many times you looked down while delivering a speech, you cannot count during the speech. Instead of trying to count them as you go, record yourself with a video/audio recorder. After the event, go back and count the times you exhibited the behavior in question., The behavior being monitored will determine when/how technology will be helpful. Physical activity is a commonly monitored behavior. Technology is very well suited to help you measure anything from heart rate to steps taken in a day.Many technological devices do the work of graphing your behaviors, too.
 If you have a smartphone, you may not need to buy any new equipment. Smartphones can use apps to tell you how far you’ve walked, what pace you held, and how many calories you burned. They can be used to keep track of dietary habits, sleep patterns, and a host of other daily behaviors. If your phone does not come with an app for monitoring these behaviors, you can go to your app provider and download one., If you decide that your smartphone does not accurately measure all of the variables you want to measure, you can get more advanced equipment to monitor your behavior. Devices such as an EKG or EEG can be used to monitor the heart and brain respectively. You can also use MRI technology to monitor your brain’s behaviors. While these devices have great potential, they are not always readily available to the public and may require a large financial investment., Once you have tallied up the number of times you showed a certain behavior, you can put the information into a graph. This allows you to show the frequency of your behavior compared to another variable, such as time. This can be a great tool for monitoring your progress when working on different behaviors.