 Widgets require a minimum amount of space (indicated by the numbers below the widget names) to be able to place themselves on the home screen. Swipe your home screen to get to another home screen, and make sure you have at least a 4x2 tile space open for the widget.


Remove app shortcuts by tapping and holding them, and then dragging them to the top portion of the screen where a trash can or X icon is located.;
, Tap and hold the cleared space on your home screen. You will then see the home screen customization window.


Tap on Widgets, then scroll down the list of available widgets to find the CBS Sports widget list and then tap it. You will see three CBS Sports widgets that you can add.
Choose between the CBS Sports News Widget and the two CBS Sports Scores widgets by tapping on your choice.
 Now that the widget is in place, the CBS app will open and will allow you to choose a league that the widget will monitor. Tap on the league of your choice, and the app will exit.


The widget will then display the scores or news, depending on your choice.
 To view all the information offered by the widget, simply scroll down with a swipe on the widget. You’ll need to swipe directly on the widget for the scroll to execute.
 The refresh icon is located at the lower left corner of the widget you selected. Simply tap on the refresh icon, and the information on the widget will update.
 You can open the CBS Sports application directly from the widget by tapping on “CBS Sports” in the lower right corner. This will open the application’s main menu.
 The widget may not be the ideal size when it first places itself on the home screen. Tap and hold the widget until a small menu comes out. Tap on “Resize,” and small dots will appear along the sides of the widget border.


Tap and hold the dots to stretch the widget, and tap on the home screen when you are happy with the size.
 You will be able to move the widget by tapping and holding it, but do not let go. The widget will be lifted from the home screen, and you will be able to drag the widget anywhere on the home screen, provided there is enough space.


Once you are happy with the placement of the widget, simply let go of the widget and it will situate itself on that area of the home screen.
 You can remove the widget by tapping and holding the widget, and dragging it to the top portion of the home screen where the trashcan or the X icon is located. Let go of the widget, and it will be deleted.