 Often you won't even feel symptoms. If you believe you may have an infection, see your doctor.;
, This is exceptionally important if you have done any of the following:


Used the bathroom.
Touched raw meat, raw eggs, or unwashed vegetables.
Prepared food for consumption.
Touched dirt or soil.
Handled pets. Especially hamsters or guinea pigs.
Been in contact with someone who is ill.
If you have gotten saliva on your hands
Changed a diaper.
Played with children.
 A child's saliva could contain a virus. The virus could be harmless to them, but it could be hazardous to you and the fetus.
 If cooked properly, the juices will be clear and there will be no pink inside. Do not eat hot dogs, lunch meats, or deli meats, unless they are steaming hot.
 Avoid soft cheeses unless they have labels that tell you they are pasteurized.
 If you must change the litter, wear gloves and wash your hands thoroughly when finished. Cat litter can contain a harmful parasite that causes the infection toxoplasmosis. This infection can cause blindness or intellectual disability later in your child's life.
 Hire a professional to get rid of rats or mice in your house. If you own a pet rodent, like a hamster or guinea pig, have someone else take care of it.
,,, If you already have an STD, talk to your doctor about what you can do to reduce the risks to your child.
 Speak to your doctor about vaccines that are recommended before you become pregnant, during your pregnancy, or after the birth of your baby. The correct vaccinations at the appropriate time can keep you well, keep your baby from getting ill, or prevent health problems that may last them a lifetime.
 If you know someone who has chickenpox or rubella, stay away from them. This is very important if you have not had the infection yourself, or have not been vaccinated before getting pregnant.
 Nearly 1 in 4 women carry this type bacteria and have no symptoms. A swab test nearing the end of pregnancy will reveal if you the bacteria. If you have group B strep, discuss steps with your doctor concerning how to safeguard your baby.

