 You want the fence to be high enough for you to rest your hand at a comfortable height while riding.;
, If you know which foot is your front foot for sports like skateboarding, surfing, and snowboarding, you will want the pedal in the 4 o'clock position to be on the side of your dominant foot, and the pedal in 10 o'clock position to be for your non-dominant foot.
 Squeeze the seat comfortably with your upper thighs.
 Keep your body and the unicycle facing forward and parallel to the fence.
 Note that this is the opposite movement than you would perform on a bicycle, which requires that you step on the pedal furthest away to gain forward momentum.


It will take a lot of practice to get used to moving backward instead of forward when mounting a unicycle. Take your time and be patient.
 You will immediately have to pedal slightly to keep your balance.


You want the wheel to rotate 1/4-turn backwards as soon as you mount the unicycle. Once you mount the unicycle, the pedals should be directly vertical.
 Lean slightly forward in order to maintain your balance.
 This can take several hours to several days depending on your abilities.


Once you feel ready, you can learn to free mount by following the same steps above without the assistance of a fence or handrail. Instead, use your hands to hold on to the seat as you mount or use your arms to help you balance.
 Make sure you keep your shoulders back, a common mistake while learning is to hunch you shoulders. This allows your legs and feet to be light on the pedals. If you are heavy in your feet, the pedals become more difficult to manipulate, making pedaling and balancing harder.
 This motion will feel awkward and possibly a bit scary at first, but you'll soon get used to it.


Make sure to move the unicycle and your body in one solid piece.
Don't just bend your upper body forward at the waist as doing so will throw you off balance and fail to propel the unicycle forward.
 Imagine that your back is an extension of the seat post.


To accelerate, tilt forward slightly and apply more force on the pedals.
To slow down, sit up straight and control the force exerted on the pedals. Be sure to keep your weight over the seat and refrain from tilting backwards when slowing down as this can be dangerous.
 Be careful not to lean back and lose your balance. It is much harder to break a backward fall than a forward fall.
 As you feel comfortable, you can let go of the handrail and begin to pedal without any support.
 Be prepared to use your body to guide the unicycle in either direction.
 Because your hips are the most centered part of your body/unicycle unit, most of your power for turning will come from the hips.
 This motion needs to happen quickly in order for you to keep your balance.
 As you get more comfortable, however, you can take your hands off of the rail and use your arms to support momentum in the correct direction. To do so, wind up and swing your arms in the direction opposite of the way you are turning.
 Stay close to your center of gravity and keep your weight over the seat.
 It is much more difficult to balance on a unicycle when the wheel is stationary.
 Make sure your dominant foot is highest and your non-dominant foot is lowest.
 Look forward with your gaze in order to maintain a grounded center of gravity.
 As you gain experience, you will no longer need to use a handrail to steady yourself as you dismount.


When you no longer need to hold on to something as you come down, you will transfer your hands to the seat simultaneously as you step down. This allows you to catch the unicycle instead of letting it to fall to the ground.
 Keep the weight on your lower foot the whole time.
 Be sure to time it right so that you don't lose your balance in the process.

