 Formatting your memory card will erase all of the data on it. Make sure that any pictures or other files that are currently stored on the card have been properly backed up to another location if you wish to save them.
 Many laptops have card readers built-in, while most desktops do not. You can purchase USB card readers that simply need to be plugged into an available USB port. Make sure that you are inserting the card into the right slot, as most card readers have different slots for the various types of memory cards.
 Press ⊞ Win+E to open Windows Explorer. By default, it should take you to My Computer (Windows XP)/Computer (Windows Vista & 7)/This PC (Windows 8), which displays all of the connected drives. If you don't see this screen, use the navigation frame on the left or the address bar at the top of the window to reach it.


The Windows formatting tool is available on all versions of Windows.
 You should see your memory card listed with the rest of your attached drives. When a memory card is inserted, it acts like any other removable storage device such as a USB drive or portable hard drive.


Make sure you are right-clicking on the correct card, or you may format the wrong drive and lose all the data it contained.
 This will open the "Format Removable Disk" window. Here you can choose your formatting options before you start the format process.


File system - This is the structure of the memory card's file system. If you are using a 32GB card or smaller, you can use the FAT32 file system to ensure that it works on both Windows and Mac. If the card is 64GB or larger, you will need to format it as exFAT. Windows Vista and XP do not natively support exFAT, but it will work if your system is up to date.
Volume label - This is the name that will appear when the card is inserted. Use this to help you identify what is on the card.
Quick format - Check this box to speed up the formatting process. Almost all users will be able to choose this option without consequences.
 Click the Start button to begin the formatting. Depending on the size of the card, the formatting process may take several moments. Once it is complete, your card is ready to be used to store and transfer files.