 Starting your baby on solid foods can be intimidating. To help make sure you choose the right cereal and start your child with solid foods at the appropriate time, talk to your pediatrician.


Most pediatricians will recommend that your child (as long as they are developing normally) begins solid foods anywhere from four to six months.
Talk to your pediatrician about what type of grain they think is the most appropriate for your child. Although rice cereal is the most common, your physician may suggest something different.
Also ask your pediatrician how often to start feeding your child cereals. It's typically recommended to try two times a day when your baby isn't overly cranky or sleepy.
 Rice cereals are the most common and easily found infant cereals. You will see white rice cereal and brown rice cereal options available.


Rice cereal is typically the most commonly recommended infant cereal to start with because it is exceedingly rare for an infant to be allergic to rice.If you do choose to start with rice cereal, choose a product that is fortified with iron.
Also, choose a cereal that is made from brown rice. White rice is heavily processed and many of the nutrients have been stripped from the grain.
You may be surprised and concerned that there is arsenic in rice. But arsenic is found in the Earth’s crust, and present in water and soil. Crops absorb arsenic as they grow, that’s how it gets into our foods.The FDA has issued a limit of 100 parts per billion for arsenic in infant rice cereal. Rice cereal is a good source of nutrients for your baby, but it should not be the only one. Be sure to provide a variety of infant cereals, like oat, barley and multigrain., Another type of infant cereal that's widely available is multigrain cereal. This will introduce more than one type of grain to your infant and may provide other sources of nutrients.


Whole grain cereals may include rice, oats, wheat, barley and even flax. If it's 100% whole grain, these foods are unrefined and still contain most of their nutrient dense components.Health professionals do recommend, that like all other cereals, your multigrain infant cereal should be fortified with iron. Check the labels to see that iron has been added to the cereal.
If you are worried that some of these grains could lead to an allergy later on, note that studies do not support this. In fact, introducing some of these grains earlier on actually reduce the risk for future food allergies., 100% whole grain cereal is another option that is available to parents. This is a single grain cereal that contains all the nutrient dense components of the wheat grain.


Again, the risk of allergies to wheat do not increase by giving your child wheat cereal in an early age.
In addition, both whole wheat, multi grain and oat cereal do not contain arsenic which may be found in rice cereals (like brown rice cereal).
Look for a wheat cereal that features 100% whole wheat grains and is fortified with iron.
 If you want to give your child something other than rice or whole wheat cereal, you can try using oat cereal. It will have little to no arsenic and is still a nutritious whole grain.


Like rice cereals, oat cereal is a great option because it's a single grain cereal. In addition, the likelihood of your child being allergic to oats is very, very low.Again, check the labeling to make sure it's 100% whole grain oats (you'll find this information on the food label).
Also, this cereal should be fortified with iron as oats do not have a high level of iron naturally.

