 Your dog's eye may water a lot to the point that it looks like he's crying. The eye can look red and you might see a layer of film over your dog's eye. These can all be signs of a corneal ulcer.A corneal ulcer is like a burst blister on the surface of the clear part of the eye (the cornea).;
, If your dog is in pain because of an ulcer, he may hold the eye partially closed or rub his eye with a paw. Your Boston terrier might look like he's squinting or sensitive to light. If your dog has a corneal ulcer, you'll probably be able to tell that he's in pain based on how he's acting.Ulcers are painful and if they become infected or erode deep into the eye they can cause permanent scar tissue which interferes with vision.
 Take your dog to the vet for a diagnosis. The vet will look at your dog's eye to check for inflammation and ulcers on the surface of the cornea. The vet will also take samples to look for bacterial or fungal infection. A blood sample may be needed to rule out a viral infection.


The vet will check to see how deep the ulcer is. Serious ulcers can erode the eye deeply which can put the eye in danger., Usually, the vet will prescribe antibiotic drops to heal the ulcer and prevent infection. Most ulcers clear up within a week. If your dog isn't responding to treatment, he may need a minor procedure. The vet may need to give your dog local anesthetic and rub at the cornea with a dry cotton swab. This removes any damaged cells that are preventing the eye from healing.


Rarely, the vet may need to put the Boston terrier under full anesthetic to lightly puncture the the surface of the eye. This helps healing cells latch onto the ulcer so that it also heals.
 Boston terriers have large corneas which means that more of this delicate surface is exposed. It could easily get knocked or scratched during play. Fashion trimming (cutting the the whiskers above the eye, especially in show dogs) increases the risk of corneal ulcers.


Boston terriers need the extra protection that they get from the whiskers. Whiskers give them an extra sense of location and warning of danger so they don't knock into objects.

