 Where you decide to place it will depend on your child's actions and home set-up, but it needs to be available on a constant basis; don't pick somewhere where the child will be distracted or get in the way. If you have more than one child who consistently acts up (such as in the manner of twins or two siblings close in age), make sure that you have one seat/spot for each child.


In the show, at first many kids were easy enough that they used loose boundaries, like a rug, for their naughty spot. However, some kids were more problematic and needed clearer and more isolated naughty areas. Meanwhile, others need a "cool off" or reflection room where they could think about or even write down a resolution to their situation.
Make sure the spot isn't too comfy. Although padded chairs generally aren't allowed, there were spots in some Supernanny episodes early on in the series where small rugs were used, and others were chair cushions were used, but where child-sized chairs weren't allowed. Most often times the easiest spots to use consisted of nothing more than the floor in a corner away from most of the action in the room.
Don't blame outside factors for their bad behavior. In one of the first season's episodes, the child acted up, complaining of "foot cramps", but it turned out they just wanted mom's attention. Even if your child is craving attention, they need to learn to get it through positive means, not bad behavior.
Whatever kind of naughty spot you use, make this area known to every child.
 Stoop down and make complete eye contact with them. Explain the situation and what you will have to do if they act up again. Give them their one and only warning. Something along the lines of "(name of child), please stop (this action) right now or I'll have to put you in the naughty area!" will work.


Use an authoritative voice when you speak to them. Make sure that they realize that you are in control of them, and not the reverse. They will see that you mean business!
Don't pussyfoot around the problem. Get the job done and tell them straight up.
 Explain to them why you have put them there and how long they must sit there for the naughty time-out to be finished. Often, what will work here is "I have placed you here on the naughty spot because you did (this action). Stay here."

, Supernanny's method was to allot one minute for each year of age of the child. You can use an oven clock, a microwave clock, a hand-held timer, or your cellphone timer.
 If they get off this spot, return the child to the naughty area without talking to them. Restart the timer from the time you sit them back down. If the child gets back up, after placing them back down, you must bring them back and place them back to the area on the third time - follow through each time and reset the timer. Make sure they have served one full cycle of naughty-area time on the naughty area, without interruption.


Never place the child in their bed or crib as a Naughty Area place. The child will associate bed with punishment, which isn't a good connection to make.
Don't ever place the child in places where there is a safety hazard close by. Keep them away from the oven and similarly dangerous areas.
If there are items on a shelf nearby the area, watch for a temper tantrum from the child. If they reach for or throw the items, you may need to relocate this spot to another area.
 Go over to the child and explain for the last time why they were put there. Ask them tell you that they are sorry. Use something along the lines of "(Mommy/daddy/grandma) has placed you in the Naughty area because you (action child took to deserve the spot). Please tell me that you are sorry." Most, by that point, will oblige and learn from the experience.


If you have a child who hasn't stopped misbehaving after the time is complete, be consistent with the method and keep using it until they do. This is done to ensure the child realizes that their parents do still love them, but they need to behave none-the-less. Consistency is key.
If they do not say sorry, they will need more time in the naughty area. Add one more round of naughty area time. Repeat this as long as necessary until the child can admit to their wrong-doing. However, over repetitive naughty area times can really be emotionally scarring, so don't abuse your power as the parent. They should get the point after a few times.
Remember eye contact. If the child looks away or replies rudely, this could lead to more trouble down the line. Repeat the naughty area time until they are sincerely apologetic.
 Let them know you love them, and let them go back to what they were doing with, hopefully, a clearer and calmer head. If they misbehave again, repeat the routine, but if not, provide praise for handling themselves better.

