 Think about the jobs you have held, the job you have now, and your plans are for the future. Is your current job a step in the right direction? Is it where you need to be to achieve your goals?


If your job doesn’t make sense for you – if, for example, you are sorting mail but have an accounting degree and want to become an auditor – then you have a good reason to move on.
If your job does seem like a good fit for you career path, you need to evaluate further. Why do you want to leave? Are you ready for increased responsibilities? Do you need a new challenge?;
, If you have lost interest in your current job and feel strongly that you are ready for a change, it may be time to switch careers. Perhaps you started out as a sales representative but realized you have a strong passion for technology – you can consider pursuing a new career in IT.
 Does your current job provide you with opportunities to increase your knowledge through skills training or management training? Does it offer the opportunity for career advancement through promotions and additional responsibilities? If you have the desire to grow and advance but cannot do so at your current job, it may be time to look for a new employer.
 Do you feel underappreciated at your current job? Are you underpaid? It you believe that your efforts and contributions to your company are not fairly recognized or compensated, it may be time to move to a new position.


If you are unsure about what kind of salary you should be making, consult career databases and websites to figure out the average salary for someone in your position.
 If the future of your current company seems uncertain, you may feel uncomfortable and insecure. It makes sense, in this situation, to consider seeking employment elsewhere – that way, your career trajectory will not be affected by your company’s issues. Factors that can contribute to instability include:


the possibility that the company will be sold, acquired, or merged with another organization. When a company undergoes these kinds of changes, layoffs are a real possibility; your employer may need to reduce staff and increase efficiency.
a shaky or declining financial situation. A company in financial trouble will look to reduce costs in every way possible. This can include eliminating jobs, decreasing pay, or reducing benefits.
a pattern of recent layoffs. Whenever a company begins laying off large numbers of employees, the future seems uncertain. Everyone wonders who is next.
 If your job has caused you so much stress that you are physically, mentally, and emotionally exhausted, it may be time to change jobs. Your health is truly at stake. Signs of burn out include:


lack of energy
reduced productivity
increased frustration and cynicism
a lack of patience
trouble getting motivated to start your work day
feelings of disillusionment about your job
changes in appetite or sleep habits
aching in the head, back, or neck

, Many employees are highly stressed but not yet burnt out completely. Is this your situation? It is normal and acceptable to feel very stressed out occasionally, but prolonged periods of severe stress can definitely take a toll on your body and lead to burnout. Ask yourself what’s causing your stress and whether that situation is likely to improve. If your work stressors cannot be reduced or are related to things outside your control, it might be time to make a change. These factors might include:


a clash of management styles. If your boss is a micromanager, but you feel anxious and unhappy with someone constantly looking over your shoulder, it might be time to look for a new job.
a very fast-paced environment. If you are happier in a less demanding environment, a company that expects constant, fast-paced work is likely to cause you major stress.
an increased workload with no relief. If your workload never seems to stop growing, and your manager cannot provide some kind of relief, your stress levels will continue to increase.
 If you are bored at your current job, you will not be motivated to succeed. Ask yourself whether you are ready for a new challenge. If you are, and your employer cannot provide you with new opportunities, it may be time to seek employment elsewhere.
 Many jobs present serious health risks. Whether you handle hazardous chemicals or climb tall buildings, it’s understandable to evaluate these risks and decide that you’d like to do something less dangerous. If you are no longer comfortable with the risks associated with your current job, look for a new one.
 Pursuing higher education to advance your career prospects in the long term can be a valid reason to quit your current job. Going back to school takes time and effort; it can be too demanding in addition to a full-time job.
 Both men and women should consider staying home to raise a family. It is a valid life choice to choose to stay with your children during the day rather than placing them in childcare. Do you want to be a full-time parent? If so, talk to your spouse or partner and decide if quitting your job is financially feasible.
 If you plan to relocate and will be too far away to commute to your present job, ask about your options – you may be able to telecommute. If not, then it’s time to look for a job in your new location.
 In most cases, you do not have to retire just because you have reached an appropriate age. Delaying your retirement may make good financial sense, and you may feel more comfortable if you continue to be productive. If you don’t feel ready, don’t quit your job.
 If you are considering retirement, you should talk to a professional who can help you evaluate your finances. Look at your retirement savings plan, and consider whether you will be able to get by on a set monthly income.
 Many people feel uncomfortable and unproductive just sitting at home. Consider the possibility that you will feel bored or lonely if you are not working every day. Don’t quit until you feel sure that you’d prefer not to be at work.
 Retirement is a major decision, and ideally, you and your spouse or partner should come to an agreement about when the best time for retirement might be. If you want to retire, feel financially prepared, and have discussed your plans with your partner, go ahead and quit your job.

