 The classic sailor suit is white with royal blue stripes. The idea is to take the color palate of the classic sailor suit and complement it with other hues like red and light brown.Adding not so nautical colors will help to mix up your outfits and keep your look from being a costume. You don’t want to look like you’re dressing for Halloween! Instead, think of nautical as a style you can customize to fit your wardrobe.;
, Start with basic pieces that you can then pair with other bottoms or tops.Look for a striped shirt with vertical stripes, rather than horizontal stripes. Horizontal stripes can make your torso look wider, rather than long and slim.
Don’t be afraid to go bold with your stripes. Make a statement with large or thick stripes on a shirt or a skirt.
Go for lightweight, breathable fabrics like cotton, jersey, and denim. You can wear nautical year round, though it may be more suited to warmer seasons like spring and summer., Jeans are a great way to integrate nautical style into your wardrobe, especially a dark navy skinny jean or a relaxed boyfriend jean.


You can also go for a pair of cropped navy pants or a pair of high waisted jean shorts to add some variety to your nautical look., If you’re dress your nautical style down for a casual day out, go for a striped shirt, jeans, and comfortable flats or sandals in light brown. You could also slip on a pair of tennis shoes or your favorite white Converses.For a more dressy night out, choose a dress with stripe details or a small anchor print. Or go for a pair of cotton pants and a striped blouse. Add white heels or wedges to the outfit to complete the dressy nautical look.
Another great way to add some nautical to your look is to wear a navy or white blazer with a striped shirt, jeans, and flats. For a night out, pair the blazer with a navy or striped dress and a pair of simple wedge heels.
 Keep only one element, like a shirt or skirt, nautical. Then, keep the other outfit elements simple so they complement the nautical piece.This could be as easy and effortless as pairing a striped blazer with a plain t shirt and jeans or with a collared white shirt and a pair of navy pants.
You can also add different textures to your outfit, like a white cashmere sweater instead of a blazer, or a ribbed sweater on top of a white collared shirt.
 Choose a striped purse with rope details or gold jewellery with anchors or sail boats, but don’t pile one too many accessories at once. The key is to highlight one main accessory and then keep any other accessories simple and minimal.


Look for a striped purse with brown leather details or rope details.Go for a bold statement necklace in gold with blue or white details. Look for a bracelet with anchors or little lobster charms. Or layer on two or three thin gold necklaces for a more subtle look.
Add a thin gold belt to a navy or striped dress to give your outfit a fun, chic element.
Make your outfit nautical with a cotton scarf in navy or in an anchor print.

