 Almost all modern computers are equipped with a drive that can write CDs. You may run into an issue with an older machine, but in general if the computer was made within the last 10 years it can probably burn. Netbooks without an optical drive will need an external drive connected in order to burn.


If you want to burn audio CDs, you will need CD-R discs. These can be written to, but cannot be rewritten. CD-RW discs can be rewritten, but many readers will not be able to read these so they should be avoided if you are making an audio CD.
More expensive CD-Rs may last longer and may be prone to less error. The most popular brands are Memorex, Phillips, and Sony.
While you can burn an audio DVD, there are very few devices which can read these. Avoid burning an audio DVD if you want it to work in as many devices as possible.
 The Burn tab is located on the right side of the Windows Media Player window, between the Play and Sync tabs. This will open a list for you to add tracks to.


If Windows Media Player is in Now Playing mode, you will need to switch to Library mode by pressing Ctrl+1.
 Click and drag songs, albums, or playlists from your library. As long as you have a blank CD-R inserted already, you will see a bar at the top of the Burn list that shows how much space you have left on the disc.
 Click the Tools menu and select Options. Click the Burn tab. You can set the disc to eject automatically after being burned, level the volume across all the tracks on the CD, burn without a gap between songs, and more. Once you are satisfied with your settings, click Apply and then OK.


Lowering the write speed from maximum on older computers can help prevent errors while burning.
 Click the "Start burn" button at the top of the Burn tab. Your disc will automatically start burning with the settings from the Options menu. Depending on the speed of your drive, this process may take several minutes., After the burn process is complete, you can test out your new CD. If it sounds good and all your tracks play correctly, you can label it and share it or use it yourself.

