 It’s important to understand the two forms of fiber, and which foods contain soluble or insoluble fiber.Soluble fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material, which can lower your cholesterol and blood glucose levels. It also slows down your digestion and is more likely to cause gas. It is found in foods like oat bran, barley, nuts, seeds, beans, lentils, peas, and some fruits and vegetables. Consume more water to help absorb soluble fiber. This is important when taking any fiber supplement as well.
Insoluble fiber does not dissolve in water. It promotes movement in your digestive tract, so it accelerates your digestion. As a result, it causes you to have less gas than soluble fiber. Insoluble fiber is found in foods such as whole wheat flour, wheat bran, nuts, green beans, and potatoes.;
, It’s important to balance your fiber consumption so you eat both insoluble and soluble fiber sources. This will help you stay healthy and get enough fiber in your diet.But to cut down on gas, try substituting certain soluble fiber foods with insoluble fiber foods.For example, oat bran contains mostly soluble fiber, and wheat bran contains more insoluble fiber. So, regular wheat bran cereal or bran muffins may cause less gas than oat bran cereal or oat bran muffins., Beans are known to be major sources of gas, but dried beans may cause less gas, post meal. Soaking the dried beans overnight before you eat them can lessen the impact of beans on your digestive system. , These foods are great sources of fiber, but they can cause gas and bloating. If possible, limit your consumption of these foods to once a month, or substitute these foods for other vegetables that are less gas-inducing.Leafy green vegetables like spinach, collard greens, and lettuce are mostly packed with insoluble fiber, so they are a good source of nutrients and should cause less gas.
Avoid raw vegetables, as they are harder for your body to break down and can lead to gas. Steam or cook vegetables before you eat them., The bacteria in your stomach and small intestine need time to catch up with your fiber consumption. Adding too much fiber too quickly can cause gas, bloating, cramps, and diarrhea. Increase your fiber intake about 5 grams (0.2 oz) per a day, over a period of 1-2 weeks, to allow your body time to adjust.You may experience bloating and gas at the beginning of your fiber intake. But over time, your body will adjust to the fiber and you should see a reduction in bloating and gas.Remember to increase fiber with water at the same time. Increase water intake anytime you add fiber to your diet to prevent constipation.
 The recommended fiber intake for older children, adolescents, and adults is no more than 35 grams (1.2 oz) of fiber a day.Younger children will not be able to eat enough calories to achieve this amount of fiber in their daily diet. But you should introduce whole grains, fresh fruits, and leafy greens to your child’s diet so they can build up their tolerance for fiber over time.
 Water helps to push the fiber through your digestive system. Staying hydrated also prevents the fiber from hardening and obstructing your intestine. Dehydration and a build up of fiber in your body can lead to some uncomfortable moments in the bathroom.You should also stay hydrated if you drink coffee throughout the day. Caffeine is a diuretic that pulls fluids from your body and makes you urinate. This can lead to dehydration. For every 1 cup of caffeinated fluid you consume, you should drink 2 glasses of decaffeinated fluids. Too much caffeine in your body, coupled with a fiber rich diet, can lead to constipation and gas.