 The Platypus is the ship that brought Niko Belic to Liberty City at the very beginning of the game. The ship is docked at East Hook in Broker, one of the four major islands located on the southeast part of the map. Take a car, and drive Niko all the way to the port area in East Hook.;
, As you approach the Platypus, a cut scene will play, marking the start of the mission. Walk towards the ship and kill any enemy that comes your way. Once you start shooting, all the other men on the ship and port will begin attacking you.


You can use the boxes and trucks on the area as cover.
 Once you’ve cleared the port area, climb up the metal staircase to get on the ship. Once you’re on board, there will be a lot of enemies that will start shooting at you, and a heavy gun fight will begin.
 Do so slowly and carefully, using the cargo crates for cover. Shoot down enemy characters as you make your way towards the front of the ship.


You can use the sniper rifle here to target enemies on the farther side of the deck.
 Do so once you’ve reached the front section of the ship, and climb up the stairs to get to the bridge at the very top.


There are a lot of enemies hiding here, so use the assault rifle to quickly shoot down enemies at close range.
 You will need to do this inside the bridge. Follow the arrow that will appear onscreen to operate the lever on the ship’s control panel. A cut scene will play, showing the cargo hold of the ship opening.
 There are still enemies waiting downstairs, so have your gun ready and take down enemies you run into.
 Use the stack of boxes to slowly drop inside the cargo hold. Use the large wooden crates inside as your cover, and quickly kill any enemy characters that attack you. Head to other side of the area, and you’ll find Dimitri waiting for you.
 A cut scene will play showing Niko and Dimitri talking. After the scene is done, the gun fight between you and Dimitri will start.


Dimitri will be marked with a red arrow over his head, so it’s easy to spot him.
There will be a lot of other Russians who will attack you as well, so be careful.
Shoot at Dimitri every chance you get, using the crates as your cover. As he becomes seriously wounded, the final cut scene will play.
 After the cut scene is done, all you need to do now is to shoot Dmitri on any part of his body to kill him and complete the mission.

