 Corporate investigators investigate different types of allegations, criminal frauds, irregularities in accounts, electronic crime, embezzlement, information leaks, drug use, and other criminal activities that are suspected to a have taken place within a corporation. They are eligible to perform internal as well as external investigation activities for the organization.


Internal investigations include the activities performed inside the company to check expense account abuse, drug abuse by employees, or other crimes committed by employees or on company premises.
External investigation activities include checking the criminal activities done outside the company, like fraudulent actions taken by customers or suppliers to the corporation.;
, Corporate investigators are required to have a multifaceted skill set that they can use to investigate a case from every conceivable angle. This means you not only need to have the people skills to interview and assess the reactions of employees, but also the technical skill to comb through accounting and computer records. You will also need a large degree of patience and determination, as investigations can sometimes stretch on for long periods of time., Before becoming a corporate investigator, you should see whether or not the market is ready for more of them. Currently, the job market for this job is experiencing healthy growth and is expected to grow another 22 percent by 2018. As for salary expectations, in 2015 the average corporate investigator made $83,000. However, the exact pay you can expect varies based on your experience, employer, and location., There are many other jobs that require similar skills and possess responsibilities similar to those of a corporate investigator. For example, auditors review accounting records for errors or mishandled financial reporting. Financial examiners look at the same documents, but do so to check compliance with federal financial regulations. These careers are good options for those who enjoy the financial investigation aspect of the corporate investigator's job.


Other options include more traditional police and detective work and becoming an insurance claims investigator., Corporate investigators come from a variety of backgrounds. Successful investigators often come over from public law enforcement or accountancy, but recent college graduates are also accepted. If you are not trained in any type of business analysis, fraud detection, or criminal justice, you may want to seek additional education or experience in a related field before pursuing work as a corporate investigator.


Other prospective investigators can come from legal, insurance adjustment, or financial backgrounds., Corporate investigators are typically required to hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited university. Regardless of the major, they are expected to at least have some coursework in finance, accounting, and/or business. Typical majors include criminal justice and political science, as well as more business-focused majors. These degrees are available from many different public and private educational institutions., It is not required, but some corporate investigators, especially those focused on computer forensics or financial investigations, hold graduate-level degrees or certifications. For example, financial investigator often possess the certified public accountant (CPA) designation. Computer forensic specialists may hold a master's degree in computer science or computer forensics. While these degrees may make you a more competitive candidate, they are by no means required., In most states, corporate investigators must be licensed to legally perform their duties. These requirements, and the task required to obtain the license, vary by state. In general, you will need to pass a written exam and background check in order to get the certification. You may also need a certain level of education or amount of experience.


Several states that do not require licenses at the state level do so at the local level.
The agency or bureau in charge of corporate investigator licensing varies by state.
Even when a license is not required, a corporate investigator may wish to get a private investigator (PI) license so that they can legally employ certain investigation strategies., Search online for corporate investigation internships. There are many small corporate investigation firms spread out across the world, so locating at least one that needs some help should not be difficult. Keep in mind that these internships, like many others, may be unpaid. However, you need to decide if the experience gained is worth the cost of working for free.
 When you sufficiently educated and qualified, it is time to search for corporate investigator jobs. There are a variety of employer options in both the public and private sectors. For example, private corporate investigation firms, such as Kroll and K2, along with a number of smaller firms, continue to grow and hire more investigators around the world.Corporations may also have internal investigation groups, which hold investigators on retainer for investigations of their own company.In the public sector, a variety of federal organizations and bureaus have corporate investigation teams. For example, the IRS has a criminal investigation unit that investigates tax fraud by corporations., Corporate investigators typically learn most of their trade through on-the-job training provided after they are hired. This training may include topics like finance, business practices, and management structures. New hires are commonly paired with experienced investigators on cases until they are ready to tackle cases on their own., Business technologies and regulations are constantly changing, so an effective corporate investigator must undergo regular training and continuing education to ensure that they remain effective. Be sure to take advantage of any of these opportunities offered by your employer or by a third party. This is especially true for those who specialize in or frequently use computer forensics.