 If you're really in the mood for french fries, decrease the amount you order by ordering a smaller size. The fewer fries that are available, the fewer you can eat.


Try ordering a small with your meals. Many restaurants also offer a "kid’s size" which contains even fewer fries than the typical small size.
If you're at a fast food restaurant do not up-size your order. Increasing the size of your meal usually involves getting a larger portion of fries with your meal.
Skip the option to have bottomless fries or free refills. Many restaurants now offer bottomless fries or free refills with your meals. Skip these options and ask your waiter to not refill your fry basket.
 If you're going to order fries with your order, choose a healthier entree. This may help decrease the overall calorie level of your meal.


For example, if you normally get a fried chicken sandwich and fries, order a grilled chicken sandwich with fries instead.
This type of compensation may save you calories and fat by making a healthier sandwich choice, while allowing you to enjoy your true favorite, your french fries.
 If you received fries with your meal, eat them last. Go for your entree or fruit/vegetable side first.


If you're eating your main dish and low-calorie side dishes first, this may help fill your stomach so there will not be as much room for the fries.
You can also try ordering extra vegetables or a small side salad as an appetizer to help fill you up on lower calorie items.
 There are a variety of things you can do, especially when you're out to eat, that can help decrease how many fries you eat.


If you know your entree comes with fries, ask for half a portion or a kid’s portion. They may be able to serve you less.
You can also try having the waiter box up half of your meal, including the fries, before they bring it to your table. If they are out of sight, it'll be more likely they'll be out of mind.
Try asking the waiter to clear your plate the minute you think you've eaten enough fries. Even when you're satisfied, staring at your plate full of fries can be a difficult temptation to manage.
If you're at home, serve yourself a small portion of fries. Package the remaining fries and store them in the refrigerator for another time.
 If you're not paying attention to your meal, you may end up eating more than you planned or you may not feel satisfied with smaller amounts.


Take time to truly savor the french fries you order. If you rush through your meal and don't take the time to smell them or taste them, it may leaving you wanting more. This will make it more difficult to stick to a smaller portion.
Eat slowly and stop when you are only 80% full. Wait 20 minutes before eating again. During this time, your brain will catch up with your stomach and let you know that you are no longer hungry.
 There are times when you're craving fries and you feel there is little chance of only eating a few of them. It may be easier to skip the fries completely.


A rough or stressful day at work may trigger french fry cravings. If you give it, it might be next to impossible not to overindulge.
If this is the case, try skipping the fries altogether. This might prevent a binge or a serious incident of overindulging. If you know you cannot control yourself, be safe by avoiding the temptation.

