 Alcohol decreases awareness, so people are less likely to take note of aggressive or coercive behavior. It is best to stay lucid, especially when with acquaintances and strangers.;
, Keep it with you always- even to the restroom. Date rape drugs like rohypnol ("roofies"), gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) and ketamine, which all can cause loss of or altered consciousness, are easily mixed into drinks when you are not looking. They are mostly tasteless, odorless (difficult to detect) and have no known or easily administered antidotes. Do not drink from communal containers, such as punch bowls.
 A substance could been added to your beverage during your absence, so get another drink. If someone offers to buy you a drink, watch the bartender prepare it and only accept the drink from the bartender.
 Do not allow new acquaintances to know you are alone at an event or that you live by yourself.
 If you are uncertain that someone wants to engage in further sexual activity, or your sexual partner is not acting responsive to you, then you should stop and ask her/him how s/he feels before proceeding further. Do not take silence as a yes.
 Never assume a person interprets your passivity correctly -- where you are disinterested, they may perceive interest or believe that you wish to be pursued. If you are not interested in someone, make that clear to him/her. If a person's advances make you feel nervous, have nothing to do with them.
 If a person turns you down for either a date or sexual activity, do not continue to press the issue. An individual has the right to end sexual activity, even if they have previously or are currently involved in sexual behavior with you. Do not push personal boundaries.
,, You have every right to stop a sexual act from continuing at any time, regardless of your attraction to the other person or any prior sexual acts you have done with them.
 Is he rude and aggressive with them?

, Always meet initial dates in public and do not allow them to come to your home until you have known them for some time. Do not be pressured into inviting an individual into your home, even it's for an innocuous reason such as having a glass of water or using the bathroom.
 Alternately, use public transport or ask a friend/relative to drop you home. If you have no safe transport, ask a local police person's help. It is always better to prepare/plan for your return transportation in advance such as being aware of bus timings, cab numbers etc.
 Meet up for dates and leave separately. Or go on double dates until you feel comfortable being alone with your boyfriend/girlfriend.
, This is specifically directed at individuals who won't take "no" for an answer when you reject their romantic/sexual overtures and also those who attempt to coerce you into behavior that you find uncomfortable. If someone does this, cut off all communication.
 You are also not obligated to engage in sexual activity with someone after an 'X' amount of dates. Never date a person who espouses those beliefs.
 Do not give out your room number, and ask hotel/apartment staff not to give out your information to anyone who may call to ask about it. Once you are with someone in their room - or they, in yours - it is much more difficult to extract yourself from a bad situation.
 Notify staff if someone at the venue is harassing you.
 If your instincts are warning you to be afraid of a person or a situation, leave immediately.
 Yell, kick, pound on a wall, throw things, do everything possible to attract outside attention.
 Women especially are taught that in order to be "good," we must be docile, accepting, quiet and polite. This is wrong, especially at times when you feel threatened. If your instincts tell you that you need to get away from someone, get away and don't worry about hurting his/her feelings or causing a scene.
 Arrive together, check in with each other at various intervals, and leave together. Don't allow anyone you do not know take your friend somewhere else, even if it's not that far away, without checking on your friend first. If a friend appears intoxicated or high, escort them to a safe place immediately.
 If you believe that a person is unable to give consent at that time, or that they are being coerced into a sexual act, make a scene. Tell the perpetrator(s) that you don't approve of what he/they are doing, demand that the perpetrator(s) stop, and call the police.
, Call a cab, offer to escort someone home if a situation seems to be getting out hand.
, If you find yourself in this situation, do what your instincts tell you to do to survive.
 Nobody "invites" sexual assault.

