 Does someone think they can control you without authority? Do they often give you unjustified orders and expect you to do things for them?;
, When someone tells you to do something you are not comfortable with, say "No." Start with small requests, if saying no is difficult for you.
 Show your friendly, nice side so that people will look up to you. Practice good judgment. Make people want to look up to you and look to you for advice.
 When someone makes a suggestion and tries to get you to do something, think about why you want to do it. Do you want to do it because you enjoy it or because that person wants you to? Do not use another person's goals and ambitions. Seek liberty for yourself.
 Instead of always going along with someone else's plan, take initiative and plan things for yourself.
 It's never too late to figure out what you want, and pursue it— or to revise what your goals once were.
 If the people around you have been dragging them down, cut ties with them. You may have been discouraged from dreaming, or acting in a certain way, or been accused of acting better than your status. Anyone who does that is not someone you should be around often.


Of course, it isn't always possible to completely cut ties with these people. Some are coworkers that you need to tolerate, or close family you can't cut out. Ignore those people, and interact with them as little as you can.
 One common mark of a "follower" is being complacent and avoiding change, sticking to the same old drudgery. Don't get caught in your comfort zone.


These changes can be as small as the genre of books you read, to where you vacation, to as big as your place of employment. Don't be afraid to make changes and try things out.
 Both freedom to pursue your own goals and freedom to have and pursue your own ideals are important to have.
 You probably don't need to attain politician-levels of leadership skills, but communication skills and public speaking skills, but those skills are important for any leader.
 Don't hold yourself back because of what others will think. If success, to you, means retiring later and being productive for longer— do it. If success to you means working long hours to get stuff done— do it. If success to you means having a strong work-life balance— do it. If success to you means focusing on moving upward at all costs— do it.


Cooperate to achieve goals, but don't compromise on your objectives.
 Having the skills you need can greatly improve both your confidence in yourself, and others' confidence in you. Both continuing education and your first education are very important.
 Speak out about politics, and any causes that matter to you. Obviously, not everyone will convert to your viewpoint, but leaders should be active and engaged members of society.
 Be a hard worker at your job, and do extra activities outside of that such as volunteering.

