 As soon as you know a divorce is imminent, you should speak to a lawyer. A lawyer is an excellent sounding board during a turbulent time. Your lawyer can help advise you about how to protect yourself. He or she can also handle the divorce paperwork.


Ask friends or colleagues who have been divorced if they would recommend their divorce lawyer.Also ask what they liked about the lawyer. If the lawyer sounds like someone you could work with, then you can then research the attorney’s website later.
If you don’t have any personal recommendations, then you should contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.;
, Once you have a short list of referrals, you should call the lawyers and schedule a consultation with each. While on the phone, ask how much the consultation will cost. Many lawyers provide free consultations, but some might charge a small fee.


Consultations typically last 15-30 minutes. During the meeting, the lawyer will ask questions to try and understand your situation. You also will be able to ask some questions of the lawyer.
An important question to ask is how much the lawyer costs. Attorneys can use different billing arrangements. For example, many divorce lawyers will charge by the hour. Others, however, might charge a flat-fee for a simple divorce.
You should also ask how the divorce is likely to turn out. What property might you get? Will you get child support or alimony?, It is important to hire a lawyer you feel comfortable with. During your consultation, note how comfortable you feel talking to the lawyer. You will want to hire someone who listens to you.Also note how clearly the lawyer explains things. You can’t participate meaningfully in your divorce if you don’t understand what is happening. Try to find a lawyer who makes the divorce process easy to understand.
You don’t need a “pit bull” for a divorce lawyer.In fact, you should avoid any attorney who appears too confrontational. An experienced divorce lawyer can protect your rights without unnecessarily angering your spouse.
 Once you find a lawyer you are comfortable with, you should call him or her up and say you want to hire them. The lawyer will tell you what next steps to take.


You will probably have to sign an engagement letter. The engagement letter will spell out the fee arrangement and your lawyer’s responsibilities.You should read it closely before signing.
If you need to make changes to the letter, then call the attorney and discuss them. The lawyer should send you a revised engagement letter to sign. Be sure to keep a copy for your records.
 Once you hire a divorce lawyer, use them. Have your spouse work through your attorney, if possible.


You shouldn’t ever sign anything without running it past your lawyer first.Your spouse or your spouse’s lawyer might try to pressure you into signing agreements, so be prepared for that.
Simply say, “Oh, I need some time to look this over” and then take the document to your lawyer. Your lawyer will read the document and advise you about whether to sign.
 Although your instinct might be to leave the home, this could hurt your chances of getting custody later on. Instead, you should try to stay in the house and make it work.If you and your spouse cannot be around each other, then you could consider “time-sharing.”Under this arrangement, you might divide the week—one of you will be in the house Monday through Thursday, and the other will stay Friday through Sunday.
 Your spouse might try to split with the kids. You need to keep him or her from leaving with the children. Remind your spouse that he or she doesn’t have a right to take the children.If you think your spouse is in imminent danger of leaving with the children, you need to get a temporary restraining order.To get the restraining order, visit the courthouse in your county. You will have to fill out some paperwork. Often, you can get a temporary restraining order in a day.
 When a judge needs to decide child custody, she will look at a variety of factors. One factor is how supportive you are about maintaining your children’s relationship with the other parent. A judge will not be impressed if you badmouth the other parent or otherwise try to alienate your children from your spouse.You might be tempted to say negative things about your spouse in front of the children. You need to try your best not to.
If you feel a snarky comment coming on, take a deep breath and count to three. Leave the room and call a friend to complain to if you must vent.
 You might begin dating soon after agreeing to divorce. Whatever you do, don’t invite your new boyfriend or girlfriend over to the house. You will only increase tensions.


Even if you are time-sharing the house, it is not a good idea to have your new partner visit. You never know when your spouse might pop in to get something. You also don’t really know how your children will respond.
Also, your children will also probably tell your spouse if someone has visited the house.
 You don’t want your spouse to destroy important documents, such as a prenuptial agreement, birth certificates, pension documents, etc. You should move them someplace out of reach of your spouse.For example, you could rent a safety deposit box at a bank. Alternately, you could move the documents to a friend or your workplace.
Make copies of any joint records: titles, deeds, bank statements, tax returns, etc. Keep a copy of the records in a safe place.
 You might own valuable items, such as a coin collection, art, or jewelry. You will want to store these items outside the house so that they can’t be stolen.You can only remove property if it is your personal property. It can’t be property you own with your spouse.For example, if someone gave you and your spouse a painting, you can’t personally remove it, since you don’t own it outright.
If you have questions about whether you own the property outright, then talk to your lawyer.
 You should make a record of your marital property. Marital property is property you own with your spouse, because you both bought it together or because it was given to both of you. You can record the property in a couple of ways:


Walk through your home and videotape the property. Make sure that the date shows accurately on the video. Open closets and drawers and pull out items to record. You want the viewer to have a good sense of the condition of your property.Take photographs. You could also take color photographs of possession.
 You should call the credit card company and cancel. Make sure not to tell your spouse that you are cancelling the cards. If you do, then he or she could rack up thousands in purchases.If your spouse has already begun charging large sums of money, you can report the card as stolen. Under federal law, you will only be responsible for $50 or so in charges., You should change any passwords to your online financial accounts, such as bank accounts, retirement accounts, etc.Don’t tell your spouse your new passwords.


You also should change the passwords to your email address or your laptop. You might not think your spouse knows these passwords, but he or she might. It is a good idea to change them in any event.
 You should begin reducing your expenses so that you can save up money for the divorce. With your spouse, go through your monthly expenses and cut anything that is unnecessary.For example, you can cut cable television, extra telephone lines, and Netflix.
Also, sell possession neither of you want to keep. Remember to discuss this with your spouse. If you own a possession jointly, you shouldn’t sell it without your spouse’s approval.
 The best financial protection will be a steady stream of income. If you were a stay-at-home Mom or Dad, then you face the prospect of having to support yourself after the divorce. Unless your spouse is very wealthy, you will need to get a job to support yourself.Schedule a consultation with a job coach. Dust of your resume and review it with the coach to see how you can strengthen it. If you have been out of the job force for a long time, then your coach can help you identify volunteer opportunities to bolster your resume.
Identify jobs and apply for them. You should start as soon as possible. If you have a job, then you can approach the divorce differently. You will see that you have options, and you can be more assertive during the divorce.
 Instead of getting into fights with your spouse, you can pour out your feelings in a journal.Write down all the things you know you can’t say to your spouse or children.


Keep the journal in a safe location so that your spouse can’t find it.
 Instead of keeping a journal, you might want to meet up with a friend just to vent. Call up a trusted a friend and tell him or her that you need to unload to someone. You can then get a coffee or lunch at a secluded spot.


Don’t overburden any one friend. If you think the divorce is stressful on you, then realize it is also stressful for your friends. You should rotate people that you meet with so that you don’t exhaust any one person’s patience.
Also think about meeting with a therapist. You will have to pay; however, a professional might be able to help you work through your emotions and emerge from the divorce with a new outlook on life. You can find a therapist by contacting your health insurer and finding someone in your health network.
 It is important to pay particular attention to your physical health during stressful times. Accordingly, you should try to make simple changes that will improve your mood and physical well-being.


Admittedly, you will not be able to completely change your lifestyle during a stressful divorce. However, you can try to make only a few simple changes. For example, limit coffee, sugar, and alcohol.Instead of an alcoholic beverage, reach for a cold bottle of water.
Don’t forget exercise. If you are an emotional eater, then throw on some sneakers and sweatpants and go for a sprint around the neighborhood instead of opening the refrigerator door. Exercise will elevate your mood and reduce anxiety or stress., Some divorces go smoothly. Others are very ugly. It is fairly common for one spouse to make false claims against the other during a divorce. You should prepare emotionally and mentally for this to happen.


Claims of child molestation and domestic violence are particularly common during divorce proceedings.You should call your lawyer if your spouse makes any claims such as these.
 You should immediately call the police if your spouse hits or threatens violence against you or your children. The police should come to your home and file a report.After you are safe, call your lawyer and let them know what happened. Your lawyer can then help you get a restraining order.
If your spouse violates the restraining order, then you should call the police again. The police will then pick up your spouse.

