 Once judgment is entered against the debtor, the debtor will have a 30 day period in which they can appeal the judgment or ask the court to vacate the judgment.After this 30 day period has passed, and if you have not been paid in full, you may move to seize the debtor's assets in order to satisfy your judgment., Before you can seize a debtor's assets, you will need to be able to tell the sheriff (who is responsible for the actual seizing process) where the assets are located.To find a debtor's assets, (i.e., bank accounts, wages, and other personal property), you can take any of the following actions:


Look at the information contained in the Statement of Assets, which is a form the debtor may have filled out after judgment was entered.This form requires the debtor to reveal the location and identification of all of their assets.If the debtor failed to fill out and return a Statement of Assets, you can get the court to order the debtor to return to court in order to reveal the location and identification of their assets.If the debtor shows up to court, the judge will ask them about the assets. If the debtor does not show up, a warrant may be issued for their arrest.If all else fails, you can try and locate the debtor's assets on your own. You might try contacting the debtor and their family and friends, or you may try and locate them by hiring an investigator.
 Once you know the location of the debtor's assets, you will fill out and file a Writ of Execution, which is a form issued by the clerk of courts that describes the details of a judgment and empowers a sheriff to seize assets.A Writ of Execution can be found online at your local court's website, or you can go to the courthouse in person to obtain one.
There is usually a fee associated with having a Writ of Execution issued.Check with your local court to see what the fee is and if it can be waived.
 The two most common assets seized are wages and bank accounts.If you are garnishing a debtor's wages, you will need to fill out an Application for an Earnings Withholding Order, which asks the court to issue the Order telling the debtor's employer to give the sheriff a portion of what they earn until the judgment is paid.This form can usually be found online or by going to your local courthouse in person.
If you are seizing the debtor's personal property (e.g., bank accounts and vehicles), there is usually no additional paperwork needed besides the Writ of Execution.
 In addition to giving the sheriff a copy of the Writ of Execution and any other documents you have filled out (i.e., the Application for an Earnings Withholding Order), you will need to provide the sheriff with detailed instructions.These instructions tell the sheriff what you want them to do and where they can find the property.The sheriff will also request a fee for their services. The sheriff's fee will vary depending on what you are asking them to do. In California, for example, the sheriff's fee may range from $35.00 for seizing a bank account to $1,800.00 for seizing and selling a vehicle., Once you have been paid in full, you will need to obtain and fill out an Acknowledgment of Satisfaction of Judgment form. This form can be accessed online at your local court's website, or by going to your local courthouse and talking with the clerk of courts.


Mail a copy to the debtor, file a copy with the court, and keep a copy for yourself.
If you fail to file an Acknowledgment of Satisfaction of Judgment, or fail to notify the debtor by sending them a copy, you could be liable for any damages suffered by the debtor.

