 In the “Edit Info” area of the Tinder app, you can add text that will show up in your profile when people touch your photo to check you out further. It’s worth writing something here, even if you want to keep it short and simple. In fact, you probably don’t want to put too much - just a line or two to reflect your personality or a few things that are important to you.The easiest option, which also provides good conversation starters and date ideas, is to include the types of activities you enjoy.
For instance, write something like, “Likes to float in rivers. Also very into eating Korean food.”

, Being explicit about what you’re looking for on Tinder can benefit both you and your potential matches. Some folks use the app to find people for casual hookups, while others are hoping to find a more serious relationship.Simply put something like, “Just here for some fun,” or “Looking for that ride-or-die.”
Note: “NSA” stands for “no strings attached,” which means someone is looking for a casual relationship.
 Especially if all your photos are on the serious side, it’s worth including something on the lighter side in your bio. You don’t quite have to tell a joke, but do let potential matches in on your sense of humor.Good examples include silly questions, such as “If you were a breed of dog, what breed would you be?” or mock confessions, such as “I listen to “Starboy” by The Weekend  at least a dozen times a day.”

, While height has become an extremely common attribute to include numerically in dating profiles, you can simply write that you’re tall, or that you’re interested in tall folks. More importantly, numbers that you definitely want to avoid include things like IQ, GPA, body proportions, or income.Even if someone is interested in smart people, for instance, they’re probably not interested in smart people who like to tell other people how smart they are.
 One of the more frustrating aspects of using Tinder is getting matches that never lead to conversations. Feel free to initiate conversations with matches yourself, and be sure to reply to messages from your matches or un-match them if you're no longer interested.

Don't take your conversations too seriously, especially at first. Keep questions and comments flirty and fun.
Most importantly, convey your personality honestly! If you're hoping to meet someone, give them a good idea of who you are. This will make that first date go much more smoothly.

