 If you're part of a group, yell “dip!” as soon as you see that you're about to get into some trouble. This will signal them to scatter so that nobody gets caught flat-footed and has to endure the brunt of the punishment.
 Force all the nervous tension in your body into your legs and arms, and sprint like a bat out of hell. More often than not, your target will give up chasing you after only a few seconds, but keep up your sprint for 30 seconds or more and get some distance before you slow down and look behind you.
 How many people are after you? How many are focused on you specifically, rather than your friends? Being aware of such things will help you think on your feet and make smart decisions during the heat of the chase.


If you're being chased, glance back and try to gauge how fast the person chasing you is. Make adjustments based on what you see.

Outrun larger pursuers by clambering over rough terrain.
Outwit faster pursuers by getting out of their line of sight and hiding somewhere they aren't likely to look. Be sure to have an escape route ready in case they see you.
 Now is the time for lateral thinking and resource exploitation. Do whatever you can to get away clean.


Use the terrain to your advantage. In an outdoor situation, pursuers often discount just how effectively simple things like an elevation change or a large rock can hide a person.

On a forested hill, sprint horizontally out of sight and then turn sharply and run as high up the hill as you can. Take refuge behind a bush or tree and watch as the person chasing you continues slowly working his or her way down the hill.
On a creek, drop to the floor of the ravine and cross the creek on foot. Few people are willing to follow a mischief maker through cold, running water.
In a rocky area, hide behind a large boulder and listen. If your pursuer seems to be getting close to you, move slowly away from the side of the rock they are likely to pass by, and continue around as they move.
In town, few things beat the classic “run through other people's back yards” maneuver. Just be sure you know where the guard dogs live before you start jumping fences.


Have transportation waiting. If you're in a situation with no likely way to escape on foot, have a friend waiting nearby with a car. Keep its lights off and its engine running.

Don't forget to do your friend a favor later. You owe him or her big time.
Alternatively, hide your bicycle somewhere nearby and run to it instead. Remember, you'll have to leave it unlocked to use it as an escape vehicle, so hide it somewhere it won't get stolen.
 You pulled off something audacious and got out in one piece.

