 It is usually found in spools online. A 200-foot (60.96-meter) spool will give your three medium-sized baskets.Because it is hard to join two pieces of rope together, it is better to have too much rope than not enough.
 Fold the end of the rope under itself, then roll it in a spiral to form a small disk that is about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) across. This will create the foundation of your basket., Choose the largest stitch length possible on your sewing machine, then set the stitch to a zigzag. Sew straight across the disk, rotate it 90 degrees, then sew back across it, forming an X., Turn the disk so that the rest of the of the rope is in front of the sewing machine. Hold the rope against the side of the disk, then slide the disk under the presser foot. Make sure that the center of the foot is in the groove between the two coils.You can use a thread color that matches your rope, or you can use a contrasting color to make it look more interesting.
 The needle should be going back and forth across the groove, catching onto both coils of rope. This is what will hold the basket together. Keep going until the basket is the width you want it to be.


Avoid making your basket too wide using this method. The wider it is, the more difficult it will be to sew. Something around 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) across would be ideal., Grab hold of the disk, and turn it so that it is resting vertically against the side of the sewing machine. Continue sewing your way across the coils, using the same zigzag stitch as before, until your basket it the height you want it to be.Consider changing the color of your thread every couple of rows for an interesting, banded effect.At this point, your basket is just about complete. You can click here to learn how to finish your basket, or you can keep reading to learn how to add handles.
 When your basket is the height you want it to be, stop sewing, and backstitch back and forth a few times. Cut the thread and tie it off. Tug the rope up to loosen it and create a loop. Move forward a few inches/centimeters, and start sewing again; remember to backstitch a few times before you continue sewing around the basket.Make sure that the loop you make is big enough for you to slip your hand through.
 Keep sewing your basket as you did previously until you are directly across from the first handle. Backstitch a few times, then cut and tie the thread. Pull the rope up, move forward a few inches, and start sewing again. Once again, backstitch a few times at your new starting point.


When you get to the start of the first handle, you can choose to finish your basket. You can also keep sewing across the handles for 1 to 2 more rows to make them thicker and stronger.
 Cut the rope down to 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Tuck it into the basket, and backstitch across it a few times. Cut the thread off, and tie it into a tight knot.

