 Although many attorneys will write their own bios, you may be hired to do it for them. It is important to have a thorough understanding of their practice before beginning the bio.


Before meeting with the attorney, do preparatory research, such as looking at the attorney’s website, as well as performing web searches. Busy lawyers sometimes will forget past accomplishments or cases they have handled. With research, you can help draw this to their attention.;
, Some attorneys market toward the general public. Others focus on selling their services to other attorneys or to corporations. Understanding the target audience will help drive what information to include.


For example, attorneys who market to other attorneys may want to include a long list of publications to establish their expertise. The general public may find this information boring or unhelpful.
Be mindful that some of your pro bono work may alienate some potential clients. Corporations may not appreciate it if your pro bono work shows that your personal commitments run counter to their interests.
Attorneys who market to the general public can include information about what community organizations they belong to.
 An attorney bio should be part of a coherent advertising strategy and not a boring summary of someone’s life. Themes tend to focus on the attorney’s area of specialization: what the attorney can do for the client. Incorporate themes across the website. For example, a bankruptcy attorney may wish to give the firm a nickname, like “Debt Destroyers.” The attorney can then buy the URL for “debtdestroyer.com,” which will take visitors to the attorney’s website.
Newer attorneys may not have chosen a specialty yet. Nevertheless, you can find commonalities across the cases the attorney has completed. A young attorney who has argued pretrial motions in a variety of cases can highlight her experience drafting legal documents and arguing in court.
 An effective bio does more than use general language like, “I will fight for you” and “Your welfare is our business.” Instead, it includes specific information about the attorney’s practice. Concrete information answers the client’s question, “Can this attorney provide effective representation on my case?”


Mention cases the attorney has worked on. Include a brief summary of what the matter entailed, e.g., “Won jury verdict in slip-and-fall case.” Clients want to see that you have successfully resolved matters like their own. Highlight honors and recognition. These will increase confidence in the attorney’s skills. Prioritize honors gained as a practicing lawyer over those earned in law school. If the honor is mentioned in a newspaper article or on another website, link to it.
Consider acquiring certification for any specialties and including those in your bio. Certifications typically require several years of expertise, professional recommendations from judges or fellow attorneys, and completion of additional education or tests. Certifications are valuable additions to your bio, however, because they demonstrate expertise in your chosen specialty.
Include client testimonials. Websites such as Avvo now allow clients to post comments about their experience. A positive testimonial is the best referral an attorney can have.
 Many people are intimidated by attorneys. Proper tone can convey that the attorney is approachable and easy to work with.


Use of technical jargon may impress fellow attorneys, but it can alienate the general public. Instead of using legal terms like "secured additur at trial," consider saying, "won increase in total compensation for client."

, An attorney bio is not a memoir. A reader should be able to scan it without being overwhelmed by information. A good length is under six paragraphs. Extensive bios can be broken up using hyperlinks. For example, the main page may highlight a few client testimonials and representative matters. Links can direct the visitor to a more comprehensive list of cases or testimonials.
 A picture helps humanize the attorney. Make sure that it is a recent photograph.


Choose a photo depending on your audience. The general public will be drawn to casual photos, often showing you smiling. Many attorneys will also show themselves in casual clothing.
Corporate counsel and other lawyers, however, may want a more formal portrait. Consider using a studio photograph in which you wear a business suit.
 At the end of the bio, remind readers that the attorney is here for them. End with a statement like the following: “If you’ve been in an accident on the job, you may be entitled to compensation. Call the Law Offices of Attorney John J. Smith today for a free consultation.”

, Do a final check for grammatical and spelling errors. Nothing can undermine your professionalism like a typo!

, After the bio is online, do a quick scan to see how it fits on the page. Anything too blocky or visually unwieldy should be broken up so that the eye can move smoothly down the page.
 Once you have published the bio on your webpage, don't just leave it there. Upload it to social media sites, such as LinkedIn, Facebook, and Google+. The more people who see it the better!

, Many attorneys have old bios on printed materials, such as brochures or flyers. Be sure to update this material with your new bio, including a recent photo.
 As you handle new cases or receive new accolades, include them in your bio. Clients want to see that their attorney is active in the profession.
 If your practice is changing, your bio should also. An attorney who has transitioned her practice from litigation to estate administration should have a bio that reflects her new specialty. Schedule some time every six months to consider whether the bio accurately reflects your current practice.

