 While most headaches can be cured by making lifestyle changes or taking medication, some headaches may become frequent if not treated immediately and cause other illnesses. Some headaches may also be warning signs of another underlying cause and need immediate medical attention. You should see your doctor or go to the emergency room when you have any of the following:


”First” or "worst" headache, often accompanied by confusion, weakness, double vision, or loss of consciousness that interferes with daily activities.
Sudden, severe headache that may be accompanied by a stiff neck.
Severe headache accompanied by fever, nausea, or vomiting that is not related to another illness.
Headache due to a head injury.
The headache is severe and just in one eye, with redness in that eye.
Persistent headache in someone who has been previously headache-free, particularly in someone over age 50.
Headache and a loss of sensation or weakness in any part of the body, which could be a sign of a stroke.
New headaches in someone with a history of cancer or HIV/AIDS. , Biofeedback is a technique that trains people to improve their health by controlling certain bodily processes that normally happen involuntarily, such as heart rate, blood pressure, muscle tension, and skin temperature. Electrodes attached to your skin measure these processes and display them on a monitor. With help from a biofeedback therapist, you can learn to change your heart rate or blood pressure. Biofeedback is an effective therapy for tension and migraine headaches, anxiety, depression, seizures, high blood pressure, chronic pain, digestive and urinary problems. Biofeedback is considered safe for most people as no side effects have been reported.
Psychiatrists, psychologists and physicians can be qualified practitioners for biofeedback therapy.
There are different types of biofeedback therapy. Neurofeedback, also called electroencephalography (EEG), measures brain wave activity and may be most effective for headaches, stress, anxiety and depression. Electromyography (EMG) measures muscle tension. Thermal biofeedback helps measure skin and body temperature., Acupuncture helps stimulate specific points on the body by inserting thin needles through the skin. Studies show that acupuncture may help relieve headache pain, reduce anxiety and alleviate stress.Acupuncture is most effective for migraine headaches, but can also be useful for tension, cluster, sinus and other illness-related headaches. Acupuncture generally has no side effects when performed by an experienced practitioner.Make sure that your practitioner is licensed to perform acupuncture therapy. It is best to avoid strenuous physical activity, heavy meals, alcohol intake, or sexual activity for up to 8 hours after a treatment., Some headaches may be caused due to an infection or occur as warning signs to an underlying cause.If you experience any of the following symptoms with your headache, seek medical care immediately:


High blood pressure
Fever higher than 104℉ (40℃).
Nausea and vomiting
Light sensitivity, double vision, tunnel vision or vision loss
Impaired speech
Short, rapid breathing
Temporary loss of consciousness
Sudden change in mental functions, such a flat mood, impaired judgment, memory loss, or a lack of interest in daily activities
Seizures
Muscle weakness or paralysis.