 Extroverts like to go places, meet people, and generally be out and about in the world. You’re not going to attract an extrovert by sitting at home. If you want to attract and date an extrovert you’re going to have to get off the couch and go socialize, too.


Attend parties and other events that your extrovert might be interested in.
Even if you don’t see them there, you’ll have something to talk about when you do get together.
For example, if you hear that your extrovert is attending a mutual friend’s birthday party, you could, too.;
, Extroverts are active on social media because it allows them to share their life and keep up with what’s going on with their friends.There are lots of ways you can use social networking to attract your extrovert.


Social media can help you learn more about your extrovert. For example, their posts and check-ins can give you clues as to where they like to hang out.
Your profile and the things you post are a way to let your extrovert get to know a little about before you actually meet.
Tag your extrovert in a post or two. They might like the recognition and attention.
 This gives your extrovert the chance to get to know you and all the great qualities about you. Don’t try to act like someone you aren’t to date an extrovert. They will find out and won’t like that you’re being fake. Attract them by being yourself.


If you need to, make a list of your qualities. Be sure to list personality traits, hobbies and interests, and skills you have.
You list might include qualities such as: hardworking, great cook, creative, attractive, organized, good at lacrosse, etc.
Remind yourself of all your great qualities and just act like yourself when you are around your extrovert.
For example, say to yourself, “I’m charming and friendly. I can just be myself right now.”

, You don’t need to be over-the-top or change who you are, but showing a bit of confidence will help you date an extrovert.


Hold your head up, relax your shoulders, and stand up straight.
Look around you and look people in the eyes instead of looking at the ground when you are in public.
Smile and greet people in a clear and calm voice.
For example, when you see your extrovert, stand up a little straighter and hold you head up. Look him in the eyes and in a clear voice say, “Hi! How’re you doing?”

, Extroverts like to meet new people and are known for being talkative and asking questions.Starting a conversation will help you attract and date an extrovert. It will also give you the opportunity to get to know one another.


For example, if you see your extrovert at the local café, go up to them and ask them how their day is going. You might say, “Hey! How’s your day going so far?”
Start a conversation about current issues or things going on in the community. For instance, you could try, “What do you think about the presidential debates?”
Use the conversation as an opportunity to get their contact information if you don’t have it. You might say something like, “I know you have places to go. What’s a good way for me to get in contact with you later?”

