 You'll need to screw the pulley into a ceiling joist or rafter, not just the drywall on the ceiling. Pulley's are made to handle heavy objects with ease, but this weight will all have to be carried by the screws in the ceiling. If you don't know how to find the right spot for installation, you may want to hire outside assistance building a pulley.
 You can, of course, try and craft your own pulley wheel, buy an axle, and then get a mounting bracket that fits your wheel and axle. However, when most simply pulley wheels and brackets are already less than $20, this isn't really worth the risk. A pre-purchased system has everything already measured and tested, ensuring it fits.
 If your wheel doesn’t include an axle that you can easily secure to an installation spot, you’ll need to insert an axle yourself. Simply run it through, placing a little WD40 along the length if it is sticking at all.
 Attach the axle securely to a wall or ceiling using appropriate hardware. You’ll usually want to use hammer and nails to hammer the axle in place, or use a power drill and long screws for higher-weight systems. Again, if this makes you uncomfortable, you should likely call a professional handyman or experienced friend.


Oftentimes your "block," or the fixed pulley, will have a hook. In this case, simply bolt a ring to the ceiling and hook the block onto the ring., Make sure that you wheel can move without resistance. Tighten all the screws so that nothing is jiggling, and use a little mechanical grease in the moving parts if there are any sticky spots.
 You thread the rope along the “track” or sheave running between the grooves around the outside of the wheel. Make sure it is on the top half., Take the end of the string you won't be pulling and attach a weight. You could tie the string to the object or create a simple hook.
 Pull on the other end of the rope and let the pulley change the direction of the force. If the pulley works, you should be able to raise the object all the way up to the axle.

