 The food that you feed your dog can have a huge effect on his skin health. In order for your dog's skin to have the adequate nutrients, he needs to be fed high quality food. Buy him the highest quality dog food you can afford.


When you buy foods, always read the ingredient's label. Look for foods with the first ingredient is meat, not meat by-product.
If you can't afford all natural food, look for the best food you can. Meat by-products as well as grains can be in his food, but these ingredients shouldn't appear as the first three ingredients in his food., Some nutrients can help prevent dry skin. Omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids can help your dog's skin when the nutrient is ingested. Look for foods with these as an additive. There are some foods that are specifically made for skin and coat, so also look for those, which will have omega fatty acids in it as well as other helpful nutrients.


Since dogs don't produce this nutrient naturally, they have to get it from food., If your dog can't get omega-3s from foods, you can try giving him supplements instead. The best kinds of omega fatty acids for dogs include cold water fish oils and a few different types of algae derived oils.These supplements come in chews, liquids, and capsules and can be bought at your local pharmacy or health food store.


To give your dog the right amount, give him between 25 to 110 mgs per pound of body weight in your dog.For example, this would be about 225 to 1,000 mg of omega-3s per day for a 10 pound dog.
Never give your dog more than the upper amount. This can lead to dangerous side effects such as an upset stomach, bleeding, and wounds that have trouble healing., Vitamin E is another substance that you can give your dog to help prevent his skin dryness. These vitamins come in gel capsules and can be bought at your local pharmacy. For the proper dosage for your dog, you can ask your veterinarian for advice.


You can also use vitamin E on your dog's skin or in his bath water. It can soak in to the skin this way as well as through ingestion.
If you have a diabetic dog or he has any other disease, avoid giving him any supplements until you talk to your vet.