 Tattoos are a popular way for people who no longer self harm to cover the scars permanently without completely eliminating it. You will still be able to feel the ridges of your scars under the tattoo, so it can serve as a reminder of what you've been through and where you are now.


A tattoo might be a good choice if you like the look of tattoos, are old enough (18 and up in most places), and you are in a profession where a tattoo will not negatively affect your career.
You should wait at least two years after self harming episodes have ended before getting a tattoo. This is because the scars are still healing and fresh scars do not always reliably take ink.A tattoo can be relatively simple if the scars cover a small surface area, but larger affected surfaces (like an entire thigh) will require a large, intricate tattoo, which can be more expensive and painful.
Be aware that some very substantial, large scars (from deep wounds) might not take the ink. Talk to an experienced tattoo artist about whether your scars are likely to take the ink., A tattoo is permanent, so it's important to choose something that you want to look at for the rest of your life. Depending on the amount of surface area covered by your scars, you may need a large, intricate design.


Many people who tattoo their self-harm scars choose a custom design that represents survival, overcoming, newfound confidence, or another positive perspective on life. This can be a great way to turn something that was once negative into something positive, and reclaim your body.Try searching online for search terms like "tattoos to cover self harm scars." Some ideas include a phoenix, a mythological bird who dies and is reborn from its own ashes; a verse of poetry or other inspiring words like "hope," or "just when the caterpillar thought the world was over, she became a butterfly"; a bird escaping from a cage; or any intricate, beautiful design that you love.
 Most people find their tattoo artist by asking someone who has had work done that they admire. If you don't know anyone, feel free to start a conversation with a stranger and compliment them on their art. Most people with tattoos like to know that others find it as gorgeous as they do.Check out potential artists' studios in person, and make sure everything is clean up to date on inspections and relevant certifications (depending on where you live, this will vary). Ask to see a portfolio of pieces the artist has done recently. Find out if the artist has any experience covering scars. If not, ask if they know someone who does; tattoo artists tend to have large networks and want you to get the best work for your needs.

