 Different types of game often require different types of firearms to hunt effectively. Larger game such as moose or bear will require a higher caliber weapon. Small game like rabbits or squirrels require a smaller caliber weapon to prevent damaging the meat too much to eat.For most medium to large game, a rifle designed to shoot .30-06 Springfield, .308 Winchester or .270 Winchester ammunition are all good choices.
For small game, .22 or .223 caliber rifles are a better choice.
 Rifle action is the term used to describe how a rifle ejects a fired cartridge and loads a new one. There are a number of designs to choose from when it comes to rifle action, including breach loading, bolt-action, lever-action, semi-automatic and more. First, determine if you would like your rifle to fire a single shot before manually loading a new cartridge or multiple shots. Then choose a form of action within those two categories.Bolt-action, breach loader, and trap door action rifles all fire one shot before the hunter must take action to load the next round.
Semi-automatic rifles can continually fire until the magazine or clip runs out of ammunition.
Some hunters prefer the increased challenge of single shot rifles, but semi-automatic rifles are often a better choice for beginners.
 Hunting rifles come in a broad range of price points. While it’s possible to purchase a good quality hunting rifle for fairly little, you often get what you pay for in terms of the materials the rifle is made of. Lower quality materials will require more maintenance and upkeep to prevent them from rusting or becoming unserviceable, while higher quality materials will be able to fire more rounds and last longer without service or replacement.Stainless steel barrels and other rifle components can raise the price of the rifle, but offer a higher degree of reliability and resistance to rust.
Carbon steel is often used in lower cost hunting rifles. While these are not necessarily a bad option, they will require more upkeep to prevent them from rusting.
Stocks made from wood and fiberglass are both good choices. Walnut tends to be the most durable option in wood stocks.
 Once you have determined the caliber and action of the rifle as well as the materials you want it to be made from, go online and do some research into rifles that fit your qualifications. There are many rifle makers that offer a wide variety in hunting rifles. Like cars, some designs can be more reliable than others and certain makes and models may have issues you should be aware of.Read reviews you find about rifles that fit your criteria and assess the rifle’s positive and negative attributes.
Like cars, it can be difficult to find one rifle that does everything well. A racecar is not good off road and trucks tend not to win races. Look for a rifle that does what you want well, but understand that it may be difficult to find the “perfect” rifle.

