 A DIY nail soak can be made up of any combination of oils. Try coconut, argan, or olive oil mixed with tea tree or vitamin E oil.By applying a large amount of oil to your nails with a cottonball and leaving it to soak, your nails will get a healthy dose of moisture. However, don't soak your nails in water, try to avoid water exposure as it will soften your nails to the point of bending and peeling.


If you find your nails are soft and split easily, try vitamin E.Tea tree oil can be a healthy way to keep your nails clean and fungus-free., Many women find supplements to be helpful to nail growth and overall health. In particular, biotin can be taken to help strengthen brittle nails.Consider investing in a high-quality supplement for hair, skin and nails. These supplements usually contain vitamins A, C, D, E, as well as many B vitamins, and folic acid, zinc, iron, calcium and biotin. When taken on a regular basis, supplements can have considerable positive effects. Not only will your nails grow stronger, you might see an improvement in your skin and hair.


If your diet is lacking, a simple multivitamin can often supplement you enough to have happier nails. Weak, brittle nails are often a result of nutrient loss. Speak to your doctor to find the right multivitamin for you.
Making sure you have a good intake of omega 3 oils can also reduce your risk of weak, brittle nails. Omega 3, also known as fish oil, can be taken in supplement form or found in dairy, eggs, nuts and fats such as olive oil., Common everyday items such as nail polish remover, hand sanitizer and cleaning products are damaging to not only your nails, but will also speed up the aging process of your hands. By choosing gentler options, you can keep both your nails and hands looking young and fresh.


Hand sanitizer is often alcohol based. Alcohol is drying not only to the skin, but also the nails.The alcohol will dehydrate your hands and leave your nails brittle and breakable. It is a better option to wash your hands with antibacterial soap and dry immediately, if you must use a sanitizer.
Wear gloves when cleaning whenever possible. It might seem harmless to use that glass cleaner on your hands. In reality, it won’t kill you, but it certainly will kill your nails. Keep your hands covered to prevent the moisture from being stripped away from your nails.Skip acetone-based nail polish remover. It has been proved relentlessly that acetone-based nail polish strips the nail, making it weaker over time.Instead, opt for a acetone-free remover, available at most drugstores.
 When your nails grow, the weakest portion will always be the tip. When the weakest part is stressed, it will pull the rest of the nail up and away from the finger.This can be very weakening to the nail. To avoid this, don’t use your nails to open pop cans, peel off stickers, or scrape things off the counter.

