


Find the correct size box for everything you intend to ship. Larger boxes mean higher fees, and are unnecessary if shipping small items. Either use a box supplied by the USPS specifically designed for shipping, or a cardboard box with thick sidewalls that will not break or rot.
Place the items in the box and seal with tape. Masking tape and duct tape will not be accepted by the USPS. Packaging tape is easy to find and holds cardboard better.
If the items are fragile, make sure to pad with spare paper, bubble wrap, bundled up newspaper, or something else soft.;
,


Go to the USPS website and select the "print shipping label" button.

Type in your address in the return address section.
Type in the address you want the package sent to.
Print the label and attach to the box with clear packaging tape.


Alternately, write your address and sending address by hand. Attach to the box with clear packaging tape.
The label should always be parallel with the longest side of the package.



Based on the weight and size of your package, there will be varying shipping costs.

Go to the USPS website and select the Price Calculator to figure out the shipping cost by inserting the weight and dimensions.
Alternately, weigh the package at the post office.



There are numerous shipping methods that all have differing costs.


Priority. This is an expensive option, and will get your package to its destination in 2-3 business days.

Priority Mail Express. This is an even more expensive option, and will get your package to its destination overnight.

Domestic. This means you are sending your package within the United States.

International. This means you are sending your package outside the United States.

Standard. Standard is the cheapest and will get the package to its destination in 5 to 7 business days.




Schedule a shipment to be picked up from your home or office. You can pay the shipping fees online at no extra cost.
Alternately, bring the packages in to your nearest USPS office and have them ship it for you.

