 The crosshatch should look like a number sign ("#") or tic-tac-toe board; it will have two horizontal lines crossed by two vertical lines. There should not be any lines on the outside of the crosshatch. The crosshatch grid will have nine spaces while the X grid will have four. Both the crosshatch and the X should be large enough to fit two letters in each space.;
, Fill each box and corner of the grids with two letters from the alphabet. The lines immediately surrounding these letters will form the shape of the symbol for each letter.


Each symbol from the crosshatch grid should be shaped like a closed, two-sided or three-sided rectangle. Each symbol from the X grid should be shaped like a “V”, “<”, “>”, or “^”.For example, if the letter "A" is in the top left hand corner of the crosshatch, it will be represented by the “_|” shape. If the letter "U" is in the left corner of the X, it will be represented by a “>” shape.
 The dots are called “pigs,” giving the code its name.The pig indicates which letter in the grid is the letter that corresponds to the written symbol. No dot means the left letter, while a dot means the right one.


In a grid where A and B are in the top left hand corner, _| is an A whereas _.| is a B.
 Once you have assigned letters to boxes and dots, it may help to rewrite your code in a list where you clearly assign each letter to its respective shape. This will be your key. Hold on to this. Share it only with those you are entrusting with your code.


Once you have written your code into a new list, destroy the original key with the grids. If someone discovers your key, they can decipher your writing!

, The best way to memorize your code is to start writing in it. Try writing a letter to your friend or copy a passage out of a newspaper or book. Replace each letter in your sentence with its corresponding symbol.


You may need to reference your key at the beginning. As you continue, you will find that you will start memorizing your code.
A good passage to start with is “The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog” as it contains every letter in the alphabet.

