 There are an increasing number of ways to try and sell your house without using real estate agencies, and without paying the potentially high rates of commissions. If you have the time and are prepared to put in the work, it is certainly possible to advertise and sell your house online yourself.


You will need to hire a lawyer to take care of all the paperwork, but this could still save you a significant amount of money.Don’t underestimate the difficulties of selling a house. If the property you are selling is not in a highly desirable and popular area, it can be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming to drum up interest.
These deals are known as “For Sale by Owner” (FSBO) transactions.Keep in mind that even if you list your home with a real estate agent, you may be able to save money if you find a buyer yourself. For example, if the seller brings the buyer, the agent’s commission will be 2%. However, if the listing agent brings the buyer, then the agent’s commission will be 4%. If another agent brings the buyer, then that agent’s commission will be 6%.
 There are a number of real estate agents that will work to a flat fee, rather than a rate of commission. Depending on how much your house is being sold for, this could save you thousands of dollars. Flat fee agents generally offer a much more limited service than agents who work for a percentage.The advantage to the seller is that you can negotiate a fee up front and you will know exactly how much you are going to pay the agent from the start.
Be sure you are completely clear about what the fee gets you.
You may be able to pay a relatively small amount for the agency to list your house for a limited period.
When the agreed upon listing period expires, your house will not be re-listed unless you pay again., In some instances, a broker will offer to include a rebate to be paid to the seller after the deal is closed. This will involve the broker paying back a percentage of the commission received for the sale. For example, a broker may offer you a rebate of one third of the commission, which could equate to thousands of dollars saved.


Some brokers use rebates as part of their strategy to get your business.
As well as cash rebates, other incentives used may include gift certificates, or a free or discounted moving service.
Rebates are not legal in every state, so be sure to check the rules where you live.