 To buy online, you need to be connected to the Internet, obviously. While you can do this on your laptop or desktop, you can also do it through your phone or any other Internet-ready device.;
,


It may be useful to add your country to the search term when you run a search online. For instance, if you are a cellphone user from India on the Vodafone network, you should type "recharge phone Vodafone India online" or something along those lines. Most of the sites are country-specific and offer reloads from all the cellphone network providers in that country, so you just need to find one that caters to cellphone users in your area.
 Don't be afraid to look around if you have the time for it -- this is obviously inapplicable if you are trying to buy a reload for an emergency, but shopping around for the best prices and deals can be beneficial.


Take note, though, that price isn't everything: some sites may have lower prices on the phone credits they sell but may also have bad delivery time (slow to apply the reload to your phone) or may have bad guarantees on their product. Go with something that you can trust (a solid guarantee is always a great indication) so that you don't end up wasting your money on something that never even reaches you... or which takes a week to show up.
 Again, going with the Vodafone example, if you want to buy 300INR's worth of prepaid phone credits, look for that option on the site's products and add it to your cart. Then check out.
 Most sites offer discounts if you have a coupon. If you have one, apply it to your checkout total, since this is where the "enter coupon code" prompt usually shows up. And if you don't have one but have the time to look for one... well, hey, what are you waiting for? Search for some coupons online.
 Then pay using the appropriate payment method. Online, this is usually PayPal or credit card.
 The best sites send the reload to your phone almost immediately, but they too can be subject to the vagaries of payment processors: they have to wait for the payment processor they are using to confirm that you have paid for the purchase.


In most cases, if any tardiness does occur, it may well be the payment processor holding up the transaction. 24 hours is the longest you should wait (although most reloads are delivered far, far faster than that). If it passes that mark, you should open a complaint already.

