 This function is similar to logging feature with two layers Gmail password. according to which every time you log in to the service, or add a device to your network synchronization, first you need to provide your account password, then. Dropbox will send a message to your phone with a verification code, you use the verification code to complete login or add new equipment.

To activate this feature, go to the Settings option, and then scroll to the Security tab, click the Change button in the Two-step verification. You need to provide your password to confirm account setup.



 


Dropbox gives you two options to confirm: SMS or through the Dropbox application installed in the device. Click Next to go to the next step. If you choose forms authentication via SMS, you need to provide a phone number for Dropbox to send the verification code.






And finally to complete the set, you will receive a confirmation message from Dropbox along with a code, use the confirmation code to complete the set.





;
, Synchronizing multiple computers and devices with a Dropbox account helps you quickly share data, but synchronizing automatically may also raise risks to security issues. You can check the device or computer that are no longer used and interrupt synchronization features for those devices to prevent leakage of unwanted data.


To do this, also on Security tab, you will be listed computers and devices connected to your Dropbox account. Then you click on “Unlink” at the back to interrupt link device.
 In addition to the two above precautions, monitoring any changes in your account is also a way to keep your Dropbox account safe.


To activate this feature, on the Security tab you double-check in the Notification to see if there are the two check marks. This means that you will receive an email of notification whenever a new application or device is connected to your account.
 If you use many synchronizing services as well as social networks then you may occasionally link your Dropbox account with these services to backup or transfer files in a quicker way than uploading. Linking these applications will require full access to your Dropbox account, and they will still keep the access rights even if you stop using the service.


Therefore if there is a flaw or your account happens to be stolen, this means the data on your Dropbox account, which you used to link, also contains a number of risks.
To revoke an application's access to your Dropbox account, click on the tab My Dropbox app on the Account Settings page. Click on the X next to the applications you do not use.
 Use a separate password for your Dropbox account such as adding the word ‘dropbox’ in your password, common cipher text or using an application or service password-encryption to protect Dropbox account your password if unfortunately the password in your service is exposed.


Another solution is to change your password regularly. This way you can also apply to other security ways. Due to the password change, the range of services, applications and connected device will stop linking, and you can review the one that you need to hold. You can use the Change password link on the Security tab to change the Dropbox account’s password.
 All these security precautions will not help you if Dropbox does not guarantee the safety of your account, or if someone else gained access to your telephone, equipment or your computer that link with Dropbox. To protect yourself and ensure that your sensitive files remain secure, you can encrypt your files stored in your Dropbox account.


To access the encrypted files, you will need to know the encryption password. Dropbox itself does not provide any solutions to encrypt your files, but there are several ways to do it thanks to a number of third-party applications like TrueCrypt, BoxCryptor or EncFS.

