 It's exotic, classy, striking, and most of all, unique. Think of it this way: do you really want to look like every other blonde, blue-eyed, straight-haired girl out there? How boring is that? Curly hair has had plenty of bullying in the media. You may find it hard to go natural at first, but one reason it's hard is that the media caters for wavy and straight hair. In most cases they don't pay attention to us "curly heads", so we may end up not knowing what to do with our hair. The first step is to accept our hair, know that it is beautiful, and treat it kindly.;
, Their hair is gorgeous and has so much more character than straight hair.
 Hot oil treatments are amazing with curly hair.
 Make sure you have a good hairdresser that knows curly hair, and knows proper techniques such as slicing and angling the layers down to reduce bulk. Cut curls at the end of each "S." Try styling and washing upside down, as well as clipping up the roots with clips to get more root lift.
 It's your hair, don't treat it like a wig or a mannequin; use heat protectors (a spray), and deep conditioners. Curly hair needs extra care-- there is no denying it.
 Curls lose moisture easily and tangle and knot very easily. Our hair is not going to be as naturally soft as straight hair; it's not in the genetic make-up. Use a satin pillow to stop your hair from tangling too much at night.
 It makes life so much easier.
 Curly hair can look amazing if styled well.
 Loose high buns, messy updos with face framing ringlets look gorgeous. Buns look best on curly hair on ear level or higher. The higher the better, but not too high. Make sure the bun is loose, and that the hair near the crown is lifted so there is volume. French braids and fishtail braids look good on curly hair.
 Cute vintage hair accessories look amazing on curly hair. Black and white lace bows, pretty jewel encrusted pins, and pastel coloured ribbons in white, pink, green and blue are a great way to finish off your bun or ponytail. Make sure the accessories are not trashy or cheap- looking.
 Fringes look good on curly hair if cut right. Always have your hairdresser cut face-framing pieces around your face. Stick with long layers. Do not go with short layers, or you will add way too much volume to your hair.
 You probably won't have the worry of greasy hair. Curly hair is special because it's different every day.
 It is, in the end, your natural hair, so why attack it and manipulate it? You were born with your curls, so just go with the flow, and embrace them. Be happy with your hair, love it, and wear it with confidence!

