 Baking soda is a base, which means it helps counteract the effects of acid. This holds true for the acid in your stomach. To make this drink, dissolve a teaspoon of baking soda in about 6 ounces of water. Stir it well and drink. It is very effective in neutralizing the acid.


Make sure you get baking soda and not baking powder. Baking powder is not nearly as effective., After you eat, pop in a piece of sugar-free gum. This appears to work because chewing the gum stimulates the salivary glands, which releases bicarbonate into the saliva. The bicarbonate help neutralize the acid in your stomach.Don't chew sugary gum because it may contribute to the acid in your stomach.
You can also chew mastic gum. Mastic gum is made from a resin of the mastic tree, known as Pistacia lentiscus. It has antibacterial properties and has been used to kill the H. pylori infection often associated with peptic ulcers or too much stomach acid., There is a chiropractic approach that is used to treat hiatal hernias that is also effective for acid reflux. Drink a 6 to 8 ounce glass of slightly warm water the moment you get out of bed in the morning. While you are standing, bring your arms straight out to the sides and bend them at the elbows. Then, bring both hands in to meet at your chest. Stand up high on your toes, then drop down on your heels. Repeat 10 times.


After the 10th drop, keeping your arms up, pant in short, quick, shallow breaths for 15 seconds. Repeat every morning until you get relief.
This process seems to realign your stomach and diaphragm, so the hernia does not interfere with your esophagus., Coconut oil has antibacterial properties that help stop acid reflux. This may be the reason that chronic H. pylori stomach infections respond quite well to this simple home remedy. The bacterium H. pylori is often associated with reflux esophagitis.


Take 1/2 a tablespoon of coconut oil in warm orange juice, or directly by mouth if you can, three times daily. You can work this up to one to two tablespoons of coconut oil three times daily.
Stop three days after your symptoms have subsided., Probiotics are mixtures of a variety of bacteria normally found in your gut, which may include saccharomyces boulardii yeast, cultures of lactobacillus, and bifidobacterium. These good bacteria tend to improve overall well being, help with stomach health, and are all naturally found in your intestines.


You can easily get probiotics by eating yogurt with active cultures in it. You can also take a supplement, though make sure you follow the manufacturer's warnings.