 Doing rounds is checking on each patient in your priority order. You will have to prioritize your patients after the report to decide who needs your attention first. Prioritizing is not an easy skill and can involve a lot of critical thinking skills for the RN. Prioritizing will also help you time manage safe and effectively.


For example, if Ms. Brown is sleeping and was just medicated and has no pain, but Mr. Smith has been bleeding through his post op dressing and vitals are unstable, he would be the first patient that needs your attention.
 Always assess your patient. It's important to verify the information given to you through verbal reporting and monitoring equipment so that you can appreciate any changes with the patient. Do not rely solely on what you see. Ask the patients how they are feeling. In other words, use the concepts of therapeutic communication and nonverbal communication to understand your patient’s needs. Therapeutic communication is a key tool to understanding your patient and helps your patient be open with you. Therapeutic communication uses words to come across as a caring individual. It does not put your patient down or make the conversation abrupt. These methods serve to build rapport and trust between you and the patient.


Nonverbal communication is the way most communication is done. Look at your patient, if he is rolling his eyes when you talk to him, or crossing his arms, it does not show that he is open to what you are saying. With these type of individuals, the key points of therapeutic communication like listening, asking open ended questions, and understanding can help them be more open to you., Look at the standing Doctor's Orders and the medication record. Verify allergies and understand your patient’s diagnoses. You should also check for other relevant information such as patient history, allergies, and special instructions like DNRs (Do Not Resuscitate) documents.
 Keep in mind the basic concepts of administering medications, the five rights of administration. The five rights are the right patient, the right drug, the right dose, the right route, and the right time. Ensure that you have the right:


Client. Check the client's ID tag. If the client is conscious and coherent, verify their name by approaching them with something like "Mr. Robin Hood? It's time for your medications".
Medication. Be extra careful to avoid mistaking a drug for another, especially if their names sound alike.
Dosage. Sometimes even the smallest mistake in dosage can have drastic effects. Check and counter-check the dose you have prepared against the dose ordered.
Route. A medication indicated for intramuscular injection should not be used intravenously. A suppository is not an oral med.
Time. Do your best to administer medications and treatments on schedule.
Documentation. Record the client's status before you gave the medication, as well as where, when, and how it was given. Indicate the dosage too. You should also indicate the client's reactions to the medications., Some of the time you get in between seeing patients you should use for tasks like this. It is very easy to get swamped by paperwork if you delay. Write down what you did for the patient, or bring the roll around computer around with you to constantly chart what you do. Do not get behind or you will be there for a long time after your shift.


Ensure that your charting is complete and accurate. A chart can become evidence in the event of a lawsuit. Remember to only chart the facts, not an opinion or diagnoses.
Note changes in a patient's condition, new doctor's orders, and any other relevant information to include in your end-of-shift report. It is important to let the next shift know about these things so nothing will be overlooked., When your first day on the job ends, think about what you've done. Remember the new things you've learned and try to analyze the mistakes that you've made. Make sure you get a good night's rest and prepare for the next day.