 Depending on when you bought your jeans, eventually they will show signs of wear and tear. However, if you value them and take very good care of them, they will look as if you bought them that way.;
, Take care not to spill any food or drinks on them, and stay away from harsh laundry chemicals if you can help it. Unfortunately, mistakes do happen. If something does happen to spill on them, take time to spot treat the stained area 'before' you wash them in the washing machine.
 Jeans that you love are like candy -- you want to savor them for as long as you can, right? Wearing them too often makes the signs of aging advance more quickly, and they're likely to become damaged in the wash. As well, you would feel silly wearing the same jeans several times times per week.
 To retain the color and protect trims and distressed areas, turn them inside out before putting them in the wash. That way, they get clean and yet they are protected from fading.
 This sounds funny, but if you're careless with your jeans, they're more likely to get hurt. That doesn't mean don't enjoy them. If they make you feel more attractive, then show them off. Just know the more sensitive and careful you are with them, the longer they will last.
 Fold them away neatly and store them in a safe place. Keep them protected from siblings, pets, dirt, chemicals, ink pens, the weather or any other potentially harmful things. When we or others buy nice things we should want to protect them! Also, make sure you fold them neatly or hang them up on pants hangars to keep them neat and organized.
 Make sure you do everything you need to do to make them ready to wear the next day. Fold the cuffs, iron them, and make sure all buttons and zippers are working properly.
 All jeans come with a care label. Make sure you read the label so you can know what to do when it comes to washing. If you don't understand the instructions, ask a friend or parent. Make sure you watch out on the bleach or anything that would fade them. Before washing, separate your jeans from other light colored clothes to prevent them from fading onto another item of lighter color. They should have their own laundry washing category.

