 This routine checkup is a great time to obtain an extra copy of your pet’s medical history ( this can save you up to $50.00 dollars at the next office). Ask your vet if they know of any special state laws or requirements that pertain to your reptile. Some states have very strict guidelines on specific reptiles and require registration and or special licenses. Although you may be swamped during your pack and move, don’t forget to keep your reptiles daily routine and feeding schedules the same until the actual move day. This regular schedule will help keep your reptile calm and secure. Reptiles are creatures of habit (no pun intended)! Also, it’s really important to have your pet accustomed to the crate, box or carrier he or she will be transported in during the move. Remember that your carrier must be large enough for the reptile to turn around in but not large enough for it to get hurt. Also, refrain from placing too many objects inside of the crate for comfort as these objects can hurt or injure your pet in transit. Having a copy of all of your pets recent medical history attached to the front of the carrier can also prevent your pet from entering any quarantined area during routine transportation inspections ( especially at border crossings between countries (USA to Canada and USA to Mexico in addition to all domestic airports). Check with the state of relocation to make sure that you’re able to have your particular species as a domesticated pet.;
, Always remember that venomous reptiles should be packed in two boxes whereas non-venomous reptiles can be placed inside one sturdy box. Be sure the containers are well ventilated with proper size holes and the box is marked "Fragile” and “Live Cargo".  Some reptiles need a wet environment, so keep moist towels in the box as well to prevent dehydration if applicable. Make sure that you write your first and last name and cell number on the moving carrier.
 Check with your vet, as many will loan you a professional carrier to move your reptile (just ask them for a one day loaner).  Make sure the carrier is in a safe place inside of the car and will not be crushed by other boxes. It must be properly ventilated at all times during transport. Even if it’s a short trip, bring extra food and water just in case of an emergency or traffic delay in arriving to your new place.
  Airlines will take reptiles as “cargo only” and will be an expensive mode of transportation. The other issue is that they are not going to care for your pet like you care for your pet. Make sure all of your current medical records are easily accessible and attached to the front of the cage. Clearly write the type of reptile (not the crazily long and usually scary scientific name but the consumer name for your pet), required temperature, feeding times and any additional special medical needs. Include your first and last name, cell number and an alternate number in case you’re delayed in route, in addition to your home address and address of your new residence. Cover all of your basis and it’s a very good idea to have a small and cute picture of your pet taped to the front of the cage, to minimize additional interest during the course of transport.
  Place the cage in a quiet room away from all the unloading and unpacking that may also add stress to your reptile.  Verify the right temperature in the cage and refresh the food and water before your pet enters. Try not to change his habitat for at least 3 weeks, until your reptile begins to act normal.

