 A simple way to calm yourself down is to take some deep, slow breaths. There are many deep breathing techniques that can help calm you down. One that it is simple to remember is to breath in while counting to six, hold the breath in for six, and exhale for a count of six.Deep breathing reduces the effects of stress by lowering your blood pressure and heart rate.;
, Obviously you don't want to work up too much of a sweat right before your date, but if you've got some time to spare (and shower), getting some exercise is a great way to relax yourself before the date.


Even a quick walk around the block or a few trips up and down a flight of stairs can cause your brain to release chemicals that can help ease your anxiety., Playing some music that makes you feel good is a great way to relax. Play some of your favorite songs, and maybe dance around a little. That way, you get some exercise too!Another approach is to pick out some very soothing music. Research shows that calm, soft music reduces stress and anxiety. Music with the sounds of nature incorporated into the recording may be particularly helpful., A bath is another great way to relax yourself before a date. The warm water will help relax your muscles and ease tension. As an added bonus, you'll be all cleaned up for the big date afterward!


Adding some epsom salts (available at any drugstore) will make the experience more relaxing. Epsom salts are a gentle muscle relaxer.Consider lighting some scented candles to make the bath even more calming. In particular, medical research has shown the scent of lavender to have calming effects., Taking some time to sip a warm beverage can be very relaxing.Likewise, some herbal teas are thought to have soothing effects when smelled or sipped, such as:Chamomile
Passion flower
Ginseng
Valerian root

, Many people "store" stress and anxiety in their necks or shoulders. If you can get a professional massage to work this stress out, great. However, even just a couple of minutes of rubbing these areas yourself can work wonders.Some people also find gently massaging a pressure point along the crease between the wrist and palm, straight down from the pinkie finger, produces a calming effect. Try rubbing gently with your thumb for a few minutes., It may seem like a strange way to prepare for a date, but meditation can be a powerful way to relax. Close your eyes and try to clear your mind.Focus all of your attention on your breathing.You can also meditate by repeating, either mentally or out loud, a positive phrase, such as "I feel at peace," while keeping your mind free of thoughts and worries.Like deep breathing, meditating can reduce your heart rate and blood pressure.Used regularly, meditation can actually change the pathways in your brain in a way that can make you more resistant to stress and anxiety in general.This could be good news for future dates!

, Remind yourself that you have many good qualities that other people (including your date) are likely to appreciate. If it's helpful, make a list of those qualities.Give yourself a compliment, such as "I'm really funny," or "I have beautiful eyes."Remember that your date is probably as nervous as you are, if not more so!Your wouldn't have said asked you out or said "yes" to your invitation if he she didn't like you, too.

