 you should either work on that or give up now.;
, Even if she seems kind of dorky to you, act like she is fairly cool. She happens to be ignorant of the culture, not necessarily a stupid person in general and certainly not inferior.
 If she likes HIM, of course. When she gets excited, offer to burn her a CD. See if she shows interest.
 Take her out and buy some goth music together. You might even want to buy an album or two as a gift, if you're willing to spend money.
 See which type of goth she likes best, then take her out and find some clothes which fit the category (or categories) of goth she fits into the most. Obviously, this may be done with a male poseur as well. Perhaps you should just start out by finding her a nice Alien Sex Fiend T-shirt, and keep going from there. Don't dictate her entire wardrobe, just send her in the right direction so she'll be able to choose better for herself. Considering the clothes don't make the person, they are not incredibly important in whether or not someone happens to be goth, but simply something to think about if you wish.
 She may like Vampire Kisses and Twilight, seeing them as goth, but has never heard of this Lord Byron fellow. The books you suggest she reads should be based on what she already likes. If she enjoys Stephen King's horror, she should try H.P Lovecraft. If she prefers the Vampire Kisses books or other vampire novels, perhaps Anne Rice and Bram Stoker would be good starting points. For the poseur who doesn't read because she thinks it isn't cool (or simply hates it) buy a comic, like Johnny the Homicidal Maniac, graduate to Sandman, then graduate to Poppy Z. Brite, then graduate to the more mind-opening gothic reading material.
 In many cases, poseurs tend to watch slasher flicks, anything by Tim Burton... and not much else. Consider The Hunger, Queen of the Damned, Nosferatu, The Craft, and of course, Rocky Horror Picture Show... if you're already into gothic culture, you probably already know.
 The most important step is to ensure she is educated on Goth's philosophical view. The Black Aesthetic, the separation from the mainstream, embracing things which most people simply ignore... the philosophical side of Goth is far better than the side which is all black candles and cool music with an excellent bassline. It is a beautiful thing, and she needs to realize this above all else.
 This is up to you, however; this article covers the necessities of educating her a bit on the culture of Goth, and getting rid of her poseur tendencies.
 The pretenders amongst the Goth subculture are precisely what is ruining it, and need to be either educated or removed from this scene. Considering that educating them is an easier option, it's probably the best way. With every poseur you convert, you're helping the subculture. Change as many as you possibly can.

