 Go to any pet supply or outdoor supply store to purchase a seed cake.


Alternatively, you can make your own seed cake at home by purchasing the mix of seeds you want to feed the squirrels and mixing them together with lard or gelatin mix.
When using lard, melt the lard in the microwave, which usually takes about 2 minutes and then stir in the birdseed. If you decide to use the gelatin, measure out an appropriate amount of water into a small saucepan and add the dry gelatin, heating the mixture on the stove for a few minutes until the water dissolves the gelatin. Then, take the mixture off of the heat and stir in the birdseed. Place your seed/lard/gelatin mixture into your desired mold, on top of parchment paper to avoid any seepage, and let it set in the refrigerator for a few hours., Seed cake holders generally come in two styles, those that hang from a tree branch and those that fasten directly to a tree or post. Figure out which style is best for you before making your purchase.
 Find an ideal area of your yard or nature space to place the seed cake holder.


If you purchased a hanging seed cake holder, you will want to look for a tree with a reasonably-sized, low-hanging limb that is perpendicular to the ground to which you can tie the seed cake holder. If you purchased a seed cake holder that fastens to a tree or post, place the holder roughly six feet off the ground and follow the fastening instructions on the label.
 When hanging a seed cake, it is important to remember that many animals in your yard will feed on seed cakes. If your goal is to keep the squirrels and birds separated, make sure you hang multiple seed cakes. Cakes hung higher in locations are ideal for birds, whereas seed cakes hung at lower levels will be more readily accessed by squirrels. Take care not hang the cake too low, or it will be eaten by deer.
 Once the holder(s) is in the correct position, stock it with the seed cake you purchased from the store.
 You may find, once you have hung your seed cake, that squirrels prefer one brand of seed cake over another. Make sure to monitor the frequency and volume of squirrels coming to feed on the seed cake and adjust the type of seed cake as you see fit.

