 To keep the violin's bridge adjusted properly and to keep the tension from slackening too much, it's important to change each string individually, rather than taking all the strings off at once and replacing them, as is common on guitars and some other stringed instruments. If you've broken a string, put a new one on before removing the others. To remove old strings:


Twist the large tuning pegs toward you, so the string becomes loose.
If you have fine tuners, remove the small metal ball attached to the strings from the tuners. If not, pull the string in the tailpiece toward you and pull up to release the string.
Continue twisting the large tuners until the string is completely loose, and remove it from the tuning peg.;
, Remove the appropriate string from the package and find the tip of the string, which should be inserted into the tuning peg, and the bottom of the string, which should anchor the string in the fine tuner.


The top will typically be colored on the end to distinguish it from the other strings, and the bottom should have a small metal ball on the end to seat it in the fine tuner. The color depends upon the particular brand of strings you purchase.
 Holding the violin with the chin-rest facing you, find the correct tuning peg to orient yourself and locate the tiny hole in it. This should be inside the scroll. Insert the top of the string through the hole, far enough that about half an inch hangs out on the other side.


On almost every violin, the tuning pegs should be oriented in the same way. Make sure you insert the string into the correct peg:

G string on the bottom left
D string on the top left
A string on the top right
E string on the bottom right



, If you have fine tuners, place the small metal ball in the appropriate slot. It sometimes has a tendency to pop out while you're tuning, so check with your thumb regularly while you're tightening the string to make sure the base is still seated in the fine-tuner snugly.
 Turn the large tuner away from you, so the string wraps itself around the peg, tightening and taking up some of the slack. It can be kind of a balancing act, because you want to make sure the base of the string stays seated (pop it back in if it pops out) and make sure that the string wraps around the top peg as straight as possible, which will make it easier to tune.


To keep the string wrapping straight, use one hand to turn the peg and the other hand to pull the string back away from the violin, so it stays tight against the peg. Make sure it wraps around the half-inch sticking through the other side, to hold it in place as you turn.
 Make sure the string is in the appropriate notch in the bridge and continue tightening the string until all the slack is run out. It takes a while for a new string to settle in, so don't waste time fine-tuning until you've let the violin sit, sometimes for as much as several hours, before tuning it closely. Get it in the neighborhood and let the violin adjust to the new string.

