 There are a lot of things that might anger you. Figuring out which things are your "triggers" that set you off can help you avoid those situations.Sometimes there is one thing that makes you mad, like when your parents don't give you what you want or don't listen to you. If you can identify which situation makes you angry, you can avoid it or prepare ahead of time to not get so angry when it happens.
Sometimes you might feel angry about everything that happens, even if it is something that doesn't normally make you mad. If this happens, it might be because you are starting to go through puberty, which is normal and common at this age. Talk to your parents or doctor if you think that this might be the case., If there is someone at school who is picking on you or making you mad, tell someone about it. Talk to a parent, teacher, or school counselor about what is going on.


You may also want to do whatever you can to avoid the person until the issue is resolved, such as taking a different route to school or steering clear of the person during lunch.
Check out this helpful article if you need help dealing with a bully in your life.
 Your school counselor can calm you down and help you make good decisions even when you're upset. Try setting up a meeting with your school counselor to discuss your anger issues.


Try saying something like, “I am struggling to control my feelings of anger sometimes and I think I need some help.”
If you're very angry, tell both your parents and the staff of the school.
 Some teens and tweens get angry more often if they are tired. Be sure you are getting enough rest at night, and not trying to do too many activities during the day when you're not well-rested.


Tweens and teens need between 9 and 10 hours of sleep every night. That's a lot! But most tweens and teens only get 7 hours of sleep.If you're not getting enough, you might need to go to bed earlier if you have to get up early for school.
You can also try taking a cat-nap for an hour or so after school if you are feeling really stressed out.
 This might sound silly, but many people have more angry outbursts when they're hungry or thirsty. Even adults can get "hangry"-- hungry and angry!


Try to eat healthy foods instead of foods high in sugar or fat. Snacks like string cheese, apples with peanut butter, or a banana can help keep you from feeling angry.
 Even teens and tweens can learn to relax themselves using prayer or meditation. Try whichever one is right for you, and do it regularly, not just when you're feeling angry.


Try spending five or ten minutes at night before bed relaxing with deep breathing. This can help you sleep better and calm your feelings.
You might also try a nightly thankfulness prayer. You can say thank you for all of the good things in your life and remember that the things that make you angry are small in comparison to all the good things you enjoy.