 Disco clothing was made of stretchy, shiny material that readily reflected the bright lights of a disco club. Look for spandex, lycra, velour, and synthetic polyester. Also consider pieces heavily adorned in sparkly sequins or gold lame.;
, Midi-skirts, which came up to the mid-calf, were also popular in the 1970s. Look for a design that flares out slightly starting at the waist. The skirt can have pleats, but does not need them. If you decide to go with a mini-dress, look for one with a halter style top.
 The catsuit was a type of one-piece bodysuit often made of spandex. Typically, the legs were fitted at the thigh and flared out at the knee. The suit could have sleeves that flared out, starting at the elbow, or it could be sleeveless. Many catsuits also featured a halter top or deep v-neck.
 Hot pants in the 1970s were daringly short pants that covered the rear, but barely covered any leg. The pants clung tightly to a woman's legs and did not flare out.
 Not every woman exposed so much of her leg when she went to the disco. Many stuck with bell bottoms. You should still look for bell bottoms made of shiny, clingy material, however. Avoid bell bottom jeans, since these would have been too casual to wear to a disco.
 Popular styles for the disco included halter and bandeau. For a less revealing option that covers your arms, consider a tight, long-sleeve top with sleeves that flare out from the elbow. Look for tops adorned in sequins, metallic leopard print, or other flashy prints.
 Look for a pair with a 1 to 2” sole. Authentically, women could wear platforms up to 4 inches (10.2 cm) high, but these could prove hazardous to individuals unaccustomed to wearing such shoes. Look for bright colors or metallic patterns. Also stick with closed-toe designs, since these were more common to the time period.
 Use a hair straightener to flatten your hair as much as possible, and consider adding temporary extensions if your hair is short.
 While straight hair was slightly more common in the 1970s, large, wavy curls were also in style. Give yourself voluminous "Farrah Fawcett" curls if your hair holds a curl well.



Use dark eyeliner to trace your lids. Go with a color like black, brown, purple, gray or blue. Stay away from bright colors.
Apply a liquid eyeshadow. Look for a darker color that really makes your eyes stand out.
 Think chunky beaded bracelets and necklaces or medallion pendants. Look for shiny pieces that reflect light well.

