 Use the cable that you use to charge the Android device.;
,,,,, You can select "Always," but this is a potential security risk if someone gets a hold of your unlocked device.
 This will only happen the first time you connect, and should happen automatically.


If there is a problem installing the drivers for your device, visit your Android device manufacturer's support page and search for your model to find the Windows USB drivers for it.
, In Windows 10, this will be a folder icon on the left side of the Start menu.


You can also press ⊞ Win+E to open the window directly.
 It will be listed in the "Devices" section. It may just have a model number for a label.


Make sure your Android is unlocked and set to File Transfer/MTP.
,, Common folders for storing files you may want include:


Downloads
Documents
Pictures
Music
DCIM (camera)

, Once you've found a file you want to copy to your computer, click it to highlight it. You can click and drag to make a selection box, or hold Ctrl and click each file you want to select.
 You can create a new folder for the files or place them in a specific folder. Leave the folder open for easy transferring. You can also just transfer straight to your desktop if you'd like.
 This will begin copying the files to your computer

, Transfers may take a while for large files or lots of files. Do not unplug the Android device while it is copying.If you're finished transferring files and don't need your Android connected anymore, you can disconnect it if nothing is currently transferring.
, If you're using Windows 10, click the Folder button on the left side of the Start menu.


You can also press ⊞ Win+E


,, It may take a while to scan for all of the images on your device.
,, This changes the number of days that each group encompasses.
 This will be the folder's name in your Pictures folder.
, After transferring, you'll be prompted to keep or delete the original files. Deleting them will free up space on your Android.
, You can use a program called AirDroid to wirelessly transfer files from your Android to your computer. AirDroid is available for free from the Play Store.


,,,,,,,, Uncheck the McAfee offer if you don't want it, it's not necessary for AirDroid.
,,,,, The files will begin transferring over the wireless network to your computer.