 A link is provided at the bottom of this page. Use this site to get info on next sailings and reservations (Port Townsend-Keystone routes and Anacortes-Sidney B.C. routes only).;
, Again, a link is provided at the bottom of the page.
 High traffic ferries going between the San Juans require almost 1 1/2 hours by car and about 30 minutes by foot. On-foot rides are generally recommended for most sailings.
 If you prefer, you can purchase tickets online. Prices vary greatly depending on the route (which can be $7 a person or about $20 for a car and driver for the Bremerton route to almost $17 dollars a person and $45 dollars for a car for the Sidney route). Credit cards are accepted.
 If going by car, you'll load into a garage area and then take stairs up to the main passenger area. If going on foot, you'll cross a bridge onto the viewing deck and directly into the main passenger area.
 This is the best part of the ride: every route is scenic, providing legendary views, and cameras are recommended. The ferries also provide wifi service for $7 a ride or $30 a year. Little cafes are on board, along with vending machines. Eating tables are provided for these purposes. The passenger area itself can be explored, and outside viewing decks and lounges can also be found. Scattered around are various editorials and advertisements for places in the Puget Sound area. A typical ride last about 45 minutes, but can be as long as 3 hours.
 Get to your car when prompted, and get to the unloading area when prompted.
 This should be pretty self explanatory.
 If you brought your own car, you can skip this step. If you arrived by foot and have no intention of venturing far past the ferry dock, you can also skip this step. If, however, you're going to go far past the dock (such as exploring the San Juans or getting to your work 10 blocks away), you'll need to board a metro bus, light rail train, or sounder train. Up in Friday Harbor, you have the option of renting vehicles to go around with.

