 Your doctor may give you an intravenous antibiotic or instruct you to take antibiotics orally as part of your treatment. You may also be administered medications to regulate your blood sugar, since blood sugar regulation and short term glycemic control improve long term outcomes when it comes to healing and preventing infection. Follow your doctor’s instructions for taking antibiotics and any other medications that your doctor prescribes to help treat your gangrene.If you have side effects or feel like you do not need the medication any more, call you doctor before discontinuing them.
Do not stop taking antibiotics until you have taken the entire prescription. Otherwise, they may not be effective and the infection may be harder to treat in the future.
 Wounds with devitalized tissue, contamination, or residual suture need debridement before any other work is completed. Irrigation is important in removing the bacterial load and removing loose material.In surgical debridement, a scalpel or scissors is used to remove devitalized tissue or unwanted debris.
Enzymatic debridement involves applying various enzymatic agents to the wound.
 Sometimes oxygen therapy may be used to help promote healing of damaged tissues. For this treatment, you will be placed into a special chamber that is filled with oxygen. The concentration of oxygen will be much higher in this chamber than in the normal environment, which is thought to help you heal faster and more effectively.Oxygen therapy may assist in wound healing and help to reduce the amount of tissue that needs to be amputated.Oxygen therapy was has also been found to be extremely useful in surgical wound infections involving the Clostridium species that cause “gas gangrene,” which is a form of gangrene that develops inside the body., Biologic therapy such as maggot therapy, has been used to treat ulcers, chronic venous ulcers, diabetic ulcers, and other acute and chronic wounds. Recombinant human growth factors are now being examined as potential treatments for wound management. These factors include platelet derived growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor. Your doctor may recommend trying one of these treatments to promote healing.


Try to keep an open mind about maggot therapy. Sterile, lab raised maggots are often used to treat gangrene. Because maggots will only eat dead tissue, they can be applied to the affected tissues and allowed to eat away the dead skin. This process can also help your body to heal itself and help to prevent infection., Surgery may also be required to remove the affected tissues from your body. If not removed, the gangrene is likely to spread and cause further harm to the rest of your body and possibly even death. Therefore, it may be necessary for your doctor to remove a finger, toe, foot, or limb in order to treat the gangrene.Keep in mind that even when interventions are successful to open up an artery and reestablish blood flow to the affected area, surgical removal of dead tissues is still used for gangrene in almost every case., Causes of gangrene include diabetes, atherosclerosis of the limbs, peripheral artery disease, smoking, trauma, obesity, and Raynaud's Disease. It may be necessary to treat the underlying condition with medication or surgery in order to restore normal blood flow to the affected tissues and improve your future health. Discuss treatment options with your doctor.