 When you are taking care of a bedridden individual, make sure you move the body every two hours. You don't have to move him to another room or piece of furniture, but the position should be different enough that the same area of the body is not under pressure.


For example, turn the patient from the right side to the left. You can also use a pillow to prop him up.
If you are stuck in bed yourself, you can invest in a trapeze bar and reposition yourself. This only works if you are physically strong enough to use such a device.
If the patient has certain kinds of injuries, such as those to the spinal cord, make sure he is moved in such a way as to not cause more injury.;
, One way that bed sores develop is through pressure on the skin due to sliding. The patient may lose traction when she is elevated, which causes the bedding and the skin to move in opposite directions. For example, the skin of the tailbone may stay in place while the body slides down the bed. The pressure on the skin can cause bed sores over time.


When lying down, make sure the bed is not elevated more than 30 degrees as to avoid sliding and friction.
If the patient can sit all the way up, this will more than likely not occur., There are special mattresses on the market that can reduce the amount of pressure put on the body. This will help the patient avoid having any one area as a focus of pressure. You can also buy a air-filled or water filled mattress to help reduce the pressure on the patient's body. Look for these at a medical supply store so you can purchase a medical-grade mattress for this purpose.


If you are unsure on which to buy, ask your doctor for recommendations for the particular situation.
You can also use a mattress pad or cushions to help protect the bony areas of the patient., Malnutrition can contribute to the development of bed sores.This can develop especially quickly in patient's who are unable to take sufficient calories orally and/or willingly. Make sure the patient eats balanced meals of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats.


Make sure you check the dietary restriction of any patient you deal with. Each patient is assessed individually for his specific nutritional needs. , To keep the skin of the patient healthy, make sure that she stays hydrated. If you are not sure how much water she should have, ask the doctor to advise you based on the patient's specific needs. Different illnesses and conditions require different hydration needs.


You can also use juice to stay hydrated and keep up nutrition as well., Bed sores happen over a period of time. Early signs can include: non-blanching erythema or a purple or maroon localized area of discolored, intact skin, which may be painful, firm, mushy, boggy, or a different temperature than adjacent tissue.This indicates early stage of tissue damage or probable wound formation.