 A demo reel is a brief video summary of your past projects, and is an essential means of showing your skills to anyone considering hiring you for a project. An ideal demo reel should run from one to two minutes. While this may seem like a short amount of time, it's important to show that you are capable of producing a video that is succinct and representative of your work. .


Demo reels generally come in two format: a collage format which is essentially a mash-up of previous projects, and a sample format, which shows several scenes running about 20 seconds long from previous projects. In general, collage formats are best if you are interested in commercial or other short-form work, while sample formats are better if you're interested in longer, narrative-based projects.You may choose to create a portfolio online that has full-length videos of your work. If you do create a portfolio, make sure that they demo reel is the first thing in it.
Your demo reel and portfolio should absolutely be online. Do not pass out DVD's of your portfolio; these are obsolete. Instead, create and post the demo reel online.
 Search Craigslist or industry-specific sites or newsletters for any projects that need video production help. These may be projects like producing music videos for local bands, or producing wedding videos.Keep in mind that these kinds of projects may range in terms of compensation that they offer, but they can be great for building your resume or even getting your name recognized.
In general, try to go for projects that have some artistic value and give you some license. This way your individual voice and skills will be able to shine through your work.
 When you have found a project that interests you, contact the person running the project through phone, email or whatever contact method they have provided. Briefly state your interest in the project, as well as your past experience. Also state how your involvement would help the project. If you are emailing, include the demo reel that you created. If you are calling, suggest that you email them the reel.
 If you have free time, you can also make your own videos. Produce them for friends, or even make short films to enter into film competitions. Although you may not make money doing this, it can be a great way to develop your portfolio or get recognition.
 If you are ambitious and confident in your abilities, you decide to start a film production company. This will take a lot of work and determination, as well as some money to begin with. However, you will be able to have full control of your work, and you can more easily make a name for yourself.