 Your resume is most likely the first thing an employer will look at when they review your application.


Focus on specific results and achievements and leave out menial duties when describing your experience. Use action verbs such as "coordinated" or "managed" to describe the details of each position that you list.
Ask friends to proofread your resume before sending it out. A second, third, or even fourth pair of eyes never hurts to help catch simple grammar mistakes that could cost you an interview opportunity.
Make sure that your resume is tailored to the specific position that you are applying for. Select past job titles that show that you have the skills necessary to meet the needs of your potential employer. Be sure to include all specific skills, such as "Writing basic HTML" that match those specified on the job description.
Select a clear, easy to read font and an organized layout. Don't include any fancy fonts that distract from the actual content of your resume. If you are applying for a visual position such as a design job of some sort, you may want to include a personal logo to demonstrate your abilities.
 Talk about successes in terms of how you helped make other people's jobs easier. You should discuss your achievements in terms of measurable successes like an increase in productivity, but you also need to be able to explain how you helped your co-workers.


Prepare for an interview by identifying the problems that your potential employer needs help solving. What sort of issues do the responsibilities outlined in the job description hint at? Identify the type of person they are looking for and think of concrete examples of times that you have solved problems at your workplace in the past.
Talk about what you learned from others in your past jobs, not just about what skills you brought to your past positions. Explaining your professional growth humanizes you and shows that you are able to adapt and learn quickly and humbly from others.
Practice your responses beforehand. You can almost always guess at least a few of the questions that you will be asked during your interview. Prepare responses to common questions such as "What attracted you to this position?" "Why should I hire you?" and "What would your current employer say about you?"

, So much networking is currently done over the Internet that it can be easy to forget the importance of face time. Take the time to build relationships with people in person and create a lasting impression.


Attend company and/or industry events in your area such as lectures, seminars, festivals, and happy hours in order to socialize with like-minded individuals in-person.
Be aware of your nonverbal communication signals. Your outward appearance - including facial expressions, clothing, and posture - say certain things about you, as do your tone of voice and the strength of your handshake. Make sure to appear polished, personable, and approachable when attending networking events.
Search classifieds, industry/trade magazines and online sources like Meetup.com to find networking events you can attend and clubs you can join. Additionally, your school, religious organization and/or civic club(s) can provide opportunities for networking.
Be your true self in order to connect with others on a genuine level.
Always have business cards with your contact information on them to hand out at networking events. Doing so shows potential clients, co-workers, or employers that you are a credible professional.
Remember the basic tenets of networking: always provide something of value before asking for something, do what you can to ensure relationships are mutually beneficial, target people who are specifically related to what you are marketing, and be conscientious about staying in contact with people.

