 Many sexual enhancement products for both men and women promise to increase libido. However, decreased libido relates more to stress, comfortable habits in relationships, and poor communication. Though it may be awkward at first, have a frank discussion with your partner about your sex habits. Discuss your fantasies and listen carefully to your partner’s as well. Simply communicating openly about each other’s desires can help break old routines and breathe new life into your sex life.This is guaranteed to be healthier for your relationship and much healthier for you than an unregulated “miracle” drug.


Not only will an honest talk about sex likely reignite your libido, but if pleasing your partner is your concern, then honest communication can help you learn more about what your partner likes and wants out of sexual interactions. Ensure that you stay open to the feedback instead of becoming frustrated or defensive.
 Regular exercise to get in shape can improve your sexual performance for a number of reasons. Regular cardio will increase your stamina and endurance, including between the sheets.Additionally, shedding some excess pounds will make you feel sexier. Nothing can kill your libido like not feeling very sexy, and getting in shape goes a long way for self-confidence.


For men seeking enhancement products for penis size, a “beer gut” hanging down can also make your penis appear shorter than it actually is.In addition to the reasons above, exercising to lose some belly fat can also offer a more flattering appearance to your penis.
 Much of the perceived need for sexual-enhancement products related to penis size stems from a misperception regarding the average penis size. Actors in adult films can especially skew that perception for those who watch them. By realizing the actual average size, you can assuage some of the anxiety related to feeling improperly equipped. The actual average size of an adult male penis is:Between three and five inches (eight to thirteen centimeters) when flaccid
Between five and seven inches (thirteen to eighteen centimeters) when erect

, For men who worry about penis size, bushy pubic hair around the base of your penis can make it appear smaller than it is.Try trimming down the pubic hair around the base of your penis, which will increase the visible amount of natural length.
 Kegel exercises strengthen your pelvic floor and can help with delaying orgasm. If premature ejaculation is the issue for which you’ve been seeking an enhancement product, then try these exercises instead. A 2012 study showed that twelve weeks of regular Kegel exercises more than quadrupled ejaculation response time.The easiest version of this exercises is simply to squeeze the muscles that allow you to stop urinating midstream. Once you isolate how flexing these muscles feels, you can do it discreetly at home or work even without urinating.
For other suggestions related to controlling premature ejaculation, visit How to Control Premature Ejaculation


, While most sexual enhancement products are bunk, several clinically proven medications are available by prescription for problems such as erectile dysfunction (ED). See your doctor, discuss any problems you’ve had with regard to getting or maintaining an erection, and see if he or she thinks that a prescription medication is appropriate for your situation., Often the root cause of issues related to sexual performance is mental. Stress, anxiety, and depression can all affect both your libido and you ability to perform sexually. See a certified counselor who can help you sort through what’s weighing you down and negatively affecting your sex life.A number of licensed counselors specialize in the field of sex therapy and may have specific recommendations to assist you with building and maintaining confidence with regard to your sexual performance. A sex therapist can help with issues ranging from ED to premature ejaculation and much more.