
Leave windows open.
Put salt and pepper in coffee, tea or other drinks.;
,


When you do a chore, like washing the dishes, always forget to clean the forks.
Always leave your shoes where they're not supposed to be.
Always forget to do simple chores, like hanging up your backpack or your coat.
Make your room a mess. If you see your parents cleaning somewhere, immediately make a mess in that room.
"Forget" every time you're asked to do something simple, like take out the trash, or walk the dog.
If you have a chore, complain about how it's too hard.
Say you don't know how to do something. After they explain how to do it, say you forgot.



Click the light switch on and off a lot in the room they are in.
Walk into the room when they are trying to watch a film and constantly ask questions about everything.
If you are on a car trip, constantly shout "Are we there yet?"
If you have siblings, ask who they love more, you or them.
Follow them around the house and step on the back of their shoes. Apologize. Repeat.
When they ask you to go get something, come back without anything. When they ask again, come back with something that's not what they ask for. Keep doing this.



Set their alarm clock for 6 'o' clock in the morning on a weekend.
Sprinkle a little bit of water on their pillow so they think the roof is leaking, or perhaps your pet is peeing on their bed.
Write your name all over your parents car if it's dusty.
Turn the heat down when it's cold, and up when it's hot.
Make them drive you to school. When you're almost there, say you forgot something super important. When you're almost home, "find" it.
Ask them for help with your homework. Then when they sit down, get up and leave them to do it.



Hide the TV remote.
Hide their mobile phone, or hide the house phone if you've got a cordless.
Hide their wallets and purses.
Hide their keys, right as they're about to leave the house.



If you are in a store with them, constantly pick things up and ask how much they are.
If you're somewhere there are other people, look at a guy next to you and loudly ask your parent why he smells like farts.
Start begging for candy or junk food at the grocery store: "Can I have this, please?"
Beg to go to the bathroom. When your parents find a bathroom, say you don't have to go anymore.



If they come near to your face and say something, suddenly jerk back and shout "Have you been eating garlic?" or "You look old."
If your parents have bought some new shoes, turn to look at them and then say "What ARE you wearing?!"
If your parents are scared of spiders, or dogs, or something tiny, make fun of them whenever they freak out about that thing.



Use bad grammar and don't stop even after your parents correct it.
Call your parents by their first names, instead of "mom" and "dad."
Pretend that you are deaf in one ear and constantly yell "What?" or "Talk louder, I can't hear you!"
Talk in a different accent, or just jabber at them in a made up language.



Turn your music up really loud, especially if they don't like the music.
If they say a word from a song, suddenly burst out into that song, singing really badly at the top of your lungs.
Jump up and down the stairs, rather that walking.
Slam doors.
Laugh really over the top if someone tells a joke.
Walk into a room and scream, saying you have seen a ghost.
Chew with your mouth open and slurp when you drink.



Correct your parents' grammar constantly, but incorrectly. When they say, "Who wants ice cream?" yell back, "Whom wants ice cream, you mean, I believe."
Try talking really "properly," even if you don't know what you're saying. Pick a really long word, like "philandering" and use it constantly: "Well, frankly darling, this philandering philistine hasn't got a cotton picking clue."
Recite random facts when your parents try talking to you, or just make them up: "At school we learned about how the interior crust of the moon is where they get the stuff for cellphone screens. They send kids up there to get it."
Say vague nonsense. If they ask what you did at a friend's house, say, "It was....totalitarian."

,


If they are walking to the bathroom, run in and lock the door and tell them you were desperate.
Talk to 10 imaginary friends, all at once.
Just start summarizing the plot of Star Wars, or telling your parents about your skeleton key to the underworld in super-specific and dramatic detail.
Wait until you have the house to yourself and move around all the furniture, stacking it in weird places.
Put on all your clothes backwards.

