 Make soap out of lavender essential oil. Washing your body with the soap can deter bugs from attacking you.Purchase a plain liquid Castile soap and lavender essential oil, both of which you can purchase at many health stores and large retailers.Add 10-15 drops of essential oil to the Castile soap and mix well.Wash with the soap either every day or before you go outside.;
, Apply a small amount of lavender essential oil to your skin, or even that of your pet. This may be all you need to keep insects away from yourself.Use a carrier oil to dilute the essential oil so that it doesn’t irritate your skin. Examples of carrier oils include sweet almond oil, apricot kernel oil, avocado oil, olive oil, and sesame oil.Put 1-2 drops of lavender essential oil into each ounce of carrier oil you use.You can increase this amount as you tolerate it.Use 10-25 drops of lavender essential oil with 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) vegetable oil and 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) aloe vera gel as an alternative.Consider using these as body moisturizers and an alternative to soap.
Place a dab on your pet’s collar to repel ticks., Combine lavender essential oil and apple cider vinegar in a container. Apply a small amount to your skin or clothing to keep bugs at bay.Mix 25 drops lavender essential oil with ¼ cup organic apple cider vinegar. You can also use water if the smell of the vinegar is too strong., If you prefer to not put anything on your skin, consider using lavender sachets or pillows. These can help repel bugs around areas in which you may be.Make lavender sachets or pillows by putting dried lavender into little cloth bags or small pillowcases. You can either buy dried lavender or dry some from a plant you may have.
Many health food and home goods stores sell already made lavender sachets and pillowcases.
Place the sachets or pillowcases in cupboards, chests, or even around your bedroom. In addition to repelling insects, it will give the spaces a fresh smell., Spraying lavender on areas that may attract bugs, such as your bedroom or on patio furniture may detract bugs and give the area a pleasant scent. Mixing lavender essential oil with distilled water in a spray bottle can make application of this repellent easy and quick.Add 30-40 drops of your lavender essential oil to 1.5 ounces of distilled water in a clean spray bottle.The amount of essential oil you use will depend on how strong you want the scent.You can also make a spray using dried lavender. Boil 3-4 cups of distilled water and 3–4 tablespoons (44.4–59.1 ml) of dried lavender. Allow the mixture to cool and strain out the plant. Put it in a spray bottle and use as you like.Mist the spray wherever you’d like to repel bugs. Make sure to not douse bed linens or clothing with the spray., Rub lavender flowers that you have at home or purchase on your skin before after you shower. This may keep insects from attacking you.Rub the flowers to hot parts of your body that can help circulate scent such as your neck, underarms, and behind your ears., If you have a garden at your home or even have a balcony at an apartment, plant some lavender. Not only can it beautiful your garden, but it may also keep insects from coming near your home.
 Placing saucers of lavender oil in strategic areas can repel insects from indoor and outdoor spaces.Consider using this method if you want to avoid applying anything to your skin.


Use 30-40 drops of lavender essential oil per 1.5 ounces of distilled water that you want to use in trays.
Fill the trays with the mixture and put in spaces that attract a lot of insects.