 If talking to the locals and town authorities does not turn up an owner, or if you want to be sure they are correct, you should consult the Land Registry. You can search for property online by its address or map location. The cost is only 3 pounds for a basic search or 4 pounds plus other costs for a search of the index map.
 If the property you are looking at has an address, then the search is easy. You’ll need the:


Flat number
House number or name
Street name
Town
Post code

, If you have an incomplete address or no address, you can do an online search using map and aerial imagery. Just use the map to zero in on the area of interest, then click "find properties" to see a list of properties in the area.
 If your address search or map search do not reveal any title for a property, this does not necessarily mean the property is unregistered.To be sure, you will want to do an index map search. Unlike address or self-guided map searches, an index map search provides results with the benefit of indemnity protections under the Land Registration Act of 2002.


Use form SIM to apply for an index map search.
Supply as much information as possible, including:

The local authority serving the property, to whom taxes are paid
Postal number or house name
Road name
Locality
Postal town name
Postcode
Ordnance survey map reference



, The Ordnance Survey can help you locate a large scale Ordnance Survey map for your plan. The plan must:Be drawn to scale.
Be a copy of an extract from the Ordnance Survey map on the largest scale published (usually 1/1250 for urban properties and 1/2500 for rural properties).
Indicate scale and orientation.
Show the extent of the property by coloring or edging.
Show the position of the property in relation to nearby roads and other features.
 You can check where to submit it here.
 Over 85% of property in England and Wales is now registered. However, even unregistered property is owned, though the ownership is not recorded.As a last recourse, consider hiring an attorney or other expert in determining property ownership.

