 Pin the 3 by 16 inch (8 by 41 cm) strip to 1 side of the front square. Gather the fabric together and sew with a 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance. Iron the seam down so that it lays flat.

Pin a 3 by 18.5 inch (8 by 47 cm) strip to the abutting side of the front square. The 2 strips should connect at the end. Sew the strip onto the front square with a 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance. Iron down the seam so that the project lays flat on your sewing table.
 Layer 2 pieces of 3 by 18 inch (8 by 47 cm) strips together to make your sashes. Place the 2 right sides of the fabric together, in order to sew the sashes inside out.

Crease 1 end of the strip diagonally at the end. Crease it firmly so that you can see the line when you sew. You will use this crease to sew a tapered sash.
Sew around the perimeter of the sash. When you reach the end of each sash, sew at a diagonal along the crease, instead of sewing into the corners. Keep the opposite end of the sash open so that you can turn it inside out.
Cut the extra fabric from the edges. Also, trim the extra fabric at the corner of the tapered end of the sash.
Turn the sash inside out. Repeat this process with the other 3 by 18 inch (8 by 47 cm) pieces of sash fabric.
 Pin the sashes to the front of the main body of your apron. Pin them on either side of the apron, just above the corners where the border strips start.

Pin the extra length of the sashes to the center of the front of your apron to keep them free of the sewing needle as you finish your project. Make sure you pin the open end of the sash to the body and leave the tapered edge free.
 Place the 18.5 by 18.5 inch (47 by 47 cm) square right side down on top of the front of your apron. Smooth the fabric and pin the sides.

Sew around the perimeter of the apron. Leave a 3 inch (8 cm) section open so that you can turn your project inside out.
Cut the tops of your 4 corners with fabric scissors. This will ensure you have points at the edges of your apron.
Turn the apron inside out. Poke the points out with a knitting needle. Iron it flat.
Sew a 1/8 inch (0.3 cm) seam around the perimeter of your apron. This will close your turning hole. Make sure your straps do not get in the way and get sewed to your project in more than 1 place.
 The top is opposite the border strips., Fold the top corner down 6 inches (15 cm). Make sure it is even on both sides of the fold. Pin it in place.

Place a button right above the point of the folded down triangle. Sew it onto the apron, affixing the folded down triangle to the body of the apron. Iron the top of the fold so that it lays flatly.
 Place your 2 strips of neck strap fabric right side together. Sew around the perimeter, leaving 1 end open so that you can turn it.

Iron the fabric so that it lays flat. Pin 1 end of the neck strap to the back of 1 side of the turned down triangle. Sew a small rectangle through the apron and neck strap end for an extra stable seam.
Pin the other end to just below the other side of the turned down triangle. Make sure you don't twist the neck strap in the process. Sew another small rectangle through the apron and bottom edge of the neck strap.
 Pin the 2 pieces of contrasting pocket fabric with the right sides together.

Sew around the perimeter of the pocket, leaving a few inches for turning. Trim the edges of each corner. Turn the pocket inside out and poke the corners straight with a knitting needle.
Iron the pocket flat. Sew a 1/8 inch (0.3 cm) seam around the perimeter of the pocket.
Fold 1 corner of the pocket down, just like you did at the top of your apron. Make sure it is evenly folded and pin it in place.
Sew a button to the bottom tip of the triangle. Iron the fold.
 Sew along the 3 edges, leaving the top folded edge open. Iron your apron a final time and begin wearing it.