 Fried pork chops are a rich, delicious treat. Their golden-brown crust, a result of their being coated with a flavorful breading before frying, is as eye-catching as it is flavorful. To begin cooking this scrumptious dish, bread your pork chops (note - thin cut pork chops are preferable for their quick cooking time.) Completely coat each pork chop with flour, dust it off so that its coating is thin and even, then dip it in beaten eggs. Allow the egg to briefly drain off of your chop. Finally, toss your pork in a store-bought or prepared breading of your choice.


There are a variety of options when choosing your breading. Many supermarkets sell pre-packaged bread crumbs (Panko, etc.). You can use these by themselves or, for a custom flavor, season with your favorite spices, salt, and/or pepper. You can even make your own breading out of normal breadcrumbs.
The breading doesn't have to be the only source of flavor - dry seasonings like cayenne pepper and paprika can be also be added to the flour.
 For frying, it's best to add meat directly to a hot pan, not to add meat to a cold pan, then heat. Add one half cup of an oil with a high smoke point (like olive or grapeseed oil) to a frying pan or skillet. Swirl the pan to evenly coat the inside of the pan with oil. Turn the stove's burner to "high" and allow the oil to heat for a minute or two. Carefully add a tablespoon or two of butter to the hot oil - it will help give the pork chops a crispy brown crust.


The oil is hot enough when meat audibly sizzles when it touches it.
 Be careful - a hot oily pan can erupt with sizzling and crackling when meat is added. The sizzle sounds tremendously satisfying, but it's often accompanied by small splashes of hot oil. Use a pair of tongs to safely adjust your pork chops.
 The exact cooking time will differ based on the size and thickness of your pork chops. Thin-cut chops will only need a few minutes per side, while thick slices can require 5 minutes or more. Allow each side to develop a rich, deep golden brown color. Well-fried chops should be crispy on the outside while tender on the inside.


Normal rules for judging pork's doneness apply: use a fork and knife to check for meat that's white all the way through with clear to brown juices.
 As with other methods of cooking, pork will continue to cook after it's removed from the skillet. Move done pork chops to a plate lined with a paper towel (which will absorb excess oil, helping to prevent the pork chops from getting soggy.) Allow the pork to rest for several minutes, then serve and enjoy!


A cool, lightly-dressed salad compliments the hot crispiness of the pork chops perfectly.
 Don't pour fry oil down the drain - this can clog your sink. Instead, let your oil cool, then transfer it to a jar or plastic container. Keep your oil in the fridge, where it will solidify. Use your oil for future recipes or for a variety of other purposes that require grease.


If you're interested in alternative fuels, you can even make biodiesel from leftover oil with a few household tools and ingredients!

