 Sleeping is crucial for your overall health, but even more so for weight loss and maintenance. Studies have shown that decreased sleep affects your body's hunger hormones — increasing your cravings and hunger the next day.Aim for between seven and nine hours of sleep each night. This is a general recommendation and should be an appropriate amount of rest for most healthy adults.To help you get to sleep and sleep soundly, practice good sleep hygiene. This includes turning off all lights and electronic devices. It's also recommended to stop using bright, stimulating devices — such as smartphones, tablets, TV, and laptops — about 30 minutes prior to trying to fall asleep.
 Journaling has been shown to be very effective for weight loss. You can track a variety of items (like calories, activity level, hydration, sleep, etc.) to help keep you on track. The more accurate your journal, the more likely you are to be successful.It's easier now than ever to keep a food diary — download an app like MyFitnessPal onto your smartphone and use it to log your food.


One thing to keep track of is your food and beverage intake. Food journals can provide you insight into your diet and what may or may not be working for your weight loss plan. Food journals can also help keep you accountable.
In addition, you can also track your progress in your journal or on your app. That might be weight, pants or dress size and what physical fitness progress you have made. Those that keep track of their weight regularly are also more successful long-term., Weight loss can be difficult — especially if you've been trying or plan on trying to lose weight for a long time. Finding a support group can help build your confidence, keep you motivated and help your success long-term.Ask friends or family members if they'd like to join you on your weight loss plan. You can plan meals together or find fun, physically active things to do together. You're more likely to stick to your plan if you're doing it with a friend.
Consider joining online groups or forums of others who are trying to lose weight. There are a variety of people who do not like or cannot be physically active but are still trying to lose weight.

