 Write down every word that comes to mind about your story. Include keywords about the topic, character names, phrases you love, and anything else that comes to mind. Arrange these in different combinations to see if anything speaks to you.
 Look for stories or books that are popular with your target audience. Readers may be drawn to your work because it reminds them of something they already like.


For example, many young adult fantasy novels hinge on one or two intriguing words: Twilight, Bitten, Cinder, The Selection.
 Dull or generic titles won't catch the reader's eye. Titles such as "The Tree" or "The Train" might name the subject or a symbol in the story, but it doesn't excite the reader.


Try adding a more descriptive word to the basic title. Successful titles using the above words include The Giving Tree, A Tree Grows In Brooklyn, The Mystery of the Blue Train, and The Orphan Train.
 Titles are not only supposed to catch the reader's attention, but also spread the word about your work. Something too difficult to remember won't appeal to editors or agents, and your reader won't remember and be able to tell someone else the title. You want to come up with an exciting, yet catchy and easy to remember, title.Read your title out loud. Does it roll off the tongue? Is it exciting? Does it sound boring? Would you check out this title? The answers to these questions can help you revise the title.
 A title should be appropriate for the story, but it doesn't need to confuse your potential readers. Make sure that your wording doesn't depict the story as something it is not. Your title shouldn't sound like a science fiction story if it's a romance.
 A title needs to stand out. Strong action words, vivid adjectives, or intriguing nouns can all make your title compelling. Look at the words in your potential title. Are there synonyms that are more descriptive or unique? Can you choose a word that has a less general meaning? Some words are so common their meaning doesn't impact readers the same way.


For example, the use of the word desire in Eugene O'Neill's Desire Under the Elms is far more interesting than Love Under the Elms., Book titles often derive from established great works, such as the Bible, Shakespeare, song lyrics, or other sources. Write down phrases that are meaningful, beautiful, or intriguing to you.


Examples of this type of title include: The Grapes of Wrath; Absalom, Absalom; Gaudy Night and, The Fault in Our Stars.
 Titles are often memorable lines from the book or story itself. Readers may enjoy the moment when they realize why a story has a particular title.


Examples of this type of title include To Kill a Mockingbird, Catch-22, and Catcher in the Rye.
 Often, good writing ideas come to you when you least expect it. You may forget these, so keep a paper and pencil handy to jot down ideas that come to you whenever inspiration may strike.