 A bully is offensive, abusive, intimidating, threatening and humiliating, undermining your self-confidence . Ask yourself a few questions:


Does the bully make you feel frightened, upset or extremely uncomfortable in any way? Bullying doesn't just have to be physical abuse. Acts of bullying include spiteful comments, gossiping to others about you or simply anything that makes you personally feel upset that the bully does on purpose.
Is the bully nasty to you, then goes running to a teacher stating that you're the nasty one? Putting people with authority on the bully's side is a major sign of bullying.;
, This is a horrible happening that can leave you with severely damaged confidence. This is definitely bullying. Always remember that it is not you at fault; it is always the bully.
 The bully will criticize everything you say. This bullying behavior can leave you feeling depressed. If this happens, just ignore them, because they're just looking to start an argument.
 Having them obviously gossiping about you, exchanging looks at everything you say, and backing each other up when insulting you is horrible and unacceptable. Involving other people in order to insult you is bullying and should not be tolerated.
 Shoving you when you go past, tripping you up, throwing things at you, and pinching are all acts of bullying. Always tell someone in the first incidents of these - there could always be a time when the bully goes too far, and you end up with a major wound and not just bruises.
 Maybe your stuff is being hidden and every day turns into one big treasure hunt. This isn't just bullying; it is a crime, especially if your stuff has cost a lot of money.


98% of the time, it isn't you just losing stuff, especially if you have no unusual history of losing stuff. Make a list of the things that have gone missing and show your parents. This is important because you don't want to get into trouble for losing things that you haven't lost.
 The bully will not only point them out, but spread it all over your school as well. Don't let him or her put you down.


Bullies always put you down. They would say some things which would make you feel depressed. Simply ignore them and look at your good sides.

