 Since you’ll be living in the same space, it’s important that you agree on some guidelines for how you’ll respectfully share it. Setting boundaries early on will help you avoid conflicts later.It can feel like a difficult subject to bring up, so do it in a friendly, approachable manner: “I’m really looking forward to living with you, and I’d love to discuss if there’s anything I can do to make sure I’m not stepping on your toes and vice versa. Could we talk about it now or plan some time to do it later?”

, If you have an early morning chem lab on Thursdays, you probably want to go to bed at a reasonable hour on Wednesday night. Set quiet and study times in advance.


Good questions to ask include: “What does your schedule look like this semester?” “Are there times when you would like to designate as quiet times in our room?” “When do you usually go to sleep, and will it bother you if I’m working in the room while you’re in bed?”
After you have the answers, print and post a weekly calendar so that you can keep track of each others’ schedules. It’s also nice to know when you’ll have the room to yourselves.
 If there are times when you foresee wanting the room to yourself, make arrangements for that. Agree on a signal, like a sign on the door, that will notify the other person when you want privacy. Be sure that you’re not hogging the room or causing your roommate serious inconvenience.
 What seems like an easy-going social interaction to you may feel like an invasion of privacy to your roomie, so it's important to discuss how you’d like to handle other people in the room.


Important questions to ask include: "Are you comfortable with having visitors drop in unannounced or me bringing someone back to the room without telling you first?" "Do you mind groups of people being in our room?"

, This should be a two-way conversation where you both take into consideration the other’s needs and desires. If you’re having trouble coming up with a resolution to a particular conflict, seek out help from your resident assistant or other residence life staff member.


Try to come up with reasonable solutions that appease both sides. For instance, if your roommate is uncomfortable with having visitors in the room, ask if they’d be okay with you having people around if you give them notice first.
 Once you have agreed on a basic set of rules, it’s a good idea to keep a record them. Doing so will ensure that you’re both on the same page, which can help clear up any future misunderstandings. This will also make it easier to refer back to them and reconsider them throughout the year as your schedules and attitudes change.

