 Learn how to interpret dog body language in order to empower yourself in the future. Remember not to focus on what you should have done in the past, but on how you can regain your confidence.Get to know, for instance, how a dog holds its ears down and back to show that it’s uncomfortable, or how a side eyed glance communicates that it doesn’t like an interaction.
You can start by checking out the resources on dog behavior and communication available on the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) website: http://www.aspcapro.org/webinar/2012-04-19-040000/canine-body-language


, While it’s okay to avoid dogs soon after getting bit, you might eventually want to walk your normal route or visit your family member who has a big dog. Knowing how to handle a confrontation with a dog can give you a sense of security in addition to help you prevent another bite.When you see an unleashed, unfamiliar dog, don’t approach it. Don’t run away, panic, or make loud noises.
Stay still and try to be calm. Stay aware of the situation, but take deep breaths and do your best to stay in control of any scared or anxious feelings. Keeping your heart rate and breathing in control will help the dog understand you’re not a threat.
Avoid direct eye contact and try not to face your body directly at it. Instead, try standing with the side of your body facing the dog so you don’t appear aggressive. Say “No!” or “Go home!” in a firm, deep voice. Wait for the dog to pass or slowly back away.
 If possible, ask your parents or other household member to take on your care duties while you work to regain your confidence. Find a trainer and enroll in classes so your family dog can learn obedience and so you can master defensive handling techniques.Ask your dog’s vet or dog-owning friends and family for a referral to a good trainer. Look for a trainer accredited by the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers (CCPDT). You can use the council website’s search tool for help finding a local trainer: http://www.ccpdt.org/dog-owners/certified-dog-trainer-directory/


