 Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the baking powder, baking soda, salt, spices, and chocolate chips. Stir everything together with a whisk, then set the bowl off to the side.

No pumpkin pie spice? No problem! Use ½ teaspoon ground allspice, ¼ teaspoon ground cloves, and ¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg.
 Scoop the pumpkin puree into a clean mixing bowl. Add the sugar, egg, oil, and milk. Mix everything together until the texture is smooth and consistent. There should be no streaks of egg yolk left.

For an even smoother batter, do this in a blender or food processor for about 45 seconds.
Don't use the canned "pumpkin pie" puree, it is not the same thing.
 Pat down the flour mixture first, then make a well in the center. Pour the pumpkin mixture into the well, then stir everything together with a whisk until just combined. There will be a few lumps, which is fine. Do not over-stir, or the pancakes will turn out tough.

At this point, you can add in more spices to suit your liking.
 Place a medium-sized skillet on the stove and turn the heat up to medium. Once the skillet is hot, lightly coat it with cooking spray. You can tell if the pan is hot enough if you flick some water on it, and the water begins to sizzle.

You can also use an electric griddle. Set it to 350°F (177°C).
 Use a measuring cup or a soup ladle to do this. If the skillet is large enough, you may be able to fit a few more pancakes on it—make sure that they don't touch, however!, Cook the pancake for 2 to 4 minutes. Once you see bubbles form, wait for them to pop, then slide a spatula under it, and flip it over., The pancake is ready when both sides are golden brown. Slide a spatula under it, then transfer it to a plate. Move on to make the rest of the pancakes. You will need coat the skillet with more cooking spray after every couple of pancakes., You can serve chocolate chip pancakes with maple syrup like plain pancakes. You can also add some fresh berries or even ice cream. For a real treat, serve them with some sliced strawberries or a sliced banana.