 One of the most interesting facets of porn is how inclusive it is. Since there is a desire for almost any type of man or woman on the internet, almost any type of man or woman can find a niche in the porn industry. What matters most is confidence on camera, not your look.That said, make sure you show your best side for the camera. Exercise, a healthy diet, and a good posture will all help you go far on camera.
 Producers are most concerned with your look as they cast porn, so they need to see if you will fit in their next video. Capture as much of your body as you can, showing off your best assets whenever possible. If you have an incredible chest, puff it out slightly and make it the center of the photograph. If you are proud of you booty, curve your body so that it is in the frame. The shots you absolutely need are:


Full body, clothed scantily (tight t-shirt and shorts, lacy tops, etc.)
Full-body, nude. Men should have a full erection.
Headshot.
 One of the benefits of the modern porn industry is its insistence on safe, healthy sex. Any porn shoot you get will demand a current (under 30-days old) STD test to make sure no one contracts a dangerous disease while shooting. You can get an STD test at:


Your local Planned Parenthood.
Your physician.
The hospital or health clinic.

The CDC has a free search engine to find clinics across the country that will test you for HIV and STDs free of charge., If you wouldn’t do it for free at home, you shouldn’t do it for money. Keep this in mind as you book gigs, as it will help you stay happy and healthy as your career begins. Know your limits and “no-go” areas and be honest with producers before taking a gig. Some of the most common types of porn include:


’’’Fetish:’’’ Fetish porn is made to fit a specific, often odd, desire. It can feature almost anything, from costumes of famous TV shows to a predilection for feet.
’’’BDSM:’’’ Standing for “Bondage, Discipline, and Sado-Masochism, this extreme variety of porn features whips, chains, handcuffs, masks, and black leather.
’’’Sexual Acts:’’’ There is a variety of sexual acts and specialty porn genres out there, and you need to know what you are signing up for before showing up. When in doubt, do your research on the large list of porn terms and vocabulary.
 Online forums, found easily with an online search for “Adult Modeling Forums,” allow you to post your pictures and search for casting calls. Never give your real name or address on these forums, and instead wait until you are contacted back by a producer who is interested in you.You will have to begin in amateur porn before you will be paid for professional porn.
 Go directly to nearby porn studios and send them your information through their website’s “contact us” button. Go online and research “Adult Film Studios + your area” to find nearby studios, or check out aggregate sites like Sexyjobs.com to find potential listings.
 If a producer says that you cannot bring a guest because it is a “closed set,” then don’t take the audition. You need to protect yourself against scams, and the best way to do this is to have a partner to watch your back.For detailed information, classes, and up-to-date changes on laws in adult education, you should sign up for a free National Association for the Advancement of Science & Art in Sexuality (NAASAS) membership online.

If a gig seems too good to be true (paying 1,000s of dollars for minimal work) or does not give you concrete details (what you’ll be doing, where, for how long, and for how much), don’t take the gig.
 An audition will be more than just showing up and snapping a few pictures. You need to be ready to get in the sack and be professional and cooperative. If you’ve booked an audition, you need to know that you’ll be on camera for your first gig. Prepare accordingly.


Look nice – wear clean clothes, shower, and groom your private areas.
Be on time.
Have proof of age and a recent (2-weeks old or less) STD test.
If you’re a man, show up with a girl. Ron Jeremy famously said that the only way to get into porn is to bring a woman with you. Make sure she is willing to take part as well., The internet age has made it possible for anyone to break into the industry with a camera and a consenting partner. The site MakeLoveNotPorn.tv, for example, let’s you post your videos online and make 50% of the profits when people download it. This can be a great way to get comfortable on camera, test your limits, and gain traction in the porn industry.Focus on what makes you happy. Be natural on camera and the audience will enjoy it.
You can point potential producers to these videos later as a sort of “porn resume.”

