 You can check your device's version number in the "Version" section of the "About" page, which is in the "General" section of your device's Settings. There are jailbreaks available for the following versions of iOS:

iOS 10 - 10.2.1
iOS 9 - 9.3.3
iOS 8 - 8.4
iOS 7.1 - 7.1.2
iOS 7.0 - 7.0.6
If your iOS device's operating system isn't supported, you'll need to wait for the next supported jailbreak.;
, It needs to be off during the jailbreak, though you'll be able to turn it on again after the jailbreak is complete. To disable the passcode:

Open Settings.
Scroll down and tap Touch ID & Passcode (or simply Passcode).
Enter your passcode.
Scroll down and tap Turn Passcode Off.
Enter your passcode again.
 This service cannot run while you're jailbreaking an iOS device. To disable it, tap the "Back" button in the top-left corner of your iOS device's screen once to return to the "Settings" page, then do the following:

Scroll down and tap iCloud.
Scroll down and tap Find My iPhone

Slide Find My iPhone left to the "Off" position. You may need to enter your Apple ID password to do so.
 You can do this by opening iTunes, clicking the Help tab in the upper-left corner, clicking Check for Updates, and clicking Download iTunes if prompted., To do so, plug the charger cord into the charging port on the bottom of your device, then plug the USB (larger) end into the USB port on your computer., Backing up your data ensures that you'll be able to restore your settings and data on your device if you decide to get rid of the jailbreak.

The process for backing up an iPhone will work for backing up an iPad or iPod as well.
 Doing so will prevent Apple restrictions from occurring during the jailbreak. To do this:

Open Settings.
Slide Airplane Mode right to the "On" position. It's at the top of the "Settings" page.
 You're now ready to begin jailbreaking your device., The following devices are compatible with the iOS 10 jailbreak:


iPhone - 5S, 6, 6 Plus, 6S, 6S Plus, and SE

iPad - Mini 2/3/4, Air 2, Pro

iPod - 6th generation

, Make sure you click the link provided here rather than searching independently., It's the first link beneath the "Yalu10.2 Beta 7" heading on this webpage.

As of March 2017, there is no iOS 10.3 jailbreak. It will likely appear on the Yalu home page once it's available.
 It's directly below the first link. Doing so will take you to a page with links at the top of the page for different operating systems:

Mac OS X
Windows
Linux (32 bit)
Linux (64 bit)

, Clicking one will prompt a ZIP file with the jailbreak installer in it to download to your computer.

Depending on the browser you're using, you may need to select a save location (e.g., your desktop) before the file will download.
 Doing so will open it., This will launch an installer; you'll need to wait for a few minutes until the installer finishes loading its files.

Make sure you double-click the "Application" file and not the ".dll" file.
 This file has an iTunes logo on it., You'll do this in the pop-up window on your computer., It's at the bottom of the window., Do so in the same window as above.

You may need to generate an app-specific password if you are getting error messages:

Go to the Apple ID website.
Log in with your Apple ID and password.
Click Generate Password... under "APP-SPECIFIC PASSWORDS."
Enter a label (such as "jailbreak") and click Create.
Copy the password that appears and use it in Impactor when it asks for a password.


The installation process will likely take a few minutes.
 This app is black and grey with a human face on it. You'll see it on the Home Screen., It's in the middle of the screen. Doing so will prompt your iOS device to restart., Once it does, you'll see a brown app called "Cydia" on the Home Screen; this is the jailbreak App Store. Your jailbreak is complete., Jailbreak versions 9.1 and up are only available on 64-bit iOS devices, but the other versions can be jailbroken on any iOS device. 64-bit iOS devices include the following:iPhone - 5S, 6, 6 Plus, 6S, 6S Plus, and SE

iPad - Mini 2/3/4, Air 2, Pro

iPod - 6th generation

, These buttons are in the middle of the page and at the top of the page, respectively., Pangu will take a few moments to start and detect your iOS device., You'll be asked to confirm that you have created a backup., This will confirm that you've created a backup in iTunes., You may be asked to disable and then enable Airplane Mode again at about the 65 percent mark., You'll see this prompt at 75% in the Pangu window. You should be able to find the Pangu app on one of your Home screens.

If you can't find Pangu, pull down on the middle of your screen and use the search bar to look it up.
 This is required to run the exploit that allows the jailbreak to work. Since your iOS device is in Airplane Mode, your photos won't be transferred anywhere., Once Pangu has access to your photos, the jailbreak will proceed. After the jailbreak completes, an app called "Cydia" will appear on the Home Screen.

The Pangu window on your computer will also display "Already Jailbroken" when the jailbreak is complete.
 Cydia will begin its initial setup, which may take a few minutes. Once it's finished, your iOS device will reboot; when it finishes, your jailbreak is complete., Any future updates by Apple will break the jailbreak, and you may have to wait for months after this happens to re-jailbreak., You'll need to click the download button for your operating system and wait for the download to complete.

Make sure you click the most recent version of the TaiG regardless of whether you're downloading for Windows or for Mac.
 It may take a moment for the TaiG window to appear, but when it does, you should see your device listed there., You don't need this program for the jailbreak to work, and it can cause issues with the installation process.

Make sure you keep "Cydia" checked.
 The jailbreak will begin on your iOS device; you can monitor the percentage of the installation progress that has completed in the TaiG window.

Don't be alarmed when your iOS device restarts several times during the installation process.
 Once "Jailbreak succeeded!" displays in the TaiG window, you'll see Cydia--a brown box-shaped app--on your iOS device's Home Screen. Tapping it will begin finalizing the jailbreaking process., When you launch Cydia for the first time, it will configure its file system and then reboot your iOS device. Once your device reboots, the jailbreak will be complete., If you update your device to the latest version of iOS, you'll lose your jailbreak as well as your ability to revert to iOS 8., This is a free jailbreak utility released by the Pangu jailbreak developers. It is based off of the evad3r's work, and is designed for iOS 7.1.x. Only download Pangu from the official website.

To access the iOS 7.1 version of Pangu, click ☰ in the top-right corner of the page and then click for iOS 7.1.X.
 Doing so will open Pangu. You will see your device's name displayed in the Pangu window., This will begin the jailbreak process., Since iOS 7.1/7.1.2 are older than the current iOS version, you'll need to set your iOS device's clock back., The jailbreak process stalls at this point. Once Pangu is open, allow the app to run when asked to confirm., Your iOS device will reboot once Pangu is finished.

Be careful not to power down your iOS device or computer during this time.
 This is the App Store of your jailbroken device. Your iOS device will reboot after Cydia is finished configuring; once it finishes restarting, the jailbreak is complete., Do this from the official website to avoid viruses., Doing so will open it., A window will open, and you should see your device displayed in it.

If your device isn't plugged in, plug it in before continuing.
 This will begin the jailbreak process., You may get asked to put your device into DFU mode. Don't worry--this process will be explained to you in the on-screen window., Once the jailbreak finishes, your iOS device will restart itself., It's the brown app on the Home Screen. Tapping it will force your device to restart automatically after Cydia completes its initial setup., Once you see the "Reloading Data" box disappear, the jailbreak process is complete.