 Rocking your baby can help to soothe them when they are fussy or cranky. The rocking motion reminds them of their mother’s womb. It might even help them settle into sleep.


Rock your baby in a rocking or gliding chair.
Use a baby swing or bassinet to rock your baby.
 Strap your baby in their carseat or stroller and go for a ride. The vibration of the seat is often very soothing. If your baby does not want to be in their stroller, considering holding them and taking a quick walk around the block. Your baby will enjoy the change of scenery.
 When done correctly, swaddling can provide many benefits to your baby when they are sleeping. Swaddled babies sleep longer because they startle less. The swaddling mimics touch and reminds baby’s of their mother’s womb. It also helps a baby learn to self soothe.Learn to swaddle your baby correctly. Be careful to not swaddle them too tightly. Always swaddle your baby with their hands on their chest. Swaddling them with their hands to their side can cause joint problems.Always place a swaddled baby on their back. You should stop swaddling once a baby is able to roll over.
 You might find that your baby wants you to hold them frequently. It can be very difficult to get anything else done when your baby wants to be held all of the time. If this is the case for you, you may want to consider babywearing. Babywearing is a safe method practiced all over the world to carry your children. It provides your child the comfort and attention that they need while giving you two free hands to do other things.A baby wrap is the most common type of baby carrier. It is a long piece of stretchy fabric that you can wrap around your body in different ways to carry different size children.The ring sling can be used for newborns and toddlers as well. It can also be used for hands free nursing.Soft structured carriers are produced to wear like a backpack. Your child slides down into it. It is padded to provide you and the baby a lot of comfort., A baby can become fussy when they are overstimulated. Your baby can become overstimulated from toys, screens, noises, or crowds. Your baby may become irritable, hit you, or get too hyper. When you notice signs of overstimulation, try to provide your baby with some quiet time., Babies need a lot of attention. Your baby may become fussy if they want you to hold or play with them. Be patient with your baby and keep in mind that your baby is not able to keep itself occupied for very long.

