 Unless you are far removed from any neighbors, there is simply no way you can expect to avoid hearing dogs bark from time to time. Barking is an innate activity for canines; they may do it to show fear or anxiety, to seek attention, due to pain or illness, and for many other reasons.Before taking action, consider whether your limits for the amount of dog barking you want to tolerate are reasonable and feasible. If the dog just yaps for a bit when a person or another dog walks by, or whines when it's ready to go back inside, or barks when playing with its owner in the yard, it will likely subside soon.
If, however, the barking is persistent (consistently ten minutes or more, perhaps), sounds like the dog may be injured or ill, or makes you feel threatened, you probably have legitimate reasons to act.
 There are numerous ways to muffle the neighbor’s dog as well as other annoying sounds. Installing soundproof windows is a more expensive option, but it may have the added benefit of reducing your heating bill. There are also soundproofing curtains, which would be a less expensive route. These would all have the added benefit of reducing other noises that you can’t do anything about, such as late night traffic and sirens.


By taking steps to reduce the amount of noise that actually reaches your living space, you may find that the annoyance factor of the dog’s barking is substantially reduced.
 There are devices on the market that emit a loud, high-pitched sonic blast whenever it detects barking. The sound is above the human range of hearing, but may annoy the dog enough that it learns to stop setting it off. These are basically automated dog whistles, and in fact using a dog whistle may work just as well.


If you can convince your neighbor to use one, there are dog collars that incorporate the sonic device, or release an unpleasant smell or hiss of compressed air instead.
The overall effectiveness of such devices at stopping barking is questionable, and while they shouldn’t harm the dog, they do cause a level of discomfort that you may be uncomfortable with (even if that dog is driving you nuts!).