 When were you invited? Have you had enough time to prepare? How long? A month or two? This article will start with 28 days in advance.;
, You want to have a natural glow but you don't want to have cheese puff legs. If you choose to tan outside, put on SPF 25 sunscreen and take advantage of the outdoors, and do some exercise while tanning.
 Ten a day should be enough, but if you really need some toning, try ten crunches every 3 hours, if you can handle it! Don't do them directly after eating.
 Masks that include bananas, honey, yogurt, and/or avocado work well. Don't use anything that you might be allergic to. Wash your face correctly, and never apply too much makeup at a time. Exfoliate with sugar and cinnamon every night before bed to invigorate your skin, remove dead cells, and also, calm it down to improve circulation.
 Crest 3D White toothpaste is recommended for whitening teeth and removing harmful bacteria. Buy towels, a sexy bathing suit, vibrant beach bag, matching flip flops, glossy sunglasses, appropriate sunscreen, and anything else that you might need for the party. It's better to have it all on hand.
 RSVP. Call the host and let them know that you'll be there so that they can start preparing for your gorgeous presence.
 Start using lotion everyday. Jergens and Aveeno are the best. Vaseline/Petroleum Jelly is another intense moisturizer that can be used on elbows and knees, or any other particularly dry areas. They use natural ingredients and really revitalize your skin so that it glows and shimmers!

, Start eating healthy meals. Fruits and vegetables should start becoming a huge part of your meals, and you should also start doing more crunches, and maybe some dancing or other cardio. About 20 crunches every 3 hours, and two hours of light-medium cardio a day should do the trick! Also, try to drink as much water as you can, as it makes your hair and skin look healthier and gives it that natural glow. It also makes your hair grow longer faster.
 Get your nails done! You can do them at a salon if you can afford it, or at home if you're good at it. Pick colors that provide a good contrast to your skin color, and match your bathing suit and flip flops!

, This is the second most important day. You need to remove all unwanted hair, either by waxing, or shaving with a good lotion. Deep condition your hair with Suave, Tresemme or Biolage. Exfoliate with cinnamon, sugar and lemon juice. Wash thoroughly, and then go to bed about 10 hours before you have to be awake.
 Choose only healthy foods, such as a fruit smoothie for breakfast, and perhaps a healthy sandwich and orange juice for lunch. Don't apply too much makeup. You want to aim for that natural look.
 Put on your bathing suit, and then moisturize your skin. Apply some beach-like and preppy makeup, and then put on a cute little cover-up. If you're not into cover-ups try.


Short-shorts, a summer halter, and low wedge flip-flops.
A micro-mini (cotton or terry cloth), graphic tank top, flip flops.
A terry cloth mini dress, and flip flops!

, Pull it up into a messy bun, accessorize with a thin headband. Leave it down and natural, pull it back in a thick band, just find some style to make it look beach-like and natural! Remember, you're most likely going to go swimming so don't spend too much time on the details.
 When you get there, find your friends and enjoy your efforts!!

