 Consider just what it is that makes a name seem unique to you. Everyone has a different definition of what makes names unique to them.


Are you drawn to traditional names that have non-traditional spelling?
Do you prefer the sounds of names or the way they look when they are written?
Is it the pronunciation of a name that makes it unique to you?
Knowing what unique means to you will help you narrow down your choices based on your personal criteria.;
, There are many advantages to having a unique name that stands out form the rest. Consider the way a unique name can benefit your baby in the future when deciding on a name.
 By choosing a very different name, you will be individualizing your child. This can be good for self-recognition and for standing apart from the others. Keep in mind that your choice of name will stick with your child through the ages. What may be cute for a youngster may not be as suitable for a teen.
 A unique name may not always be ideal. There can be downsides to giving your baby a unique name. It is always better to weigh the pros and cons of a name before deciding on it for your baby.


Keep in mind that an unusual name that is difficult to pronounce can bring unwanted attention to your child. Try to strike a balance. If the last name is a very hard one to pronounce correctly, be sure to keep the first name fairly simple. If the last name is a very simple name, strive for a more interesting first name.



Do you want one syllable, two or more?
Do you want the name to be soft and delicate or firm and strong?
Do you want a gender-neutral name or a name that is clearly masculine or feminine?

, If it is a name that you are not particularly fond of, consider using it as a middle name. Perhaps just taking a part of the name and incorporating it into a new unique name will be sufficient enough to appease the family while meeting your personal style preference.
 Is it a nickname that you will be able to live with? Will it be embarrassing to your child when he attends school if he becomes nicknamed something associated with his name?

, Do they spell out something one would rather not be referred to as? Would changing one initial be sufficient to avoid the reference?

, Many people name their children after a religious figure. Although religious names are generally very traditional, you can try changing the spelling or altering the name in some way to make it more unique and original.
 Keep in mind the time it will take to write out the name and the space it may use.


Do you want it to be comprised of more than one middle name?
Are you considering using just the first and last names?
Have you considered using just an initial as a first or middle name?

, Just about every name has at least one specific meaning that can be associated with it. Consider placing 2 names together based on their meanings to come up with an endearing name that fits your style.
 Repeat the name aloud to see how it flows.


Does it sound pleasant to the ear?
Will it generate teasing from others?
Say the name often until you get used to hearing it. Does it grow on you the more you say it?
Can you see yourself calling out this name over and over for the next 18 years and beyond?

, Many celebrities chose unique names for their children and often TV characters are given unusual names to play their character by. You can take a note from celebrity pages and use their names as inspiration for coming up with your own unique baby name.
 Many foreign names can have an exotic tone to them. Use your public library or the Internet as a source of information or consider purchasing a book of exotic names from a local book store.
 Many of these names are inspired by Arabic, Persian and Latin descent and have a very unique flair to them. Try coming up with your own modern variation of an old English name.
 You may be pleasantly surprised at what you can come up with.
 Flowers, gems, nature and colors can make charming original names. Check into mythological names, famous artist’s names or well known writers names for some creative ideas. Imaginative ideas can come from music, movies, city blocks, famous places or famous leaders. Let Holidays or seasons be your inspiration.
 Take a portion of one name and add it to another to create an entirely unique name that won’t be found in popular baby naming books.
 Pronunciation allows for many different ways to spell the same name. Consider the way the lettering looks when written out. Keep in mind that spelling may present an issue with proper pronunciation. Try to present a spelling solution that will prevent mispronunciation of the name.
 Between the two of you, it may be possible to come up with a very unique baby name. Both parents should be in agreement of the final choice. Perhaps if more than one name is going to be used you can both pick a name of choice.

