 If you want to make different colors, divide the flour up into separate bowls. How many bowls you use will depend on how many colors you want. The best part about using flour and baby oil is that it stays nice and light, clean-looking, and a little less like sand (and the kids might just believe that it's from the moon).
 It is a lot easier to mix dry materials with other dry materials than with wet. If you plan on adding any color, glitter, or scents, do so now. Be sure to mix it into your flour well. Here are some powders that you can add to your flour right now:Add a tablespoon or two of powdered tempera paint, powdered water color, or powdered chalk if you just want to add color. If you are using an oil-based food dye, hold off for now.Add some powdered drink mix, such as Kool-Aid to give your moon sand a color and a nice smell.
Add in a few teaspoons or tablespoons of glitter to give your sand some extra powder.
Add in a sprinkle of spices, such as pumpkin pie, apple pie, vanilla sugar, cocoa, or cinnamon if you want to give your moon sand a nice smell.
 If you don't have any powdered paint or spices, you can still color and scent your sand by adding stuff to it. Here are a few suggestions:To color your moon sand without powdered paint, try using oil-based food coloring or oil-based candy coloring.
To scent your moon sand without spices, add a few drops of essential oil or baking extract (like vanilla or strawberry).
 Once your color is mixed in (or not, if you want a blank slate), add in 1 1/4 cups of baby oil. It'll probably be easiest to just mix it up with your hands, though you'll get a bit dirty. Or you could just let the kids do this step!

, Once everything is in—color, scent, glitter and all—mix it all up thoroughly and get to playing with it. What'll be your first creation? A giant octopus? A castle? The moon itself?


If you're dealing with small children, just make sure they don't get any in their mouths. Baby oil and flour isn't dangerous, but paint or chalk added into the mix won't be any fun.
 Moon sand does keep for a solid month or two, but you'll probably find that you want to make more anyway before the first batch gets old. But until then, store this batch in an air-tight container in a cool, dry place, like your pantry or in a child's toy box.


When you go to pull it back out for playtime round two, revive it with a couple tablespoons of water. It will come back to life and be just as good as new.

