 Not only does it prevent against infections and sores, but also improves the health and appearance of the coat and skin. Daily currying and brushing, picking out and conditioning hooves, and occasional baths help keep your horse in top form. It is a good time to check them over for and cuts/bruises, get their coat shiny and soft and gets their blood moving, bond with your favorite critter, and it's also good exercise for you.;
, Some people also put corn oil or flax seed oils in the horse's feed three weeks before the show to add shine to the horse's coat. Corn oil or rice bran also helps horses gain a little weight.
, It is best to divide the horse into quarters, and then scrub and rinse each qua moving on to the next.
,, Make sure you rinse out every bubble, to prevent the skin from itching.
 Do not condition the mane if you plan to band or braid. Leave it in for the next step…

, Rinse well.
,, Hair polish is not ShowSeen. It is a leave-in, one-time, strong acting polish that adds a layer of lasting shine and dirt protection to the coat. It is not sticky, and does not wear out easily. (An example is Ultra’s Hair Polish.) If you cannot get hair polish, a product like Show Sheen is an acceptable substitute.
 Have someone hold the dock at the angle that your horse carries it in motion, because a tail always looks shorter when it is moving.
 Arabians, saddle seat, park and most breed class horses are left with a natural tail.
 Look on the sides of the dock, and you will see two half moons where the hair does not grow. For clipping, you only need to enlarge those half moons and cut off the straggly hair. Do not cut too much. It is better to cut too little and still have a tail left to work with! Do not clip the tail if you are going to braid.
 Currently, the fad is to trim a Western horse’s mane to about three inches long, but some are breaking the trend and riding with it long and lush. Reiners, leave the mane natural. For braiding, trim it to around four inches long. In Arabian classes, leave the mane natural, but clip a bridle path about a third of the way down the neck. It is also frowned upon in the show ring if you just cut the mane. You should always pull it so that it looks natural.
 Clip the long hair on his legs and throat, as well. Some breeds are not shown clipped, so check with your rule book for details about your breed. If you plan to do a full body clip on your horse, you should do that 2-4 days before show day, so that any of your mistakes can grow out. Just don't do it too far away from the show, or your horse will look a little straggly.
 That will help form a nice surface for the hoof polish to go on.
 You should do that the day before if you know that your classes are in the beginning of the show, or get their early, with enough time to braid without being rushed. Just make sure you cover the mane so that the horse doesn't rub it out.
 Do not snug it too tightly, or you will break hairs, cause discomfort to your horse, and have a mane that sticks up straight. You can use mane mousse to control stray hairs and keep your work neat.

When you are finished, trim the bottom of the mane to about three inches long, as it is the custom currently, or leave it untrimmed, long and lush. Don’t forget to band the forelock!







, Braid it tightly. About halfway through the braid, start braiding in a length of yarn (about the length from your elbow to your thumb) with the two ends hanging down. Finish off the braid with a rubber band. Flip the braid under itself and pull the loose ends of the yarn through.

Separate them and criss-cross over the loop-like braid, and then tie behind the braid in a secure double-knot. Cut off the loose ends, and continue down the mane. Braid the forelock in a french braid, and then continue like you did the regular braids. (for more help, check out the braid a horse’s mane page)






Dressage riders braid their horses’ manes into button braids, which are thicker and rounder, like little buttons. These are done by braiding the hair and finishing it off with a band. Then, with a plastic needle and thread, sew the braid into a neat, round button.
 Match the ribbon to your bridle and clothes.
 Starting at the very top of the dock, braid the side hairs in a tight, delicate french braid down the tailbone. Just before the tailbone ends, stop adding hair sections and continue in a regular (not french) braid until you come to the end of the hair you are holding. Tie it off with a band, and then sew the thin braid into a pinwheel at the bottom of the french braid.
 Touch up the bottom with scissors if there are straggly hairs.
 Make sure the color is as close to the tail’s original color as possible, and do not spray too thickly. When done properly, this really makes a thin tail look lush.
,,, Follow with a soft cloth dampened with a solution of half water, half rubbing alcohol. The water gets out the fine dust and the alcohol speeds the drying time. When the horse is dry, spray on a good coat of shining spray, but not in the saddle area. To apply it to the face, spray some on a piece of chamois and rub in gently.
 Dust off any extra.
 Do not sand too much – just enough to make the surface a little smoother. Think of it like buffing your nails.
 Use black on black hooves, and clear on any other colors. If you don’t feel comfortable with using black, just use clear. It looks good on any horse!

,, Not while you’re warming up, of course.
,, to the muzzle, eye area, ears and bridle path. Baby oil works well too.
,,,,,