 Sound is a crucial aspect of the game as it will let the player know when and where an attack is coming from.


Over-ear headphones that cancel out ambient noise would be ideal, but any headphones will suffice as the game heavily relies on surround sound, which can be lost through normal speakers.
Make sure you have the volume turned up properly, as breathing can be heard right before an attack and is essential to making sure you close the door, warding off Bonnie or Chica.;
, At times there can be a lot going on, and the difference between life and death could be the difference of a second. The Shift button is used to close and open doors, the Ctrl button is to turn the flashlight on and off, and the mouse is used to focus attention and run to locations. Holding Shift or Ctrl down before running to a location will allow that action to be performed instantly upon arriving after clicking.


The Android experience is exactly the same gameplay with slight variations in the controls. Instead of clicking to run to locations, you double-tap to run. The bottom left side of the screen acts as the control button for the flashlight, and the bottom right side of the screen acts as the shift button to close the door. Tapping the bottom middle of the screen in between the flashlight and door close will turn you around so you can run back.
 There are five areas to be aware of in the room, and each of them has their own set of dangers. The foot of the bed is the hub of the room where you can either turn around to face towards the bed or run to other locations in the room. The left door, closet, and right door can all be closed to keep any animatronics out, and the flashlight can be used to see scare away anything lurking in the darkness.
 Bonnie will only attack through the left door and can be heard shuffling down the hallway, advancing towards the door and breathing at the door. Holding the door shut, Bonnie can be heard walking away from the door. Alternatively, through the right door, Chica be found making nearly exactly the same sounds. Little Freddys will collect on the bed and will make a screeching, screaming noise that will need to be scared off with the flashlight every so often throughout the night.


If three Little Freddys are left unchecked on the bed, Freddy will be summoned to kill.
That’s not Mom in the kitchen; Chica likes to rummage around for snacks at night, so if dishes are heard banging into each other, be aware of an attack from Chica on the right side of the room soon!

, Pay attention to all the sounds in the room as they will give insight on what is about to happen. It is a lot to listen to, and the sounds can be quiet, but they are there. Looking towards a door will amplify any footsteps, so pan around the room and listen carefully. Run towards the door suspect of attack, stop and listen for a few seconds, and if there is no breathing heard, shine the flashlight down the hall to ward off threats. If there is breathing at the door, close it and listen for footsteps walking away and return to the foot of the bed. You need to make it to 6AM .


Do not forget to turn around at the foot of the bed and shine the flashlight at it to ward off any Little Freddys gathering on the bed.
You do not need to worry about the closet on the first night.

