;
, There will be a guy there.
,


He will say “I see that Director D has sent you. Meet me upstairs.”

,,, Talk to the guy in the trashcan.


He will give you a message that says, There’s a secret entrance to the warehouse on the roof.
 You’ll find a door. Go in and continue. Careful for the dogs. They’ll bite you. Then there is a room you can go in. There is a spy tied up there. Click on him and he’ll give you a laser pen and a satellite clue.  

, Then go all the way to the right and go to Balding Avenue. If you continue to the right you will see a guy in camouflage. Talk to him and he’ll give you a message that says, there’s a top B.A.D. agent in Bistro. To access the B.A.D. control center you’ll need his fingerprint.
 Bistro. Take off your suit and go in. Go all the way to the right to the kitchen and talk to the chef. Ask to apply for the job and he will tell you that you need to pass a test. It’s simply a game of Simon Says. If you win the game then he’ll give you a chef’s hat. Then you go to the table with people at it and click on the guy with the mustache. He’ll ask you to fill up his glass. You’ll get the glass with his fingerprint on it.
 Go through it and jump from lamp to lamp till you get to the wall. Then fall to the ground and get out of the room. Go right and you’ll see another guy in camouflage. Talk to him and he’ll give you a secret letter. That you must decode. It looks like a bunch of random words. That’s because… it is!! All you need to do is read the first letter of every line and it reads Don't trust Director D.
 Now you have to carefully get to the top of the house without getting zapped. It may seem hard at first but Once you get the hang of it, it’s pretty easy. When you get to the top you’ll find a window with bars in front of it. Get in front of the window and it will show a close up of the window. Your mouse is now the laser pen. Click on the bars to cut through them. Then you'll be able to get in.
 Free him and he’ll give you a grappling bowtie and another satellite clue. Put on the bowtie and your chameleon suit.
 (To use the grappling bowtie just click on the bowtie on the bottom left and click which way you want to go.)

, Use your grappling bow tie to try to grab another platform. Careful, there’s a guard there. It's hard but you'll make it! Now use your grappling bow tie to try to grab another platform or antenna at the top left. Talk to the guy there. Now aim your bow tie to the far right and try to grab another antenna. When you swing over there and are directly above the building click again (at the top of the screen) so that they let go of the rope. Otherwise they will swing back.
 You are now in a greenhouse. Take off your bow tie. It will make this harder.
 Click on the cherry bomb and go the right of it.
 Get on that floor and push it to the left till it falls on the lower platform.
, It will throw you off.) and finally it to the cage with the girl trapped in it.
 She will give you ultra vision goggles and the third satellite clue.
 Go all the way to the right until you get the B.A.D. control center. Now put on your goggles. Now get past the lasers. When you get to the rocks, jump higher and past more lasers. Then you’ll find a door. Click it and use the fingerprint on the glass to unlock it. Jump on the platforms until you get to a big computer. Click on one of the control things on the sides. You’ll get trapped in a cage

, The password is


LASER
HAIR
REMOVAL

, Fight him. When you win the fight, you will go back to HQ and you will beat the island.


To defeat him, you have to go to the things with the bright balls and it will kill them.

