 Sometimes people aren't necessarily depressed, they're simply going through a difficult time of life. However, if a friend shows signs of depression, you may need to pay close attention to make sure that it doesn't get worse.Do they exhibit persistent sad, anxious, or empty moods? Do they present feelings of hopelessness or pessimism (nothing will ever get better; life is terrible)?
Do they have lots of feelings of guilt, worthlessness, or helplessness? Are they fatigued, have decreased energy? Do they have difficulty concentrating on things, remembering things, or making decisions?
Have you noticed insomnia, or oversleeping? Have they lost or gained significant weight? Are they restless and irritable?
Have they mentioned or talked about thinking about death or suicide? Have they made or talked about making a suicide attempt? This could show by them saying something about how the world world be a better place if they weren't in it.
 Remember that their pain and feelings of hopelessness and helplessness are real. Validate the fact that they feel these negative feelings and then do your best to turn their attention elsewhere.Depressed people may respond to distractions. You don't have to make the distraction super obvious. If you're taking a walk, for example, pointing out the beauty of the light on the water, or the color of the sky can turn the conversation.
Going over the same negative feelings again and again can actually make things worse, because it encourages a depressed person to remain in that negative place.
 When someone is depressed they often have difficulty connecting to anyone on an emotional level, because of what they are going through. Taking it personally will mean that they will have a more difficult time reaching out.


A depressed person might lash out by saying something hurtful or angry towards you. Remember that this is the depression not the friend who is saying those things.
This doesn't mean that you need to take abuse from them. If your friend is becoming abusive, as well as depressed, then they need the help of a therapist. You're probably not going to be able to help them except by assuring them that you'll be there for them when they stop hurting you.
 Depression is often linked to a chemical imbalance in someone's brain. It is much more than simply being sad, or being unhappy. It can feel, to the depressed person, like they're being swallowed by despair or by emptiness.


Never do things like tell someone to “get over it” or that they could be happy if they’d only “do yoga” “lose weight” “get out more” etc. This will simply make them not trust you and will make them feel worse and guilty about what they're going through.
 Depression can make it incredibly difficult to do anything, including clean the house, wash dishes, go to work. Doing little things to lighten their burden can make a huge difference.


People who are dealing with depression spend most of their energy struggling against and being swallowed up by their mental disorder. That doesn't leave much energy for doing household tasks.
Occasionally bring by a nice cooked dinner, or offer to help them clean their house. Ask if you can take their dog for a walk with them.
 Depression is not something that you can simply fix. Offering a listening ear to someone can be more helpful than giving lots of advice or opinions about what they're going through.Some ways to help start the conversation might be: "I have been feeling concerned about you lately" or " I wanted to check in with you because you have seemed pretty down lately."
If they're having difficulty with expressing their feelings or opening up you can ask some questions to help: " Did something happen that made you start feeling this way?" or "When did you begin feeling like this?"
Some good things to say: "You are not alone in this. I'm here for you," and "I care about you and I want to help you through this difficult time," and "You are so important to me. Your life is so important to me."

, Even if you are a trained therapist you shouldn't be practicing on a friend, especially if it's outside of your working hours. Being there for someone going through depression and listening to them does not mean that you get to take responsibility for their mental state.


If your friend is consistently calling you in the middle of the night when you need your sleep, or talks about committing suicide, or seems to be stuck in the same horrible place for months or years, they need to talk to a therapist rather than you.
 While you can offer encouragement and support for a friend, you can't give them the professional help they need, and you can't make the depression go away through sheer force of will. This can be a difficult conversation to have, but if you care about your friend, it's important to have.


Ask them if they've ever considered or gone to a professional for help.
Recommend helping resources, or if you know of a good professional, recommend them.
 Depression isn't something that comes once and then is gone once you've taken a little medication (this isn't the chicken pox). It can be a lifelong struggle even if your friend finds the right medication.


Don’t give up on them. Depression can be incredibly lonely and isolating and it can make someone feel like they're crazy. Having people who support them can make all the difference.
 Your friend is important to you, of course, and you want to do everything in your power to encourage their healing. You can't lose sight of yourself while you're offering your support.


Make sure that you’re taking care of yourself. Take breaks from the depressed person. Spend time with people who aren't depressed and don't need your support.
Remember, that if you aren't getting (or haven't had) a reciprocal relationship with this friend then the relationship could end up abusive and one-sided. Don't get sucked into that type of situation.

