 You may find that an additional container inside of another will be an even more effective barrier. Food stored in a resealable zipper storage bag and placed inside an airtight container provides a strong barrier against ants., Set clean food dishes in a pan of water, not too deep (such as a cake pan). The pan of water will act as a moat and keep the ants out.Another solution is to use two stainless pet food dishes, one slightly larger than the other—use industrial strength glue to attach a small piece of brick or very flat stone to the underside of the smaller dish, wait for the glue to dry, and put water in the larger dish. Place the smaller dish with attached brick or stone into the larger dish of water. The water serves as a moat, keeping ants out of the food, and the brick or stone helps keep the food dish from tipping over while raising it well above the water level.Set the dish with moat in a different area for two days or more. The ants will eventually stop returning to the normal feeding place.
 Several pet food dishes are available for purchase that are purported to protect against ant infiltration. Some of these dishes are meant for indoors, and some have even been developed for outdoor use. Choose the dish that will work best for your pet, whether an indoor or outdoor pet, a dog, cat, or other pet.


Some standalone moats are also available into which you can place your existing food dish, thereby protecting the food from ants.
 Keep pet food dishes on a removable surface—such as a placemat—and remove to clean after meals. Ants follow a pheromone trail given off as they walk to direct them back to food sources. Cleaning the surface on which the food dish sits—and the dish itself—with soap and water disrupts the pheromone trail, thus discouraging ants from returning., Mix a ratio of one tablespoon of 100% peppermint oil to one cup of water and mix in a spray bottle. Spray near the HVAC return vents in your home to deter pests. Their sense of smell will be disrupted, which is what deters them after the use of peppermint oil.Another effective way of using peppermint oil to deter ants from pet food is to use drops of the oil on a cotton ball to wipe onto baseboards and other surfaces near where ants may enter the home. You might also wipe the oil onto the surface around the area where pet food is stored or around the food dish.