 Ensure there are no interactions or confrontations for an entire week. If you don’t see them for a week, you’re likely to do and think about other people and things.Avoid all calls. Don’t let your ex explain away any wrongdoings.
Don’t read texts. What they say isn’t important.
Defriend them on social media. Don’t take a chance of seeing something they post that could further hurt you. Be sure you change your relationship status to “single”.
If you can’t avoid your ex because of work or school, then avoid eye contact and all conversation.
 Each day of the week you’re allowed to cry or mope for a specific amount of time. As each day passes, lower the number. The last day should be focused on minimal or zero grieving. Think of it as ridding yourself of a sickness, like the cold.For example:


1st Day - 60 minutes
2nd Day - 50 minutes
3rd Day - 40 minutes (and so on)

, Whether you’re an avid bowler or swimmer, be sure to continue doing whatever it is you love to do. Mix in hobbies that are social so you’re not always alone. In the week following your breakup, keep your mind off sadness and do everything you would normally do to make you happy., Meditation has been shown by multiple research sources to help with physical and emotional pain.Each day work on meditating for a longer period of time. Start with 15 minutes of meditation focused on quieting your mind, ignoring your anxiety about the breakup, and build yourself up to 45 minutes by the seventh day.After the seventh day you should find some inner peace., Many people go through a breakout and let themselves waste away. They skip showers, don’t get enough sleep, and generally make themselves miserable. Then depression results from looking like a mess. Don’t let this be you. Take care of yourself the week following your breakup. Go get your hair done. A new ‘do may help you feel better, and like a new person.
Take a long, hot shower. Wash every inch of your body, thinking of scrubbing away any possible remaining particle of your ex that may remain.
Get a clean shave. Even if you don’t plan on going anywhere.
 Often times people have trouble sleeping after a breakup. A little Benadryl can be used as a simple sleep aid. Try to doze off without thinking of your ex.


If you are having very serious issues, you may need to see a doctor for an antidepressant or prescription sleep pills., Breakups can be emotionally devastating. Because of the time and emotion put into relationships, there is actually scientifically provable pain associated with heartache. Seeing a therapist can help alleviate repressed emotions. Studies have shown discussing break-ups can help process them, and help you overcome it.You may have to see the therapist more than once, but it’s possible just a single session can get you over your ex.
 Multiple studies have shown writing to be therapeutic, and leading to less negativity. By writing about the breakup, and focusing on positive aspects of it, you’re likely to feel more optimistic, confident, and positive about the reason for the breakup. Try writing for 15-30 minutes per day for the length of the week, and you’ll likely feel a lot better about the situation.