 There are several places from which you can download movies, ranging from places like YouTube to file download sites. In most legal cases, you'll need to purchase the movie before you can download it.

Make sure you aren't violating any laws in your country before downloading a movie.
If you're on a torrent site, you can download movies with uTorrent or BitTorrent.;
, When downloading anything from the Internet, be wary of sites with numerous pop-ups or egregious advertising, as well as sites whose addresses don't have "HTTPS" before the "www" section.

If possible, look at what other people have said about the download, as well as its ratings. If other users have reported viruses or other trouble, avoid the site.
You'll also want to make sure your movie's format will work with your computer, TV, or other device on which you want to view the movie.
 Click the site's "Download" button, which may be anything from a button that says Download to a downward-facing arrow.

Depending on your browser's settings, you may have to select a download location (e.g., the desktop) before the file will actually download.
Make sure the button you click is the site's actual download button and not a pop-up ad. The download button will usually be a link rather than a giant, green, flashing button.
 Once it finishes downloading onto your computer, you're ready to move it onto a flash drive., It should fit into a USB port in your computer's housing., Click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen or press the ⊞ Win key.

On Windows 8, place your mouse in the upper-right corner of the screen, then click the magnifying glass icon.
 This icon is in the bottom-left side of the Start window., Click the folder in which the movie is stored on the left side of the File Explorer window.

For example: if your default download location is the Downloads folder, click Downloads.
 Doing so selects it.

If you downloaded multiple movies, click and drag the cursor to select a group of video files, or you can hold the Ctrl key and click on each one individually to select multiple video files

, This option is in the upper-left corner of the File Explorer window., Both options are in the "Organize" section of the toolbar that's at the top of the File Explorer window.


Copy to - Make a copy of the selected movie and place the copy on the flash drive. The original movie will stay in its current location.

Move to - Transfer the movie file onto the flash drive and remove it from your computer entirely.
 It's at the bottom of the drop-down menu below Copy to or Move to, depending on what you clicked., It will be under the "My Computer" or "This PC" heading.

You may first have to expand "My Computer" or "This PC" by clicking the arrow next to it.
 The button you click depends on the option you chose earlier (Copy to or Move to). Your movie will begin transferring onto your flash drive., Once the files have been copied, click the thumb-drive shaped icon in the bottom-right corner of the screen and click Eject. You can then unplug your flash drive.

You may have to click





before you can see the thumb-drive icon.
 It should fit into a USB port in your computer's housing.

If your computer doesn't have USB ports, you'll need a lightning-to-USB adapter.
 It's a blue, face-shaped icon in your Mac's Dock., Click the folder where your movie is stored from the left side of the Finder and then click the movie.

You can also search for the movie in your current location by typing its name into the search bar in the top-right side of the Finder window.
If you don't know where your movie is, click the All My Files folder in the top-left corner of the Finder window to search for it amongst all of your Mac's files.
 It's in the upper-left section of your Mac's screen., It's in the Edit drop-down menu., This will be below the "Devices" heading on the left side of the Finder window.

Your flash drive's name will likely be "NO NAME" by default.
 This copies the movie onto your flash drive. You may have to wait a few minutes for the copying to finish., It's an upward-facing arrow to the right of your flash drive's name in Finder. Do this once your movie finishes transferring and then remove your flash drive to complete the process.