 As with standard tuning, the first note you'll want to tune for this alternate tuning is the thick string at the top of the fretboard. However, in this case, you'll want to tune it to a note other than what the string's name (E) implies. Using one of the means described in the section above (for instance, a piano, tuner, or online application), play a low D note. This note should be exactly one whole-step lower than the E you used for standard tuning above. Turn the low E string's tuning knob until the string matches the pitch of your D reference tone when strummed.









Note that, if you're using a piano, the note you want is the white key directly to the left of the E note you used for standard tuning above, or, in other words, the white key between the seventh and eight black keys from the left (assuming an 88-key piano).
The term "whole-step" above refers to the way in which musical scales are divided into notes. Basically, scales are divided into twelve different pitches. However, these pitches aren't evenly-spaced within the scale. Some, like E and D, are a whole tone apart, while others, like E and Eb, are half this tonal distance apart (we say they are a "half-step" apart).
 In drop D tuning, only one string (the low E string, which you just tuned to D) is different from its standard tuning tone. The rest of the strings are tuned to the same notes as they are in standard tuning. To tune the A string to an A, fret the 7th fret of the low E string, then strum the A string and turn its tuning knob to adjust its pitch to that of the low E string.









By doing this, you are tuning the A string to the note A, just as you did for standard tuning. You are using a different fret on the low E string to compensate for the fact that the string is now tuned to a lower note.
 Because only the low E string is tuned to a different note in drop D tuning, you can tune the final four strings exactly as you did for standard tuning. In other words, tune the strings as follows:









Tune the D string to the 5th fret of the A string.
Tune the G string to the 5th fret of the D string.
Tune the B string to the 4th fret of the G string.
Tune the high E string to the 5th fret of the B string.
 At this point, you should be finished. Congratulations! You've tuned your guitar to drop D tuning. This tuning allows you to hit the low D note on the top string and gives your chords a darker, muddier feel. Note that, in this tuning, power chords with their roots on on the thickest string become exceedingly easy to play. Simply lay your left index finger across the same fret on the top three (thickest) strings and strum these strings to play a power chord. If your guitar is in tune, your chord should sound positively nasty (in a good way).









This style of tuning is often used to achieve a sludgy sound for heavy metal music. For instance, songs like "Moby Dick" by Led Zeppelin and "Everlong" by the Foo Fighters both use drop D to great effect.
 Though drop D is probably the most common tuning after standard tuning, a variety of other alternate tunings use the same "drop" configuration. The difference between these tunings is based on the note that the low E string is tuned to initially. After tuning the low E string to the desired note, the rest of the strings are tuned in the same way as for drop D tuning. The lower your starting note, the darker and sludgier your guitar will sound when you play. This makes these alternate tunings especially popular with extreme metal acts. For instance, experimental metal duo Sunn O))) achieves extremely dark sounds by tuning as low as drop A.









As noted above, once you pick your starting note for the low E string, you'll tune the rest of your strings exactly as you did for drop D. This means that, for drop tunings other than drop D, the actual notes the strings are tuned to will not be the same as in standard tuning, but the tonal distances between the strings will be. As an example, if we want to tune to drop C, we'll tune the low E string to C, then tune the rest of the strings as follows:
Tune the A string to the 7th fret of the low E string (G).
Tune the D string to the 5th fret of the A string (C).
Tune the G string to the 5th fret of the D string (F).
Tune the B string to the 4th fret of the G string (A).
Tune the high E string to the 5th fret of the B string (D).

