 For this example, we will use the BTN - Big Ten Network.;
, The BTN has begun extorting money from fans and cable companies by only providing these games to cable company and satellite TV subscribers for games that in all past seasons aired FREE TO ALL on broadcast and cable by funded only by regular advertisers. Now, the average Joe cannot see his favorite Big Ten team play regular season games unless he has satellite TV or pays a premium for sports tier to his cable subscriber. Suffice it to say...you cannot point your TV antenna on your roof towards the local station and get IU or Purdue basketball games for free like in the past.
 Find a friend who gets the regular season games on his satellite or is paying the upgrade fee to his cable provider. Ask to watch the game with them or have them videotape the game. Or, go to a bar that is showing the games. Write down the names of the advertisers during the pre-game, game and post-game. Especially include the names of advertisers who use this type of promo: This post-game wrap-up sponsored by Fake Farm Insurance.
 If you can locate the name of the advertising agency of record for the advertiser so much the better.
 You can request a boilerplate letter by sending an e-mail to: tvshowfix@email.com.
 (This works no matter whether you are a current or prospective customer.) Please consider this as my notice of objection to your association with (organization / BTN). (Share details of your ire. Content, method of distribution, cost...whatever you are irritated by). I am making it part of my daily regime to discuss my discontent with (organization) with my family, friends, neighbors and co-workers and motivate them to also cease to patronize your company. Please contact me at your earliest convenience to discuss this matter. Complete the communication with your snail mail address or e-mail.
 For example: If Fake Farm Insurance is an advertiser on the basketball game that you previously viewed for free and now have to pay for (or go to a bar or friend's house to view)...call all of the local agent's offices and tell them how and why you are irritated. This will not go unnoticed at the corporate office. If hundreds or thousands of people do this every day after a basketball game...something will change. The advertisers will drop. The fees will drop. The house of cards will crumble. In this example - Big Ten basketball games will return to the free airways.
 There is power in numbers.
 E-mail is easily filtered and ignored. The exception is crashing the inbox. If the e-mail server is overwhelmed, advertisers cannot ignore that.
 She unwittingly created a windfall for a show she sought to have canceled.
 Only shows that make money are broadcast. Reducing the income of show increases the likelihood that is will be canceled or change the factors involved in its broadcast: content, manner and cost of distribution. You get the point. Broadcasters and advertisers hate controversy and what it costs them. When their mailboxes, e-mail boxes and switchboards are jammed with negative controversy that negatively affects their bottom line - things change and fast!

, Be heard.

