 You can get it for free from the App Store. Here’s how:

Open the App Store. It’s the blue icon with a white “A” in a circle, typically on the home screen.
Tap the magnifying glass at the bottom of the screen, then search for bitmoji.
Tap Bitmoji – Your Personal Emoji in the search results.
Tap GET, then INSTALL to begin the installation.
 Tap the Bitmoji icon (a green chat bubble with a winking face) on your home screen., If you’ve already signed up for Bitmoji, tap Log In to sign in with your username and password. Otherwise, tap Sign Up With Email and follow the on-screen instructions to create your account., Now’s your chance to be creative:

Tap the gender of your choice.
Choose either Bitmoji or Bitstrips-style for your character. Bitmoji characters have rounder features and look more like cartoons. Bitstrips-style is more customizable and look more realistic.
Start by selecting a facial shape, then tap the arrow button to move to the next step. As you make selections, your character’s preview will update. After the final step, you’ll see a screen that says “Save & Pick Outfit.”
Tap Save & Pick Outfit to see the outfit screen. Tap the outfit of your choice, then tap the checkmark at the top-right corner of the screen to save.


Open your Settings. It’s the gray gear icon on your home screen.
Tap General.
Scroll down and tap Keyboard.
Tap Keyboards.
Tap Add New Keyboard.
Tap Bitmoji.
Slide the “Allow Full Access” switch to the On position.
Tap Allow. The keyboard is ready.
 It’s the blue icon with a white “f” on the home screen., Here’s how:

Create a new Facebook post.
Tap the text area to open the keyboard.
Tap and hold the globe icon at the bottom of the keyboard. It’s next to the “123” button. You’ll see a pop-up with a list of keyboards.
Select Bitmoji.
Tap a Bitmoji to add it to your post.
 This is a little trickier than adding Bitmoji to a new post.Open the Bitmoji app.
Select a Bitmoji.
Tap Save Image. It’s the first icon on the bottom row of icons.
Go to the Facebook post on which you want to comment.
Tap the camera icon next to the comment box and select your Bitmoji image. When you post your comment, your Bitmoji will appear.

