 Reward systems for getting rid of objects can be effective with children. Since the child has an emotional attachment to the objects, they need motivation to get rid of them. Reward them for positive behavior, such as throwing away or donating possessions. Make sure the rewards are not more objects, since this goes against the what you are trying to do. Instead, make rewards activities.For example, when your child throws away an item, you can let them choose whatever they want for dinner. If they go all week without bringing new items home, let them do something special that weekend, like go to a movie or do a favorite activity.
 To help reduce how many material items your child accumulates, consider reducing the space in which they can place material objects. Assess where your child stores objects. Slowly narrow that space and discard items that do not fit into that area.For example, if your child has items stuffed under the bed, in a corner, and in the closet, start by saying the child cannot place items under the bed. Also, add the rule that they cannot increase how many items are in the corner or in the closet. Giving your child limits on the spaces helps them to not just stack things from under the bed and in the closet.
Continue narrowing the areas and discarding toys.
You may want to start by telling your child they can only display items on their bookshelf and desk. Make sure to place limits on how much they can display so they don’t stuff clutter into those spaces.
 To help keep your child from accumulating too many new items, set up a rule that helps keep items from increasing. Each time your child gets a new object, they must throw away an object. This allows your child to acquire new items, but they must throw away something to keep it.This technique helps your child learn skills to assess what is worth keeping.
They also get practice with getting rid of items, which is important to combat hoarding behavior.
 Try giving your child a say in what they keep and what they throw away. Set up three boxes. Label them with the words “trash” “keep” and “charity.” Help your child place objects in the three boxes. Once the keep box is full, they have to place stuff into the other boxes. The keep box cannot overflow.The trash box should be for broken and random items. Keep should be things your child cannot get rid of. At first, the choices may not make sense to you, but let them choose what they want to keep. Objects in the charity box should be things that are in good enough shape to donate.
 If you want your child to stop collecting random objects, model positive behavior. You should make an effort to keep your home uncluttered. This helps show your child the desired behavior.


Make it a point to toss out unneeded things in your home every month or two. Make it obvious. You may want to say, "Today we are going through the kitchen to toss any unneeded dishes," "I'm going to get rid of old magazines and junk mail today," or "This weekend, I'm going to go through my unused clothes and donate them to charity."
Include your child in these activities. For example, you may say, "We're going to go through the shelves in the living room. Help me decide what books and DVDs we should get rid of."
You can even set limits. Tell your child, "We must get rid of five dishes" or "We must get rid of seven pieces of clothing."

