 You should sit slightly higher in your desk as you tighten the muscles for 10 seconds. Relax and repeat 10 times.


If possible, do these exercises 3 or more times per day to noticeably firm your muscles and improve your posture. Try to do this list of exercises throughout the day, devoting more time and repetitions to your weaker muscles.
 With your hands typing or resting on the keyboard, squeeze your shoulder blades together for 3 seconds. Relax for 1 second and repeat 10 times.
 Sit on the ball with your back straight and your feet hip width apart, a few inches away from the ball. Do this for 10 to 20 minutes at a time, and then return to your desk chair, to avoid injury from overworked muscles.


Overuse of an exercise ball as a desk chair can do more harm than good. Core muscles need to be engaged for short periods and then rested. Tired muscles can lead to bad posture or a muscle imbalance. Try to use the ball for 3 periods of 10 minutes each day, and slowly work up to using it for a longer period of time.
 Push your head against your palms, as your palms resist the motion. Hold for 10 seconds.
 Push your head backwards against your palms, as they resist for 10 seconds. Repeat this exercise 3 to 5 times to tone your neck muscles.
 Sit up straight in your chair, and then slowly place your right hand on the right corner of your chair. Slowly twist your body for 15 seconds, trying to place your left hand on top of your right hand.


Return to the straight forward position and repeat the twist on the left side. Do this 2 times, or whenever you are feeling tension in your back throughout the day.
 Hold the position and lift your left leg off the ground until it is straight. Hold this position for 15 to 30 seconds and then switch legs, repeating 3 to 10 times.
 (0.9 to 2.3 kg) weights near your computer. When you are reading a document or talking on the phone, do bicep curls, arm-flys and/or or tricep dips. This will increase arm strength and reduce muscle tension.

