 It's a good idea to buy a new crib, as you will be sure to get one that complies with the most recent safety standards. If you must borrow a crib or buy one second-hand, be sure to check with the Consumer Product Safety Commission to make sure that the model was not recalled. Whether the crib is new or used, it should comply with the following guidelines:It should not have any broken or loose hardware.
The distance between the slats should be no wider than 2 3/8 inches, and there shouldn't be any broken or missing slats.
It should not have any decorative cutouts.
The mattress should fit snugly enough that you cannot fit more than two fingers between the edge of the mattress and the side of the crib.
Corner posts should not be more than 1/16 of an inch high. If the crib has a canopy, the corner posts should be at least 16 inches high.
It should have fixed sides. If you must use a drop-side crib, you can purchase special immobilizers to keep the sides from moving.;
, In addition to the cribs themselves, many commonly used bedding items can pose a suffocation risk to your baby. It's best to never put anything in the crib except the mattress and your baby. Avoid the following items:Soft bedding
Pillows
Stuffed animals
Crib bumpers

, If you are going to change your baby on a table, it is very important to make sure that he does not roll off of the table. The best way to do this is to keep a hand on him at all times while he is on the table.Choosing a changing table with a safety strap (and using it every time) will also help prevent your baby from falling.
Using a table with four raised sides will reduce, but not eliminate, the risk of falls.Changing your baby on the floor will eliminate these risks, although it may not be very comfortable for you.
To avoid running into a situation where you must take your hands off your baby during changing, store all of your diaper changing necessities in a location where you (but not your baby) can reach them from the table., Babies are very curious, and they love to put everything in their mouths. To prevent your baby from choking, be vigilant about removing any item that is small enough to fit in his mouth from his room.Common chocking hazards include marbles, batteries, coins, pen caps, jewelry, crayons, hardware, and stuffing from toys or furniture.When choosing toys, make sure no small parts can become dislodged.
 Blinds and shades that have pull cords can pose a strangulation risk to babies, so it's best to remove these from your home entirely. You can still use blinds in your baby's room; simply choose a cordless style.
If your window coverings have cords, keep them out of the baby's reach by using cords stops or tying them in knots.
 If there is anything that your baby may be able to pull into his crib, it's best to remove it. This includes mobiles and anything that is hung on the wall above the crib.Similarly, make sure the bed is not near any windows or heaters., Be sure to remove any appliances or light bulbs that get hot from your baby's room. When purchasing a night light and other lighting for the room, make sure that it stays cool to the touch., If there isn't already a smoke detector in your baby's room, install one to help ensure that a fire will be detected right away. For added safety, you should have one on every floor of your home, as well as one in every bedroom.Be sure to check the batteries in the smoke detector every month and replace them at least once a year.
Many smoke detectors act as carbon monoxide detectors as well, but if yours doesn't you can buy a stand-alone battery-operated or plug-in carbon monoxide detector for your baby's room.
 If you want to keep an eye on your baby even when you aren't in the room with him, consider investing in a baby monitor. There are lots of different kinds to meet a wide variety of needs.Some baby monitors offer audio only, which helps make sure that you always hear your baby crying.
There are also many different kinds of video monitors. Some even feed the video straight to your smartphone, so you can watch your baby from anywhere in the world.
 It's important to move your baby out of his crib when he becomes able to climb out of it so he doesn't fall and injure himself. Switch him to a toddler bed with guardrails to prevent him from rolling out of bed.If your baby is 35 inches or taller, it's time to move on from the crib. Some babies are able to climb out of their cribs before they reach this height, so be sure to keep a close eye on him.
 As your baby becomes more mobile, it's very important to make sure that all of the furniture he has access to can withstand being climbed on. If any piece of furniture is at risk of toppling over, be sure to secure it to the wall using specially designed straps.You can buy straps for furniture at home improvement stores or online. They simply screw into the wall and into the top or back of your furniture.
Tall pieces of furniture like bookshelves and dressers are the most likely to topple over.
TVs are also a potential tipping hazard, so avoid placing them on top of dressers. If you must keep a TV in the bedroom, try wall-mounting it or hiding it behind closed doors., You definitely do not want your baby climbing out of his window during nap time, so it's very important to make sure they are secure. Even if you baby has never shown any interest in the windows before, he might suddenly decide to try climbing out of them.One option is to make sure all of your windows have stoppers that only allow them to be opened a small amount. These can be purchased at a hardware store if your windows don't already have them.
If you want to be able to open the windows all the way, make sure you have secure screens. Try pushing on them to make sure they don't fall out.
If you have double-hung windows, you can open the top half of the window all the way without worrying about your baby being able to reach it, so long as there is not a tall piece of furniture nearby that your baby might climb on top of., Your baby may try to stick his finger or another object into your electrical outlets, which can cause electrocution. In order to prevent this, you must properly babyproof your outlets.There are a variety of outlet guards you can purchase to prevent your baby from sticking something in the outlets. If you use these, make sure your baby will not be able to remove them, as they can pose a choking risk.
You can also install new tamper-resistant outlets. These will not allow anything to be inserted unless equal pressure is applied to both of the top prongs of the outlet at the same time, which is difficult to do unless you are inserting a plug.
 In addition to being curious about outlets, your baby may also be interested in tugging on electrical cords. To prevent him from yanking on cords and knocking small appliances over, consider hiding them under a wire guard.If possible, keep cords completely out of sight, by keeping them behind a large piece of furniture, for example.
 Toy chests can pose a risk to curious babies because the heavy lids may crush their fingers, and because they may get trapped inside. With some simple modifications, you can make your baby's toy chest much safer.If your toy chest has regular hinges, either remove them altogether or replace them soft-closing hinges.
Make sure your child will have air is he somehow gets trapped inside the toy chest. If it appears to be airtight, drill some holes in it.
 If there are any sharp corners in the room that your baby might hit his head on, you can easily cover them with a rubber bumper. This will help prevent injury if your baby does knock into the corner.Corner bumpers can be used on furniture and on structural elements of your home, such as fireplace hearths.
 If you have a curious toddler, you probably want to make sure that he can't get out of the room without your permission and that he can't lock the door. The right door knobs can help you create the safest situation for your baby.


Replace locking doorknobs with a non-locking variety. There is no reason to have a locking doorknob on a child's door, which might create an unpleasant situation if you lock yourself out accidentally (or if your toddler locks you out).
You can also purchase special door knob covers to prevent your baby from opening the door on his own., If your baby's bedroom is on the second floor, it's a good idea to use a baby gate at the top of the stairs. This will help prevent your little one from falling down the stairs and from exploring the entire house if he gets out of his room during nap time.Some gates screw into the walls and swing open, which makes it much easier for adults to get up and down the stairs.
If you can't drill into the walls, you can get a tension gate that adjusts to the size of your stairwell or doorway. These will cause no damage to the walls, but they are not as secure as hardware-mounted gates and they do not allow for adults to pass through as easily.

