 You might be assessed penalties if you file or pay late. Generally, the IRS will remove the penalties if you had “reasonable cause” for being late. The IRS determines reasonable cause on a case by case basis, but common reasons include the following:Someone close to you died.
You had an unavoidable absence, such as being in prison or in rehab.
Your records were destroyed in fire, flood, or other natural disaster.
You were getting divorced and couldn’t afford to pay the taxes.
You couldn’t gather your tax records for some reason.
A tax professional gave you inaccurate advice.
The IRS gave you bad advice.
You made some mistake although you were acting carefully.
 Set it up as a standard business letter, using 12 point Times New Roman and block paragraphing. Include the following information at the top:The IRS address (see your IRS notice)
Your name and address
The date
A salutation, such as “To Whom It May Concern”

, In the first paragraph, explain why you are writing the IRS. Mention the date of their notice.For example, you can write, “I am writing to request an abatement of $4,512.33 as assessed in the notice sent 7/3/2017.”

, Mention all of the legitimate reasons that apply to you. Remember that you will need to provide documentary proof, so don’t stretch the truth.

For example, you can write, “The reason why I filed late was because my husband died in early April, right around the time I usually do my taxes. I have included a copy of his death certificate as proof. Please accept this petition for abatement of penalties owed for reasonable cause.”, Thank the IRS for considering your request and tell them where they can reach you. If you’re including unpaid taxes, then state that information as well.

For example, you might write, “Please consider my request for an abatement for reasonable cause. I can be reached at 555-555-5555 during normal business hours if you have any questions. I’ve enclosed payment covering my taxes, except for the penalty amount.”Also remember to sign. Include “Sincerely” and then three or four blank lines. After the blank lines, type your name. Sign using black or blue ink.

