;
, To log in, just enter the needed information then select "Sign In."


After you are logged in you will be on your main mail page. On the top left side of the screen you will see small five icons. The default is the small envelope. This signifies your mail. The third over is a small calendar with the number 31 on it.
, Directly below the calendar icon you will see an option that says “New Event.” Click on that to open up a new page. This is how you add and customize your event.
 Now you have to fill out the information for your new event. The default box is the event title. Type in the name of the event you are adding.
 Below the event name is a start and end date and time.


Click on the "Start" box to select the date. This will open up a small calendar that you can select the date from. You can use the arrows next to each month to change the month option.
As soon as you select the date, the box will close and you can pick the time. If it is going to be an all-day event, just click on the "All Day" box next to the time; this will finalize the event date.
 Click on the white box next to Location and type in where the event will be held.
 The next box is for invites. You can manually enter in the names of your contacts. You can also click on the small address book icon. This will open up your address book, and you can select who you want to invite by just clicking the box next to the appropriate name.


After you are finished click the blue "Done" button to proceed to the next section.
 After you send the invites, click on the box below it and enter any notes about the event.


As an example, you can enter in detailed directions, things needed, and people to contact regarding the event.
 You can set a reminder by clicking the drop-down menu beside Remind. You can set the reminder to notify you between 5 minutes and 11 days of the event.


You can also select the event type by clicking on the drop-down menu that says Type.
 When you are done, look over it again to make sure everything is correct.
 Finalize it by clicking on the blue "Save" button. You have successfully booked an event on your calendar!