 A new issue comes out about every two weeks. Check if there are any quests or festivals going on where you could earn Bearbills, items or moves.;
, Inside there is a panda. If you click on him, you can take the '100% Pawsome' test. If you tick all of the boxes, you will receive 100 Bearbills!

, Inside you will see a balcony. If you click on it you will find your self backstage. There is a box full of toys and other items. Click on it and you can play a game called Backstage Search, where you have to find a specific item. If you find it, you will get 200 Bearbills! If you can't find an item, just click the 'x' button to exit and play it again to find a different item.
 Click on the big recycling logo above the centre. You will have to search around Bearville to find 5 items. They are usually in the well-known places such as the Bear University, Sportsplex, Farm, Meadow and Friendship Forest Park. Some of the items are very well hidden though, so keep your eyes peeled! If you complete the walk you will earn 200 Bearbills.
 If you miss all the objects you will receive 20 Bearbills. If you hit at least one of the objects you will receive an item. You can keep the item you get or sell it!

, You can work 3 shifts in each shop and each shift is worth at least 10 Bearbills if you don't make any mistakes. That means you can get around 120 Bearbills every day from Bearywood Mall!

, You will need to save up to buy all the tools you need from Lumbear Yard. You're going to need a Watering Can, Fertilizing Bag, Fly Swatter and Cutters to be able to tend to your plants. You can plant your seeds for free in the outside of your Cub Condo (if you have a furry friend) or you can buy a City Garden for 1000 Bearbills. The more friends you have, the better you can care for your garden as well! Every time you harvest a plant, you will get an item you can sell. Sometimes you also get seeds or Bearbills just for taking care of your plants!

, Try to do each task quickly to earn more.
 You can be a teacher once a day, but you can be a student 3 times, and both will earn you quite a lot of Bearbills if you answer the questions correctly! You can choose the difficulty of the questions by looking at which grade you are teaching or learning in. The easiest questions are in Kindergarten, the hardest are in Sixth Grade. Being a teacher can earn you up to 500 bb and a student, up to 200.
 The best catch you can get at Paw Park is the Bag O' Bearbills, whereas the best you can get at the Lighthouse Beach is the Pearl.
 Go to the bottom of the map and you will see the 'Deep Sea Discovery' shipwreck. Near the bottom of the outside of the ship is an oyster. You can get a free item everyday. It's your choice whether you sell or keep it!

, There are loads of fun games you can play, but some are better for earning Bearbills than others!

, The aim is to find 10 pieces of litter in 3 minutes. The locations of the litter are: Sunshine Shores Cave, The Cave, The Farm, The Entrance, Friendship Forest Park, Skate Park, Paw Park, Neighborhood, Town Square and the Bear University. If you complete the challenge in under 2 minutes you should get around 150 Bearbills.
 If you win, you earn 56 Bearbills, so it's easy money!

, If you get to level 10, you get around 150 Bearbills!

, Try to get the best deals possible from trading. If there is something you really want that you could buy in a shop, make sure you are NOT paying over the shop price for the item. Try to either balance the 'Fair' meter at the top or make it go to your side. However, if things are too unfair the person you are trading with may not accept your offer., You can get 100 bearbills for the hard level, and can play each game multiple times.