 Human trafficking generally takes on one of two forms. In any form of trafficking, however, traffickers take individuals against their will and use the individuals for various illicit reasons. Often, traffickers recruit people by making fraudulent advertisements and promising legitimate jobs.The first type of human trafficking, sex trafficking, occurs when victims are exploited and forced to perform sexual acts against their will. Trafficking victims can be forced to work on the street or in establishments that offer sexual services (e.g., brothels, strip clubs, and pornography production houses). These establishments are often disguised as massage parlors, escort services, adult bookstores, modeling studios, and bars.


The second kind of human trafficking, labor trafficking, occurs when individuals are forced into indentured servitude. Usually, labor trafficking victims end up in sweatshops, commercial agricultural situations, domestic situations, construction sites, and in restaurants.;
, Trafficking victims are kept against their will through the use of intimidation, fear, abuse, and physical control. While each scenario of human trafficking can differ, there are some common threads that have been found to be good indicators that human trafficking is taking place. If you are in a location where you see indications of trafficking, report the activity. Examples of visible indicators include:Heavy security at commercial establishments. This might include barred windows, locked doors, isolated locations, and electronic surveillance. Often, women will never be allowed to leave without an escort.
Victims will often live at the same location together and will be transported to work sites by guards. In labor trafficking scenarios, workers will not be allowed to leave and they will likely be guarded by traffickers.
Victims will usually be kept under surveillance at all times (e.g., when going to the doctor). In public places, guards will disguise themselves as friends or interpreters.
 Most trafficking victims will never admit or volunteer information about the situation. This happens because the victims are scared and concerned for their safety and well being. However, trafficked individuals usually take on certain characteristics that make them identifiable as victims. Look for these types of indicators when you speak with or come across individuals you think might be human trafficking victims. Remember, just because an individual exhibits these indicators does not mean they are 100% a trafficking victim. However, if you notice that an individual exhibits some of these indicators, you should report the activity. Law enforcement will investigate the possible trafficking in more depth. The following characteristics may be exhibited by those being held against their will as victims of human trafficking:Health characteristics, which include malnutrition, dehydration, poor personal hygiene, sexually transmitted diseases, signs of sexual abuse, bruising, broken bones, critical illnesses, and psychological disorders.
Other signs that an individual is being controlled by someone else, including individuals that do not hold their own identification documents, who suffer from verbal or psychological abuse, and those who do not carry or control their own money.
 If you are in a location where you believe someone is the victim of human trafficking, ask yourself some common questions to get a better idea of the situation. If the answers you think up lead you to believe someone is the victim of human trafficking, contact law enforcement as soon as possible. For example, if you see someone or something that exhibits signs of human trafficking, ask yourself:Whether the person looks free to leave
Whether the person looks physically or emotionally abused
Whether the person has valid forms of identification and whether he or she is in possession of those documents
Whether the person seems to be getting paid for their work
Whether the individual lives at home or somewhere near the work site
How the individual arrived to the work site (i.e., on his or her own or did someone else take them)
Whether the person or their family seems to have been threatened
Whether the person fears leaving the job

, The U.S. Department of State offers online training materials to help you identify victims. Because human trafficking is such a hidden crime, the first step in helping victims and catching criminals is being able to identify the victims. The training video will walk you through what human trafficking is, how to identify it, and common themes of trafficking (e.g., recognizing vulnerable populations).


Take the class when you have a chance so you can learn about human trafficking and how to fight it.