 If you have a sore that has developed, reposition the body and make sure you stay off that sore spot for at least 2-3 days. If the redness does not go away, check with your doctor to consider additional treatment options.
 If you are confined to a bed or wheelchair, you need to reposition your body frequently throughout the day to relieve existing pressure on sores and to prevent bedsores from developing. Reposition the body every 2 hours in a bed or every hour in a wheelchair. This will relieve pressure that builds up on certain areas, which will help bedsores from getting worse.
 Even though someone who is bed bound or wheelchair-bound may not be very active, their body can still be moved around. This will prevent pressure from building up in certain areas and will increase blood flow through the body. Activity can also improve mental health, a crucial component in maintaining your overall health.
 The key to reducing risk of bedsores is to reduce pressure that builds up on particular parts of the body. Use special cushions that are made of foam or filled with air or water can be useful. Similarly, protective padding may help, especially between knees or under the head or elbows.Some support products such as doughnut-type products might actually increase the risk of developing bedsores. Check with your doctor to determine which products are best for you.
 Bedsores develop in part from inadequate blood flow to the skin areas. When pressure is applied to the skin, blood vessels are restricted from doing their job. Maintain good blood flow by drinking lots of water, not smoking, and repositioning your body.


If you have diabetes, this might contribute to lower blood circulation. Work with your doctor to strategize how to improve blood circulation.
 Wear clothing that is not too tight or too loose, both of which can cause rubbing and irritation. Change clothing every day to ensure that skin is kept clean too. Wear cotton-based materials that do not have heavy seams.
 For those who are bedbound, having clean sheets will ensure that bacteria will not aggravate bedsores. Bed linens may also get sweaty and irritate the skin. Changing the bedding on a frequent basis will help eliminate this risk.
 Take either over-the-counter pain relievers like ibuprofen or naproxen to reduce pain. Choose nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) medication, rather than aspirin, acetaminophen or opioids.


Take ibuprofen before or after you reposition your body, when you undergo a debridement procedure, or when your wounds are getting cleaned. These can help reduce pain that you might feel.