 Write down a list of what classes you took during the term. Next to each class, write down the grade you earned. Don't worry about writing down a percentage, just note the letter grade that you got. For example, your list may look something like this:


Biology: B
Calculus: A
History: A
Spanish: C;
, Use your school's grading scale to determine how many points each letter grade earns. For example, you'd build on your list like this:Biology: B (3 points)
Calculus: A (4 points)
History: A (4 points)
Spanish: C (2 points)

, Once you've made your list, look in your school's course catalog to determine how many credits each course is worth. Sometimes, seminars or labs may be worth fewer credits so it's important to calculate how many credits you took in a term. Write down how many credits each course is worth. For example, your list may now look something like this:Biology: B (3 credit points) at 3 hours
Calculus: A (4 credit points) at 4 hours
History: A (4 credit points) at 3 hours
Spanish: C (2 credit points) at 3 hours

, For each course on your list, multiply the credit for your grade by the number of hours the course was worth. Once you've done this for each course, you can add up all of the grade points (credit points) to calculate your total grade points (credit points) for the term. Your list may look like this:Biology: B (3 credit points) at 3 hours = 9 credit points
Calculus: A (4 credit points) at 4 hours = 16 credit points
History: A (4 credit points) at 3 hours = 12 credit points
Spanish: C (2 credit points) at 3 hours = 6 credit points
Total = 43 credit points

, Take your total credit points and divide this number by the number of credit hours you took. Remember not to count any classes you withdrew from.For example, you would divide 43 (credit points) by 13 (credit hours) to get a weighted GPA of 3.3.
 You can write down a list of all of your credit points, but it will probably be easiest to find this using your transcript. Write down the total credit points from each semester or term. These are sometimes called quality points. Add the points from every semester or term up to determine your total credit points.For example, if you earned 55 credit points for your first term and 29 points for your second term, you would have a total of 84 credit (or quality) points.
 Write down how many credit hours you took for every term or semester. Add these numbers together to get your total credit hours.For example, if you earned 17 credit hours for your first term and 12 credit hours for your second term, you would have a total of 29 credit hours.
 Take your total credit points and divide this number by your total credit hours. This will average out your grade points for every semester and term you included.For example, take 84 (your total credit points) divided by 29 (total credit hours) to get a 2.89 cumulative GPA.

