 Such drugs can help men maintain erections for several hours at a time. They work by enhancing the effect of nitric oxide, which the body produces naturally to relax and increase blood flow to the penis.If you're interested in taking a drug specifically geared toward treating ED, talk with your doctor about getting a prescription.


It's important to treat the underlying problem that might be causing ED, rather than relying on medication alone to deal with the issue.
ED medications might not work, or might be dangerous to take, if you're taking certain other medications or have had a stroke or heart disease.
 If you'd prefer not to take medication, it's possible use either an injection or suppository to administer alprostadil into the penis just before you want to have an erection. Side effects can include pain and the accumulation of fibrous tissue in the penis.
 If your doctor determines that your ED is being caused by low levels of testosterone, then testosterone replacement therapy may be the right solution for you. Talk with your doctor about starting a program.
 This device is a hollow tube with a hand pump. The tube is placed on the penis and the pump is used to create an erection. A ring is placed a the base of the penis to keep the blood from flowing out. If you're interested in trying a pump, talk with your doctor about which model is right for your needs., Either inflatable or semi-rigid implants are placed in the penis, enabling you to have greater control over erections. Since implants can cause infections, doctors usually advise against them unless all the other methods have failed., If you're not interested in drugs and devices, see a homeopathic practitioner who can advise you as to what natural remedies might help manage your ED. While no studies have been conducted to prove that these remedies work for everyone, some men have found that acupuncture, herbal medicines, and "herbal Viagra" can be useful.


Don't take supplements or extracts without consulting with a physician first.
Korean red ginseng, deoxyribonucleic acid, and l-arginine supplements have been used to great effect by some men.
 Egg oil contains Omega-3 fatty acids, immunoglobulins and anti-oxidant Xanthophylls (Lutein & Zeaxanthin). These help improve micro-circulation of blood to the penile area. Massage egg oil well on the glans after retracting the foreskin. Leave it on overnight and wash off with soap in the morning. Do not indulge in unprotected sex after application of egg oil to avoid risk of vaginal infections.
 are known from many centuries of bestowing beneficial effects upon male sexual dysfunction, including erectile dysfunction. Scientific research done on these herbs has established their mechanism of action and other health benefits. Alternatively, in Homeopathy, Agnus Castus and Onosmodium are recommended. These natural remedies may help many men with erectile dysfunction and help to restore their sexual health. Scientific Research on these herbs provides guideline and justification of their use as Natural Aphrodisiac