 Autistic individuals deal with barriers and stressors that neurotypicals never face,so they may act unusually or exhibit different social skills. This depends on the individual's needs and strengths.


People with stronger social skills may simply seem awkward and a little clumsy. Occasionally they make make seemingly thoughtless remarks that do not mesh well with the conversation.
Some autistic people are incapable of interacting in a normal social setting.
 Eye contact can feel incredibly overwhelming, and the autistic person may not be able to meet someone's eyes and listen to their words at the same time.Explain that for autistic people, looking away is different from not listening.


Never force eye contact. The autistic person may become frightened,their conversational skills may plummet, and it could trigger sensory overload.
Some autistic people are capable of making eye contact without it bothering them too much. Again, it depends on the individual.
 Teach the person that autistic people may need to fidget or avoid eye contact in order to focus. The autistic person might look at their conversation partner's mouth, hands, or feet—or even in the opposite direction. Becoming angry with the autistic person will only make the autistic person avoid them.


Remind them that due to sensory and attention differences, it can be difficult for autistic people to focus on a conversation. The autistic person is not ignoring other people; she may be struggling to take part in the interaction at all.
Teach the individual to make it clear when they want to talk to the autistic person. The person should be physically close, use the autistic person's name, and preferably be in the autistic person's line of sight. If the autistic person doesn't respond when addressed, try again, because they may not have noticed.
 They may communicate through sign language, picture charts, typing, body language, or behavior. Explain that just because someone does not talk, it does not mean that they cannot understand speech, or that they have nothing to say.


Remind them that "talking down" is always considered condescending. Nonverbal autistic people should be treated like peers of the same age.
Show them the work of great nonverbal people, such as writer and self-advocate Amy Sequenzia.
 They have a hard time understanding different tones of voice, particularly when the facial features of the person talking do not match the tone of voice.


When explaining this difficulty, you could liken it to the use of emoticons in texts. If a person were to text you “Well that’s just great”, you may assume that the person is being sincere. However, if the person uses an emoticon like “:-P” along with the text, which stands for someone sticking their tongue out, you would interpret the text as being sarcastic.
Autistic people can learn to understand figurative language. Some are quite well-versed in the nuances of sarcasm and humor.

