 You want to be able to transfer calls quickly and efficiently, and if a caller wants to know the name of an employee, you should be able to answer that promptly. "Umming," and "Ahhing," is not professional phone etiquette, and neither is putting the caller on hold while you search for a name.;
, Answer it promptly, and the caller will not be frustrated before she even speaks with you.
 Make sure that it is not long winded and that it sounds natural. You may want to practice it so that it rolls off the tongue naturally. e.g "Good Morning, Lanco Investment" or Landscape Survey, Good day."

, Even if you are not in the mood for smiling or the caller is frustrating you, your smile will help you maintain a cheerful tone.
 You should sound genuine and pleasant.
 Refrain from using vocabulary you are not familiar with, and never use slang. Additionally, avoid using responsive sounds like, "uh-huh." "hmmm", "aha"

, A skilled telephone receptionist gets the caller's name and other details she may offer before she even asks any questions. Be sure to make a note of how to pronounce unusual names so that you can say them correctly when transferring the call. Make sure that you write down any message that the caller leaves you, and read it back to her. Reading back ensures that you have the message correct, and it assures the caller that you took the message and will pass it on accordingly.
 When removing the person from hold, apologize for having to do so before inquiring about her call.
 If necessary, put the caller on hold for a few seconds while you take that time to breathe deeply and remind yourself that you are the "director of first impressions." This means always sounding professional, being patient, and willing to assist the caller.
 If the phone rings, make sure to stop conversing before answering the phone so that the caller does not hear a part of your conversation. This does not mean that you should finish your conversation; rather, you should cut your conversation off and answer the call.

