 When you arrive to the elevator, decide which way you are going and be ready to wait. An elevator's arrival time can be affected by many factors such as elevators' popularity, the amount of floors, rush hours, and available elevators due to unforeseen maintenance or closures.;
, This etiquette is practiced in a lot of public situations such as subways or buses, and elevators are no different. Also, keep in mind elevators serve individuals who suffer handicaps or people handling large loads of cargo or furniture. Take a step aside and allow passengers enough space to make their way out of the elevator.
 Most elevators have signals to show if they are going down or up. In the case where you cannot find any signal, ask the passengers on the elevator which way they are headed.


Avoiding going in the wrong the direction, especially if the building has a lot of floors.
 When the elevator stops at your floor, it might not mean people will exit. If the doors open and passengers do not get out, assess what space remains. If you cannot see enough room for you, let the doors close and wait for another elevator.
 Elevators vary in size and available space. Locate a section where you will feel both comfort for the ride and convenience for your exit. The back of the elevator is the ideal location two-fold: it leaves room for other passengers to enter or exit, and it secures a good spot for longer rides.
 Elevators have buttons on either sides of the door. The majority of the floor buttons are numbered; basement, garage, street level, lobby, etc. may be represented by letters.


If someone is standing closer to the buttons than you, they might offer to select for you. If they do not, kindly ask them to select the floor., If you are riding with groceries, book bags, or any other items, be sure to hold on to them properly. If the elevator ride is empty, you may leave your items on the floor, especially for longer rides. However, holding on to your items ensures more space for potential passengers.
 Elevator rides can be crowded, and ensuring the safety and comfort of others should be on your mind. If you travel with a pet, be sure to secure it with a leash or carry it; not all people are comfortable with pets roaming freely. Also, be sure to have your children close to you. It is also good practice to have them be mindful of others' spaces.
 The most proper elevator etiquette would be to keep noise levels from silence to minimal. Conversations either in person or over the phone should cease when possible. Use headphones for listening to music instead of playing it out loud. If you are traveling with an infant, kindly refrain from riding while the child is crying.
 Riding an elevator may be difficult for some people with worries such as germs or confined spaces. If you know riding an elevator is a difficult but unavoidable task, prepare yourself for the ride by multiple means.


Choose portable, hand-held activities. Read a book, check your email, send text messages, check social media, create to do lists, or any small task that requires enough focus to ease your mind.Listen to soothing music. A nice pair of head phones and delicate tunes can ease your thoughts for a better ride.
Ride elevators more often. Practice makes perfect, and conquering a fear is no different. Taking more elevator rides will help you get use to the activity.
Think of a calm setting. Train yourself to create soothing settings that relax you, and enter that mental picture when you ride the elevator., As you ride, be aware of stops for two reasons. First, passengers need to enter and exit; you might have to give people space to help them slip in or out. Also, each stop brings you closer to your floor, and you may be able to move towards the door. However, in the event that you are not close to an exit, being ready will help you get to your floor without any issues., People on elevators have many distractions in their heads and often give you their backs as they face the elevator door. Saying excuse me or pardon me will signal your intentions of exiting, and they will move to help you leave.
 When the elevator stops at your exit, the doors should open either automatically or manually. Most elevators have a button to open the doors while some older models use latches. In the case when the door won't open, search for an intercom or alarm button. If the elevator is jammed, qualified assistants will be notified.
 Walking around people in a crowded elevator might not give you enough time to reach the doors before closing. Ask someone close enough to make sure the door will remain open for you.
 Using an elevator should be a convenience and a time saver. Missing your floor will only delay you. Also, be mindful that other passengers may need to exit as well. Being swift about your exit helps everyone.

