 An empty room is ideal for creating a craft space, but even a corner of a room will work. You can make a craft space out of a garage, shed, or large, walk-in closet as well. Look for a space that has access to natural light. It is also best if the space is quiet and not close to inside or outside traffic.Consider how much room you will need for your supplies and to carry out your craft making.
Choose a space where you will have easy access to electrical sockets.;
, Clear out the space until it is empty if there is already furniture or items there. Once it is empty, clean it thoroughly. Sweep, mop, dust, and remove any stains that may be present. You will want a fresh start to create your craft space., For a smaller space, you will not need to prepare it as much because it will probably already be painted and prepared. You may want to paint a larger space before adding furniture and supplies. Also consider the flooring. Think about carpeting, rugs, or tiling.You can buy paint for the walls at home improvement stores like Home Depot and Lowes.
An easy fix for a floor is a large rug that will cover a large amount in the room.
 Consider the size of the space before purchasing or obtaining furniture. A small space will probably not be able to fit a lot of furniture. Your space should at least be able to fit a desk and chair. For a larger space, you will need a desk, comfortable chair, and table, along with organizational furniture.The desk should be large enough to work at comfortably.
 You will at least need to have a table lamp in your craft space. A table lamp is good for small-scale projects that require extra lighting. Look for an adjustable lamp that can be moved to be closer or farther away from the object you’re working on. For a larger space, consider at least two lamps to place around the room.You can purchase lamps at furniture and home improvement stores, like Ashley Furniture and Ethan Allen.
 You will need shelves and/or cabinets to store your crafting supplies. The amount of shelves and cabinets you put in the room depends on the amount of space you have. Choose a shelf or drawer depending on the type of supplies you will be using. Drawers are better if you need more depth, but shelves provide easier access to grab an item when you need it.Organize each shelf or drawer by item type. For example, put all sewing supplies in one drawer. In another drawer, put all of your ribbons and bows.
 Put a rack above the desk to hang items on for easy access. This will save space and will make certain items faster to find. You can hang a rack with hooks, or a rack that acts as a shelf. Racks are typically wooden or made of metal. They can be purchased at most home improvement stores.You can hang items like scissors and spools of thread on a rack.
 Use items like jars, small boxes, and dishes to hold small crafting supplies. Glass jars are best for pencils and pens. They can be kept on the desk. Small boxes are good for holding things like beads and pins. Use small plates to display small baubles and decorative items.Keep one type of item in each storage container. For example, keep all pens in a separate jar from all pencils.
 Hang a board somewhere in the room, like above the desk, to attach ideas and other items to. This can act as a “vision” board, or simply as a place to put reminders. A corkboard works best, but you can also use a board covered in fabric. Use thumbtacks or pins to attach sheets of paper or pictures to the board.A vision board is great for keeping papers, pictures, and fabric samples to aid with current and previous projects.
 Buy or create labels to label your organizational items. Labeling will make finding, returning, and keeping your crafting supplies organized easier. You can create the labels by using a label maker, or writing the labels out with a pen or marker.You can also create labels by attaching tape to small strips of paper.
 You will probably use paper at some point during your crafting. Some types of paper that are good to have in a craft room are scrap book paper, wrapping paper, white cardstock, and color paper. Paper can be bought at craft stores and stored in its own compartment in a drawer or shelf., Coloring and painting supplies are necessary for decorating crafts. Some coloring supplies to invest in are colored pencils, crayons, markers, and sharpies. Painting supplies to buy are acrylic, oil, or watercolor paint, chalkboard paint, glitter paint, and brushes. You should also have a palette and cup available for mixing and applying paint., Glue, tape, and other adhesives will come in handy at some point during crafting. Mod Podge, Fabric glue, Elmer’s Glue, Super Glue, and a hot glue gun with glue sticks are some types of glues that are good to keep in a crafting space. For tape, scotch tape, double sided tape, command strips, and painters tape are helpful to keep around.You do not have to invest in all of the types of glues and tapes listed above all at once. Consider what type of crafting you will do most before purchasing supplies.
 It is helpful to have cutting supplies nearby during crafting. You should have at least one pair of regular sharp scissors, although it is good to have a few pairs available in different sizes. An X-acto knife and/or box cutter is needed for projects that require a more precise cut.You should also keep a cutting board near your scissors and razors to avoid cutting into the desk or floor.
 If you will be sewing, keep your supplies together in a corner of the room. This includes a sewing machine, needles, thread, or any other items you may need to sew. Keep your sewing supplies in a box or drawer close to the sewing machine., Random supplies are sure to accumulate after multiple crafting experiences. Keep these items in a separate box marked “miscellaneous.” It is also helpful to purchase some miscellaneous supplies to keep around. Some items that may be useful are stamps, stencils, stickers, pieces of fabric, and a hole puncher.