 Lack of social contact can lead to lack of well-being.Don't concentrate too much on yourself; Get interested in others.Balance your personal and social identity.You can do this by being genuine and honest. Be yourself and don’t put on a false identity.
Celebrate your accomplishments with others.This can create a shared sense of happiness. Celebrate accomplishments such as: jobs, promotions, test scores, new homes, engagements, marriages, etc.
 Getting support is an important component of being happy with who you are.We need people around us to build us up and believe in us.


If you are around negative people who put you down or treat you poorly, you may need to decide if these relationships or worth continuing.
 Good friends will help you achieve your goals, whatever they may be. Good friends will tell you the truth, and you can work together on ways to make you feel better about yourself.


Talk with your friend about what aspects you are unhappy about.
If you find it difficult to talk with friends, ask them if they ever feel inferior or unhappy with themselves sometimes, and you may be surprised.
 Be inspiring for someone else; this can be a virtuous quality that can increase your positive identity.If you radiate positivity and happiness to others, you may internalize this positivity.


When you find yourself fishing for compliments, turn it around! When you notice how pretty someone's hair looks today, or how cute her shirt is, tell her! This may not only make her feel good about herself, but also may help you feel happier.
 If you feel unhappy with who you are and cannot seem to move passed it, you could benefit from professional help. Psychologists and therapists can often help you set specific goals; they have a variety of psychological interventions to use that may help you work toward self-love and happiness.


Contact your medical insurance provider for a list of approved therapists.
If you do not have medical insurance you can contact your local government or social services agency for low-cost health insurance. Or, you can conduct a search for low-cost mental health centers in your area.

