 Here, you can archive or ignore messages Battle Dawn members send you. You can also add a certain player to your contacts.;
, Here, you can see the newest events related to you, such as if you caught a UFO, received a medal, conquered a hostile colony, or scanned a target. You can always view older events by selecting its category and scrolling through the events.
 Any incoming or outgoing ships within your radar will be shown here. If an enemy is attacking your colony or one of your outposts, then the icon will flash red.
 If you need to build structures, manage resources, view your statistics, or buy tokens you can do this in the colony window. Structures are very important to the colony, so make sure you build those before doing anything else. If you have too much of a certain resource but don't have enough of another resource, you can convert them. (Converting structures needs to be built.) If you decide that you like this game, you can buy tokens to give you a boost in the game, like extra resources. (There are several options to get free tokens.) If you get board waiting for the tick to pass, you can play several mini games, which gives you some resources as a reward.
 Here, you can view top players and top alliances. You can join an alliance here if the alliance is open. If the alliance is not open, you can message the leader of the alliance, asking him to send you an invitation. If you think you have the guts to be a leader, then you can create an alliance for others to join.
 Here, you can recruit army units. Recruiting units takes some time, depending on what kind of unit it is. However, if you need to hurry a unit, click on the unit and click hurry. You can move your units to a new ship, or to an existing ship, by clicking on the unit too. You can also see all your outposts, alliance orders, and conquerors in this window.
 You can find a location by clicking on the icon next to the radar. Type in the player's name, alliance name, or a coordinate to find the location you are looking for. You can also get the location of a certain place by moving your cursor with the circle and left clicking the location.
 Casting far sight spells allows you to see areas that are too far for your colony or watchtowers to see.
 An outpost has many uses such as relocating your colony. Outposts can also be upgraded to many useful structures like gates, watchtowers, training bases, and dragon liars.


A gate can be used to teleport your ships instantly without needing to waste resources and time.
A watchtower allows you to see beyond your castle range.
A training base allows you to train units outside of your colony.
A dragon lair allows you to recruit dragons.
 You can customize your profile picture here. You can also write a biography, and change you country flag here. Your achievements and game statistics are also shown here. If you are going on a vacation, don't forget to make put world in vacation mode, or else it will be deleted within 8 days of inactivity.

