 If he likes you, you may see that he rarely turns his back to you, often leans towards you, and also looks at you a lot. If he slouches his shoulders when near you, he's romantic and cares about what you have to say. If he points his shoulders and pelvis towards you while sitting, he is definitely feeling something for you.;
, If he likes you, he may either look away quickly if he is shy, or he'll try to catch your eye and hold it or make faces. This can be uncomfortable if you don't like him. If you feel like you have held eye contact just a fraction of a second longer than you would with anyone else, or if he looks away quickly, then there is something there. When he's around you and he says/does something funny and everyone around laughs, his eyes will flicker towards you for a second to see if you laughed, too.
 If you're around him for a long time, it could be easier to pick up on gradually.
 If he likes you, and he's nervous, he'll probably start talking about himself. Many times, guys feel the need to prove themselves- especially if you talk about another guy in his company.
 He might put his hand on your arm when he laughs, and won't move his leg if it happens to touch yours, or he may hug you for small things - all are good signs of a guy liking you, unless he's a bit of a "playboy" who flirts with a lot of girls. See if he uses any of the tricks in How to Touch a Girl, and see if he uses them more with you than with anyone else.
 Some guys flirt with other girls to get your attention. It gives them a chance to see your reaction, and helps them know if you really do like them or not. You can tell that they are trying to make you jealous if they find little times when they're flirting with the other girl to look at you. His eyes will flick over and look at you. Another sign is that when you leave, he stops flirting with the other girl. That will be a harder one to pick up on, but you can have a friend to look out for you or something like that. You have to be sneaky sometimes to find out if a guy likes you.
 For example, if you like a certain genre of music that he likes as well, he may suggest bands or artists for you to listen to. Another example, if you introduce him to a TV show that he didn't really know about and that becomes his new favorite thing, that's a sign that he likes you.
 Signs of nervous laughter, sweaty palms, deep breaths, fidgeting, or possibly even looking away quickly when you notice if he is watching you are all good signs of an attraction towards you and that he is nervous about making an impression on someone he likes.
 If they know he's interested in you, they might tease him subtly when you're around, hint to you that he likes you, or even try to find out if you like him. Study their reactions to your presence - do they smile? Do they turn to him? Do they smirk in a way that suggests they know something that you don't?

, smiles at you a lot in the hallway, work, etc., at least go out for a walk.)

, If he mimics you, he probably likes you, such as if you move to another table, he'll go with you.
 If a guy teases you a lot, it might mean he likes you, but if he doesn't tease any other girl, he probably does like you.
 A guy may hit you but it's just flirting he probably just wants to see your smile You may find it annoying if you're not into him, but otherwise if you hit back then that's a way then he can know that you like him back!

, If you do your hair or makeup differently one day, and the guy notices, that's a very good sign that he likes you. Most guys won't notice, and if they do, they won't say anything unless they're into you. Anything like, "You look nice today," "I like that shirt," or even "Did you do your hair differently today? It looks nice," are all indicators that he could be interested in you. NOTE: If he's a good friend of yours, these won't necessarily be indicators of romantic interest. It could just be him being a good friend. Not all guys are this straightforward about compliments, so don't be worried if he doesn't compliment you.
 For example, some of your dad's aftershave rubbed off on you when you hugged him. Your crush may say 'is that aftershave on you?' This indicates he thinks it is from another guy (and not your dad!)

, If he chats with you often he may like you. He could also just be talkative and friendly so don't assume he's into you for chatting. He may put 'x' on the end of everything he says to you. That might not necessarily mean he likes you. It could just mean that you are good friends. If he says, "I know something you don't know," then this could mean that he likes you and wants you to be guessing. He might also want you to know and wants to see if you feel the same way. Or it could just mean he knows something you don't know, e.g. a new colour, the fact that he has a new friend, etc.
 For example, if you're on table 1, talking to your friends, watch to see if he is close nearby. So when the conversation end, and you go to say, table 7, see if he follows you, but of course does not follow you to table 7 unless he is good friends with the people at table 7 and wants to talk to them coincidentally. Check to see if he stands at a different place when you are at table 1 and 7 to make sure he is following you.

