 Whenever the drug comes up, do your parents comment on it, either positively or negatively? If you mention that a friend or acquaintance of yours smokes marijuana, how do they react? See if you can bring up the conversation organically and let your parents talk and think about their relationship with marijuana before you tell them you smoke. Some ideas include:


"I heard that our state is considering marijuana legalization this year..."
"It's crazy how accepted marijuana has become in just the past 5-10 years, right?"
"Growing up, did you ever imagine people would be able to buy weed in a store?";
, The best policy is the truth, even if the truth is simply that you enjoy smoking marijuana. Most people use weed for a combination of two things -- medicine and/or recreational inebriate. Know your own reasons for smoking to make communicating with your parents easier than simply saying "I like it." Some of the reasons to smoke include:


It helps lower or lessen anxiety and stress.It stokes your creative sideIt eases chronic aches, pains, and sores., Do you live in a state with completely legal weed, medical marijuana only, or a complete ban on the substance? This is an important point to note when talking to your parents, as one of their primary concerns is almost always legality. Currently, 25 states and Washington D.C. have passed some form of legalization, The states where marijuana is completely legal for all adults are:


Colorado
Washington
Oregon
Alaska
Washing D.C., Even if you don't live in a state with legal weed, you should still explain to your parents if the drug has been decriminalized. This means that, while police can stop you and seize your drugs, they can't throw you in jail unless you have a large amount on you, usually 2 ounces or more. All they can do is give you a fine. Many states, unable to completely pass medical or legal weed, turned to this measure to show that punishing marijuana smokers is not a major priority for police.


A complete list of decriminalized states can be found here.
 Knowing why you want to tell your parents will give you the courage to speak and help guide your words. Do you just want to open up to them, or do you want permission to smoke near them? Do you need help getting a medical card, or do you want to let them know your choices before you get caught awkwardly?


What is compelling you to tell your parents? Whatever it is, you should let them know. No matter their response, letting them know that you felt it important to talk to them shows your trust and openness.
 There is no sense trying to talk to them when tensions are high or people are busy. Be patient, and wait until a calm moment, like after dinner, when everyone is in a good mood and you can be sure of a reasonable, less-stressful conversation.


Of course, you may not have the luxury of waiting if you get caught smoking. That said, you can also wait and re-introduce the topic several days later, after the anger has passed, if you still have more to say.
 Every week, new studies and stances on marijuana are coming out, and almost all of them are positive. Current attitudes on marijuana are based on Schedule I drug classifications, which claim marijuana is just as dangerous as heroin and cocaine, and cannot even be researched. But international studies, as well as calls in the US to end the ridiculous Schedule I designation, are poking through the marijuana myths all the time. Before chatting, go online and see what news is new.

