 Pre-measure and work quickly with your ingredients to ensure both dry and wet ingredients are well mixed.


Pour water into the bowl first before adding other ingredients. Adding the water first will reduce the likelihood of having the dry ingredients clump together when adding them.
Gently stir for approximately five to 10 minutes until yeast foams. Using a KitchenAid electric mixer for the job combines the mixture best (on a low setting), however you can use a fork or large spoon for mixing.;
, Melt the butter immediately before adding it to the mixture. Consider dropping the block of butter into a glass bowl and microwaving it for 15 seconds, depending on it’s temperature.


Use your electric mixer’s dough hook attachment and set mixer a medium speed. In order to form the ball of dough, a dough hook attachment works best. However, if you don’t own an electric mixer, use clean hands to mold and sculpt dough.
Mix for approximately four minutes or until the dough becomes smooth and slips down the sides of the bowl.
 Dough should not have lumps and ingredients should be well combined.


Transfer dough to another bowl and lightly cover with vegetable oil. Be sure the dough is well oiled on both sides. Drizzle oil over each side, turning the ball of dough for complete coverage.
Cover bowl with a warm towel or plastic wrap and place bowl in a dry, dark area of your kitchen. You want your dough to rise to approximately twice the size of its original amount and a dark setting is ideal to encourage growth.
Wait for dough to rise completely before going on to the next steps. You will see the dough double in size and form a light, crusty outer shell.
 Lightly coat the sheet with spray as you don’t want to overwhelm the bites with spray while baking.


Consider using butter flavored cooking spray to enhance the buttery goodness of your pretzel bites. Or use a neutral tasting spray such as vegetable oil cooking spray. Any other cooking spray flavors such as olive oil or spray infused with herbs will contribute to the taste of your pretzel bites (which you may or may not want).
Adjust oven racks to the middle of the oven so pretzel bites bake evenly. Too close to the top and your bites will burn, however too low and they may not be cooked evenly.
 Do your prep work while your dough rises.


Scramble one egg in a small bowl and set aside. Find a small egg brush to gently brush a small amount of scrambled raw egg on top of each bite.
Pour the Kosher salt into another small bowl. Each bite will be topped with a sprinkling of Kosher salt.
Fill a pot with water and place on the stove. Turn the heat to a high setting and allow water to come to a boil. Each bite will take a quick bath in boiling water before heading into the oven.
Create pretzel bite balls. Make sure your dough has doubled in size and is of an elastic, stretchy consistency before creating your bites.
Divide dough into eight to 10 small balls. Coat your hands with vegetable oil when handling the dough as it may be sticky.
Roll each dough ball into a rope shape. Grasp each end of the rope and swing it back and forth to elongate the dough. Eventually you want each rope to be approximately seven inches long.
Lay the rope on the kitchen counter and cut it into two pieces. Drop each piece into the boiling water and allow to cook for approximately 30 seconds. Only boil two pieces at one time.
Transfer each boiled pretzel bite to the pre-treated baking sheet. Use a slotted spoon to remove pretzel bites from boiling water and try to remove as much water as possible.
Brush each bite with egg and sprinkle with Kosher salt. Lightly coat with egg and salt so you don’t overwhelm the bite with either ingredient.
Bake pretzel bites at 450 for approximately 15 minutes or until golden brown. Oven heating elements are different so keep an eye on your bites as they bake.
