 Responsible breeders will dedicate their operations to one or two breeds at most since breeding requires extensive experience and expertise with a particular breed. Avoid breeders that offer multiple types of dogs.The clubs associated with various breeds will often have lists of breeders available on their websites. Most clubs require featured breeders to sign on to a rigorous code of ethics to ensure humane practices and protect the future of the breed.
The American Kennel Club hosts a list of all the breeders referred by specific clubs., Going to the place where the puppy has been born and raised is essential to ensuring that they’ve been treated to a high standard of care. Check that the living conditions for all the dogs are humane and sanitary.All dogs on site should have clean living facilities, free from waste and dirt. They should have access to fresh water and a play area. Be wary if dogs are kept in cramped, dark, or unclean quarters or if they’re lethargic and unresponsive.
Remember, reputable breeders will never sell their litters through a pet store; they’ll insist on screening their buyers directly. If they’re not willing to meet with you on their premises, do not do business with them.
 Doing a site visit will also give you a sense of how well-versed a breeder is in their business. The breeders should come off as knowledgeable about their breed and helpful about their care.Make queries such as, “How much exercise will this dog need?”, “What is the best food and feeding routine for this breed?”, “How would you recommending training them?”, and, “What possible health problems might this dog develop?”

, Healthy puppies come from healthy, well-treated parents. Besides verifying that the puppies are being raised in good conditions, make sure their mother and father have enjoyed a high level of care and contributed to your puppy’s development and socialization., Reputable breeders will generally register their litters with the American Kennel Club to confirm their lineage. The puppies will come will papers that verify that their sire and dam are officially registered. This does not guarantee that your puppy will be healthy; it only establishes that they have come from a purebred line.If you intend to show your dog, it’s important that their parents and their litter are AKC-registered.
 Purebred dogs are susceptible to genetic ailments. Responsible breeders will protect the breed, their puppies, and their customers by having the sire and dam of each litter checked for the hereditary diseases and disorders that are most common to their breed (like hip dysplasia or macular degeneration).Do not purchase a dog unless the breeder has had independently certified genetic health screenings for your pup’s parents that are available in the Canine Health Information Center Database. The dam’s and sire’s health records should be searchable and include evaluations of any defects that could be passed along to your puppy.
The breeder should also include a health guarantee for your puppy that stipulates that you can return the dog if a vet should find they have any significant hereditary health issues.
 Responsible breeders will put your sales agreement for a puppy in writing and provide guarantees associated with its sale.Besides agreeing on the price, these documents should provide a health guarantee to the buyers. It should include a return policy that will give you a full refund should a vet identify any significant health issues within a given timeframe, from a week to a year.
Most reputable breeders will also include a stipulation that insists that a dog be returned to them if the owners should ever find themselves unable to care for it.

