 Take your suit to a tailor to have it fitted, or have a customer service representative at a reputable clothing retail store to help you buy clothing that fits. When you go to retailer or tailor, ask them how the clothes are meant to fit.


At Club Monaco, J. Crew and Banana Republic, they will take your measurements and have the clothing altered for you to make sure it fits correctly. In a study where men's faces were blotted out, men who wore a tailored suit, as opposed to a very similar looking store bought suit, were rated as being more confident, successful, flexible and a higher earners by the participants of the study. Studies have shown that people make snap judgments about you, based on how you are dressed. The study showed that small differences in the clothing, for example, if the inseam of your pants was too short, reflects badly on people’s impression of your personality and abilities. Take note if you are under 5’10 tall, most companies design clothing for men who are 5’10, and so the clothes made for men by most retailers probably won't fit you correctly. Luckily, Jaden Lam, Jimmy Au’s For Men 5’8 and Under, and Peter Manning NYC, have made clothing with you in mind. , If you wear the correct colors for your skin tone, you will accentuate your good looks, whereas, wearing the wrong colors will be unflattering. As a rule, bright red, pale pink, teal, and eggplant, look good on all skin types. Decide whether you have a warm skin tone or a cool skin tone. If gold looks best on you, then you probably have a warm skin tone. However, if silver looks best on you, your skin tone is probably cool. If your skin’s undertones are yellow, then you have a warm skin tone. Cool skin tones tend to have a rosy or pink undertone.
If you have a warm skin tone, wearing earth tones of ivory, orange, yellow, brown, and green, will be flattering for your skin type. If you have a cool skin tone, wearing jewel tones of pure white, black, blue, and true pink, will be the most attractive on you.
If you are going to a club and you want sex appeal, wear red; a multicultural study showed that men wearing red were found to be more attractive and sexually desirable to women. Warning, do not wear more than three colors together at once. It will distract from your desired effect.
 Always consider the context of where you are going when you are dressing, but err on the side of overdressing rather than under dressing.


When you care about how you look it shows, so be proud! Women will appreciate your care and will respect you more for it.
If you are unsure about the dress code for an event, call the host and ask him/her about what the proper dress attire is for the event.

