 The imprint of your foot will act as the body and feet of the turkey. Paint your foot brown using a brush or your fingers. You can buy finger paint at most art stores.Read how to fingerpaint for more ideas on finger painting.
Spread out a tarp or tablecloth to prevent paint from getting on your furniture or floor., After you put your foot on the paper, the paint should form an image that somewhat resembles a turkey's body. Once you are done planting your foot on the paper, wipe it down with a rag or clean-wipe, so you don't make a mess., These handprints will make up your turkey's wings and feathers. You will repeat this step with different colors to create a full set of feathers for your turkey.

You can also replace your handprints with feathers to emulate the turkey's wings and feathers., Plant your hand down over the red handprint. Put your hand at an angle, so it looks like the handprint has 8 to 10 fingers.Clean off your hand and repeat the process using yellow.

Feel free to get creative and layer your handprints however you want if you don't like the way it looks.
Use one hand when fingerpainting so your other hand is clean and free to touch other things.
 The wattle is the red piece of skin that hangs from the turkey's neck. It's one of the things that distinguishes the turkey from other birds.The wattle should look like a red tear drop., Use an orange piece of construction paper to cut out the turkey's beak. You can either do this freehand or use a pencil to outline the beak and then cut it out with scissors., Draw eyes near the heel of the brown imprint of your foot to represent the turkey's eyes. You can also paste on googly eyes if you want to give your bird a sillier feeling.

If you aren't artistically inclined, two black circles made with marker is good enough.Make sure that your footprint paint has fully dried before drawing anything on it.
 Glue the beak under the eyes and the wattle. The wattle sits under the turkey's beak. This will complete your turkey's face. You can add other features like a smile or eyeglasses if you want a goofier looking turkey., Wait until your handprints are dry before cutting them out. Cut around the outside of the print using scissors. It's okay to leave a little bit of a white outline around your paint., Tape or glue your handprints behind the turkey's body. If laminating your turkey, you can position the pieces the way that you want them and run it through the laminator instead of gluing them together.Center the handprints behind the turkey so that they look like they are rising behind the heel of your cutout. This completes your turkey project.