 Take a trip to the holding country if you're from abroad, or temporarily move to the major event cities if you already reside in the country. The sheer fervour and excitement of being in the host country of the World Cup should match up to whatever the expenses should be.;
, It's the most fun way to start the world cup. The festival displays, the explosive crowd, the cheering and beautiful colours in the stadium is surely something you surely wouldn't want to miss.
 Get tickets for the games your favourite national teams will partake in, games that will showcase the biggest stars. If you can, buy a ticket for every game! And participate loudly in the cheering when the goals pop in.
 Make sure it's full colour, HD, and make sure there are drinks in the cooler, friends or room mates to gather around, and plenty of noise and cheers as you watch the matches.
 The host county of every World Cup finals is always carefully selected, and as such, there should be an abundance of sightseeing options in any of those exquisite countries it happens to be. Places like Qatar and Russia have wonderful places you could go visit in search of adventure. Visit monuments, take a stroll in parks, try out the beaches; try out different cuisine, hotels, etc., to get a feel of the city.


Be careful to respect local customs and be wary of any potential dangers.
 As you go sightseeing and trying out new things, remember to observe carefully and note down important information, like snippets about the culture of the people, the fervour and excitement of the global event, etc. You never know, you may be on the verge of churning out a bestseller!

, You could proudly show off your prizes when you get home and have a load of cool stories to tell about your meeting with your soccer heroes.
 It could be anything, from the mundial replica mascot, to a t-shirt, jersey, team cap, book, etc. Anything that puts a smile on your face and reminds you of the wonderful experience of being at the World Cup. Take plenty of photos, they are the easiest thing to carry and keep.

