 Maybe she is copying you because she likes your style, personality, or another aspect of your person. Stay positive and look to lead by example rather than belittle or bemoan.Take into consideration that she may not even realize that she is mimicking you but is doing so out of a subconscious admiration.
Examine your idols and mentors and whether or not you have incorporated any aspects of her being into who you are: how would you want her reacting to you if she knew you were looking up to her? Part of what gives celebrities their value is that they aren’t directly exposed to those they influence whereas you most likely will see the person who is copying you quite frequently.;
, Acknowledge that someone copying your style doesn’t make you less unique. By acknowledging what makes you unique, you accept that you are your own person and you can then impart the same sense of self-confidence to the person copying you.Compliment whatever you feel she is copying of yours especially if it is a different take than your own. For example, if you feel that she has been copying the way you wear pumps with jeans, compliment her when she chooses flats. Realize that she may be extremely insecure and her self-esteem may be fragile or non-existent., Focus on what you can change rather than what you can’t control. Adopting a new style can provide you with an opportunity to evaluate what matters to you and what truly composes your sense of style.


Keep your preferences to yourself. If she is copying your style or mannerisms, try to change things up for a period of time. This will force her to look for other inspirations.Look to other style icons and deconstruct what elements you’d like to adopt as your own; better yet, have a discussion with her about what style you think suits the both of you individually.
 A person imitating someone else may be very insecure, so give her a boost of confidence by keeping positive.With your help, she may eventually develop her own sense of style and self worth. Confidence can empower the both of you.


Copying can be a developmental phase or a sign that a person is feeling empty.Recognize the power of friendship and communication.
Enlist the aid of others within your common circle. Just because she is copying you doesn’t mean that you are alone in the situation. Including others can help her find her own sense of self from gleaning from a larger sample size.
 If someone is copying your work, chances are that she doesn’t fully understand the instructions or her personal schedule has put her behind the deadline and she sees you as a reliable source. Politely state that she should be doing her own work because both of you could get into trouble and, more importantly, she is not learning from the given assignment. We all have different aptitudes so be patient with others who have trouble learning something you find easy. As the old adage goes, “give a man a fish and you’ll feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you’ll feed him for a lifetime.” Rather than give someone complete access to your work, address the problem at its root and find out why she is copying your work. Whether it’s a problem in comprehension or scheduling, identifying why someone is copying your work will avoid any repeat infractions.

