 The ideal pencil grip uses the writer's thumb, index finger, and middle finger, in a pinched motion. The writer should have their index finger on top of the pencil, and the thumb and middle finger underneath, supporting the pencil.


Young children tend to hold pencils with a fist or palmer's grip and make big movements of the arm to draw or write. As they get older, the grip moves towards a five-finger and then tripod grip, and the writer goes from moving their whole arm to moving just their wrist and hand. As the grip develops further, the writer keeps their little and ring fingers curled up and writes using smaller movements of the fingers, hand, and wrist.
 They don't need to hold the pencil correctly right away. In fact, trying to teach them the tripod grip at too young an age when their muscles aren't ready can actually lead to fine motor problems.Young children are likely to hold the pencil with a fist, a palmar grasp, or all five fingers at once, and this okay at their stage.Most kids develop the mature tripod grasp around ages 5 to 6, or even older.
 Let them play with playdough, do finger games, play with blocks and other small toys, make bead necklaces, and use scissors, glue, and other craft tools. The whole range of "preschool jobs" in this area helps to build finger strength and fine motor skills. By developing hand strength and finger dexterity, children will ready themselves for better writing with pencils later on.
 If the writer is struggling even with crafts and fine motor play, try activities such as crumpling newspaper into a ball, rolling small balls and snakes from clay, and practicing finger control by balancing a beanbag on the fingertips (all five at the same time).After developing strength through this kind of exercise, the writer will be better equipped to try crafts like origami and beadwork, and will hopefully develop the strength needed for a better pencil grip.
 Some children and other new writers benefit from the use of a pencil gripper/grasp. It guides their fingers into the correct position and helps make writing more comfortable. You can buy foam or rubber pencil grips to put on your pencils, or you can even make your own with Rainbow Loom bands or clay.
 If a child or other individual has difficulty holding a pencil or generally writing, it can be very frustrating for them. Don't heap on the pressure. Let them practice at their own pace, take breaks, and choose what kinds of activities to work on. If you're in an educational or parenting role, use a lot of positive reinforcement to encourage good writing and good pencil grip, rather than focusing on what they do "wrongly."

