 The goal when you market a restaurant is to build awareness. Your website can begin to build buzz long before you open your doors. Include details of your concept, the type of cuisine, the atmosphere, location of your restaurant, and, of course, contact information so the reservations can begin streaming in.;
, Use an existing restaurant marketing system if you need to, or you may choose to develop your own.
 Sites such as Facebook and Twitter have brought the world and people who share like passions (such as food) together. Connect your website to several social networking sites and get as many "friends" as possible to spread the word. You can also post details about your restaurant, including photos, menus and specials.
 There was a time when the high end restaurants would shy away from coupons, but not so much anymore. Consider using different types of coupons such as bounce back coupons where the customer only receives the coupon after they pay for the bill. They must "bounce back," or return for another visit, to get the deal.
 Many restaurants succeed because a community embraces them as a member of their own. Therefore make sure your restaurant becomes a part of the fabric of the community. If there is a local fair, festival or fundraiser, rent some space, and serve suitable items from your menu.
 Everyone needs to eat lunch and dinner, and many people do not have time to prepare homemade meals. Make sure that the workers in the vicinity of your restaurant know they can go to your restaurant during or after their work day for a bit of reprieve. If you offer delivery service, tout that in your fliers and menus.
 Broadcast advertising costs considerably more than maintaining a website or distributing coupons or fliers. However the payoff can be big if you are in a metropolitan area. Contact local advertising firms to see what it would cost to produce and run these ads. Have a budget in mind, and if the price tag comes in too high, negotiate to see what the agency can tailor to fit your budget.
 Sure, newspapers are going the way of the dodo, but there is a certain demographic that still reads newsprint every day. If your target market are 20- and 30-somethings, then maybe this is an expense you can afford to forgo. But folks 40 and up still tend to read the daily newspaper at least a few times a week. Plus, most newspapers will offer you a deal where if you purchase ad space in the print addition, the ad will run on the newspaper's website at a reduced rate or even for free.

