 Undertone is not the same as skin color or tone; your skin tone can change, but your undertone does not. Undertones can be cool, warm, or neutral. In addition to pigment or color, foundations have a cool, warm, or neutral tone as well. In order for your makeup to blend seamlessly with your coloring, it needs to work with your specific undertone.If you have a rosy or pinkish complexion, or a yellow or golden tint, your undertone is warm.
Blue or purple tints, as well as olive or greenish hues, mean you have a cool undertone.
If you don't see a definite tint in one direction or the other, then you probably have a neutral undertone.
Check the veins in your wrist or ankle for clues about your undertone. Veins that look purplish bluish indicate a cool undertone. Veins with a faint green coloring suggest a warm undertone.
 You probably already make choices in clothing or jewelry that suit your undertone, so think about the colors that look best on you in order to figure out whether you have a warm, cool, or neutral undertone.


If you typically favor silver toned jewelry, your undertone is likely warm.
Gold tone jewelry works best with cool undertones, so if you gravitate towards gold, you probably have a cool undertone.
If you can wear either gold or silver toned jewelry, you have a neutral undertone.
Do you look your best in warm colors like red, yellow, or orange? Then your undertone is probably cool.
Warm undertones look best in cool colors like blue, green and purple.
 Foundations mainly come in three ranges of shades: fair, medium, and dark. For each range of shades there is also a range of undertones: cool, warm, and neutral. You want to find the right shade with the right undertone. For instance, very light blondes with pale skin that burns easily often look best with a fair shade of foundation that has a yellow or golden undertone., Your foundation should look natural and complement your look overall. If you have recently changed your hair color, or if your hair has greyed significantly, you need to recalibrate your foundation to suit your new look.


For lighter hair color, a foundation with some warmth can keep you from looking too pale or washed out.
A lighter, cooler foundation often contrasts well with darker hair.
Redheads should typically avoid foundations with too many pink or rosy tones.