 This will be your main instrument, since it will be how you record your video journal in the first place. A digital camera or digital video camera is best if you plan on being mobile while recording, while a decent web-cam will do the job if you plan on making it more of a monologue than anything. You can also combine these resources.;
, This is essential to getting your videos out to the masses. Pick a user name that represents you, but is also easy to remember. YouTube allows you to limit your videos to friends only (up to twenty-five people), in case you only want certain people to view your videos, or you can make them public (viewable to anyone). You can also make them completely private, so that only you will be able to view them.
 Your topic can be very specific, or it can be very general. You may make a video journal about living in a certain area, or you may just make a video journal about the goings-on of your everyday life. It's your video journal, so the choice is up to you! Be creative!

, You may wish to put up a new video every couple of days, or only update once a week. The choice is up to you. Keep in mind that if you choose to update every couple of days, it's probably best to keep the videos as concise as possible. If you update less often, then it's OK to make them longer and more detailed.
 Now you're set to record your video journal, so get out there and do it!

, Don't just record one video then give up. Make sure you leave some time to do it. Try to set yourself a goal to do it at least once a week, because you may find, after the first few weeks, you don't want to do it anymore.
 The key to a good video is not only your personality and ability to talk to the camera and make the viewer feel engaged, but also editing. You can use Windows Movie Maker or some other video editing software for this step. Editing can make or break a video. Add titles, photos, music, cut out long pauses or parts that you don't want in the video - the possibilities with editing are numerous.
 Once you have your video just the way you want it, it's time to put it online. Upload it to YouTube or your site of choice, add a title for it, a description, and set your preferences for the video. Voila! You now have a video journal.

