 Vehicles equipped with an automatic transmission are designed not to start if the transmission is not in park or neutral. Starting a car while in drive could result in the vehicle lurching forward, causing damage or injuring someone. Check your shift lever to ensure it is completely in park or neutral, then attempt to turn the key again. Be sure the indicator on the shift lever is pointing at the “P” for park.
Try taking the vehicle out of park and putting it back in if you can, then turn the key again.;
, If your key won’t turn when you insert it into the ignition, it may be because the key has been damaged and no longer engages the correct pins to the depth necessary to spin the cylinder. Examine the key for signs of excessive wear, rounding or broken teeth. Any of these could result in the key failing to turn in the ignition.If the key is damaged, it will have to be replaced.
Some keys require programming from the dealership when replaced. Refer to your owner’s manual to check the requirements for your vehicle.
 Just as worn or damaged teeth can prevent the key from turning, anything stuck to the key will also cause it to improperly engage the pins in the ignition cylinder. If you used your key to open a package recently, for instance, there may be bits of tape stuck to the teeth of the key, preventing it from working.Clean any debris or dirt off of the key, then re-insert it and try again.
Do not use your keys to open packages or do anything else other than start your vehicle.
 If you were applying any pressure to the steering wheel when you turned the car off, it may have locked the wheel in place with the steering pin. Check to see if your steering wheel is locked by trying to turn the wheel. If it will not move, or moves only very slightly, it is likely locked. A locked steering wheel will not allow the ignition to engage.When you move the wheel back and forth, you will feel it stop abruptly as it comes into contact with the steering wheel lock.
If your wheel was turned slightly without you applying any pressure when you turned the car off, it still may engage the steering wheel lock.
 In order to unlock the steering wheel, insert the key into the ignition and attempt to turn it. While applying light pressure to the key, wiggle the steering wheel back and forth until the lock disengages. This will allow the steering wheel and the key to turn.The key will be able to turn freely in the ignition once the steering wheel is unlocked.
If the key still fails to turn after the wheel is unlocked, there is another issue.

