 Because warranty deeds are the most complicated method of transferring the title to your property, you most likely will want an attorney to guide you through the process.


Warranty deeds, sometimes called grant deeds, come with a guarantee to the new property owner that you have good title to the property and no one else has any stake in it or claim to it.Because they are so complicated, warranty deeds typically aren’t used to transfer a house to a family member when no money is exchanged.
Although complicated for you, a warranty deed gives the relative to whom you’re transferring your property more confidence, because you promise that you own the property free and clear of any mortgages or other encumbrances, and that no one else has a competing claim for the property.
 Before you complete a warranty deed, a title search reviews the legal history of the property ensure the statements in the deed are correct and the title to the property is clean. This process can be expensive and time consuming.


Although you can conduct a title search yourself, since property records are open to the public, a professional title searcher will do a more thorough job in less time than it would take you to do it yourself.Title insurance provides better protection against any defects in your title, either disclosed or hidden, that could cloud your deed with problems or even negate your transfer. Title insurance is expensive, and typically the cost is split between the original owner and the future owner., As with other types of deeds, your deed will provide details about you and the family member to whom you’re transferring your title, as well as a complete and detailed legal description of the property.
,, This is technically your family member’s responsibility, but if you’ve hired an attorney to draw up the deed, she may offer to record the deed herself.


The deed is still valid if it isn’t recorded, but failure to record it can cause significant problems later on because no one else will be aware of your relative’s claim to your property.
Not recording the deed would eliminate all the gains you made by transferring your deed, including your attempt to avoid probate.