 Plug in the machine and switch the power button to the "on" position.


The vast majority of electric knife sharpeners have two or more grinding slots, each representing a different degree of coarseness. The coarsest slot should be labeled as "1" or "coarse," and the finest will be labeled with the final number in the sequence or "fine."
Each slot contains a grinding wheel or stone, and these wheels actively turn against the blade as you draw it through. Since this method is more intense than that used with manual sharpeners, electric sharpeners may have more success refining severely dull blades.
 Wedge the heel of the blade into the coarsest slot, then lightly pull the blade back through the slot until you skim past the tip of the knife.When inserting the knife, position the base of the blade as close to the slot as possible. Always work from the base through the tip.
You should also push the blade as deep into the slot as possible so that it comes into full contact with the grinding stone.
As you pull the knife through the slot, the machine should automatically guide it through at a 15 to 20 degree angle. The handle will gradually angle up throughout the process.
 Generally, you should make a total of two passes through the first slot and through each of the remaining slot levels.


Pull the knife through the slot following the same procedure as before. Only pass through from base to tip; never push the blade through the machine in a back and forth motion.
 Draw the blade of the knife through each of the remaining slots, working from coarsest to finest.


Follow the same procedure for each slot, and repeat the process twice for each one.
Unless otherwise instructed by the machine's manual, do not skip over any of the slots. Skipping slots may reduce the effectiveness of the machine.
 Even though many electric knife sharpeners collect the shavings using inner magnets, you should still rinse the blade under cool, running water. Carefully dry it with a towel when finished.


If the machine does collect shavings, you may need to periodically empty the collection bin to keep the knife sharpener in working order. Consult the instruction manual for details on how to do this.
Once the knife is clean, it should be sharp and ready to use.

