 You could try a lettuce stir fry with many different kinds, but for this recipe, iceberg lettuce is recommended. If you dislike iceberg lettuce, you could also try a similar variety, like romaine.Including lettuce, you'll also need:


Garlic cloves
Kitchen knife
Iceberg lettuce (1 head)
Large frying pan (or wok)
Pepper
Rice wine (or dry sherry)
Salad oil
Salt
Sesame oil
Small bowl (or container; for mixing)
Soy sauce
Spoon
Sugar
Whisk (optional; recommended);
, After washing, it's likely your lettuce will still have some moisture on it. Pat the lettuce dry with a clean dishrag, paper towel, or allow it to air dry. Once the lettuce is dry, tear it into pieces slightly larger than bite-size., You can buy garlic pre-minced at your local grocery store, but fresh garlic often has a richer flavor. Break fresh garlic into pieces (cloves), remove its smooth outer skin, then use a knife to cut it lengthwise and crosswise until it is finely chopped., Take your small bowl and add 1½ teaspoons of soy sauce, 1½ teaspoons of sesame oil, and ¾ of a teaspoon of sugar to it. Use a whisk or other stirring tool, like a spoon, to thoroughly blend the ingredients until the sugar has been absorbed.This sauce will be added to the dish after the lettuce has cooked. Set it off to the side for later., For this dish, you'll want a relatively large pan or wok so the food isn't packed in too densely. A crowded pan can be difficult to stir. Heat your pan with a medium heat, then:


Coat the inside of your pan with salad oil. When the oil heats, tilt the pan back and forth to completely cover its bottom.
When your pan is coated, add your minced garlic. Stir the garlic regularly over medium heat until it starts to color., Add your lettuce to the pan. Stir it with the oil and minced garlic until all ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Continue to cook the lettuce until it is a little limp, yet still somewhat crisp.In most cases, it will take no more than 2 minutes before your lettuce is ready for the sauce to be added.
 You're in the home stretch. Take your bowl of sauce and drizzle it onto the ingredients in your pan. Continue to stir the ingredients for no more than one minute. Then, use a spoon to toss all ingredients until it is consistent throughout. Allow the food to cool, and after that:


Sample your creation. If you notice it could use a little salt, pepper, or some other kind of seasoning, add more of this now.
As soon as the food has cooled, your lettuce stir fry is ready to eat. Serve it and enjoy.