 Cool Whip is a brand name of imitation whipped cream, and it tends to be sweeter and lighter than traditional whipped cream. The recipe also requires more ingredients, and the process is more involved. Along with your ingredients, you'll also need some tools and equipment, including:


One small and one medium bowl
Fork
Medium saucepan
Whisk
Candy thermometer
Large heat-proof bowl
Hand or stand mixer (with whisk attachment)
Bowl with tight-fitting lid

, In a small bowl, combine the gelatin and cold water. Stir the two together with a fork to combine them. Set the bowl aside and let the gelatin soften in the water while you prepare the other ingredients.Gelatin stabilizes the cream in this recipe, and makes the whipped topping stable at room temperature.
 In a medium bowl, whisk together the milk, powdered milk, and vanilla. Continue whisking until the ingredients are fully combine and smooth, with no lumps in the mixture.


The powdered milk in this recipe adds body and flavor, but it also makes the whipped cream product freezer-stable., Combine the room temperature water, corn syrup, sugar, and salt in a saucepan. Heat the mixture over medium heat, stirring regularly for three minutes.


When the mixture is boiling and bubbling, stop stirring. Increase the heat to medium-high and insert the thermometer.
Cook for another four minutes or so, until the mixture reaches 250 F (121 C).
 Remove the syrup from the heat. Transfer it to a heat-proof bowl and insert the thermometer. Allow the syrup to cool for about three minutes, until it reaches 212 F (100 C).Cooling the syrup will protect the gelatin from overheating.
If you're going to be using a stand mixer to whip the final mixture, transfer the syrup to the stand mixer bowl instead.
 When the syrup reaches the right temperature, pour in the gelatin and water. Beat the mixture on medium-high speed for about five minutes, until it becomes fluffy and thick.


Add in the milk and vanilla mixture in one-quarter increments. Beat the mixture after each addition to fully combine all the ingredients.
 Once you’ve added all the milk mixture and all the ingredients have been incorporated, cover the bowl with a tight-fitting lid or plastic wrap. Set it aside to firm up at room temperature.


Leave the mixture to firm for at least two hours, but no longer than eight., When the mixture has had time to stiffen, remove the cover and whip it on low speed with the hand or stand mixer. As you beat the mixture, slowly drizzle in the cream, and then continue beating for another five minutes.


After five minutes, increase the speed to medium and continue whipping until the mixture is creamy, thick, and at the firm peaks stage.
The firm peaks stage means the cream will hold it shape for a moment, but any tips melt back into themselves after a few seconds., Homemade cool whip can be put on the same things as whipped cream, such as pancakes, pies, and in hot chocolate. Transfer leftovers to an airtight container and refrigerate for up to two weeks.


Because the powdered milk makes this whipped topping freezer stable, you can also freeze the mixture in an airtight container for as long as three months.

