 Dressing a menswear-inspired vest casually can be done with most styles of vests. Take a look at the vest and decide if you can pair it with jeans. If you're trying on vests at a store, try it on over a t-shirt. This is a great way to decide if the top matches your casual clothing.


Even a formal vest can pair well with casual clothing. If the vest is made of suit materials, then it will formalize your look.
Seek out vintage vests that have already been worn-in. Used clothing is good for adding a casual attribute to your wardrobe.;
, One of the keys to a casual look with the menswear vest is how you layer your torso. The colors should be complementary, analogous, or monochromatic. Light colored clothing says to the public: casual wear. Light colors are especially good for spring or fall when it might be more comfortable to have an extra layer over your shirt.


T-shirts are the best way to convey a casual feel for a picnic, daytime date, or even a trip to the grocery store.Sweaters are another torso option that, like the vest, can be dressed up or appear casual. Try on a sweater underneath the vest for a chilly day of fall.
 Jeans are the fundamental casual pants. They are popular because they can pair with just about everything and come in a variety of sizes and colors. For a casual look, try on a pair of tight, light wash jeans. Tight jeans are good for bringing out your feminine figure while wearing a more masculine inspired vest.


For the hotter days, a simple skirt or shorts will complement the vest. Since the vest draws a lot of focus, Wear plain color.
Long and wavy skirts are great for casual days. Skinny and short skirts are better suited for formal wear

, The key to keeping a casual appearance is by feeling casual and comfortable. A good way to feel comfortable is with your shoe choice. Wear a pair of tennis shoes that have good support for your feet. For the hotter days, wear a pair of sandals.


You could even wear a worn-in pair of boots or dress shoes. The key is for the outfit to feel and look like it is synchronized together.