 If your children live in or will be travelling to a region affected by the Zika virus, choose an insect repellent that will protect against mosquitoes. Look for a product that contains one of these ingredients and choose a higher concentration of the repellent if your child will be outdoors for a long time:Picaridin (20%)
IR3535 (20%)
DEET (7% to 30%);
, Since insect repellents that protect against mosquitoes contain similar ingredients, you could use the same repellent to protect against Zika virus and West Nile Virus. If you're choosing a repellent specifically against mosquitoes carrying West Nile Virus, you could choose products with a lower percentage of Picaridin and DEET. You could also use a botanical repellent, oil of lemon eucalyptus (30 to 40%).If your child is under 3 years old, avoid using repellents that contain oil of lemon eucalyptus.
 If your kids will be in a forested area that may be home to ticks carrying Lyme disease, you can apply a repellent that contains Picaridin (20%), IR3535 (20%), oil of lemon eucalyptus (30 to 40%), or DEET (20% to 30%).Remember not use use oil of lemon eucalyptus on children under 3 years old.
 If your child has sensitive skin or allergies, try an insect repellent that contains Picaridin (5% to 20%). It is effective at repelling insects (especially mosquitoes) for a long period of time and it won't irritate your kids' skin or eyes. Choose a lower concentration if your kids won't be outdoors for very long.Always test the repellent on a small patch of skin before applying it all over.
 DEET is in a lot of insect repellents to protect against mosquitoes and ticks. While DEET is safe for kids to use in the short term, avoid using insect repellents with DEET every day since it may cause neurological problems (like dizziness, headaches, and trouble concentrating). You shouldn't apply DEET more than once a day.Consider using products that contain IR5353. It acts similar to DEET, but has fewer side effects.
 If your child is under 2 months old, avoid using any insect repellent on them. Instead, place a fine netting over your baby's stroller or baby carrier when you're outside to protect them from insects.Products containing Picaridin, DEET, and IR5353 are safe for babies over 2 months old. Wait to use oil of lemon eucalyptus until your child is over three years old.
 If you'd like to avoid commercial insect repellents, ask your child's pediatrician to recommend an herbal insect repellent. Neem oil is commonly used in insect repellents that are marketed as natural. Researchers are unsure if neem oil is effective in areas where viral diseases like West Nile and Zika are widespread.You may want only want to use products with neem oil to protect against common insect bites.

