 Action Replays, sometimes sold as "Game Shark," allow you to put cheat codes into your games to unlock new levels, colors, and Pokemon. If you missed the Nintendo promotional event for Lugia and you do not own a GameCube, this is your only option to get the Pokemon.


Lugia is a level 70 Pokemon. Make sure your team is strong enough to handle this.
Action Replay and Game Shark are actually the same company, they just rebranded. AR is the most modern name., The AR acts as a port between your Gameboy and the Game, changing the code as it flows from the game and allowing you to access your cheat codes.
 The title screen will appear, and then you'll be offered the chance to import your code.
 The following codes are for Lugia and two other Legendary Pokémon that can be found right next to the white bird. You might as well input them all while you're working. You can only go to the island where the birds live once all game, so if you only input Lugia's code you will never be able to get the other two.Lugia & Ho-Oh 82031CF0 0002.

Deoxys: 82031CF0 3A02 , Now check your inventory -- you should have an item called the "Mystic Ticket." Save your game and head off to the Seagallop Ferries.


If you turn the game off, turn the cheat code off when you turn it back on. You should still have your ticket., Once you give the ferryman your ticket, you'll have a chance to go catch your Pokemon. However, you will only have one chance at this -- once you leave Naval Island you cannot return, even with cheats. Make sure you are well prepared for the fight ahead:


Many, many Ultra Balls (30-50)
Full health.
Several Pokémon at or above level 70.
 Enter the cave and head down the tunnel. At the far end of it, on the first floor, are two staircases. The one on the right goes to Lugia, the one on the left goes to Ho-Oh., This strong Pokémon will put up a good fight, so be ready to chip away at it for a while. You catch it just like any other Pokemon, but because of its level it is especially difficult to nab. Some good hints include:


Use something to put it to sleep or paralysis the bird -- they are much easier to catch this way.
Get its health down as low as possible with moves like tackle and false swipe -- anything that doesn't do a ton of damage and might kill it before you catch it.
Even if your Ultra Ball fails, throwing one ball makes the next one even more effective, so keep chucking them.