 Frozen colostrum from another mother dog can help ensure your newborn puppies receive passive immunity if they can’t nurse on their own. Work with your vet to freeze colostrum from another mother dog, before your puppies’ mother gives birth.Thaw the frozen colostrum to room temperature before giving it to the newborn puppies that will need it.
Ask your vet how many drops of thawed frozen colostrum to give the newborn puppies, and how often to give the drops.
Realize that frozen colostrum will not protect the newborn puppies from infection as well as fresh colostrum., You can also collect the colostrum yourself.To do this, gently squeeze the skin around the nipples. The colostrum will not be right at the nipple, so you will need to squeeze farther back from the nipple to get the colostrum out.Wash your hands before collecting the colostrum.
Mother dogs often start producing colostrum before birth. You may even see it leaking from the nipples.You could collect and freeze it at this point to prepare for passive immunity problems.
Collect the colostrum into a clean container. Consider asking your vet for clean plastic tubes in which you can collect the colostrum.
If you do not feel comfortable collecting the colostrum yourself, you can use colostrum from other healthy dogs.
 If colostrum is not an option, your puppies will need another way to get passive immunity. You can prepare for this possibility by having your vet collect plasma from a healthy adult dog, or the puppies’ mother, before the puppies are born.Plasma is a blood component that can provide immunity to newborn puppies.
Your vet will freeze the plasma in separate plastic tubes.
Serum, which is another blood component, can also provide immunity.Talk with your vet about collecting serum from a healthy adult dog.
 For the newborn puppies that aren’t nursing well, thaw the plasma to room temperature and give it to them by mouth using a medicine dropper.Place the dropper in the corner of the mouth to get it open.


To prevent the plasma from going into the puppy’s lungs, aim the dropper at an angle inside the mouth, instead of toward the back of the throat.
Your vet may recommend injecting the plasma under the skin instead. Your vet would administer this injection.Extremely sick newborn puppies may need plasma injections directly into their abdomens.Contact your vet as soon as you notice any of the newborn puppies are not nursing well. Your vet will tell you how many drops of plasma to give, and how often to give it, during the puppies’ first 24 hours of life.

