 By this time, you'll have gathered a lot of information about your animal. Make sure that it's all written legibly or typed so that you can read it. You'll have to make sure that you've connected the information you've gathered to the sources from which it came.You might use handwritten index cards to keep track of your information, or you can use computer apps or programs such as Evernote.
If you use index cards, you can easily sort them into topics.
If there are research facts that don't easily fit into topics, set them aside. When you're done, return to this pile. Carefully go through the stack, and see if there is anything that they have in common. If not, it's okay to have a topic you can label for yourself as "Etc."

, Your report may be a generalized report that includes many different aspects about the animal. You can also write a more focused report, looking at particular aspects of your animal's life, habitat, breeding patters, possible extinction, etc.Your teacher's assignment will likely supply more information on how to focus your paper.
No matter what sort of focus you bring to your report, it should open with an introduction to your animal. The appearance and name should be in the introduction.
 Think about the kind of class you're in. Are you writing your animal report for a general science class? If so, you may want to keep your report to an descriptive paper about your animal. If you're writing for a class in environmental science, you probably want to include more information about the threats to the animals' habitat or changes in environment. You may wish to write an analysis essay, a persuasive paper, or an argumentative essay.For any style of writing, you'll need to include your research results. However, the research that you include may vary depending on the way in which you organize your paper.
Consider using a graphic organizer to help you., Once you've completed your initial organization of research, you're ready to make an outline of your paper. All reports should include an introduction, followed by the report body, and closed with a brief summary and conclusion. Whether your animal report is 5-7 paragraphs (the standard length for learning report-writing) or 20 pages (an undergraduate thesis), this format should apply.A topic outline doesn't have to be made up of complete sentences, but your intentions should be easily understandable.
Use your sorted research notes to help you write your outline. For example, if you have a topic called "Habitat" for your animal, make notes about the habitat location, environmental needs, environmental threats, and the way the animal interacts with its habitat for your outline.
 Having a teacher, a parent, or a friend check your outline will often help you know if you've gone off track before you start the task of writing your report. If you need more information on how to make an outline, check with your teacher.You may wish to include your thesis sentence in your outline. A thesis sentence is like a topic sentence for your animal report. It sums up your idea about the full report.
Make sure that your proofreader can tell the purpose of your report. What were the words that the teacher used in her assignment? Make sure your report is on the right topic.
Does your outline include an introduction, a body, and a closing? This is a good time to check and make sure all your report's parts are present.

