 If you already have a vet, you may not want to switch. However, you can still find ways to make pet care more affordable. Ask your vet if you can discuss different payment options.Talk to your vet (or office staff) about payment plans. With this option, you would be able to pay the bill in installments.
Be specific. Try asking, "Would it be possible for me to make bi-weekly payments over the next 3 months?"
Explain your problem to the vet. You can say, "I love how you care for my dog. But if we can't come to a compromise on a payment plan, I will need to look for other care."

, If a payment plan is not an option, you may be able to find another way to pay for your pet's veterinary care. Ask your vet if the office is willing to accept services in lieu of payment. You can use your skills to deduct money from your bill. Offer to walk dogs. Many of veterinary offices have dogs who are being boarded while receiving treatment. The office might need help walking them during the day or evening.
Find out if they need help at the front desk. You don't need medical training to answer calls and make appointments.
Be open to compromise. Ask your vet if there are additional ways you can help out around the office.
 Check out a nearby veterinary school to see if they have a clinic. Students who are studying veterinary medicine often need to put in a certain amount of practical hours to learn their license. Call the school to get some information. Find out if the clinic takes appointments. If not, ask if there are monthly or weekly "community service" days.
Veterinary schools usually offer free or greatly reduced medical care. Visiting a clinic is a great way to get affordable care for your pet.
Some of these clinics are for limited income clients. Be prepared to show a recent paycheck.
 Different veterinarians have different prices. Not all doctors are the same. Don't be afraid to do some comparison shopping.If you live in a metropolitan area, try going to the suburbs. Prices are often lower in smaller towns.
Look for specials. Vet clinics offer discounts and sales, just like other businesses. Ask about discounts for new clients.
Compare prices. If your pet needs a specific procedure, such as a teeth cleaning, phone several offices to find out which doctor offers the best rate.

