 How a girl flirts can give you an idea of whether she is really interested. Watch and take note. How intense is her flirting? Does it seem light-hearted and friendly? This may mean she’s not seriously interested. It could be something more if her attention feels like more than just play, though.Pay close attention the next time your lady is bantering with you. Note her eyes, her face, her voice, her body language, and her general attitude. All of these are clues to solving your mystery.;
, What is your mystery lady’s attention span when you are flirting? This should give you hints, as well. Someone who is really interested – who has eyes for only you – should give you the time of day. Does she check texts and emails while you banter? This could mean the interaction doesn’t mean much to her. Or does she focus entirely on you? A girl’s attention span will be more sustained if she’s interested in you.Keep track of your encounters. Does she stop by your desk once in a while to tease you and quickly moves on? That might not be a good sign. Does she join you in the lunch room several days a week? Do you always seem to run into her in hall ways or at the water cooler? That is more encouraging.
 Some women and men are serial flirts. They flirt with those they’re interested in and with those they’re not interested in. They flirt with everyone. Why? They may like the challenge or the power it gives them. They may have low self-esteem. Or they may just like to flirt, period.Pay special attention to your mystery lady’s general flirting habits. Does she share her favors widely? Does she flirt with other men, or maybe girls? This behavior may indicate that she is a serial flirt.
On the other hand, does she seem to concentrate on you and you alone? If the flirting is mostly exclusive, you can pretty safely assume that there is a reason for it.
 Body language will tell you a lot about what a person is thinking or feeling. Whether it is our eyes, our face, our posture, or other behavior, the way we carry ourselves can unconsciously signal interest or disinterest. Use it to your advantage for your mystery girl, starting with her eyes


Pay close attention to where she is looking. Does she hold eye contact with you? Usually when talking, we hold and break eye contact frequently. If she gazes deeply into your eyes in your presence, it might mean she is attracted.Note how much she blinks, as well. Does she do it a lot when she’s with you? The average person blinks about 20 times per minute. However, our blink rate increases when we’re emotionally excited. If your girl is blinking like mad, it’s a good reason to think that she is interested in you., How is she sitting or standing? Physical posture can be another way to tell if a person is interested in you or just being friendly. This include the direction she faces, whether she leans in or back when talking to you, or whether she points her toes in your direction. Try to notice all of these subtle signs.Does she mirror your body language and gestures? Surprisingly, this unconscious behavior is a sign that she’s noticing you – both what you do and how you do it.
Does she lean in or angle toward you during conversations? What about her toes? Does she usually point them toward you? These, again, are more unconscious ways that our body can signal we like a person., The human face can express an incredible range of emotions, some consciously and some unconsciously. How a person feels, then, including possible interest in you, is often written on their face. Study your mystery lady’s face for signs that she’s into you.


Look also at her eyebrows. One common way the body signals attraction is the raised brow. When someone likes us, their eyebrows rise and fall. This lasts less than a second but is there. Look for it.What about her pupils? Pupils become dilated – that is, slightly larger – as a brain response to physical attraction. If she gets large, doe eyes in your presence, it is a signal that she likes you.See how she smiles. People tend to smile from above the mouth when they are truly happy, in order words, the smile engages the whole face above the mouth. A smile with an open mouth, lifted forehead, and squinted eyes is a good sign that the smile is genuine.