 Bathe your Chinese Crested dog either once a week, or every 10 to 15 days. Use a mild, hypoallergenic dog shampoo to bathe your dog. When bathing your dog, make sure the water, as well as the bathing area, is warm. If not, your dog might become cold and start to shiver. Make sure to dry it well after the bath, and keep it warm. For example, put a sweater on your dog to keep it warm. Put the sweater on only after your dog is fully dry.Apply a mild, non-scented lotion afterwards to prevent the skin from drying. Use a mild dog lotion. If not, use a mild, baby lotion on your Chinese Crested dog.
Always bathe your dog after a long day in the sun to remove all the sunscreen. If you leave the sunscreen on, it can clog your dog’s pores and cause acne., Any dog needs good oral hygiene to prevent gum disease and loose or missing teeth later in life. Brush your dog's teeth and gums regularly, or use alternative treatments such as water additives or an oral hygiene spray for dogs.


Take your dog to the veterinarian’s office for regular dental check-ups as well.
 Keep fresh water readily available. By keeping it readily available, you can keep your dog hydrated. Hydration will keep your dog’s skin and teeth healthy.Change out the water frequently; at least once a day. Water that is stagnant and unclean can lead to more dental and skin problems.
 Because Chinese Crested dogs are small, 30 minutes to an hour of exercise per day is all it needs. Take your dog to the park, walk it around the block, or play fetch with it in the backyard.Keep your dog leashed until you have trained it to come promptly when called, even at a dog park.
Avoid using an extending leash, as this teaches the dog to pull. You can also train your dog to walk on a leash with good behavior.
 Early and frequent socialization will help you build a confident dog that has a stable temperament. Expose your dog to many different environments, people, and animals when they are young. If not, your dog might be timid or fearful around new people and dogs. Also, begin training your dog early with reward-based methods. Chinese Crested dogs do not respond well to negative reinforcement.Take your dog to the dog park frequently to help it get used to being around other dogs and people.

