 Sit up straight with your knees together and bent at a 90-degree angle. Interlace your fingers behind your head and tighten your abs. Lean slightly back so that you just graze the chair back. Making sure your core is engaged, hinge forward and touch your right elbow to the outer part of your left knee. Return to starting position and touch your left elbow to your right knee. Perform 20 alternating reps. Pull your leg and knee upwards to meet your opposite elbow for an added challenge.;
, Put one hand on the back of your head and extend the opposite arm out in front of you. Engage your core muscles and bend towards the side with the extended arm in a controlled manner. Squeeze through your obliques, or side ab muscles, to pull yourself back up to starting position. Start with 10 reps on each side and gradually build up to 25., Turn yourself sideways on your chair so that the back isn’t in your way. Engaging your abs and core, lean back as far as you can without losing control or arching your back. Keep your hands in front of your body and rotate your shoulders to the left. Then rotate them to the right for one rep total. Repeat for 10 reps or more if you are able., Even small movements can exercise your abs. Sit up straight in your chair and pull in your abs while engaging your other core muscles. Rotate at the waist to one side while maintaining proper upright position. Hold for five seconds and then repeat on the other side.Hold your chair for extra support

, Some chairs or sofas may have wheels that could send you flying across the room as you run. Slow down your movements when performing your ab exercises on a chair with wheels. Keeping the chair from moving can engage your abs and core even more and prevent injury. Some other ways to keep the chair from moving include:

Partnering up with someone who can hold the chair
Placing the chair near a wall or something to grab on to in case you move
Locking the chairs wheels
Placing a wedge around the wheels to keep them from moving

