 If you are just starting out in the tourism industry, look for an entry-level job that has fewer educational or training requirements. Such positions may include being a server or customer service representative in a hotel, hostel, casino, or other tourist attraction. The experience earned may be valuable for other positions in the industry, and this kind of work can be undertaken while you pursue further training., If you wish to further your training qualifications, consider getting a degree in something like travel and tourism management, tourism and hospitality management, or tourism and event management from a college or university (usually in a school’s hospitality or business departments).Programs will range in scope between institutions, but generally encompass courses in human resources, financial strategies, media relations, and facilities management. Some programs offer (or require) internships with tourism-related companies before graduation.Some careers available to individuals with this training are:


travel agents
convention and event planners
travel coordinators
lodging managers

, Tourism-related internships are available for travellers looking to gain work experience in the hospitality and tourism sector. Some organizations may partner with universities to provide accredited placements, while others offer these internships regardless of work or academic experience. In many cases, you will have to pay to participate in these internships; costs will usually have to do with:travel arrangements
accommodations
food
transport
emergency support
a certificate of completion

, Consider working on career-related skills that could benefit you in a tourism industry career, such as accounting, word processing, or website design. Take classes if possible, or invest time in teaching yourself with the aid of books, manuals, or reputable online resources. While they are very useful in the tourism sector, many of these skills are universally valuable in the job market., Seek out a mentor who can teach you about the tourism industry and provide guidance on your career path. Look for mentors at business associations in your area, community groups, non-profit organizations, or consider friends or family who have experience in tourism or similar industries. Be direct in expressing your interest in developing a mentoring relationship and ask to meet with them to discuss this possibility.For example, you could say: "I admire your work and I would benefit greatly from your guidance with respect to my career. Would you be willing to meet with me to discuss being my mentor?"

