 This splinting technique is often used for trigger finger when a finger ligament is strained or when a joint is dislocated. Buddy splinting is not suitable for unstable joints and/or fractured fingers.A buddy splint adjoins two fingers by taping them together, just like buddies. The fingers are taped at a point which is above and a point that is below the affected joint.
Please note: contact your physician before engaging in long-term splinting for apparent trigger finger or any other condition.
 Before you apply a buddy splint, you will need to gather some materials. You will need:Scissors. You will need scissors for cutting the medical tape and for cutting the wood pieces, if necessary.
Two tongue depressors or Popsicle sticks. Any wood that is thick enough to support a finger will do. Typically, tongue depressors can be found in any local pharmacy — just make sure that it will support the entire length of the finger.
Medical tape. This secures the wooden splint to the fingers. Micropore tape is easy and gentle for sensitive skin. If you want very adhesive tape, you can purchase Medipore or Durapore instead.

If you do not have the tape at home, you can use thin strips of cloth about 4 to 5 inches long to secure the splint; however, medical tape is preferable. You will need a half-inch width cloth tape, which can be found at pharmacies near you.
 If the index finger is not broken or injured, avoid using it. It's your most useful finger and you don't want it hindered by the splint if it doesn't have to be. If the middle finger is affected by trigger finger, then choose the ring finger as the buddy.You want your hand as mobile as possible. If you can buddy with the ring or pinky finger, do so. You'll experience less inconvenience if your index and/or middle finger are free.
 Be sure to cover the entire length of the affected finger. After placing one tongue depressor (or similar device) underneath the finger, you should place another on top of the finger. Basically, your finger will be in the middle of a wooden stick sandwich.Trim the wood to size so that it does not catch/destabilize the splint once it is in place.
You can buddy splint with just tape, but using a structural support like the wooden sticks makes the splint much sturdier and more effective.
Only splint the injured finger — the buddy finger can be left alone.
 Using the scissors, cut two pieces of tape, each measuring 10 inches (25 cm). Here's how to wrap your finger:Wrap the first piece of tape once around the trigger finger, in between the first and second knuckles.
Bring the piece of tape around the buddy finger and wrap it firmly until the tape runs out.
Repeat in between the second and third knuckle of the affected finger, and then around both fingers. If the your little finger (pinky) is affected, you must wrap it at the end of the finger, which will line up between the second and third knuckles of the ring finger.
 Pinch the nail of each finger for about two seconds. Does it return to a pinkish appearance within a couple of seconds? If so, good. The blood circulation is just how you want it. Your splint is then finished.If it takes more than two seconds, then your fingers are not getting enough blood because your splint tape is too tight. Removing and reapplying the buddy splint is the best thing to do in this situation.
 In certain cases of trigger finger, it may take only two to three weeks to heal. However, the average time is a bit more. Ultimately, it depends on the extent and severity of the inflammation in the tendons of your affected finger.If you are lucky, your doctor will only recommend that you wear the splint at night or while otherwise resting. This is much less inconvenient than continuous splinting.
Whether splinted at all times or just sometimes, avoid using your injured hand (and especially the injured finger) as much as possible. Immobilization is key to a speedy recovery.
When the splint (and tape) is dirty or becoming loose, replace the splint with a new one.
If after this period of time your trigger finger does not seem any better, consult your doctor again. He or she will conduct further assessment and properly treat your finger.

