 There are a variety of bathroom and home scales that you can purchase. Some will be relatively inexpensive, whereas others will cost a significant amount more.


Choose a quality scale that still fits in with your budget. You want a scale that will last for several years and be able to maintain its calibration. In addition, digital scales are thought to be superior to mechanical scales as these are fragile and more inaccurate.Many quality digital scales are accurate within 1 pound anywhere between 97 – 100% of the time. Older-model spring and dial scales may be accurate as little as 13% of the time.You may even want to consider a newer model digital scale that can measure body fat and even track weight loss., When you're weighing yourself, you want to make sure that your results are as accurate as possible. Put your scale on the appropriate surface to help with its accuracy.


Most scales will come with directions that will say where the best place is to put your scale. Make sure to follow the manufacturer's advice.
Placing your scale on carpet can cause the scale to read your weight as 10% heavier!The bathroom or kitchen is usually a good place for an at-home scale.
Make sure the scale is lying level. A scale that tilts or sits unevenly will not read your weight accurately.
 Over time, your scale may lose its accuracy. It's normal after many times of weighing or being moved around. Check it regularly to make sure the results you're receiving are accurate.


Check your scale’s accuracy by putting an item with a reliable known weight (like a dumbbell or a bag of flour or sugar) on it. Check the reading you get and make any adjustments as needed.Refer to your owner’s manual to calibrate your scale regularly.
Many digital scales always have a "calibration feature" which can help you accurately calibrate your scale.
 Depending on which scale you purchase or have at home, there might be a slightly different way to step on the scale to get your reading.


With analog scales, you can usually just step on and wait until the dial stops spinning and read your result.
However, if you own a digital scale, you may have to “prime” your scale before hopping on. Some require you to tap it to "wake it up" and then step on before it gives you a reading. Always refer to your owner’s manual for proper weighing procedures.
 Research suggests that weighing yourself regularly —at least once a week — may help contribute to weight loss and even long-term weight maintenance.Weigh yourself at the same time every day (preferably in the morning) for the best results. In addition, try to be wearing the same thing whenever you weigh in for an accurate trend.Weigh yourself in the morning for best results. Weigh in after you’ve emptied your bladder and before you’ve had breakfast to eliminate as many variables as possible.There is some disagreement about whether or not it is helpful to weigh yourself daily. New evidence suggests that weighing yourself once daily and at the same time will help you lose weight and/or maintain your weight.If, however, you have a history of disordered eating or find that you are becoming obsessive over your weight, then cut back to only doing it once or twice weekly.
 If you're interested in gaining or losing weight, tracking your weight over time can help you meet your goal.If ink and paper are your thing, you can make a poster to track your numbers or use a paper journal. Otherwise you can use one of the many mobile apps and websites to help you track your weight loss.
Even if you want to maintain your weight, getting on the scale and recording your weight is a good idea. You'll be able to see any unwanted weight gains or losses and be able to change your lifestyle as needed.

