 In this method, we use the airflow from a fan to cause a fake fabric "flame" to billow and blow. The size of your flame will depend on the desired size of your fake fire or the space limitations of your fireplace. Taking these measures into account, cut flames accordingly.


When it comes to cutting flames, you have several options. You may want to cut many thin strands of fabric to give your fire a thin, "wisp-y" appearance, or, alternatively, you may want to cut a flat flame-shaped sheet for a more robust look. You can even create a 3-dimensional flame by using a tented piece of fabric open at the bottom -- however, if you do this, be sure to cut several holes at the top for the air to pass through or you'll have a "fat", stationary flame.;
, The base of each fabric flame should be secured to a wooden dowel to keep the flame in place while allowing it to blow freely. Take each flame you've cut and attach its "bottom" to a dowel with a staple, tape, or other method that allows the rest of the flame to move freely. You may attach all your flames to one dowel, but for a more impressive, staggered effect, use several different dowels.


If you're using the "tented" flame described above, attach each side of its open bottom to two dowels so that its bottom is held slightly open. This allows air to flow through, inflating the flame.
Note - to be clear, flames should be attached to the long, round side of a dowel - not either end.
 Lay the ends of the flame dowels across cross pieces in your fireplace grate or across the top of a basket or coffee can, etc. Set your dowels so that they're spanning the space directly above where you want your fan to be. The dowels should run parallel to each other so that they present the wide face of each flame to the audience.
 Arrange your fan underneath your flames so that it blows "up" through them. If you're using a fireplace grate, this means putting the fan right underneath it. If you're using a basket, put the fan face-up at the bottom of the basket. If you're using a coffee can or other similar container, you may need to carefully cut the bottom out and secure the fan so that it blows up through the hole.


You may find that it's easiest to put your fake fire directly in front of an electrical outlet so that the fan's cord can't be seen stretching across the floor.
 Arrange red, orange, and/or yellow colored lights under your flames so that their light shines directly up into them. Theater rental companies should have colored lights available, but you may find it easier to simply shine normal flashlights through colored glass or cellophane.
 Before you finalize the arrangement of your flames, lights, and fan, it's smart to give them a test drive. If you can, dim the lights in the room, then turn on the colored lights and blower. If everything's working correctly, your flame should billow realistically, illuminated from below. If it doesn't, make adjustments as necessary and test again.
 Now that you know your fire works as intended, it's time to give it the appearance of a real fire instead of a fan-powered contraption. For instance, you might try placing logs over and around the flames. You might also want to spread fake ashes and burnt debris over and around the fire.


If you don't have real logs at your disposal, don't worry - you can make fake lightweight logs by cutting pool noodles into short sections and wrapping these in construction paper.
Another good idea is to mimic the appearance of "coals" by piling a string of LED or Christmas-style lights beneath the fire. The effect is best if you can find red or orange lights or if you put a layer of red or orange cellophane over the lights.

