 There are no vaccines to prevent or antibiotics to treat HFMD infections, so the treatment method is usually very similar to how one might treat the flu. Your body will usually have to fend off the viral infection on its own.Drink plenty of fluids
Get lots of rest
Avoid acidic juices like orange juice due to the blistering in the mouth.
 Often the most difficult symptom of HFMD to overcome is the sore throat. It’s extremely important that you or your child stay hydrated while fighting off the infection, so try these steps to manage the pain of a sore throat.Stay hydrated. It may be painful to swallow fluids, but keeping enough water in your system can go far to alleviate the pain of a sore throat.
Drink caffeine free tea with water or honey
Gargle with salt water
Use lozenges, but do not give them to children under four years old.
 You need to make sure you and your children continue to eat a healthy diet and stay hydrated while your bodies combat an HFMD infection. Try these foods that are both nutritious and soothing:Bananas are a non-acidic fruit with great nutritional value that can be very soothing for your throat.
Chicken soup can help keep you hydrated and well nourished while easing a sore throat.
Scrambled eggs and egg whites are a great source of protein and soothe inflammation.
Oatmeal is filling, nutritious and soothing and can be combined with bananas or honey to increase the soothing effect.
 While there may be no medicine to treat the HFMD infection, you may still want to treat the symptoms to increase your comfort as your body fends off the virus. Only use medications as prescribed or recommended by your doctor.


Use paracetamol, also known as acetaminophen (not aspirin) to treat fever and discomfort.You can also use ibuprofen for pain.
A medical mouthwash can be prescribed to ease the pain of the blisters in the mouth., Most HFMD infections are mild and resolved within a few days. Like many other viral infections, your body will still carry the virus after the symptoms are no longer present, so be particularly careful not to spread the virus in the days after you begin to feel better.You may still be contagious for a few days after you begin to feel better, so be conscious of spreading the virus and keep your children out of school until you’re sure they have recovered.
It is possible for the infection to reappear if your immune system becomes compromised, so stay well hydrated and continue to get plenty of rest for a week after you begin to feel better.
If you or your children do not begin to recover after a few days, contact your doctor.

