 Be understanding and show them compassion when they need it.Always respect their thoughts and beliefs, even when they are different from yours.If you disagree on something, be respectful about it. For instance, don’t say, “I don’t believe in your religion at all. It sounds really weird.”
Instead, say something like, “My beliefs are pretty different, but that’s ok! I respect all religions.”
Also, be accepting of your friend. Don’t try to get your friend to change for you.
 Trust is built over time, so be ready and willing to invest time in someone if you want to gain their trust.Each time you hang out, it’s an opportunity to have positive interactions and show your trustworthiness. Avoid only being around them when things are going well. Be there for them during the ups and the downs.Your willingness to be around them when they’re going through a hard time shows them that they matter to you.
You aren’t hanging around just to have fun and enjoy the good times – you want to have a real friendship.
 You don’t want to hurt anyone’s feelings, but you also don’t want to lie to them. Avoid being vague with them. Be specific and really mean the things you say. For example, if your friend asks you how they look in an outfit and it doesn’t look flattering, don’t automatically say, “It looks great!” when you know it doesn't.


However, you also don’t want to say, “Honestly, you look a bit overweight in that.”
Instead, you could say something like, “That color looks awesome on you! I like the style of the outfit, but I’m not sure about the neckline. Let’s look for something else in that color.”

, If they send you a text and you don’t respond for days, it creates the illusion that you either don’t care enough to reply, or you’re busy doing something that you can’t talk to them about. Try to be available when they need you.


For example, if you’re busy at the library and your friend texts you, send a quick response like, “In study group right now! Will get back to you ASAP.”
Another example: If you’re on a vacation with your family and you’re going to be busy for days, don’t leave them hanging. Respond with, “Out of town with my family – we’re skiing! Will be back Sunday – I’ll call you.”

, When someone tells you a story or expresses a feeling, it is important to listen without making judgments. Make sure that you keep an open mind when you listen to people and do not express judgment for the things they share with you.


For example, if a friend shares with you that she had a one night stand with someone, don’t tell her that she shouldn’t have done that or try to give her unsolicited advice about what to do. Just listen to her and offer your support if she expresses worry over the situation.
Avoid thinking about what you are going to say next. Just focus on what the person is saying.Pay attention to their facial expressions and body language as well to get insight into how they are feeling.

