 Break out your shovel and dig a hole in your planting area. You only need to go down about a foot (30.5 cm). After that, fill the hole with water. The water should drain within 3 to 4 hours, at which point you should fill the hole again with water.


If the hole does not drain within 3 to 4 hours during the first and second water filling, your soil won’t likely drain well enough to support a fruit tree.
If your hole drains completely in less than 3 hours, the soil may be too sandy. To improve this, add organic matter to the soil as described in the following steps.
Soil that drains poorly can be improved with a drainage system, planting mounds, or raised beds, all of which are described in the following steps.;
, A layer of thick, sticky clay underneath your topsoil could be clogging things up. Removing this layer isn’t really a cost effective option, so a DIY French drain system may be the best solution for slow draining soil.

French drains are a kind of underground drainpipe installed to improve drainage. Once they're put in and the grass regrows, they'll be all but invisible.Generally, French drains are installed by digging a sloping trench through areas of poor drainage to a drainage area. A drainage pipe and coarse backfill, like gravel, are inserted in the trench, then covered with dirt., Soil that is sandy or coarse may drain too quickly for your trees to receive enough water. Use well-composted organic materials in the backfill for tree holes to increase moisture retention while the roots establish.After mixing in organic materials thoroughly, test drainage with the previously described hole-drainage check (water should drain in 3 to 4 hours).
The amount of organic materials you’ll need to add to the backfill will depend on the severity of your drainage problems.
 The upper part of the root system slightly underneath the soil line is called the root crown. This part of the tree is vulnerable to excess moisture. By raising the planting area with a mound, the root crown will be better protected.


Mounds are made by backfilling soil into holes to create a gentle slope rising to the tree in the center. The tree’s soil line should be 6 to 12 in (15.2 to 30.5 cm) higher than surrounding soil.
For mounds that are 6 in (15.2 cm) high, you should also use a width of at least 2.5 ft (.76 m).
For mounds that are 10 or 12 in (25.4 or 30.5 cm) high, use a width between 3 and 4 ft (.9 and 1.2 m).
Avoid making steep slopes with your mounds. Gentle slopes will prevent the soil from eroding., A raised bed is a simple wooden box that holds in soil around the tree, keeping its soil line high. This pretty much eliminates the erosion that will eventually happen with mounds, which is a definite plus., Soil that is packed tightly will resist root growth. Your trees roots will establish better in an area widely cultivated with a shovel and rototiller. Do not cultivate lower than the recommended planting depth for your tree.

Holes for trees, generally, should be double the width of the roots. The depth shouldn’t be greater than the root ball, except when the soil is really compacted, then you’ll want a little extra room.
If you notice a lot of clay while breaking up the soil in the planting site, use a shovel to cut channels into the sides of the hole. This will encourage outward root growth.