 You can get a referral by contacting the referral and information service at 1-800-342-3661. Alternately, you can email LR@NYSBA.ORG.This referral service only covers certain counties. If you live in a county not covered by the bar association, they will give you a number to call.
You can also find numbers for local bar associations here: https://www.americanbar.org/directories/lawyer-referral-directory/lawyer-referral-directory.html?q=inmeta:STATE_SERVED%3DNew%252520York.;
, To properly assist you, the bar association will ask you to describe your legal dispute. They need to know this information so that they can match you to an attorney with experience in that practice area.


Answer all questions honestly. Remember that what you tell the person over the phone will be confidential., The lawyer will need certain information from you in order to analyze your case. Accordingly, you should gather helpful documents. If you are being sued, take a copy of the complaint and summons.


If you have been injured, then bring copies of your medical records and the police or incident report.
You should also write down a summary of what happened.
Don’t forget questions. You’ll want to understand how much the lawyer bills per hour (should you hire them) and what kinds of experience they have with disputes like yours.
 Your consultation will last for a half hour. Discuss the legal dispute with the lawyer and figure out what steps to take. You aren’t required to hire the person, nor is the attorney obligated to represent you.


Remember to ask questions. If you don’t feel comfortable with the answers the lawyer gives, then you will probably need to request another referral.
The consultation will be free if your case involves a dispute in any of the following areas: personal injury, social security, veteran’s or military law, medical malpractice, unemployment compensation or workers’ compensation.For all other disputes, you will pay a $35 fee.
 If you think the lawyer is a good fit, then you’ll sign an engagement letter or fee agreement. This document will explain everything the lawyer will do for you as well as your own responsibilities. It will also explain how much the lawyer will bill you.Make sure you agree with everything in the agreement before signing. Raise any disagreements with the lawyer.

