 Open Google Play Store on your Android device and search for the AirDroid app. Tap the first app that pops up (developed by Sand Studio), and tap “Install” to download it onto your device.;
, Make sure that your device and the computer you will be using for this process are on the same network. Do this by matching the names on the connection on the device as well as your computer.
 Locate the green paper plane icon on your Android home screen or app drawer. Once the app loads, read through the items displayed on the screen until you reach the Connection tab.
 An IP address will be displayed right below the URL at the top of the screen. Open a web browser in your Mac or PC, and type the IP address in the address bar. Once the IP address is entered, an “Accept” or “Decline” notification should pop up on your device’s screen. Just tap “Accept.”


The browser will display what looks like a desktop screen, with app icons to the left and your Android information on the right.
 Click the “Files” icon (blue folder) in the AirDroid screen on your PC or Mac. It will open a file browser akin to Windows Explorer. The files and folders displayed in the file explorer are the files and folders on your Android device.
 Use the AirDroid file explorer to navigate to the folder where you want to upload the iTunes files. If you want to create a new folder, click the folder with a + icon at the top toolbar. Name the folder, and click “OK.”

, Once inside the folder, click the blue “Upload” button on the top right. An open window will appear; this is where you drag-and-drop files to upload to your Android device.


Open a file explorer on your Mac or PC, and go to the folder where your iTunes files are. Highlight those that you want to transfer into your Android device. Click and hold the highlighted files, and drag and drop them into the drag-and-drop window on the AirDroid screen. AirDroid will then start to transfer files at a speed that will depend on the file size and your connection’s quality.

