 If you engage in vigorous exercise or sports, always wear protective gear. Invest in supplies like shoulder pads, knee pads, helmets, and other gear. If you're unsure what kind of equipment to buy, talk to a worker at a local sports or fitness shop., Bruises are often caused by accidental falls. Make sure you keep your floors and walkways clear of clutter to prevent bruising.


If you have young children, this can be difficult. Make sure to ask your kids to pick up after themselves and work on instilling good habits from an early. Explain to them the dangers associated with falling., The vitamins B12 and C, as well as folic acid, boosts your body's natural immune response to injury. Making sure your diet is high in these vitamins and minerals can prevent bruising and decrease healing time for existing bruises.B12 is found in many organ meats, like liver, as well as shellfish like clams. Eggs, milk, and dairy products are also rich in B12. If you're vegetarian or vegan, consider asking a doctor about taking B12 supplements.Many fruits contain vitamin C. Fruits like mango, pineapple, strawberries, papaya, citrus fruits, and cantaloupe are particularly high in vitamin C. Veggies high in vitamin C include broccoli, spinach, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, Brussels sprouts, and winter squash.Folic acid is found in citrus fruits, dark green vegetables, and legumes like peas and dried beans., Certain medications, such as blood thinners, can cause you to bruise more easily. Anticoagulants such as lovenox, warfarin, aspirin, and heparin can thin the blood and lead to increased bruising. Other medication such as NSAIDS, corticosteroids, and even supplements like fish oil and vitamin E may cause you to bruise easily. Your doctor may be able to switch you to a different medication if you are concerned about bruising.

Bruising easily may also be a sign of an underlying health problem, such as liver disease or a vitamin K deficiency related to celiac disease, chronic pancreatitis, inflammatory bowel disease, and alcohol abuse. Talk to your doctor if you seem to bruise at the smallest bump or often have bruises and you don't know where they came from, if you have a hematoma (lump) over the bruise, pain three days after a minor injury, if you have a family history of bruising or bleeding easily, or if you suddenly begin bruising easily when you did not before., Always wear a seat belt when driving. Not only does this prevent driving-related bruising, seat belts keep you safe from potentially fatal injuries in the event of a car crash.