 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook with a slipknot, then work 16 chain stitches to create a foundation chain.


Check the "Tips" section of the article if you need instructions on forming a slipknot or making a chain stitch.
 Work one single crochet into the second chain from the hook, then single crochet once into each stitch after that. Chain two at the end of the row, then turn the work.


You should have a total of 15 stitches in this row.
Consult the "Tips" section for instructions on working a single crochet.
 Double crochet once into the back loop only of the first stitch from the previous row. Double crochet into each stitch after that until you reach the end of the row. Chain one, then turn the work over.


There should be 15 stitches in this row, as well.
If you do not know how to double crochet, check the "Tips" section for help.
 Repeat the above two rows 12 more times each, alternating back and forth between the single crochet row and the double crochet row. After completing the final double crochet row, repeat a thirteenth single crochet row.


You should crochet 25 rows in this step, giving you a total of 27 rows (not including the foundation chain).
Turn at the end of each row as you work.
This completes the foundation of the cuff. You still have the decorative scalloped edge to make, however.
 Rotate the work by 90 degrees, then work five double crochets into the end of the first single crochet row from your cuff base. Skip over the double crochet row, then single crochet once into the end of the next single crochet row.


This completes one scallop.
 Work five double crochets into the end of the next single crochet row, followed by one single crochet into the end of the single crochet row after that. Repeat this step until you have a total of six scallops.
 Make three double crochets in the last chain-two space, then slip stitch into the end of the final single crochet row to complete the edge.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 10-inch (25 cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to tie off the work.
 Fold the cuff in half with the right sides facing each other. Thread a darning needle with the tail of yarn hanging off the cuff, then whip stitch the ends together.


Weave the excess tail into the wrong side of the cuff.
Consult the "Tips" section if you need help with the whip stitch.
Turn the cuff right side out when finished. This step completes one boot cuff.
 Follow all of the above steps to complete a second, matching boot cuff. Once you complete the set, the project is complete.

