 Ask your doctor or local pediatrician about your allergies and what they are. Your doctor will likely tell you about your allergies. Look back at your family line, and see what your family is allergic to.;
, Some restaurants offer food for just people with nut allergies, while some just give you a bunch of options. In general, big chain restaurants will also have standardized menu with ingredients lists you can look up online (although you still should check with the staff of the specific restaurant you're going to about their procedures, in case they do things differently). Generally, you can just search "(Name of Restaurant) Allergy Information."


Call restaurants to see their policies on food allergies. Certain restaurants have different policies when it comes to food allergies. Depending on the restaurant, and types of food they have, the policies will be different.
Ask around to friends or relatives who also have food allergies. They might have good ideas on what restaurants have the best policies as well.
Also, most large cities have online forums for people with food allergies. You can check those out to find out which local restaurants other food-allergic people recommend.
 Your server has probably had to cook before, and knows what is in the food. Tell them what you are allergic to and ask what they recommend. If they don't have any information, politely ask to speak to the manager.


You can also bring a Chef Card for them to take back into the kitchen. This can be as simple as an index card you make yourself, or you can also order one from a company online. Chef Cards have your allergy information written on them, so that the actual cooks can know what you mean in your own words. If you are going to a restaurant where the cooks might not speak English, such as a Chinese restaurant, you can bring a Chef Card in the anticipated language, such as Mandarin. Also, if you are very sensitive, be sure to specify on the cards, to the waiter, or both that cross-contamination of ingredients is something to watch out for.
 They may take special care to use a clean cutting board or knives. This is especially important for severe allergies.
 Also keep in mind that different situations, such as an adult calmly eating a peanut butter sandwich versus a toddler smearing his peanut butter all over the table, carry different levels of risk. You might want to bring wet wipes to clean your seating area before you eat there. You can also bring your own silverware.
 Some pops and milk can contain things like soy and dairy products. If you do order them, look at the label or ask your server if they have soy milk or caffeine free pop.
 If you ordered a salad, but are allergic to tomatoes, with a fork and spoon, carefully lift the tomato out of the salad and onto a napkin or dirty plate. Please note that this should only be done if you have a very mild allergy. Also, if you are very clear about your allergy, and the staff is very clear that they can handle it, and then your food shows up with your allergen in it, don't be afraid to send it back or to leave the restaurant entirely.
 If you accidentally eat or touch your allergy, you need to have an antidote (like an epinephrine auto injector) nearby. Administer the medication yourself if possible, or ask your server to do so if you are completely incapacitated.

