 Take some highlighter or light, shimmery eyeshadow (such as champagne or ivory), and tap it onto the inner corners of your eyes. This will help open up your eyes and make them appear brighter.
 This will help frame your eyes, and give them some definition. You can wear liquid or pencil eyeliner. If you want, you can flick out the end of your eyeliner when you reach the outer corner of your eye to create a winged or cat eye style.


To open up close-set eyes, apply eyeliner only to the outer corners of both your upper and lower lash lines. Stop the eyeliner halfway across your lash lines., Applying eyeliner to the waterline can help define your eyes, but it can also close them up. It is best to avoid applying black eyeliner to the waterline, especially if you have small eyes. It can make your eyes appear even smaller.To make your eyes larger, apply white or ivory eyeliner to the waterline of your lower lid.Remember to apply mascara to your lower lashes as well as to your upper when you are done.
To bring out the color of your eyes: choose an eyeliner that contrasts your eye color (such as gold for blue eyes, purple for green eyes, or blue for brown eyes) and apply it to the waterline.
 When applying mascara, hold the wand just below your upper eyelashes, close to the lash line. Then blink slowly while pulling the wand upwards. Let the first coat dry first if you need to apply another. Use mascara on your lower lashes sparingly and with care, as it can smudge easily.


If you need to wear mascara on your lower lashes, consider dusting some powder under your eye first. When you are done applying the mascara, dust the powder off. The powder will have caught any stray mascara.
Try to get waterproof mascara. It is less likely to run or smudge.
If you have dark hair, try black mascara. If you have lighter hair, try a brown or dark brown mascara.
 These are perfect for a night out or for when you want to feel glamorous. You can choose a natural style that simply enhances your lashes, or a heavier style to make your eyes stand out even more. Place the false eyelash against your upper lid and note where the excess is; trim off the excess with a clean pair of scissors. Apply a thin line of eyelash glue to the band, and wait for the glue to turn tacky. Carefully place the eyelash against your upper lid, as close to the lash line as possible.


Most eyelash glues come out opaque. They are tacky when they just begin to turn clear.
While waiting for the glue to turn tacky, consider curving the eyelash into a narrow U shape. This will help it curve against your eye better.
 Open up an eyelash curler and bring it close to your upper lashes. Place your upper lashes in the mouth of the curler, making sure the mouth is parallel to your lashes. Move the curler closer to your eye until it's at the base of your eyelashes. Keeping your eye open, slowly close the curler. Hold it like this for about five seconds. Repeat, if necessary, for more volume.
 Apply your foundation first, then apply your chosen concealer. If you are applying/blending the concealer with your fingers, be sure to use your ring finger. It is the weakest and gentlest finger, and thus less likely to damage the delicate skin. Once you have finished applying your concealer, consider blotting the area with a thin tissue. This will soak up any excess concealer and prevent it from looking cakey later in the day. Here are some more tips on using concealer:To hide shadows: choose an orange or peach-tinted concealer. Apply it under your eye using your ring finger, then blend it in. Cover it with a concealer that matches your skintone.
To brighten the under eye area: Choose a concealer that is one shade lighter than your skintone. Draw an upside down triangle under your eye. The triangle should be the same wide as your lower lash line. The point of the triangle should touch the top of your cheek bones. Blend it in well.
To hide under eye puffiness: mix eye cream, highlighter, and concealer on the back of your hand. Use your ring finger to apply the mixture under your eye. Blend it in well.
 Eyebrows help frame the face and eyes. Keep your eyebrows neatly groomed.You can pluck them or keep their natural shape. If you are choosing to keep their natural shape, however, you might want to pluck away any stray hairs.


If your eyebrows are thin, define the shape first using an eyebrow pencil that is slightly lighter than your hair color. Dust some brow powder (or matte eyeshadow) that matches your hair color onto your eyebrows when you are done.If you want to leave your brows natural, consider combing over them with a brow comb or a toothbrush. Reserve this toothbrush for makeup purposes only; don't use it to brush your teeth. This will help smooth any unruly hairs.
 Bright, bold lipstick and blush may take attention away from your eyes.Instead, try leaving the rest of your makeup subtle, especially if you are going to work or school. Choose some lip gloss or neutral lipstick, and save that bold color for when you don't want to draw attention to your eyes. Keep your blush to a minimum. Use just enough to give your skin that healthy glow, but not so much that your cheeks look rosey like a doll's.

