
Your rival (he or she) will give you an Absolite (the Mega Stone for Absol) and tell you to visit Professor Sycamore (he is found in Anistar City).;
,
You will find 'Medichamite', the Mega Stone for Medicham in front of the well, over the bridge in this city.
You will also find 'Gengarite', the Mega Stone for Gengar by talking to the girl with purple hair standing in front of the two blue houses. These houses are up the steps and left from where the well is.

Continue right until you have to go downwards to continue.
Here, continue downwards until you reach the water.
Follow the water, down the waterfall, get out of the water and then travel right to the 'Chamber of Emptiness'.
Within this small cave-like place you will find 'Banette', the Mega Stone for Banette.

Follow the path onwards and then into Reflection Cave.
Go forward.
Turn right.
Head downwards.
Take the second turn on the right, not the first as it is a dead end.
Follow this path and go down the steps.
Once downstairs go forward and then head downwards where the person is standing.
Turn right and follow the path as far as you can, in the wall's reflection you will see that there are small steps and you can go on them (downwards direction).
Get off the rock (to where the Karate Guy is running back and forth) and follow that path (right then upwards to where another guy is running in circles).
Turn left and go up three small steps so you're on higher ground.
Go downwards and then down the stairs.
Continue upwards and turn left. You will see a door in the cave wall's reflection. Enter it.
Head downwards, through another door and then simply follow the path.
At the end of the path you will find 'Alakazamite', the Mega Stone for Alakazam.

Travel downwards across the bridge then travel right, up the steep steps.
Continue right past the building. There is a man standing in front of the three small waterfalls.
At the base of the middle waterfall you will find 'Gyaradosite', the Mega Stone for Gyarados.

Behind Abomasnow is 'Scizorite', the Mega Evolution stone for Scizor.

Up the steps after the first trainer in the gym, you will see two rock climbing walls beside each other, one left and one right.
Climb the wall on the right and you will find either 'Tyranitarite', the Mega Evolution stone for Tyranitar if you are playing Pokémon X or 'Aggrontite', the Mega Evolution stone for Aggron if you are playing Pokémon Y.

Travel downwards to where Strength is needed to push the boulder into the ground.
Turn left then follow the path downwards.
Rather than turning left and following the path further, continue downwards off the path and onto grass where two roller skaters are circling a huge rock, here at the bottom of the rock you will find 'Manectite', the Mega Stone for Manectric if you are playing Pokémon X, and 'Houndoomite', the Mega Stone for Houndoom if you are playing Pokémon Y.

Turn left and follow the corridor until you reach the stairs. Go up the stairs.
At the top of the stairs directly beside them you will see 'Mawilite', the Mega Evolution stone for Mawile.

Behind the sign as you first enter the forest there is long grass where wild Pokémon appear.
At the top left corner of the grass you will find 'Pinsirite' for Pincer if you are playing Pokémon X or Heracrossite for Heracross if you are playing Pokémon Y.

In Glittering Cave take the first right turn then travel to the very end of the path to where you will find 'Kangaskhanite', the Mega Stone for Kangaskhan.

Travel downwards until the water.
Surf downwards and travel through the cave door (still travelling downwards).
Then get out of the water and head right, then upwards and into the cave (entrance is on the left).
Travel down the steps then upwards.
Turn left and continue left out of the cave.
Head upwards.
Turn left.
Continue left until a wall (beside the girl with purple hair).
Rock Smash is to be used on this wall (at the grey section).
In front of the windmill is 'Garchompite', the Mega Stone for Garchomp.

Surf upwards as far as you can (to Azure Bay).
Turn left and continue surfing.
Then surf upwards to the small sand platform where two people are standing (there is a photograph opportunity here).
Talk to the old man and he will give you 'Ampharosite', the Mega Stone for Ampharos.



Head to Lumiose City and go to the Stone Emporium on Vernal Avenue (take the taxi if you do not know the way).
Talk to the man in the suit (left of the shop assistant) and you can buy two of either 'Charzardite' for Charizard, 'Blastoisinite' for Blastoise or 'Venusaurite' for Venusaur (depending on the two you did not choose).

This Ralts is holding Gardevoirite.

Talk to the scientists on the right.
One of them gives you 'Aerodactylite', the Mega Stone for Aerodactyl.
