 The two things that most influence your accuracy are the paintball and barrel combination. A Flatline Barrel System by Tippmann is proven to increase range. If you don't get a flatline, a barrel 14–16 inches (35.6–40.6 cm), possibly a J and J ceramic, a Smart Parts barrel, or an Apex barrel attachment which can effectively increase the range of your marker by 100 feet (30.5 m). Do not get anything long just to maintain the same fps. Barrel kits are often the most versatile and accurate barrels available as you can match the size of your barrel to the size of the paintballs you are shooting. Make sure your barrel has the right threading. Note that the A5 takes different threading than the 98 custom.;
, If the paintballs you are shooting do not match your barrel, they will either not shoot straight or they will burst in the barrel. You can tell if the paintball matches the barrel by removing your barrel and dropping a paintball in it. If it just rolls out, the paintball is too small; if it gets stuck when you blow into the barrel, it is too big. It needs not to fall out but go through easily whenever you blow into the barrel. The best way to get a good bore to paintball match is to get a barrel kit that includes different barrel pieces to match variously size paintballs. When it comes to buying paintballs, you usually get what you pay for. The cheaper the paint, the more dimples and inconsistencies they tend to have. This, of course, hurts your accuracy. Paintballs range in price from $25-$75 for 2000 balls. More expensive paintballs will typically be the best, but not always.
 Consistency is improved by the use of a regulator. Regulators are either high or low pressure. If you get one make sure that the pressure rating of the regulator is compatible with the pressure needed to operate the marker. With most woodsball marker, this will be high pressure. Regulators do what the name says; they regulate the gas to keep the gas getting to the valve at a constant pressure, so each shot should expel exactly the same amount of gas. In combination with a good bore to paint size match, regulators can make your marker shoot paint much more accurately.
 If you polish the contact points between the front bolt, rear bolt, and the receivers, you can drastically decrease friction within the marker, making the Tippmann shoot much more consistently. And consistency is just as important as accuracy.
 A sight is a good idea to get consistently more accurate shots, NOT A SCOPE. Scopes are considered largely impractical in paintball because paintballs don't fly straight, it takes time to focus somebody into a scope, and scopes won't help you by getting a magnified picture of somebody, as you can't hit them anyway. At their maximum range, paintballs go some 200 feet (61.0 m), and the aim range is more like 75–100 feet (22.9–30.5 m). A sight could be a red dot sight or simple iron sights. and if your sniping, you'll likely be aiming your gun up in the air higher than your target, since the paintballs will drop off after a certain distance.
 This allows you to crawl more quickly and bring your marker to bear faster, as well as making it easier to get through the woods.
 Get a ghillie suit if you can afford one, if not use local vegetation, or branches, bushes and twigs, and fasten them onto you. the more natural you look, the better.
 It may, or may not, improve your performance as a sniper it will make your marker more stable though, especially while standing up, and will help you when adjust your marker for a long shot .
 a paintball sniper must get close to be assured a one shot kill, and this means that you are well within the enemies range. You must be well concealed, and you must be able to hit what you shoot at. Your marker should reflect that.
 If the spring is two short it may cause the marker to fire randomly. Get a few springs to see which one works best, but note that this can be illegal in some fields, and you may end up shooting more balls than you need. stick to what you have, but if you don't like the pull, then go ahead and swap out the springs, and save the springs too.
 A5's can be easily transformed into a variety of markers, such as M4's, AK47's and MP5's, but its mostly cosmetic, and won't help your actual game, except for maybe lighter load and steadier shot.
