 Sugar will dissolve in room temperature water, if you shake it hard enough. Because there's no heat to sterilize the syrup, this version will only last about two weeks. As far as taste goes, bartenders have lined up on both sides of the hot-cold debate. Give it a whirl and decide for yourself:Combine equal parts sugar and water in a sealed container. (Using superfine sugar may shorten the shaking time.)Shake for three minutes, then let rest for one minute.
Shake for another 30 seconds, or until all sugar is dissolved.
 Simmer the syrup with herbs or spices for about 30–45 minutes to extract flavors.Try cinnamon and nutmeg syrup for winter holiday desserts, or basil syrup for sophisticated cocktails.


If using herbs, remove them as soon as they turn brown.Strain out leaves once the syrup is done.
The addition of other ingredients may shorten the shelf life. Stir a spoonful of vodka into the cooled syrup to prevent mold.
 Adding gum arabic to the syrup creates a silky texture, and lowers the chance of crystallization. This old-fashioned recipe is making a small comeback due to the appealing texture it lends to cocktails:Bring water nearly to a boil. Slowly mix in an equal amount gum arabic, by weight. Stir until gluey and mostly combined.
Let sit for two to three hours, off the heat. Stir again to work in lumps.
Start making sugar syrup, as above. Use twice as much water as you did for the gum arabic.
Once sugar is dissolved, reduce to a simmer. Stir in gum arabic mixture slowly, while stirring.
Let cool, then skim off and discard scum from the top of the syrup.
 Add this dark caramel flavor to whiskey cocktails or a bittersweet chocolate cake. Wear gloves and stand back from the pan, as molten sugar can cause severe burns. Try it out as follows:Heat the sugar (alone) in a stainless steel saucepan, stirring once every 30 seconds.
For caramel syrup: Add water as soon as the sugar melts. This will cause spattering and steaming, so stand back as you pour. Stir rapidly and constantly until syrup forms.
For burnt caramel syrup: Turn on stove ventilation or open windows — there will likely be smoke. Wait until sugar forms thick bubbles, than (in another 15 seconds or so) turns dark. Add water and stir carefully. It may take a while for the solid sugar to dissolve.

