 VINELink is provided by the National Victim Notification Network, and has information about the location and custody status of state prisoners nationwide.Keep in mind that to find an inmate on VINELink, you must first know the state in which he or she is incarcerated. Additionally, VINELink has information about state inmates only, not inmates housed in federal corrections facilities.http://thelawdictionary.org/article/best-way-to-find-someone-in-jail-for-free/

You can search for any inmate by entering his or her first and last name or inmate ID number. The search engine also has additional fields such as birthdate or age range that you can complete if you know that information to limit your search results and increase your chances of finding the right person.You don't have to register to conduct a search, but you must set up a user account if you want to save your search or receive notifications.Once you set up a user account, you can choose to receive an email or text message when the person's custody status changes or they are moved to a different location., Each state's corrections department has a website that will provide you with information about the department and its network of jails and prisons.The home page of state or county corrections departments typically include links to information about each jail or prison and their populations, as well as FAQs and information on searching for particular inmates.
 Most states have a searchable database listing all inmates currently housed in correction facilities.


Be sure to read the information included on the initial search page regarding the accuracy of the records in the database and how often they're updated. This is particularly important if you're looking at a city or county's website rather than a whole state.
Larger cities and counties may update the online database frequently, while more rural areas may only update every few days or once a week., You typically can search using the person's first and last name, or his or her inmate ID number.Keep in mind you must have the person's correct legal name as it appears on court records or government-issued identification.Some systems also allow you to limit your search by including optional information such as the inmate's birthdate, age, or race. Others allow you to search by other identification numbers such as the inmate's Social Security number., Depending on how extensively you've been able to narrow your search results, as well as the size of the department you're searching, you may have to review several records before you find the correct person.


Once you've found the correct person, the listing typically will provide you with additional information including the location where the inmate is housed and his or her inmate ID number. You may want to make note of that number so you can search more quickly if you need to find him or her again.

