 If you're going to attempt a ballroom dancing routine, your posture is of utmost importance. Before attempting any ballroom steps, work on developing proper posture.


Keep your chin parallel to the floor. Hold your head upright.Lift your chest in order to lengthen your spine.Stand on both feet. Keep your weight placed just slightly forward of your body's center., The rock step is a basic ballroom move. This can be fun to use if you're creating your own dance routine.


The rhythm used in the rock step is "one and two, three and four." You'll have to think of these words while dancing to keep your rhythm steady.Stand with your feet together. Lift one foot. Cross this foot behind the other foot. Place the foot roughly 12 inches behind the other foot, trying to form something of a 45 degree angle.
Transfer your weight to your back foot, standing on the ball of your foot. Count "one" as you do this. Immediately shift your weight back to your front foot, counting "and." Return your feet to the original position, counting "two."Three and four follow the exact same steps. You simply reverse which foot goes in front and which foot goes in back., The grapevine is a simple step for a fast-paced ballroom dance routine. One foot steps directly to the side. The other foot crosses that foot. You repeat this process continually, altering feet., A triple step is a basic ballroom dance move. You could use this in a ballroom routine or just a dance routine in general. It's a bit faster and less balanced than the rock step, so it may take some time to perfect.


Like the rock step, the triple step is counted "one and two, three and four." However, "one and" and "three and" are counted quicker than the other steps.Stand with your feet together and then lift and step forward with your right foot. Count "one" as you do this and then quickly shift your weight onto your left foot while counting "and." Shift back to the right foot, counting "two."Use the count of three to move your left foot forward. For the remainder of the steps, repeat the above motion but use your left foot to step forward instead.