 If, after interviewing a guidance counselor, you still want to become a guidance counselor, it is now time to address your schooling. Typically a school Guidance Counselor needs a master's degree in Education or closely related field.


To find a locale accredited counseling program visit the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs site, www.cacrep.or. Once you identify the master's degree program you would like to attend, figure out what pre-requisites you need to get in, and get them.
Depending on your current level of schooling, and the standing of your credits, you may need to go back and complete a bachelor's degree, or go back as a post-baccalaureate and take just the pre-requisites you need to enter your desired master's degree program.
 Most guidance counselors choose an undergraduate degree in psychology. Such a degree usually includes the prerequisites needed for a Master of Counseling, but it is always important to double check.


You may also decide to get an undergraduate degree in something else, but make sure you have the prerequisites you need for your desired master's degree program.
 Counselors must have a master's degree in Counseling. However the concentration, career counseling or school counseling, may differ depending on your chosen field, and what your school offers.
 After completing your formal education, many guidance counselors also need to complete a 600-hour internship in an elementary, middle, or high school to be competitive. Often, your master's degree school will provide you with the connections needed to obtain this experience. Other times you may need to be proactive.
 All US states require that school counselors obtain state certification. You can also choose to get nationally certified through NBCC or NBPTS. Contact your state education department to find out what credentials you need to work in your state. The American School Counselor Association (ASCA), http://www.schoolcounselor.org/, has information about each state's school counselor requirements.

