 You have to be sure that your ears don't get exposed to germs or dirt when cleaning.Carry a bottle of hand sanitizer around. If you won't be able to wash your hands, you can apply some hand sanitizer to sterilize your fingers before touching your piercing.;
, You can use isopropyl alcohol or a sea salt solution. Many piercing professionals will provide you with a saline and sea salt solution to use. If not you can mix 1/8th teaspoon of sea salt per 8 oz. of saline.
 Do this twice a day to keep the area around your piercing clean.


First, dip the cotton ball or swab in the cleaning solution or alcohol. Try pressing the cotton ball to the opening on top of the bottle, then quickly turning the bottle over to soak the cotton with alcohol.
Apply the swab around the piercing to keep the area free of germs.
Use a new swab to clean the back of the ear in the same manner.
Use a new cotton ball or swab to clean the other side of the ear. Always use a new cotton ball or swab for each part of your ear.
 Go a half turn in each direction. Gently grasp the post between your fingers and turn it clockwise, then counterclockwise. This will help to keep the skin from becoming attached to your piercing.
 Use a new cotton swab to apply ointment to the post of the earrings, then turn the earring again. Make a half turn in each direction two times. This will help the ointment to get inside the skin.
 You can clean them once or twice a day, but don't forget. Making it part of your morning and bedtime routine is a good way to make sure you get in the habit of cleaning your piercing every day. It just takes a few minutes and can save you from getting a painful infection.
 Removing them for too long may cause your piercings to close. After about six weeks you can take out your earrings. Don't leave them out too long because even if the piercings are healed, they can still close depending on how fast your body heals. Some ear piercings can take longer to heal. For example, a cartilage piercing takes 4 months instead of 2. Make sure to not take out your piercing too quickly.

