 Two of the three major credit reporting agencies, Equifax and Experian, both say that when you move, you need to notify your creditors, not the credit reporting agency. The agencies will get notice of any address change through the records of the individual creditors.It is important that you notify all your creditors and all companies you do business with. If you move, but neglect to notify creditors, then bills and notices may be delayed, and your payments may be late as a result.
If you want to be abundantly cautious and send a notice of address change to Equifax or Experian, you may do so, even though they do not require such a notice. You do not need to be concerned with any particular “proof” of the new address.;
, To change your address with TransUnion, the third major credit reporting agency, TransUnion asks that you notify them directly. You will need to send a written request to update your address, along with two forms of proof of the new address. The proof may be in the form of a photocopy of:Drivers license
State ID card
Bank or credit union statement
Cancelled check
Government-issued ID card
Signed letter from homeless shelter
Stamped post office box receipt
Utility bills (water, gas, electric, or telephone)

, If you are notifying TransUnion of your address change, or if you wish to send a notice to Equifax or Experian, send your letter, with any supporting documentation, to the appropriate address.


Your letter can be very simple. You may say something like, “I am writing to notify you that as of July 1, 2016, I have moved to a new address. The new address is _____. I am enclosing a copy of my new driver’s license and a utility bill that show this new address.”
Send correspondence for TransUnion to TransUnion, LLC, Consumer Disclosure Center, P.O. Box 1000, Chester, PA 19016.
Send correspondence for Equifax to Equifax Information Services, LLC, P.O. Box 740256, Atlanta, GA 30374.
Send correspondence for Experian to Experian, P.O. Box 2002, Allen, TX 75013.

