 It must have a handle as this will be used for the nose. Make sure it's clean! You don't want any old milk stench wafting around.





Cut it in half, keeping the handle in tact. That means you'll be cutting it in half the long way.
Cut out holes for the eyes and mouth, as big or as small as you'd like. Also cut holes near the ears to be used to attach the headband later on.
 You'll need enough strips (about 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide and 6 inches (15 cm) long) of newspaper and printer paper to cover at least three layers. Grab some flour and water and you're set.





You'll need two layers of newspaper and one of printer paper -- the printer paper is best for the top layer. The pieces don't have to be perfect, so just rip them yourself.
Whisk two cups (220 g) of flour and 1 cup (200 ml) of water in a bowl to make your paste. Add a bit more of either if it's too runny or too thick. Lay down newspapers now before the mess accumulates!

You can use white glue thinned out with water, if that's more accessible.
 One by one, grab a strip of newspaper, dip it in the mixture, shake off any excess, and lay it on your jug. Start horizontally for the first layer -- then switch to vertically for your second. Don't cover the holes!





Let the first layer dry completely before you start your second. Do this with each layer.
Once you're done with all your newspaper layers, start molding features (also with newspaper). You can make ears, cheekbones, eyebrows, mustaches -- anything you can imagine.
When you're done with the features, papier mâché the last layer (vertically) from your torn computer paper. The white paper gives you a blank canvas to start creating. Allow it to completely dry before you go any further.
 This is the fun part! The sky is the limit here. Use whatever you have in the craft closet or the kitchen to complete your mask's look.





Use ribbon, feathers, faux hair, pipe cleaners, or even macaroni if it floats your boat. Let it dry and then your children can go off and start their adventure.
Attach a ribbon, string or rubber band through the holes near the ears to create a headband, if the mask is to be worn.

