 The Ice Challenge is basically a fun dare where you throw about three buckets of water over yourself and nominate someone after you're soaking wet and partially have contracted traces of hypothermia. Many people have done the ice challenge and then donated money to a charity which is a great thing to do - and look on the bright side, you'll feel great donating and might get a free hot chocolate in the process!;
, For the 'Ice Challenge', you basically need three things. Number One, two or three buckets, maybe four if you want to set a challenge, to fill with either freezing cold water or just cold water filled with ice! Number Two, a camera, if you want to film the act and upload it to the internet, make sure it meets the terms of use and is appropriate (leave those clothes on people!). Number Three, a person, preferably not a stranger you randomly meet on the side of your street, to film and perhaps another person to dunk the buckets on you if you don't have the courage to do it yourself!

, Yes, you will get wet and cold during this. It might help to keep a certain goal in mind as well as reminding yourself while you're doing this you're donating money to a good cause and one of your best mates have to do it after you (that is, if you nominate them)


Just remember not to get too stupid. You don't want to be the one carried to hospital after inhaling too much water or having a very bad case of a cold and saying to the nurse as you're rushed into A&E, "I did the Ice Challenge and my mate threw seventy buckets of freezing cold water onto me!"

On the other hand, make sure you remember to nominate your special someone after you get dunked, as if you film only the dunking that will be the end of it and you won't be able to watch your friends give it a go!But also remember to not use peer pressure against them, they might be as keen as you were!



, The 'Ice Challenge' is all about having fun, so don't despair if you only get seven likes and a friend request from a stranger from taking the challenge. If you can't think of anyone to nominate, try a celebrity, sure there's no chance they'll watch the video but many celebs have given it a go. Sit back, and watch the people that have already taken the challenge!

