 Moisturizing can help keep small pores from clogging. Since they produce less oil than large pores, they’re more likely to lead to dry, flaky skin. Apply a facial moisturizer that’s designated for dry or normal skin once a day after cleansing to keep your small pores hydrated.Apply the moisturizer immediately after washing your face (within 3-5 minutes) for the best results. This will help lock in your skin’s existing moisture.
 Besides washing your face, you can help minimize the dead, dry skin that comes with small pores by using a mild, non-abrasive exfoliator once or twice a week. This gentle exfoliation will improve the tone and texture of the skin on your face.People with small pores will generally have drier skin, which means that you should not need to use a facial scrub with a chemical exfoliator like salicyclic acid.
Instead, look for a creamy, non-abrasive exfoliator designated for dry skin. Use one with hydrating oils or honey to keep your small pores moisturized while washing away dead skin cells.
 If your skin is dry, giving it a weekly steam bath can help stimulate the oil glands in your small pores and soften the skin on your face. It will also enhance your skin’s receptivity to moisturizers.The easiest way to steam your skin is to boil water and pour it into a wide pot or dish. Let it cool for two minutes and then place your face about 10-12 inches above the water with a towel draped over your head and the edges of the dish to create a makeshift tent for the steam.Relax and remain in this position for five minutes. Then, rinse your face with cool water and gently pat it dry with a clean towel.
 If you are having problems with oily skin, it most likely comes from large pores, not small ones. However, many people have different sizes of pores and levels of oil across their faces, which should be taken into consideration when treating or cleaning your skin. Protect your small pores from drying out while treating problem patches by spot treating only those areas that areas that are oily.The “T-zone” that covers the forehead, nose, and chin is frequently the most oily area on a person’s face. Use salicyclic acid or a clay mask once or twice a week to treat only that area. Doing so will help control blemishes on your oily skin without irritating the rest of your face.