 The first step to acting rebelliously is to act differently than you normally act. You can do this at home and at school. One trait common among “rebellious teens” is apathy, but this isn’t a true form of real rebellion.Act with a passion to show that you want to see a change.


For example: someone pushes you in the hallway. Instead of shrugging the event off, say something. You could say, “Carl, watch where you’re going.”
Be mindful of your safety and don’t confront the wrong person.
 Break the rules that you find to be unjust or wrong. Consider the outcomes of breaking the rules and think if it’s worth it. Consider something like organizing a peaceful protest against your governor, or refusing to follow discriminatory dress codes in school.


If you are pressured into something serious like stealing school property, don’t risk jail time.
Breaking the rules can be a good thing for you, but you should attempt to keep up communications with your parents.
 In today’s society, many people are afraid to speak what they are feeling. If you have something to say in class, say it. Voicing an opinion is a classic trait of the rebellious intellectual, who tells the story how it is instead of candy coating it. Avoid being the “rebel without a cause,” and speak up when you see something wrong.


Be vocal against inequality or cliques in your school. Speak up for the victims of bullies and advocate for nutritious food for your school’s cafeteria.
Another way to voice your opinions is by joining a group like Amnesty International or your school’s LGBTQ group.
Avoid offending anyone while speaking your opinions.
 There are several trends that are considered rebellious like the goth look or punk rock clothes. A classic wardrobe choice for artists and intellectuals is wearing all black. You don’t have to dress a particular way to express your feelings, but it might help.


Instead of getting too concerned about what to wear, focus on the issues you want to rebel against.
The classic image of a rebellious youth is tight jeans, punk/metal band t-shirt, and a funky haircut. Just because you wear this style doesn’t make you a rebel. This wardrobe has become mainstream, but that doesn’t mean you can benefit from that style.Form your style and dress choices to fit your personality.
 One way to give yourself a new look is by styling your hair yourself. It probably won’t look too good, but that’s the whole point. Try dying your hair a funky color. You can get wash-off, non-permanent dye, in an epic range of colors!


Before you think of yourself as being original, most of the “classic” rebel looks have been done before. If you want to look unique, try giving yourself a monk haircut.

