 Remember that “deck” and “board” can be interchangeable when talking about the literal board in your longboard. However, realize that there are other parts to consider when you’re talking about boards as a whole, rather than a single part. These include:Trucks, which are the T-shaped objects mounted to the bottom of your deck.
Wheels, which are attached to the axels of each truck

, Once you’ve picked out a deck, pick out a pair of appropriately sized trucks to mount to the bottom. Hold the truck upside down so it resembles a T. You want to know two measurements, which are usually expressed in millimeters: the axel’s width (the total distance from one end of your T’s cross-piece to the other, including where the wheels will be) and the hanger’s width (the axel's total distance minus where the wheels will be). Match the following truck sizes to the corresponding deck widths:130 mm hanger / 195 mm axel for decks between seven to eight inches (18 to 20 cm) wide.
150 mm hanger / 220 mm axel for decks between 7.5 and 8.5 inches (19 and 22 cm) wide.
180 mm hanger / 250 mm axel for decks measuring 8.5 to 10 inches (22 to 25 cm) wide.
185 hanger / 265 mm axel for all decks ten inches (25 cm) and wider.
 As with the trucks, base your decision on your deck’s dimensions. Only now, instead of the width, go by its length. Exact length will vary by board, but generally speaking, the shorter your board is, the smaller your wheels should be. As a guideline, consider:60 to 65 mm wheels appropriate for decks roughly 34 inches (0.86 m) in length
65 to 75 mm wheels suitable for decks measuring about 42 inches (1.06 m) long.
75 to 100 mm wheels ideal for decks that are 50 inches (1.27 m) long.
 Select from one of either two wheel shapes: square lip and round lip. Opt for square lip if all you’ll be doing is cruising. Otherwise, go with the round lip.Square lips have more grip on the ground, which makes them more ideal for simple cruising, especially if you’re a beginner.
Round lips are better for more advanced styles because they respond faster when making tight turns or similar maneuvers.
 Look for a rating expressed by a number followed by the letter “A,” like “70A.” This indicates the wheel’s durometer, or the wheels' hardness. Expect softer wheels to absorb more shock and provide more grip, and harder wheels to give you more speed. Depending on your interests, go with:A durometer around 78A for simple cruising and downhill longboarding.
An 86A durometer or thereabouts for freestyling and freeriding.

