 Do things that make you feel good and relaxed. Focus on activities that soothe you and put your mind at ease. The most important love you'll ever have is the love of self. Be kind to yourself in mind, body, and spirit. Consider these ways to unwind and let go:Get a massage
Go to a day spa
Take a hot bath or shower
Do meditation or breathing exercises

Listen to music while having a drink of your choice. Hot chocolate. Tea. Wine. Beer. Whatever makes you feel good.
Read a book or some magazines
Watch some movies or TV shows that you love. Consider avoiding the sappy stuff that puts you in a bad mood about Valentine's Day.;
, Do activities that make you happy. You may have certain hobbies you enjoy, or have thought about starting a new creative hobby. Instead of feeling bad, remind yourself of what you can do. Get your creative juices flowing in these ways:


Draw or paint. Find things that help you heal from feeling bad or lonesome.
Build something. If you're a handy person, get to work on some project that makes you feel good and productive.Write. Write in a journal. Write poetry. Write short stories. Write anything that makes you feel like you're getting through this day and finding this time rewarding.
Do those things that you always enjoy doing. Valentine's Day should be about what you love to do.
 Instead of sitting on the couch, get moving and get active. You may feel less depressed if you get your body moving in a healthy way. Take a little time for yourself to feel better. Exercise and drink plenty of water.Go for walk.
Find a relaxing park to enjoy the outdoors.
Go to the gym.
Take a fitness class.
 While indulging in chocolate is part of the Valentine's Day tradition, think about using this day as an opportunity to be creative with cooking. You don't necessarily need to go out to a restaurant for a nice meal. Consider using this day as a way to be crafty with your culinary skills at home.


Bake cookies, pastries, and sweets that aren't your usual to-go desserts.
Focus less on high fat foods and find dishes that are fresh, healthy, and inventive.
Think red with your meals. Red bell peppers. Cherries. Strawberries. Tomatoes. Red onions. Red wine.Making a delicious meal with a little effort may feel even more rewarding.

