 Herbal teas contain many antioxidant and anti-inflammatory compounds that can help promote relaxation, calm indigestion and gastric reflux, and reduce congestion associated with fever. Some teas can take up to 2–3 hours to take effect. Herbal teas that help reduce symptoms accompanied by fever are:


Chamomile tea can help reduce symptoms of insomnia, anxiety, inflammation, heartburn, chest colds, and sore throat.To make chamomile tea, steep 2-3 grams of dried chamomile flower in 1 cup of warm water for 5 minutes, then strain and drink. Ask your doctor before giving chamomile tea to a child.
Peppermint tea can help reduce congestion associated with a cold or flu and have a cooling effect on the body due to its active ingredient menthol.To make chamomile tea, steep ¼ teaspoon of peppermint leaves in 1 cup of warm water for 3–5 minutes, then strain and drink without any sweetener. This can be taken 1–2 times per day for reducing symptoms of a mild fever. Peppermint may cause nausea when taken during a moderate to severe fever (103-105ºF), and should not be given to children or infants.
 When a fever is accompanied by severe diarrhea or indigestion, it is a good idea to reduce it with the help of rice water.You can prepare rice water by boiling 2 ½ tablespoons of rice in 1 liter of water for half an hour. Then strain and drinking the liquid.


You can give rice water to children over 2 years of age who have a fever as well.
 If you like spicy meals, add a ½ chopped cayenne pepper or 1-2 teaspoons of cayenne pepper powder, especially to a soup broth. Cayenne peppers contain capsaicin, which has antiviral, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties to promote healingIt will also stimulate sweating to keep your body cool.


People who are allergic to latex, bananas, kiwi, chestnuts, and avocado may also have an allergy to cayenne.
People with gastric reflux or low blood sugar (or people taking blood-thinning medications) should not take capsaicin.
Children who are ill often prefer and tolerate bland foods better, so skip this step for children and infants.
 Ginger can help reduce symptoms of anxiety, nausea, vomiting, high blood pressure, and digestive problems that can accompany a fever, making the condition more manageable.Ginger extract is also available in dietary capsules or as oil at most nutrition food stores. Ginger can be a strong herb; therefore, the recommended daily intake is 4 grams, including dietary sources. Some precautions to remember are:


Pregnant women should not take more than 1 gram of ginger per day.
Ginger should not be given to infants or children under 2 years. Ask your doctor to help you find the right dose for your child.
Do not take ginger if you have a bleeding disorder or if you are taking blood-thinning medications, including aspirin.
 Lemon balm contains antiviral, anti-inflammatory substances called tannins.Lemon balm can help reduce insomnia and anxiety, and it can promote digestion to help ease the fever.It is available as a dietary supplement, topical cream, tincture, and herbal tea at most nutrition and herbal medicine stores.


The recommended dose for dietary supplements containing lemon balm extract is 300-500 mg, up to three times daily.
To make lemon balm tea, steep ¼ teaspoon of dried lemon balm in 1 cup of water for 3-5 minutes. Strain and drink immediately without adding any sweetener.
 Studies show that lemongrass has many antiviral, antibacterial, and anti-inflammatory properties that may help reduce fever.Lemongrass oil is used in aromatherapy to help reduce congestion caused by a cold or flu and to fight off infection.


Make sure to dilute the oil by adding 5 drops of essential oil to 15 ml of carrier oil, then gently massage onto your forehead or the back of your neck for 3-5 minutes. Wipe the oil off using a moist, warm towel.
Children or infants should not use lemongrass oil.

