 Some fabrics, such as silk and chiffon, will not hold up well to harsh scrubbing and hot temperatures. Instead, cover the stain with baby powder, cornstarch, or talcum powder. Leave the garment in a dry, warm place for a few hours (overnight if necessary), then brush the powder away. Keep repeating this step until the powder no longer clumps up and the stain is gone., As their name suggests, dry-clean-only fabrics should not get wet. This means that you cannot use things like dish soap and water to remove the stain. Instead, sprinkle some baby powder, cornstarch, or talcum powder over the stain. Let it sit for a few moments, then brush it off. This may be enough to get the stain out. If the stain is still there, take the garment to the dry cleaner., Sprinkle some cornstarch over the stain and let it sit for 30 to 60 minutes. Pour some dish soap over the cornstarch and rub it in. Do not rinse the dish soap or cornstarch off. Instead, toss the garment into the washing machine, and was as usual according to the tag.You can also try using cornmeal or cornstarch on its own, without the dish soap. The powder will help absorb the oil., Simply cover the stain with some hair spray. Wash and dry the garment according to the care instructions on the tag. Hairspray contains alcohol, which will help loosen and dissolve the oil.
 Soak the stain with some hydrogen peroxide, then sprinkle a thick layer baking soda over it. Cover the baking soda with some dish soap, and sprinkle on a light layer of more baking soda. Scrub the entire area with a toothbrush, then let it sit for 30 to 60 minutes. Do not rinse the treatment out. Instead, wash the garment as you normally would in the washing machine. Be sure to follow the instructions on the tag.Hydrogen peroxide should not stain dark fabrics, but it may. If you are worried about this, it might be a good idea to test it out on an inconspicuous area, such as a hem or cuff.
 Then, squirt some aloe vera, dish soap, or shampoo onto the stain. Use an old toothbrush or a manicure brush to rub the stain into the fabric. Let the stain sit for a few minutes.Don't rinse the aloe vera, dish soap, or shampoo off. Instead, toss the garment into the washer, and wash according to the instructions on the tag., Start by blotting up the excess oil, then cover the stain with the stain remover. Wait 30 minutes, then wash the garment according to the tag.







