 A chart is an easy way for both you and your child to track progress. Place the chart in an area where the child will see it often, such as the refrigerator or in the child's room. Every time your child succeeds, draw or stick a star onto the chart next to his name. Mark milestones on the chart, where the child gets a special reward for reaching that point.;
, This may be more appropriate for a child 12 years old or older, who may be able to focus on longer-term behavioral goals. For example, the child can mark the calendar with an "X" every day he completes homework without being told to do so. Give the child the reward after a complete week has been marked, or based on the number of "X"s before a certain deadline.


If you want to reward chores, mark them on the calendar with a check box next to them.
 Use a timer or a clock to time your child in completing a task such as picking up toys or completing chores. This can help with children who keep putting off tasks. The child only earns the reward if he or she completes the task before the deadline.
 Decide on the specific behaviors you want to change or encourage in your child. These can be negative habits you want to discourage, such as lying or leaving toys on the floor, or positive habits you'd like to encourage, such as following a bedtime routine. Consider starting with just one or two behaviors, while your child is getting used to the system.
 Choose rewards based on the child's age and what the child wants. Here are a few ideas:


A child under the age of six may respond to a reward of stars placed on a chart next to his name.
For small chores, offer candy, or a short TV or computer session.
For big achievements or prolonged good behavior, offer to buy a toy or go on a day trip.
Some children respond best to privileges, such as getting to stay up late or go to a sleepover.
 Let the kids give feedback on what chores they'd like to do and what rewards they'd like to earn. Make it clear that the final call is up to you, but listen to what they have to say. They'll do more work if they're excited about the rewards.


If the kids can't agree on a fair way to split the chores, roll dice to divide the chores. Change it every month so no one gets stuck too long with bad luck.
 Older children may appreciate having more choice. Let them earn tokens, and make several prizes available that the child can get by trading in tokens.


You can use Monopoly money as tokens.
 Explain the correct behavior (what to do and what not to do) so that your child understands what you want. Be very clear about how the child earns rewards, and explain that there won't be any rewards if the behavior doesn't happen.


Make it clear when the child will receive the reward. Does the child get a treat as soon as the chore is done, or as a dessert after dinner that night?

, For a behavior reward system to work, you must be consistent. Issue the reward every time your child earns it. Do this right away or make it very clear when the reward will happen. Similarly, do not give your child the reward if he has not earned it. If you aren't consistent, the child may lose trust in the system and refuse to cooperate.


If you want to give your child an extra treat for a different reason, choose a reward he can't get with this system.
 Kids work better with routines and predictable systems. Keep the chart or calendar in a visible location, and remind the kids of the tasks at the same time every day. If you establish a consistent routine, you will give your child a goal to work toward.
 The reward system is supposed to motivate the child to change her behavior on her own. Unless something absolutely must get done, don't force your child to complete the task. Remind her of the task and the reward as many times as you think appropriate, but then let her make the decision on her own.


If she doesn't change her behavior at all, you may need to try different rewards or a different system.
 Make sure you give plenty of praise when your child earns a reward. Start by thanking or praising the child, then give the reward. This helps reinforce the intrinsic value of the good behavior, instead of making it only about personal benefit.
 The "punishment" in the rewards system is not getting a reward. Leave more severe punishments for extra-bad behavior, not failing to get a star on the reward chart. If the child forms negative associations with the reward system, he may stop cooperating.
 If your child asks for a toy but hasn't earned it, remind her that she didn't earn a reward.


If your child tries to get a promise out of you ("If I do this will you get me that?"), just remind her how the system works. Say "Do you think you can earn a reward this week? You tell me." A direct promise can undermine the reward system and make it about trying to manipulate you directly.
 Competition can be a fun motivator, but it can also lead to jealousy or fighting. Start with little surprises, like "first person in the car gets the front seat on the next trip." If your kids are mature enough to handle it, you can consider a bonus reward that you give to the best-behaved kid each week.


It might not be fair to have children of different ages compete.
 If the child has mastered a behavior, consider gradually reducing its rewards and adding new behaviors to encourage. If the child is excited about the system, add harder tasks with better rewards.


Remember to stay as consistent as possible. Your child may rebel against the system if he suddenly can't get the usual reward.

