 You can fry, bake, or microwave these corn tortilla chips. If you plan on frying or baking the chips, though, you should preheat the cooking elements before preparing the chips.


If frying your chips, pour 1/4 inch (1.25 cm) of cooking oil into a dry skillet with a heavy bottom and deep sides. Heat the oil on medium high until it reaches a temperature of 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius). Do not allow the oil to begin smoking, however.
If baking the chips, preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).
 Corn tortilla chips made from tortilla shells are easier to fry if they are completely dry. If you plan on baking or microwaving the chips, though, you do not need to worry about drying the tortillas out first.


Open the package of tortillas and spread them out in a single layer on a clean kitchen counter. Let them dry for several hours to overnight.
Alternatively, dry them in the microwave. Lay the tortillas out in a single layer on a paper towel and microwave for 20 to 60 seconds. They should only be dry when finished, not crisp.
 Use a pizza cutter or sharp kitchen knife to cut each tortilla into six equal wedges. Cut the tortilla in half, then divide each half into three even pieces, working out from the center point.


These wedges should be fairly triangular in shape.
You can experiment with other shapes and sizes, as well, including strips or smaller wedges. Keep in mind that the sizes of your chips should be fairly equal to ensure an even cook time for each batch.
 As stated previously, these chips can be fried, baked, or microwaved.


To fry the chips, place a handful of your wedges into the hot oil, keeping them to a single layer. Fry for 2 minutes or until the chips deepen in color and become hard. Remove the chips with a slotted spoon or tongs and line them up on a plate covered with layers of clean paper towel.

Keep an eye on the temperature of the oil as you fry your chips. When you add your chips to the oil, the temperature will drop. When you remove the chips, the temperature will rise. Adjust the temperature controls of your oven accordingly to maintain an even temperature of 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).


To bake the chips, spread the wedges out onto a baking sheet lined with aluminum foil or parchment paper. Keep them in a single layer. Bake for 6 minutes, then turn them over using tongs and bake for another 6 to 9 minutes. The chips are done once they become firm and start to deepen in color.
To microwave the chips, line the microwave with paper towels and spread the chips out over the paper towels in a single layer. Microwave for 30 seconds to 2 minutes, or until the chips look crispy but not burnt.
 Sprinkle the chips with salt, to taste, as soon as they finish cooking. Let them cool to room temperature and enjoy.

