 Do not select a server with a whole group of Level 12 players when you are only a Level 2. Unless you are amazing at sword fighting and can win against almost anyone, even five players, all with more than +120 health than you, going against too high a level will spell your doom. Anyway, scroll down, look through the servers and make sure to steer clear of any really overpowered players you recognize.;
, When you have chosen the server with the easiest players possible, start introducing yourself to everyone - especially to the higher levels (if there are any). The higher levels will target the lower levels. There is a better chance they won't come after you if you introduce yourselves to them. Of course, this is a strange, almost dumb skill to use when playing Ozzypig's Hunger Games, but politeness works, so try it.
 Your team members should be around the same level as you are - well, it doesn't really matter, but it is likely they will accept the request if you have the same skills as they do. Most importantly, your enemies should never be from the higher levels, because they are more powerful than you are (although, your perspective might change, depending on how you play the game). Instead, find the lower levels to target. In the Games, you will know who to flee from and who to fight.
 When the Games begin, position yourself so that you are facing the Cornucopia, and go to the very edge of your plate. Look for any items that may come in good use later. Also, make sure to look to your left and right, to scan the tributes. If all is hopeless and you know you won't be able to get anything good from the Cornucopia, target the cave.
 Get weapons and collect as many food supplies as you can; you don't want any other tribute stealing them before you do. Flee from the tributes you know you cannot beat and stand your ground when encountering a tribute whose skills are not as great as yours.
 If you have no weapons at all versus someone with a trident or you are dying from reduced health versus someone with full health, don't run away. It will make you seem like a fool. You will die anyway. It's mostly about reputation on Roblox. Talk to them, be generous, and allow them to win, unless you can find a way to win yourself.


You can also die from wolf mutts, health, shrink map, etc., but this is not talking about disasters.
 It is like they are using you as a life source. If you and your team are the last ones in the Games, either finish it off with a fight or let the other win.

