 You will need a pair of goggles that sits tight on the face, not letting any air in. You will also need a large pair of rubber gloves that go down at least 3 inches from the wrist. Also wear a fabric face mask so that you don’t breathe in the vapors given off by the refrigerant. This is for your own safety, so that you do not get refrigerant in your eyes or on your skin. This is a dangerous chemical that could cause physical harm. , This allows air to move freely and carry vapors from the refrigerant outside. If you don't open them, the fumes can build up, and make it very dangerous to breathe the air. As the airflow is moving, you should place your kids and pets in a safe room with the door closed. This will prevent them from breathing in fumes.


Make sure to turn your air conditioning or heating unit off so that the fresh air doesn’t pull the vapors in.
 Refrigerant sprays can be found in multiple brands at more hardware stores. When you purchase a can, you will want to shake it before using, just like any other spray can. Then you want to hold it about 1 foot away from the epoxy you want to spray. Make sure you are holding the can upright, otherwise the liquid will leak out., The spray will quickly drop the temperature of anything it touches. The epoxy will freeze and turn brittle. Do NOT put your hands near the area you are spraying. Make sure that your gloves and goggles are secure before you begin spraying. If you have children or pets, do not let them near the area., Use a plastic putty knife or hit the epoxy with a rubber mallet or hammer. The epoxy should be cold enough that it turns to crystals and breaks off easily. You will then want to sweep the crystals up into a dustpan, and immediately dump them into the trashcan. You can use a vacuum cleaner to make sure that you get rid of all of the remaining microscopic crystals.Be careful not to damage your surface by putting too much pressure on the epoxy. If it doesn't break apart easily, try adding more spray cooler to chill the resin even more.

