 It might help to look at photographs from time to time to get inspiration; even talking to other photographers on Internet forums can be helpful from time to time if you need help on specific points (but be warned; those talking about taking photographs are, by definition, not the ones who are out there doing it, and any artistic advice should be taken with a grain of salt the size of a continent). But, turning your computer off as soon as you can is the most important step on the way to getting out there. If it means you don't read the rest of this, then so be it.;
, Your camera doesn't matter. Avoid the tendency to think "I just need a digital SLR" or "just one more lens and then I'll be ready to get out and take pictures". Nearly every camera and every lens ever made (or even a modern camera phone) is capable of taking good photographs in the right conditions. Learn your camera's limitations and adjust your photography to suit.
 Find a theme you're comfortable with. Any theme will do, for example, architecture - sky scrapers; animals - ducks; every day life - people on the street. However, don't restrict yourself to any theme; take as many photographs as your memory card or your film stocks will permit. Often, you may find that the photos you set out to take are poor, but that you inadvertently took great photographs of something else in the process. This is fine. If you can't think of a theme, then that's okay as well.
 If you're using a small point-and-shoot camera, then you're all set; stick it in your pocket and go. If you're using SLR gear, then it's very easy to carry far too much with you. Think about it: do you really need a huge selection of lenses, or can you get away with taking a single, versatile zoom? If you're not doing low-light, HDR, or panorama photography, do you really need a tripod? And your flash? The more you have to pack, the less incentive you will have to do so. And the more you carry around, the more incentive you will have to jump in the car and go home earlier. Be brutal about it; if you find yourself taking nothing but your camera and a single lens, you've probably done a good job.
 Nothing will make you want to come home quicker than being either too cold, or weighed down by the coats and sweater you had to take off when it got too hot. Check the weather forecast. And always take a spare pair of socks; sore feet from damp (or even sweaty) socks are a horrible disincentive to walking anywhere.
 Take food which is lightweight, has lots of energy, and doesn't take much (if any) time to prepare. Easy, potentially unhealthy food like chocolate and energy bars are a good bet. This is, again, in order to avoid any disincentives to preparing it (which would stop you getting out at all) and carrying it around.
 Some emphasis should go on "as you can"; the insistence that you spend more time than you actually have is as good an excuse as any not to get out there. On the other hand, think about setting some time away from less important things, like television. If after that you can still only spare half an hour to take photographs, then so be it; this is precisely half an hour better than nothing, after all. If you find yourself with many hours free, then spend all of them.
 Better yet, if you're not planning on going anywhere particularly isolated, don't take it with you at all. If you're using your camera phone to take photographs, then find some way of silencing it.
 Grab your bag and get out there and take some pictures.

