 If you’re surveying an individual who you suspect is this type of politician, the best way to confirm is to find out what they do for a living. If they hold an elected public office, then by definition they're a politician, regardless of the type of role (some municipalities hold elections for City Clerk), and whether or not they exhibit all the other politician-esque traits that we’ll discuss later.


If you’re not able to determine the individual’s career, there’s not much else you can do to spot whether he/she is a politician, as it’s illegal to stalk an individual to find out where they work or what they do for a living.;
, There are a few additional clues that indicate an individual is an elected politician, but they are purely inductive, meaning that these clues often align with politicians but they’re not guarantees that the individual is a politician.
 Most elected politicians are nice-looking, well-dressed and well-groomed — as public image is important to them, and it’s also important (at least subconsciously if not overtly) to the electorate who evaluated this individual as a candidate and decided they were worthy of the votes that earned them the elected role. Conversely, an individual who is slovenly, poorly-dressed and/or missing their front teeth, is not likely to gain the confidence of enough voters to win an election and end up in office.
 Most elected politicians are well-spoken, which means they’re articulate and knowledgeable when it comes to political, social and economic issues. To get elected, they would have had to express their positions succinctly and convincingly, in order to garner the majority vote. If you’re interrogating — er, chatting with your suspected politician and they have difficulty expressing their sentiments, they’re most assuredly not an elected politician.
 Lastly, most elected politicians are sociable, charismatic and comfortable in their own skin. They’re well-connected, high-energy and highly verbal. They like speaking to groups, being on television and radio, and being in the public eye (except of course when accused of wrongdoing). If more than a couple of these traits are missing from the person you’re evaluating, they’re likely not an elected politician.

