 The dorm can be great for making friends and socializing, but there is a real lack of privacy. Sharing small living quarters with a roommate can cause stress. If you're someone who values your alone time, an apartment may be a better option. You may be able to get your own room at an apartment, or at least get more living space.If you have a mental health issue like social anxiety disorder, living in a dorm can be particularly stressful. It may be best to seek out a quiet apartment.
You can also look into a single room in a dorm. While these may be more expensive, it's a good in-between. You are able to get the social experience of living in the dorm while still having your own space.
 If you value personal freedom, an apartment may be better for you. There's a lot more freedom in apartment life.As there are less rooms and people, noise may not carry as easily in an apartment. You will be able to play music and video games, and watch television, without as much fear of disturbing someone. But be careful with even off campus apartments, especially with apartments with young child and/or elderly. Many apartments have "quiet hours" to let the residents sleep and there are children/elderly that like to go to bed early, take naps, or simply have peace and quiet.
Dorms often have strict rules. You may, for example, have to sign in overnight visitors You may also have to sign in when coming back to the dorm late. In an apartment, you will not have these restrictions.
 A resident adviser, called resident mentor at some schools, provides support and guidance to students. If you're struggling with something personal or academic, you can always ask your resident mentor for help.If you're prone to stress, you may have a greater need for a resident mentor. You may feel better living somewhere where you have someone to rely on for support.
However, not everyone feels they need a resident mentor. If you prefer managing stress on your own, or seeking support from friends or family members, a resident mentor may not be necessary.
Most dorms do not allow pets but many apartments do allow having pets. If you miss having your pet while in college, you can consider living off campus. Having a pet will be especially helpful if you are living alone off campus when there are not as many peers.

