 Previewing a text increases the chances that you will comprehend what you read, and it is really easy to do. Simply flip through the pages and look at the chapter title and subheadings. When you are finished, you will have a good sense of the main ideas that the chapter will cover.If the chapter includes an author summary, then you can read the summary as well.
You should also look at any charts, graphs, or other images as you survey the text.;
, Generating some questions to help guide your reading will help you to stay focused and it can also increase your comprehension of the text. Consider the topics you encountered in your survey of the text and use these to help you generate some questions about the reading.You can use who, what, when, where, and why to help you generate questions about the subheadings you encountered in your preview. For example, you could take the title of a subheading called “Reading Comprehension Strategies” and turn it into a question called “What are some effective reading comprehension strategies?”
Some instructors include reading questions for you to answer as you read. If you have been provided with a list of reading questions, then use these to help you stay focused as you read.
 Next, you will need to read the text and use your questions to help you stay focused. If you use your questions, highlight important information as you go, and take notes on what you have read, then you should only need to read the text once.Make sure that you read at your own pace and stop to take notes as needed.
 It is important to stop after you finish a section and put what you just read into your own words. If you cannot do this after you have read a section, then you should reread that section again.Try to explain the material to a friend or write a brief summary of the material. Remember to explain it in your own words. Don’t simply repeat the wording you encountered.
 To keep the concepts that you have read about fresh in your mind, you will need to review it now and then. You do not need to reread the whole text, but you do need to go over what you underlined and review any notes that you took as well.Try to review what you read about once or twice per week leading up to an exam. This will help to ensure that you retain the information and that you will not need to reread the whole text before an exam.

