 Outdoor flowers and plants often wilt due to a lack of moisture and a lack of water. This is especially common if it has been hot and dry outside, as the plant may need to use more water in its soil to stay hydrated. Check if the top soil is dry by sticking your forefinger into the soil so it is a few inches into the soil. If the soil is dry to the touch, the plant likely needs a good watering.Water the plants in the early morning as this will help them conserve water for the rest of the day. If the flowers are planted in a flower bed, make sure you put mulch around the flowers as this can help to reduce soil evaporation.Be generous with the water, as it can be difficult to overwater potted plants, particularly if the pot has good drain holes at the bottom. You should check the potted plants daily in the morning to ensure the top soil is not too dry and water the flowers again if the soil is still dry.
If the soil appears to have moved away from the sides of the pot and is very dry, you may need to poke small holes into the soil with a pen to ensure the water reaches the plant's roots. If you do not do this, the water could simply flood the sides of the pot and not reach the roots at all., Deadheads are flower heads that have died or shrivelled up on the stem. You should trim off deadheads with gardening shears to signal to the plant that it is time to release fresh buds. Cut just below the deadheads but avoid trimming off too much of the stem on the plant.You should also remove any brown leaves and brown petals to give your flowers a chance to refresh itself.
 You can buy a potting soil mix that contains slow-release fertilizer or you can add slow-release fertilizer to the soil after the flowers have already been potted. Slow-release fertilizer can help the flowers stay healthy, but you may also need to fertilize the plant weekly to keep it looking perky.Use water-soluble fertilizer that has a formula of 15-30-15 or 20-10-20. Another option is to alternate with a "bloom booster" formula that is high in phosphorus (10-52-10). This will help to stimulate the growth of new flowers.
 If the flowers are really wilting and looking sad, you may want to consider replanting the flowers in a new pot. Use potting soil that contains slow-release fertilizer in your new pot and take the time to water and fertilize the flowers in their new pot. This could give your potted flowers the extra boost they need to stay healthy and vibrant.Make sure the pot has good drainage holes so the water can be soaked up by the soil when you water the flowers.

