 Remember this photo will be seen by many people in and outside of your LinkedIn network. You want to keep your brand consistent and professional.


Viewing someone’s photo is the first step people take before reading through someone’s profile and initiating or accepting a request to connect.
If you follow the guidelines described above, you will be able to choose a LinkedIn profile picture that is professional and represents you and your personal brand.;
, Going to a photographer who does professional headshots will guarantee your profile picture to be the most professional.


It may be beneficial for you to research your local photo studios because they may offer a professional headshot package. There may even be coupons and other deals.
 If you are unable to use a photographer for a professional headshot, you can do it yourself or choose a picture you may already have.


If you decide to take the picture at home, ask someone else to take the picture for you — no selfies! Even if the other person is not a photographer, it is best to have someone else take your picture to easily ensure better angles, lighting and distance.
To keep your picture professional, follow the advice given in the steps below.
 Choose an outfit that you would wear to the office or to an interview. This will help any potential employers that are viewing your profile to easily envision you in an office setting.A nice dress shirt with or without a jacket with limited accessories is fine.
Choose a solid dark color shirt and/or suit. This will avoid you from looking washed out and will make your photo look sharp.
See How to Dress Professionally for more information.
 A solid background will keep focus on you!

, Smiling as naturally as possible helps with your approachability. No cheesy or awkward smiles if you can help it! To learn how to smile more naturally, see this article.
 While animated avatars can be slightly funny and cute, it does not show your actual face and may be a turnoff to some potential connections. They may wonder if you have something to hide. People want to see the real you before connecting., Profile pictures are very small. Using a full body prevents others from seeing your face clearly and can look awkward.
 When you use busy backgrounds you take the focus away from you. Keeping it simple and professional cannot be stressed enough.
 Your LinkedIn profile is about you. Therefore, the picture should just be you, so there is no confusion as to who you are. Also, this is a professional site where you can make connections with those you do not personally know. Do you want pictures of your family shown to these people?

, This means someone else’s neck, arm, ear, etc. These are distractions. Again, the picture should contain you and only you in that small window. , Dramatic, funny or anything that can be viewed as unprofessional is not the place on LinkedIn. This includes “duck faces”, “selfies”, pictures with alcohol or cigarettes and use of hand gestures of any kind. Save these for other social media sites.
 It's not a good idea to be wearing casual clothes in your LInkedIn profile picture — you should always be dressed in a professional manner.


Tank tops, sleeveless shirts, no shirts and/or lots of cleavage must not be viewed in your profile picture.
Also try to avoid wearing excessive jewelry. When it comes to jewelry keep it simple! Do not use accessories that will be distracting in the picture.
 A personal brand is how you represent yourself across all mediums. It should be consistent, professional and leave a good impression on those who don’t know you.


A perfect LinkedIn profile picture will portray you as a strong and professional individual, encourage someone to read through your profile and entice the reader to make a connection.
 Putting a face to a name and accomplishments makes it easier to form connections with people you do not know. People are more inclined to request or accept a connection if the person looks nice and professional.


Non-approachable photos are those that seem arrogant or unprofessional such as unnecessary hand gestures, props or facial expressions.
For more information on how to look approachable, see this article.
 The purpose of using LinkedIn is to make connections that may be helpful to you in the future. Your photo will be the first step to making these meaningful connections.


As stated in the section above, representing yourself professionally and seeming approachable is key when choosing a perfect LinkedIn profile picture.

