 When you are at work, try to bring a small lunch/dinner. This will give your body less to digest, which will help keep your stomach and bowel from getting aggravated while you are working. You should also chew your food extremely well, which helps with digestion. Also when you eat at work, keep your water or other liquids at a minimum.


Too much water or liquid while you eat can dilute your stomach acid, which will slow your digestion., To help improve your digestion while you are at work, eat foods with more fiber in them. This will help ease your IBS symptoms while you are at work. You should aim for 20 to 35 grams of fiber a day, so try to have at least 10 grams of fiber while you are at work. Make sure you ease into an increase in fiber — introducing too much fiber too quickly can cause a flare up in IBS symptoms. Fiber-rich foods include:


Vegetables, such as Swiss chard, mustard greens, spinach, collard greens, beet greens, kale, turnip greens, broccoli, cabbage, Brussel sprouts, and cauliflower
Beans
Fruits, especially those you can keep the peelings on because it adds extra fiber
Whole grains, Probiotics are good bacteria that helps with gut health, such as L. acidophilus, L. rhamnosus, L. Fermentum, B. longum, and B. bifidum. When you pack your work food every day to take to work, bring a serving of food that has probiotics in it. You can eat it as a snack or as part of your lunch/dinner. You can also take probiotic supplements, which are found at most health food stores. Foods with probiotics include:


Yogurt, especially greek yogurt
Kefir
Kimchee
Kombucha
Tempeh, Prebiotics are a type of supplement that helps support gut bacteria similar to probiotics.If you want to help your IBS while you are at work, consider taking a prebiotic supplement at the beginning of your shift or workday. Keep a bottle of them in your desk so they are easy to get to. Find one that contains inulin, fructooligosaccharides (FOS), and galactooligosaccharides (GOS). You can also bring a serving of prebiotic food to eat at work, such as:


Chicory root
Jerusalem artichoke
Dandelion greens
Garlic
Leeks
Asparagus
Wheat bran
Bananas, You can take digestive enzymes at work to help reduce many symptoms of IBS, including gas and abdominal discomfort or bloating. These enzymes help to break down nutrients into smaller, more absorbable bits, which will help you digest food better while you are at work. Keep a bottle of digestive enzymes in your desk for easy access.


They also help you get more from the nutrients in the food you eat while at work.When you are buying a digestive enzyme, request the advice of a pharmacist or advice of naturopath who has been trained in this method of treatment. You may also want to look for a look for a Seal of Approval from either the Natural Products Association (NPA) or the US Pharmacopoiea. (USP) to make sure they are safe.
 Peppermint oil is a great treatment for IBS and it's portable and easy enough to take to work. Keep a bottle of peppermint oil supplements in your desk for easy access. This way, you can take a dose of peppermint oil to help ease your symptoms at any point in the day.


Take a dose of 0.2 to 0.4mL of peppermint oil in capsule form once while at work.
Take an additional one to two doses before and after work each day., There are some additional herbal treatments that you can use at work to help with IBS. Bring herbal tea bags and have a cup during your afternoon break. If you don't get breaks, these can be used at any point during your work day to help relieve your IBS symptoms. These herbal methods include:


Fennel tea or fennel oilGinger teaAmino acids such as glycine and glutamine, Food triggers can cause a problem with your IBS, which is a major problem at work. When you are at work, keep a track of everything you eat and drink over the course of a month. Also list the symptoms you experience after each meal. After the month is over, analyze your diary to determine what types of things trigger your IBS. Once you find them, you should avoid your food triggers, especially at work, so you IBS does not act up. Common triggers include:Foods high in fat
Coffee and other caffeinated drinks
Alcohol
Artificial sweetener
Foods with fructose or high fructose corn syrup
Foods that produce intestinal gas, such as beans, legumes, and raisins
Gluten

