 You should only wear makeup for your own enjoyment, and never because someone tells you to. If wearing makeup makes your feel good about yourself, then go for it! But if people are trying to pressure you into wearing makeup, and you really don't want to—ignore them and be yourself!

, Wearing more makeup won't make you look more beautiful. If anything, it may make you look older and overdressed for the occasion. Most professional makeup artists choose to keep their makeup light and natural during the day. It is only for the evenings and special occasions where they go for the dramatic looks.


For a simple, every day look, try a tinted moisturizer, a little bit of brown eyeshadow, some mascara, and lip gloss. You can also add some blush or bronzer too, but keep it light.
If wearing dramatic makeup makes you happy, then go for it! You might want to give your skin a break every few days, however.
, When it comes to making themselves beautiful, people have tendency to only focus on their face and hair—but hands are important too! Keep your hands soft by wearing a moisturizing hand lotion, and don't pick or chew on your nails. Keep your nails trimmed, and use a manicure brush to clean under them every night. Don't be afraid to paint your nails, or even get a professional manicure. A little bit of color never hurt anyone!


If you do choose to paint your nails by yourself, remember to take the old nail polish off first. Wearing nail polish on top of chipped, peeling nail polish will look messy.To protect your nails and make your polish last longer, remember to apply a good base coat before your nail polish, and a good top coat after you are done.
Don't use nail polish as a replacement for proper nail care. Take care of your nails first, then think about nail polish.
 Most girls will just remove the hairs on their legs and underarms, but you can do your forearms too, especially if your hair is thick and coarse. You can also go to a beauty salon or manicure place, and have your eyebrows and upper lip waxed as well!


It is not a good idea to pluck or wax your eyebrows by yourself. Getting the right shape can be hard, and it is easy to mess up and over-plus.
If you can't or don't want to wax your eyebrows, consider grooming them instead. Pluck away any unruly hairs with a pair of tweezers, them comb through your eyebrows with a clean spoolie brush.
Check with your parents. They might not allow you to shave because of religion or just of personal choice, ask your parents and obey what they say!

