 There are a lot of decisions that go into decorating a deck or backyard, just like a living room or bedroom. The main things you want to think about are durability and color scheme. You’ll need to find special outdoor lanterns that fit the look you’re going for.


Use outdoor lanterns. Paper lanterns are great for use indoors, but they can be damaged by water. Look for lanterns specifically made for outdoor use: they’ll typically be made of nylon or silk. You can find them online, at home improvement stores, or at patio decoration outlets.Pick a good color scheme. Unlike an indoor area that is already decorated, you’ll have a bit more free reign in choosing the colors of your lanterns. Match them to your deck furniture, or go big with bright colors like red, blue or yellow. White lanterns can give your backyard a relaxed or dreamy atmosphere when it gets dark., There are many places to hang them: in the air, on a fence or off of a railing. Each will give your backyard a different vibe, and it all depends on your personal preference. Depending on your choice, you’ll need different tools and supplies.


Hang your lanterns high up. If you have large trees, you can hang your lanterns from them for a cool effect. If you don’t want to hang them from trees, or you don’t have any, buy poles to hang your lanterns from. Some companies sell poles specifically for hanging lanterns on, but you can hang them off of any type of pole, as long as there’s a place to attach a hook.Hang them from a fence. If you have a tall fence, you can simply tie the lanterns right onto the boards without a need for hooks.Hang them off of a railing. If you want to hang your lanterns from a wooden railing, you’ll need a drill and some small hooks. If your railing is wrought iron, you can easily tie them on.
 If you’ve chosen to hang your lanterns from a surface that requires hooks, you’ll need to drill a pilot hole to help start the hook. Choose a drill bit with the same diameter as the core of the hook, then drill straight through the wooden railing. Pull out the drill, then screw your hook in, pushing clockwise until it’s flush with the surface of the wood., Once all of your hooks or poles are installed, you’ll be able to hang the lanterns. Use twine or fishing line so that the line doesn’t distract from the effect of the lantern. Tie a small loop at the end of your twine, then slip it over lantern’s hanger. As with the other end of the line, tie a sturdy knot around the fence, tree branch, hook, or other surface.

