 A sitz bath is a warm water bath in which you sit upright in the bath in order to heal or clean the rectal area.Try to take a sitz bath after bowel movements. This cleans the anus without irritating it with toilet paper, allows spasms to relax, and increases blood flow to the anus.You can take a sitz bath by purchasing a special sitz bath seat. Your doctor may provide you with one if you tell her about the issues you're having with anal fissures. You can also purchase one at a medical supply store.Attach the sitz bath seat to your toilet and fill it with warm water. Make sure the water is not warm enough to cause pain by testing it with your finger or hand first.Most sitz baths have vents that allow water to drain out on occasion. If your bath does not have a vent, change the water periodically to keep it fresh and at a warm temperature.You should remain seated in your bath for 10 to 20 minutes. Try to sit still during that time, avoiding sudden movements that could prevent relaxation.;
, A high fiber diet can encourage regular bowel movements. A high-fiber diet results in softer stool that are passed faster.This can help anal fissures heal.


The National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine recommends women get 21 to 25 grams of fiber a day, depending on age. On average, most Americans only get 5 to 14.High fibers foods include fruits, such as berries, apples, oranges, raisins, figs, and pears. They also include whole wheat grains, such as whole-wheat pasta and bread, and breakfast foods like oatmeal, bran muffins, and bran flakes. Broccoli, green peas, potatoes, and brussels sprouts are good vegetable options. Certain nuts and legumes are high fiber, such as black beans, lima beans, and baked beans, as well as a variety of seeds.However, make sure your fiber intake is not comprised of too many foods that could prove difficult to digest. Avoid nuts, popcorn, tortilla chips, and other hard foods with sharp edges., Soft stools can ease the pain of anal fissures and allow the rectum to heal. Increasing your fluid intake can help soften your stools.Aim to get the recommended 8 glasses of water a day. Only drink water with meals rather than juice, soda, or other beverages.Take a water bottle with you when you go out and sip on it when you get thirsty.
 Regular exercise can help reduce anal fissures as it prevents constipation, which can aggravate existing fissures. Strive for 30 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Talk to your doctor about what types of physical activity are safe for you after childbirth. It varies depending on your delivery. Your doctor should be able to provide you with a list of safe exercises.