 It is easier to do a handstand in shallow water, but you want the water to be shallow enough that your legs & feet will be up in the air. If you try to do a handstand in water that is too deep, you may have a problem keeping your hands planted on the bottom of the pool or body of water.


Be sure that nobody is close to you. In case you tip over, you don't want to accidentally kick anyone in the face.
Try moving into deeper water if you find it difficult to do a handstand. This will make your body feel lighter.;
, The longer you can hold your breath, the more time you will have to practice your handstands while underwater. You may want to practice holding your breath a few times before diving into the pool or lake.
 Sometimes it is easier to kick one of your feet off the pool.
 When you plant your hands, be sure to keep them at least shoulder length apart. The farther apart you can plant your hands, the more stable you will be.


Aim to plant your hands where your feet started, this will help get all of your weight directly above you.
Try spreading your arms out a bit more if you are having problems performing a handstand.
The same with your fingers. The wider your can spread them when you plant your hands, the more stable of a base you will create.
 Keeping your hands firmly planted, untuck your legs from your torso and begin extending them up toward the sky.


For some people, it is easier to gain their balance if they straighten their bodies quickly.
 If you have difficulty holding your legs and feet together, try crossing your legs at the ankles.


Try to keep your spine straight, directly inline with your legs.
Remember to keep your legs straight. The straighter and closer together you can keep them, the easier it will be to maintain a handstand.
 Pointing your toes up to the sky will help you keep your legs straight, and will also help you maintain your balance.
 Remember to keep your legs together and your toes pointed. Once you're upside-down, keep your neck & head straight, looking forward, rather than looking at the bottom of the pool. This will keep your body straighter, and make it easier to maintain your balance.


Try to imagine that you are not only standing on your hands, but that you are trying to push yourself upward with every muscle of your body. Extending your muscles will help you gain your balance.

