 What kind of traits do you have currently? Are you inclined towards art? Or are you more athletic? Are you interested in academia? Complete a self - evaluation. This will determine how you go about reinventing yourself to become a multifaceted persona.;
, Read everything - books, newspapers, journals, short stories - everything.
 When you interact with people from diverse backgrounds with different views to your own, you learn A LOT.
 Read a Wikipedia article a day! Click the 'I'm feeling Lucky' button on Google to learn something new and unexpected.
 Learn to be interested in what you learn and read and find out. You'll never stop learning, so embrace it to achieve the first pillar of your reinvention of self - SMART.
 Being athletic doesn't JUST mean to be all toned and musclebound, rather you are encouraged to start leading a healthy lifestyle. Use your newly gained smartness to read up on things such as your body type, your metabolism and healthy eating and living for yourself.
 The key here is to understand your own body.
 Walk, instead of taking the car, or ride a bike. If you're into gaming for long hours, take occasional breaks in between. Same goes for any other static activity.
 Skipping is also a fantastic sport to do n order to increase athletic skills.
 If you run, just run for 20 mins. each day regularly.
 Remember, use your smartness to aid your athletic skills.
 Don't ban all of your problem foods like chocolate and such - rather eat in moderation. Again, use smartness to read up and gain information on various types of food and how they affect you.
 Art requires not just smartness, but also thought. Until now you've been focusing on gathering information, but now you will learn how to apply that information. The key idea is to apply the information you have learned and use your own ideas to understand art.
 Here I am just going to focus on understanding art and the composition process.
 Go to art galleries, poetry recitals, music festivals and concerts. Don't shun any form of art first off, just expose yourself to all sorts of art. Think about the artwork. Read up on the artist.
 For example, if you see a normally haphazard Picasso piece, Try to think beyond the crazy shapes. Rather, think of Picasso's context. What time did he live in? What was going on at the time? Does the piece seem bold, or dangerous? Does it seem subdued...what do you feel about the piece? Why is it so disjointed and jagged?

, Why? Why? These are your best friends.
 You don't have to pretend to be crazy, or follow an obscure underground band you secretly don't really like.
 You're already smart, athletic and artistic - what's wrong with being yourself now?

, Do what you want to do. Have no doubts about yourself. Enhance your abilities. Read more to enhance smartness, train harder and faster, or start painting more and more and portray your emotions and inner self onto a canvas.
