 Extra hydration in your system can help with mouth inflammation, especially from canker sores. This will help relieve discomfort from the inflammation and fight off infection. You can also use water with salt to reduce the pain and speed healing in your mouth.


To use the salt water treatment, pour a generous amount of salt into a cup of warm water and stir to combine. Put some of the water in your mouth and swish it around, focusing on the area where the sore is. Spit the water out after a minute or so, and repeat with the rest of the water., Aloe has natural healing and anti-inflammatory properties. It contains saponin, a chemical which acts as an antibacterial agent. It is also known to soothe and relieve pain in inflamed areas.To use:


Get an aloe leaf and cut it open. Apply the gel that leaks out directly onto the area that is most inflamed. Do this three times a day for the best effect.
You can also get aloe vera gel that is specifically meant for your mouth. Again, apply the gel directly to the inflamed area. Do this three times a day for the best effect.
Avoid swallowing the gel if possible.
 Cold water and ice can help to ease your pain and reduce the inflammation in your mouth. It is the same concept behind icing a sore knee, because the cold temperature decreases the amount of blood cells flooding to the injured area, which decreases the swelling and pain.Ways to apply cold to your inflamed mouth include:


Sucking on an ice cube, popsicle, or sorbet
Drinking and gargling small sips of cold water
Putting ice cubes in a plastic bag and holding it on the inflamed area

, Tea tree oil has a natural antiseptic effect that helps kill bacteria. It can also help to control the infection and help in the healing process. This is especially useful with inflammation caused by gingivitis and periodontal disease. One of the most common ways to use tea tree oil for inflammation is as a mouthwash.


Make a mouthwash by adding 10 drops of oil in 1/3 cup of water. Swish this mouthwash around your mouth for 30 seconds and spit it out. Do not swallow the mouthwash. Rinse your mouth with fresh water afterward.