 Read the instructions on the eyebrow dye to make sure that it isn’t too difficult to apply.


Pick a color as color to your natural shade as possible. Try to keep your eyebrows the same color as the hair on your head. Consider using the same dolor dye for all of your hair.
Don’t pick a color that is darker than your eyebrows. Go a little lighter than your natural color if you can’t find a matching shade.
 Make sure to protect your eyes.


Consider asking a friend to help. Ask then to make sure that the dye doesn’t drip down into your eyes before it dries.
Close your eyes as much as possible. Consider covering you eyes with glasses, goggles or sunglasses.
Wash out your eye thoroughly with water if you get any dye in it.Don’t reapply the dye if your eye is irritated., Don’t apply while wearing makeup. Take off all of your makeup first.


Wash your eyebrows with soap and water to take sure that they’re clean. Make sure to dry them with a towel so that you can apply the dye properly.
Make sure not to irritate the skin while washing and drying. Don’t apply dye to irritated skin.
 Use an eyebrow brush or spoolie from a beauty supply store.


Be aware that you can also brush your eyebrows with a mascara wand. Make sure that it has been cleaned and dried.
Start combing your eyebrows on the side closest to your nose. Brush outwards towards your ears.
Consider using a thin coat of petroleum jelly on your eyebrows. Doing this with protect your skin from dye stains.
 Look in the mirror as you carefully add the dye with an eyebrow brush or spoolie.


Starting this way enables you to dye the thickest and densest part of your eyebrow first. Apply in even layers.
Let the dye dry for at least two minutes before filling in any spots that you may have missed. Be aware that most dye takes at least 15 minutes to dry so don’t smear it while you wait.
Clean the edges of your eyebrow with a Q-tip. Make sure not to stain your skin. Use your Q-tip to clean around your eyebrows with warm water or a professional color remover.
 Don’t go over the inside again or you’ll make the hair unevenly dark. Let the dye dry for at least two minutes before filling in any spots that you may have missed. Be aware that most dye takes at least 15 minutes to dry so don’t smear it while you wait.
Clean the edges of your eyebrow with a Q-tip. Make sure not to stain your skin. Use your Q-tip to clean around your eyebrows with warm water or a professional color remover.
 Use a dark washcloth and warm water.


Don’t dye your hair for any longer than is recommended on the package. Be aware that you can irritate your skin if the dye is left on too long.
Clean off the remaining dye once your eyebrows are as dark as you want them to be. Look in the mirror to make sure that all the dye has been properly removed.

