


The most common entryways for stink bugs include windows, doors, baseboards, and ceiling lights. Filling gaps or correcting loose seals should significantly decrease the number of stink bugs roaming through your home.
 Use mesh fence screening to cover dryer vents, air vents, chimneys, and other open areas connecting the outside of your home with the inside.



Instant adhesive and epoxy should be enough to patch small holes in screens. Specially designed patch kits come with the tools you need as well as instructions on how to complete the task.
 Take an ordinary dryer sheet and rub it against any window and door screens on a daily basis until the stink bug problem is fixed.


Dryer sheets with an especially strong odor may work better than those with no perfumes or mild scents. The point is to deter stink bugs from entering the home by assaulting their sense of smell with a potent odor.
This is thought to reduce the stink bug population by up to 80 percent within a week or two.
 Hang a wet towel over a lawn chair outside at dusk. In the morning, a large number of stink bugs from your yard should be gathered on the towel.


You can drape the towel over a deck railing, empty planter, tree branch, or any other surface in your yard. It is better for the towel to drape vertically than to be spread out horizontally, though.
Exterminate the stink bugs on the towel by quickly dunking the entire towel, bugs and all, into a large bucket of soapy water.
 Squash a few bugs with an old pair of shoes or a stone.


Prepare for a stench. Once killed, stink bugs will give off a very strong odor.
The odor given off upon a stink bug's death sends a warning to others in the area, telling them to leave.
You should only kill stink bugs outside since it will be easier to air the smell out afterward than it would be inside.
 Remove or thin heavily weeded areas in your garden.


Stink bugs tend to be attracted to weeds. Reducing the amount of weeds present in your yard or flowerbeds will make the area seem less appealing to stink bugs, so fewer will come. Fewer stink bugs in your garden also means fewer in your home.
 Natural predators include parasitic flies, wasps, birds, toads, spiders, and praying mantises.


Grow wildflowers and herbs. These attract parasitic flies and wasps.
Attract birds, toads, spiders, and praying mantises with perennial herb and flowers.
You can also buy praying mantises in garden supply catalogs. Minute pirate bugs, which eat stink bug eggs, can also be bought from garden supply catalogs.

