 Consistency is the key to maintaining beautiful skin, so commit to setting aside a few minutes a day for it. Here's how to make it easy:


Wash your face in the shower. Save time in the morning by combining your skincare routine with your shower. Do a few quick swipes and rinse while you're getting your hair wet.
If you're too tired to do a full skincare routine before you go to bed, keep a stack of makeup removal wipes on your nightstand.
Try to moisturize day and night. Don't forget the common areas where wrinkles tend to pop up: the outer edges of your eyes and around your mouth.;
, A quick rinse-off before you start your day will make you look, smell and feel a little prettier, no matter what else is going on. Try to get it down to a routine that you can easily get through in five or 10 minutes.


Wash your hair on a regular schedule. You don't need to wash your hair every time you shower — and, in fact, people with coarser hair should stick to every other day, or even every three days. Whatever works best for you, be consistent. Your scalp gets into a routine when it comes to releasing oils into your hair, so make your life easier by maintaining the same schedule.
Trim and clean your nails once or twice a week. Your nails will be softest and most workable when you first get out of the shower, so it's a good opportunity to do a quick trim. You'll have clean, presentable fingers and toes without having to do a full-on mani-pedi.
Manage body hair. Address any shaving in the shower, and take care of plucking as soon as you get out. As a general rule of thumb, try to shave armpits every day and legs every other day, and clean up your brows once a week.
Put on deodorant as soon as you get out. It's also a good time to put on fragrance, whether it's perfume or a light body spray. (Just go easy and make sure you don't use too much!)

, No matter what else happens, your smile is one of your best assets. Here's how to make sure it stays sparkling:



Brush twice a day, and floss at least every night. Don't forget to gently brush your tongue, while you're at it — a lot of bacteria that cause bad breath can hang out there.
Use mouthwash at night, and keep gum or mints on-hand to make sure your mouth stays sweet and appealing.
Fight off chapped lips. If your lips tend to get flaky and dry, you're probably dehydrated — drink water more regularly, and you'll notice a difference. If that doesn't help, keep a small tube of chapstick to use throughout the day.
 You don't have to be stick-skinny to be attractive, but it's worth the time and effort to keep your body fit and healthy. Not only will it pay off as you get older, the endorphins released during exercise will help you feel more confident and pretty.


Play a sport. Exercise doesn't have to be monotonous. If you find yourself bored to tears by the thought of going to the gym, consider taking up a sport or physically-oriented hobby. Basketball, tennis, volleyball and swimming are all great choices.
Work out with a friend. Stay committed to fitness by making it a social appointment. You're less likely to bail out on running if it means standing up your friend. Plus, you'll have someone to bond and commiserate with while you exercise.
Try to stay generally active. Take the stairs instead of the elevator, or park a little farther away from the entrance of the grocery store. It might not seem like much, but even small increases in how much you move will eventually show in your figure.
 Women across several cultures use makeup to play up their features. But remember, you don't have to wear makeup to be attractive — it's just a tool you can use if you'd like. You can also wear different levels of makeup, depending on your situation and your comfort level.


Try a natural look. You can wear just enough makeup to cover any little flaws and look like the best version of your usual self. Use a clear or slightly tinted lip gloss or chapstick, and a light powder to even out your skin tone.
Wear an everyday look. You can wear a full face of makeup without using a heavy hand, or you can skip the whole routine and just use a bright lipstick or a smoky eye. If you tend to wear makeup on a daily basis, consider settling into a basic look that you can alter up or down depending on your needs.
Do a glam evening look. For going out or special events, try setting aside 15 or 20 minutes to do a full face of makeup. Use concealer, base, finishing powder, blush, eye makeup, and a lipstick or lip stain. Just remember the lips-or-eyes rule: pick one or the other to highlight. Doing both will look too garish and over-done.
 Like most people, you probably have a few fallback hairstyles you rely on for your everyday look. That doesn't mean you can't try something new every now and then, though! Putting a little extra effort into your hair can boost your beauty and make you feel like a supermodel.


Change it up. If you usually wear your hair back in a ponytail, try leaving it loose in a half ponytail or curl it with a flat iron. Alternatively, if loose and long is your preference, try a textured ponytail or a trendy fishtail braid.
Consider a new haircut. If your hair just isn't working for you or you're in a rut, maybe a new cut or color is what you need. Browse around online or thumb through magazines for styles you like, and make an appointment at a salon. Remember, it's your stylist's job to make people feel good about how they look, and he or she will be delighted to offer advice if you're not sure what to do.
Trim split ends and touch up color. Even if you're totally content with your current look, make sure you keep up on maintenance. Get split ends trimmed every six to eight weeks, and cover up any mis-colored roots at the same time.
 What looks amazing on your best friend might not suit you as well, and it has nothing to do with how attractive you are. Knowing how choose clothes that fit you well will make you appear more beautiful (even though you yourself haven't changed!).


Be aware of your body shape. You can take your measurements, or you can just look in the mirror and try to eyeball it. The most common types are:

Pear: larger hips, smaller waist and bust. Highlight your small waist and shoulders.
Apple: larger bust and waist, smaller legs. Draw attention to your slim legs and hips.
Hourglass: larger bust and hips, smaller waist. Play up your classic curves and small waist.
Banana: Thin through bust, waist and hips. Play up your slender figure, using belts or cropped jackets to draw a line across your waist.


Remember: light colors highlight, dark colors hide. For instance, if you like your waist but don't like your hips, wear dark pants and a light shirt.
 A daily cleansing routine is a strong foundation for having beautiful skin, but you can do a few special processes now and then to make sure your complexion stays clear.


Exfoliate. Once a week, mix a gentle exfoliant with your cleanser and gently massage it over your face. Rinse off as usual.
Remove blackheads. Buy a few blackhead removal strips at the drugstore, or visit an esthetician for a professional extraction.
Treat yourself to a mini facial. You can pick up face masks at the drug store, or make your own out of peaches and oatmeal.
 The way you carry yourself tells other people a lot about how you feel, so make sure you're communicating confidence.


Hold your head high. Don't look down at the ground.
Keep your shoulders back and relaxed.
Stand with feet hips-width apart.
Balance your weight evenly on both feet.
 Did you know that beauty queens spend hours re-learning how to walk? Sounds silly, but they're practicing walking in a way that appears graceful and floaty. Follow these quick tips instead of spending so much time on pageant training:


Don't drag your feet. Avoid shuffling or only lifting your feet to the minimum possible height that allows you to walk.
Let your hips swivel slightly. An exaggerated swivel can cause back pain, but so can trying to maintain an unnaturally directed pelvis while you walk. Instead, allow your hips to swing with the motion of your walking.
Try not to bounce up and down too much. Practice walking in a way that keeps your head at the same height, even as the rest of your body is moving.
 You already possess the one thing that can make you more attractive than any other help: your pearly whites. Keep your smile within easy reach, and try to find reasons to grin. Not only will it make you feel happier , you'll brighten the moods of everyone around you.


If you have a hard time smiling regularly, try to think of a favorite joke or something that makes you happy, like a pet or sibling. Muse on it whenever you need to flash a quick grin.
Keep it appropriate. Smiling when someone says hello to you is great; smiling when your friend talks about losing his grandma is not as great. Gauge the situation before you automatically grin.

