 Many universities offer academic, sports, and other types of scholarship money for college. Every year, organizations give out over a million scholarships.


Scholarships can be awarded based on academic merit, athletics, financial need, or on a first-come, first-served basis.
Depending on what school you attend, you may need to apply for federal aid first.
 Places like the American Broadcasters Association give scholarships to students looking for a career in broadcasting.
 There are many different types of grants, including state, institutional, and federal. They tend to be on a first-come, first-served basis. Because of this, it is best to apply for them as early as you can. You will be more likely to get more money from the grant this way as well. You can apply for a number of federal, state, and private grants and scholarships.


If you live in the United States and make less than $40,000 a year, you may be eligible for some sort of grant.
 Most states offer their own free money programs. States may base their grants on financial need; although, some state programs encourage specific areas of study. Some states take information from the FAFSA, others will require you to complete a separate application.
 Organizations give this grant money to students when federal and state aid isn't enough to cover tuition or to reduce tuition for desirable candidates. These grant monies come from the college itself.
 If you live in the United States, you can apply for the FAFSA grant. You might even be eligible for a Pell grant, which is the largest grant program available. Pell grants begin at a few hundred dollars and may be as much as several thousand dollars. It also allows you to considered for all other types of federal grants, work programs and federal student loans.


FAFSA forms must be filled out online before January 1st of each year.
 Unlike grants and scholarships, loans must be paid back. Loans will generally have different interest rates, which will go into effect after you graduate from college.


Federal loans, such as FAFSA, can be both subsidized and unsubsidized. Sometimes, the amount you get and the interest rate, are based off of your income.
Private loans usually have a higher interest rate than federal loans. They are great for those students who have already used up their federal loan limit.
 Some schools will make a low offer of financial aid initially. When students ask for better packages, sometimes the school will provide more assistance. Also, some schools may have offered scholarships to students who decided not to enroll and they may have extra funds to re-distribute.

