 If you do not have a background in the medical profession, you will need to obtain a bachelor’s degree in health information management (HIM) to become a health information manager. Students typically enroll in a Bachelor's of Science in Health Information Management degree. Make sure that the program you choose is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM).Search for accredited programs on CAHIIM’s database: http://www.cahiim.org/directoryofaccredpgms/programdirectory.aspx

Courses in HIM include, but are not limited to, managerial principles, legal and ethical issues in healthcare delivery, information technology, quality assurance and statistics, and the biomedical sciences.
Traditional and online degrees are available for HIM.;
, Associate degrees in HIM are also available. Start with an associate’s degree if you work, or have other obligations that prevent you from committing to a four-year degree plan. An associate’s degree is helpful in fast-tracking a four-year degree program later on. However, with an associate’s degree, your opportunities are limited.A health information management associate’s degree is sufficient for entry-level positions. It will prepare you to work as a health information technician. However, to become a manager, you will need to eventually get a bachelor’s degree.
 If you have a bachelor’s degree in a related field, or have experience in healthcare, a master’s degree can be another way to enter HIM. A master’s program will prepare you for a more senior position. You will develop your leadership and managerial skills, and improve your ability to use data systems, which are used to collect healthcare data.Classes offered in a master’s program include, but are not limited to, healthcare data analytics, reimbursement methodologies in healthcare, IT management ethics, and legal issues in health information technology systems.
 Volunteering is a great way to supplement your education. As a volunteer, you will be able to gain knowledge, learn skills pertinent to the job, and learn more about the industry and the types of organizations you would like to work for. Volunteering will also help you build a professional network, which is essential to getting a job.Volunteer at a physician’s office, professional organization, or at a hospital.
Volunteering is particularly useful for students and recent graduates because some employers view volunteer work as equal to real work experience.
By volunteering, you will also gain valuable skills that you can add to your resume.
 Although certification is not required, employees prefer any kind of certification. To qualify for this certification, you must have an associate’s degree. AHIMA offers this certificate. As a RHIT, you will have an in-depth understanding of coding, EHRs, and computer applications to compile and access data. Many RHIT’s enter careers related to cancer registries.AHIMA offers computer-based exams through Pearson VUE testing centers. Pearson VUE testing centers are located all over the U.S.
Exams are multiple choice, and examination results only indicate “pass” or “fail.” Currently, a passing score on the RHIT exam is 300 or higher out of 400.Students enrolled in their final term of study are eligible to apply., You must have a bachelor’s or master’s degree to qualify for this certificate. AHIMA offers this certificate, as well. RHIA’s analyze data for clinical trials, disease management, quality improvement, and utilization management. Also part of the job description is managing people and divisions, and participating in organizational committees.AHIMA offers computer-based exams through Pearson VUE testing centers. Pearson VUE testing centers are located all over the U.S.
Exams are multiple choice, and examination results only indicate “pass” or “fail.” Currently, a passing score on the RHIT exam is 300 or higher out of 400.Students enrolled in their final term of study are eligible to apply., A CPHIMS is a Certified Professional in Health Information and Management Systems, and becoming certified may help to increase your credibility with your employer, show that you are knowledgeable and competent, demonstrate your commitment to professional development, and give you a sense of personal and professional achievement.The Health Information and Management Systems Society (HISMSS) offers this certification. To qualify for this certification you need a bachelor’s degree and five years of work experience, three of which need to be in a healthcare setting. Or a master’s degree with at least three years of experience, two of which must be in a healthcare setting.


Exams are multiple-choice and are administered through the Applied Management Professionals (AMP). A fee is required.
 AHIMS reports that 70 to 80 percent of HIM jobs are found through networking. As a result, make sure that you notify friends or contacts in the HIM industry and those who work in healthcare in another capacity that you are looking for a job. Use your social media accounts to network with professionals in the industry, and to learn about job opportunities.For example, LinkedIn is a social media platform used for career networking.
Contact your college’s student career office to help you find jobs, as well.
Reach out to your mentors. They can also connect you with available job opportunities in HIM.
 By joining a professional organization, you can meet and network with professionals in the industry, as well as learn more about the industry. You will also be able to attend meetings of local chapters and network with the members there.For example, join your local American Health Information Management Association or Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society.
 Use a website made specifically to search for job postings across many sites, such as Applymate, MyIndeed, JibberJobber, and Starwire. These sites allow users to create an account and save their search preferences, as well as keep track of jobs applied to and job postings. In addition to looking at regular job boards, also look at industry-specific job boards. These boards are more likely to have jobs that meet your skills.LinkedIn also has a search feature, so make sure to check here as well.

