 Learning doesn't have to end once you are done with school. There are many ways that you can continue to expand your mind throughout your life. Finding a new interest can be very enjoyable.Make a list of things that you like to do. Have you always enjoyed gardening? Spend some time learning more about it.
Head to the library. Ask the reference librarian to help you find some useful books. Because you enjoy gardening, you will likely enjoy learning more about it.
Join a club. Contact your local community center to find out if there are any local gardening groups you can join.
 There are several options to continue your learning once you are no longer officially in school. Consider taking a class on a topic you enjoy. Contact your local community college to get some ideas.Many community colleges offer a wide variety of classes. Some options might include flower arranging, cooking, and music appreciation.
Ask a friend to take the class with you. You can enjoy socialization and learning at the same time.
Your local community center might have some good options, too. Have you always wanted to learn to swim? Take a class!

, You can learn a lot by visiting a new place. To enhance your learning, take some time to travel. You will have fun and expand your knowledge base.Make a list of places you've always wanted to go. Start making plans to check items off of your list.
Save your money. Create a travel fund so that you can begin your adventures.
Visit a new country. You will learn new customs, see different architecture, and hear a new language.
Take a road trip. Choose a museum within driving distance and head out. Love music? Head to Cleveland to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
 Reading is one of the best ways to learn new information. There are books available on every imaginable subject. Choose a topic, and find a book to begin learning some new things.Fiction is a great way to learn about different cultures. Try reading To Kill a Mockingbird to learn about growing up in the South.
Use your library. Go to your local branch and lose yourself in the stacks. Pick up any book that looks interesting and give it a try.
Join a book club. Stop by your local independent book seller and ask if they have a club you can join.
Book clubs will help you expand your book selections. You'll learn some new things and make some new friends.
 Modern technology can provide you with a whole new range of learning opportunities. Take some time to explore your computer and phone. You will likely find some new possibilities to further your learning.Start listening to podcasts. NPR and PBS offer a wide variety of interesting and educational shows.
Play trivia. There are many apps that you can download that will allow you to play virtual trivia. You can challenge your friends to see who can learn the most.
Follow news outlets on social media. You can stay informed about current events and learn what is happening in the world around you.

