 Maybe your company recently expanded its global operations. You might suddenly find yourself working closely with team members from other cultures. Take some time to work on making these relationships stronger.Spend time learning about other cultures. For example, if you are going to be working closely with your Japan office, study up on Japanese work etiquette.
Ask your Human Resources department if they have any resources available. They might be able to direct you towards a helpful website.
Head to the local library. The resource librarian can direct you towards references that can give you a solid overview of the culture you're learning about.
 Don't go into this situation afraid to make errors. If you're overly anxious, you might not speak up and share your ideas. You also won't be able to connect with your new co-workers or clients.Just know that mistakes might happen. You might accidentally try to eat your food incorrectly at a client lunch, for example.
Laugh it off and apologize. These things happen when you are learning new cultural norms.
Say a sincere, "I apologize." Then remember your mistake and don't make the same one twice.
 Some of your current colleagues might be uncomfortable working with people from different cultures. That can cause unease and stress in the workplace. Build good relationships with people and learn to be an ally for those from other cultures.One of the most effective ways to be an ally is to show that discrimination will not be tolerated. Stand up for people if someone is saying or doing something offensive.
For example, maybe one of your co-workers makes an offensive comment about the way your new clients from the Middle East dress. Make it clear that that sort of talk is not acceptable.
You can say something like, "You know, just because these people dress differently, that doesn't make them wrong or somehow less than us. Let's be respectful, ok?"

, When you take time to get to know someone, you can find new ways to strengthen your work relationship. Put some effort into building individual relationships. Your work life will be more productive and pleasant.Don't lump people together in a group. For example, avoid making general comments such as, "Those Australians don't have the same work hours that we do."
Instead, say, "I need to talk to Anna and Steve about how we can resolve this issue." Thinking of people as individuals is a great way to show respect and build relationships.
 It might feel difficult to learn to work with new people. This can be especially tricky if you have any sort of communication barriers. However, that doesn't mean that it's not worth your effort.Try to make any newcomers feel welcome. Try saying, "I noticed you bring your lunch. So do I. Do you want to go to the park and eat together tomorrow?"
If you are the newcomer, you can find other ways to make an effort. For example, if you're in a new office, you can ask about customs and traditions.
For example, you can say, "I noticed that you all seem to support different football teams. Can you tell me a little more about the sport?"

