 You can use old glass candle holders, an oat or cocoa container or an old tin. Make sure to choose something that can be permanently decorated.;
, Write down the measurement. Carry it with you when you go shopping for ribbon.
 You can buy ribbons by the roll in craft stores or online. You can also go to some craft stores and buy lengths of ribbon, instead of buying an entire roll.


Choose between 4 and 20 different types of ribbon depending upon the size of your canisters. You will want to choose wide and thin ribbons for a varied look.
 This will allow you to start with a solid base on which to place the ribbon. After cutting a piece the height and a few inches more than the circumference of the canister, squeeze thin strips of hot glue across the paper and on the ends.


Align the paper with the canister and glue it where it overlaps. Allow the hot glue to dry for at least 30 minutes before continuing with your project. You can also use rubber cement for this portion of the project.
 Do this all at once, so that you can focus on affixing the ribbons while the glue is still hot. Create your pattern by aligning your ribbons in your desired order on a table.
 Carefully and quickly, press it onto the bottom edge of the canister, making sure it is taught. You will start from the bottom and go towards the top.


Decide where you want the ribbons to meet. You may want to align it with the ends of the scrapbooking paper.
 In some areas, you may choose to leave a small space so you can layer with another ribbon later on. Make sure the ribbon is straight before the glue dries.


Do not use too much hot glue. Focus on attaching a very thin strip or dot on the ends. Overuse of glue may result in a lumpy project or burns from dripping glue.
 Return and place a dot of hot glue on any areas that look loose.
 You may also choose to place thin ribbons on top of thick ones to create more design and depth.
 Affix the item to the canister with a dab of hot glue and allow it to dry.
