 Perhaps you have recently moved to a new city, state or country and are feeling a bit overwhelmed with the culture there. Rather than succumbing to your anxiety, write it out. Journal how you feel at the moment, what troubled or made you happy that day, as well as if you are missing anyone from your last home., Don’t allow yourself to become a recluse during this experience. Reach out to your friends either locally or at home to talk to them about how you are feeling. Perhaps you are on a study abroad trip and have other classmates who have similar feelings; connect with them as well as with those who are adjusting a bit more easily.You might say something like “I know that you seem to be having a great time here in Italy but I’m really struggling with how different it is from home. How did you manage to acclimate so well?”

, Though it can be tempting to allow this culture shock to take over your mind, allow something else to replace it. Don’t exhaust yourself by ruminating on your stress constantly. Watch movies or listen to music that you enjoy. Practice your hobbies like reading, dancing or shopping., Being homesick could also be intensifying your feelings of culture shock. Though you should not be reaching out 24/7, keep connected with your friends and family back home.Plan to call your family and friends at a minimum of every few days. If phone access is restricted where you are, try email or send handwritten letters.
 In addition to remaining connected to home, it can also be beneficial to ask for care packages from your loved ones. This will give you a chance to have some reminders of home abroad with you and will provide you comfort during times of stress.You might ask for particular snacks or hygiene products that you like that you cannot find in your current location.
 When you are experiencing culture shock, nearly every experience that you are having may feel completely new to you. Find some ways to bring some experiences and normalcy from home to your current environment. For instance, perhaps you enjoy a certain meal that you can’t find in any restaurants in your current location. Find the ingredients and make your own.Though you should try to have many new experiences, try to keep some familiarity in your daily schedule.

