 One of the most characteristic symptoms of Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy is numbness or loss of sensation. This loss of feeling can be experienced in any part of the body.You may also experience abnormal sensations, such as a tingling or pain in parts of your body like the hands or feet.;
, Muscle weakness occurs for at least two months with CIDP. The weakness in the muscles occurs on both sides of the body. Because of this weakness, there might be difficulty walking, problems with coordination, or other motor functions. You might become clumsier than normal. You may have an awkward gait or have missteps when walking.Often, the weakness occurs in the hip, shoulder, hands, and feet.
 CIDP is similar to many other neurological disorders that cause motor function problems and disturbances of sensation. In typical cases, the numbness and weakness occurs on both sides of the body, usually in all four limbs. Additionally, tendon reflexes have to be either reduced or absent.
 Loss of sensation and motor function problems are the most common and definitive symptoms; however, there may be other secondary symptoms that occur with CIDP. These can include:Fatigue
Burning
Pain
Muscle atrophy
Problems swallowing
Double vision

, To get diagnosed with CIDP, you need to see a physician. This should be done when you notice tingling or numbness in your body or any motor function problems. The doctor will perform an exam and discuss your symptoms with you.Start keeping track of your symptoms as soon as you notice them. CIDP is only diagnosed after eight weeks of symptoms.
Be as honest and detailed with your symptoms as possible. CIDP is similar in some ways to several other disorders. The more your doctor knows about your symptoms, the easier it will be to distinguish one disorder from another. Be prepared to tell your doctor what symptoms you have, where in the body you feel them, what makes them worse, and what makes them better.
 Your doctor may perform a neurological examination to rule out related conditions or gather additional information to confirm CIDP. During a neurological examination, your doctor will probably check your reflexes since a lack of reflexes is a common symptom of CIDP.Your doctor may also test different parts of your body to check for numbness or your ability to feel pressure or touch sensation.
You may also have to do a coordination test. The doctor may check your muscle strength, muscle tone, and posture.
 Your doctor may order several tests to confirm CIDP — there is no one test that can confirm the diagnosis.You may need to get a nerve conduction test or electromyography (EMG). These tests look for slow nerve function or abnormal electrical activity that signals nerve damage.The nerves are stimulated and checked to see if they are damaged. Then, the muscles are tested to see if the muscle or nerve is the cause of the problem.
These tests can help the doctor find damaged or missing myelin along the nerves. Myelin is a sheath around nerves that helps control electrical impulses.
An MRI may be done to look for enlargement of the nerve roots or inflammation.
 Your doctor may perform additional tests to make sure there is nothing else causing your symptoms. A spinal fluid analysis will show if you have elevated protein levels or an elevated cell count, which both point to CIDP.Blood and urine tests may also be conducted to rule out other conditions.
 CIDP is a slow-moving condition. It can present and worsen in a slow but gradual way. Alternately, it can appear in relapses, where you recover between each bout of symptoms. These relapses and periods of being symptom-free may occur for weeks or months.Symptoms need to be present for more than eight weeks before a diagnosis of CIPD can be made.
 CIDP is a rare condition. It affects approximately one to three people per 100,000 every year. It can affect anyone at any age; however, men are twice as likely to be diagnosed with CIDP than females.Though CIDP can happen to anyone of any age, the average age of diagnosis is 50.
 CIDP is sometimes difficult to diagnose because the condition is similar to other conditions; however, there are important differences that can help you settle on CIDP.Guillain-Barre syndrome and CIDP are similar. Guillain-Barre is a disease that comes on quickly, and people usually recover in around three months. CIDP is a slow-acting condition, and you may be affected by it for years.
Multiple sclerosis and CIDP both affect motor functions; however, MS affects the brain, spinal cord, and other parts of the central nervous system, but CIDP does not. CIDP mainly affects the peripheral nerves.
Lewis-Summer syndrome and multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) may only affect one side of the body, whereas CIDP typically affects both sides. MMN doesn’t result in loss of sensation.

