 When looking for nonverbal cues to indicate deception, you have to establish the person's normal behavior. In other words, what may indicate lying in one person may just be a nervous habit in another person.To establish a baseline, ask a few easy-going questions at first to put the person at ease. Pay attention to any body language the person normally employs before moving on to harder, more relevant questions.
For example, you could ask things like, "It sure has been hot, hasn't it?" or "How have you been today?"

, When someone is lying, they tend to do one of two things: They may avoid eye contact altogether, looking around the room or at your forehead rather than make eye contact. On the other hand, they may make too much eye contact, meaning they stare at you more than is normal. Both of these tactics could indicate someone is lying.A person may also lower their eyes when lying or rub them to block your gaze.A person may also blink more if they are lying., Sometimes, a liar will physically move their body when they're lying. Usually, that means they will point their body away from you. One place to check for this type of body positioning is a person's feet: what direction are they facing? If the person moves them to point away from you, they could be lying., Some people are just fidgeters, meaning they can't keep still no matter what. However, an increase in fidgeting is likely an indication of nervousness. In turn, that could mean the person is not being completely truthful, so be on the lookout for fidgeting., While certain nonverbal cues are supposed to indicate lying, these cues are generalities taken from observing a variety of individuals. In other words, not everyone will display the same nonverbal cues, and some cues, such as extraneous blinking, are difficult to distinguish from normal blinking.In addition, when you're looking for nonverbal cues, you're making the assumption that lying puts the person under stress, to the point that their body will betray them. That may be true when it comes to big lies, such as when a person is trying to get away with murder. However, most people tell little white lies all the time, so it becomes natural to them. When lying comes naturally, the body is less likely to betray the person, so everyday lies are much harder to pick out.
It's also true that sometimes these nonverbal cues will be present in a person who's telling the truth because the truth is stressful. It's the stress of the situation that produces these nervous habits rather than telling a lie.

