 Any time you’re having trouble urinating, visit your doctor. They can test your urine to see if you’re dehydrated or have an infection.Getting diagnosed is the first step to treating the problem., Sometimes if your kidneys aren’t working well, your body stops making urine or decreases how much urine is made. See your doctor right away for a kidney function test if you stop making much urine and have swelling in your legs, feel drowsy, confused, or fatigued, have chest pain or experience shortness of breath.Your doctor can check your basic kidney function with a blood test.
Kidney problems can be chronic (long-lasting) or acute (new and abrupt). Many illnesses can cause kidney problems, so see your doctor to get diagnosed and treated., Urinary tract infections, or UTIs, are more common in women than men, but both sexes can experience symptoms. UTIs can cause inflammation or swelling that blocks urine flow. Treatment is typically administered in the form of an antibiotic.Visit your doctor for treatment if you have symptoms of a UTI such as:A strong urge to urinate
Burning or pain when you urinate
Urinating often in small amounts, or having weak flow
Urine that looks cloudy, pink, red, or brown
Pain in the center of your pelvis, back, or sides
A strong smell to your urine

, Prostatitis, inflammation of the prostate because of infection, is a cause of slow or weak urine flow in men. You usually also have pain in your groin or pelvis, and possibly chills or a fever. See your doctor to get checked if you have these symptoms associated with difficulty urinating.Prostatitis will be treated with antibiotics if it’s caused by a bacterial infection.
 Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) commonly causes urinary problems in men over age 60. Your prostate enlarges and squeezes the urethra, blocking urine flow.If you have urinary trouble, see your doctor to be checked for BPH. Depending on how severe your symptoms are, your doctor can treat you with natural remedies like saw palmetto extract, medications called alpha-blockers, or surgical procedures.

BPH is very common, but prostate cancer – though much less common – can also enlarge your prostate and cause urinary symptoms. It’s important to have your prostate checked regularly starting at age 50 (or earlier if a relative had prostate cancer).Treatment is often administered in the form of an antibiotic.
 Sometimes if you’re constipated a hard stool can push against your urethra or bladder and block urine from leaving your body. If you’re unable to urinate or have a weak flow and you’re also constipated, try to alleviate your constipation, then see if you can urinate freely.Drink extra water, eat prunes, and avoid dairy to try to alleviate constipation.
Take an over-the-counter laxative like Miralax or Colace, or try a Fleet enema.Ask the pharmacist for suggestions.
 If you’ve had past surgeries in the area of your lower abdomen, scar tissue may have formed. See your doctor for evaluation and discuss any illnesses, surgeries, or medical problems you have had with your bladder, kidneys, urethra, vagina, or prostate. Scar tissue or adhesion can sometimes be removed with a minor surgery, which will allow for more room for urine flow.Scarred areas can also be open up with dilators, which stretch the area to allow urine to flow better. These procedures often need to be repeated over time., Stay away from antihistamines like Benadryl, and decongestants like pseudoephedrine found in many cold medicines. Ingredients in these make it harder to urinate.