 Children sometimes think of the internet as a “pretend” kind of place free of real-world consequences. You should correct these misunderstandings as soon as your children are old enough to get online. Mention the threat of cyber bullying, but in addition, make sure your children know that they should not communicate with strangers online or attempt to meet up with people they meet online.;
, Discourage your children from placing their full names, addresses, or other identifying information on websites. These habits are important safety precautions in and of themselves, but they also help instill the notion that the virtual world and the physical world are connected, and that what they do online can have consequences offline.
 Children and teenagers sometimes fail to realize that any pictures they post online are no longer private; they lose control of who can see them and make themselves vulnerable to predators. Make sure your children realize that embarrassing pictures, sexy pictures, or any pictures that reveal their naked bodies should not be shared online.
 Tell your children that they should not share their passwords with anyone, including their closest friends. Sharing passwords removes one’s ability to maintain control of what is posted from personal accounts


Consider requiring your children to share their passwords with you, however, especially if they are still quite immature and/or they have shown themselves to be irresponsible about the online world. Having your child’s passwords will allow you to monitor his or her online activities.
 Using the internet is, in many ways, just like interacting in the real world: your children need to be polite and consider other people’s feelings.


In particular, encourage your children to stop and think about what they want to say before posting something online. The perceived social distance that’s involved in online activities can sometimes prompt children and teenagers to say things that they would never say to someone in person. Remind them that what they do on the internet is “real.” Suggest that they refrain from sending messages when they are angry or upset.
 Tell your children that you want them to come to you if they run into problems online. If they are being cyber bullied, you want to know about it.
 Your children may not perceive certain behaviors as “bullying” unless you make it crystal clear. Tell them that sending mean text messages or emails, whether the content is true or false, is a form of cyber bullying.
 Cyber bullies may post embarrassing content via texts, emails, or social media outlets; they may also post embarrassing pictures or videos, sometimes of a sexual nature. These actions are absolutely unacceptable.
 Creating online space for the purposes of harassing, embarrassing, or threatening anyone should not be tolerated.
 Creating fake profiles for someone else or posting potentially embarrassing or upsetting content under another person’s name should be considered cyber bullying.
 For starters, your child should be required to tell you if he or she (or someone else he or she knows) is being bullied online.


It’s a good idea to reassure your child that he or she will not be punished for coming to you with this problem. If, for example, you respond by taking away his or her electronic devices, you will only ensure that your child never comes to you again.
 If your child is being targeted online, you need to get involved. Do not dismiss the problem or wait for it to escalate before taking action.
 If you know who is bullying your child online, consider contacting that person’s parents or the school authorities. Be sure to discuss this course of action with your child, though.


More and more schools have explicit policies about cyber bullying. Check and see if your child’s school does.
 Whether your child is the target or not, he or she should know not to pass along any messages that qualify as cyber bullying. Insist that your child not reply to these messages or try to “fight back,” as this will only exacerbate the situation.
 If your child is being cyber bullied, have them block or “un-friend” the bullies when possible. Direct any messages to specific folders; leave them unread and do not reply. If possible, block the email addresses and cell phone numbers of cyber bullies.
 Save all evidence, including messages, pictures, and text messages

, Let your child know that being victimized online is not his or her fault. Offer your non-judgmental support, and watch your child for signs of emotional distress. Get help as needed.
 If your child is being bullied online, you should report it to your internet service provider, your cell phone company, and the support teams of any websites involved in the bullying.
 Get appropriate legal advice, and, using any documented evidence of cyber bullying, think about going to the police. Contacting the police is especially advisable if the bullying involves sexual content, fraud, threats, or extortion.

