 Generally companies will ask for two to three references, if they ask for any references at all. Just in case, make a list of four to five people you think would be good, on the off chance that one of the people you select does not want to be a reference. You should pick people who have worked closely with you in a school or work setting. Choose former supervisors, employers, coordinators, or teachers or faculty members who can share information about the positive abilities, skills and qualifications you have to offer.


You could also select colleagues, peers or co-workers who can provide insight to your work ethic, skill levels and abilities. People who can provide examples detailing your positive qualities because of your work relationships are effective references.
Consider people with whom you've volunteered or worked with through a non-profit organization. Despite not being paid for your work, you may have shown leadership or other skills that can be valuable as a candidate for a job or higher education. People with whom you've volunteered may be able to share details about your skills.;
, Some people would prefer not to be contacted by companies wanting to get an idea of your character. However, most people will say yes, particularly if they are close to you in some way. Do not give out their contact information to potential employers unless they give you their explicit permission. Find out how they would best like to be contacted (for example, cell phone, email, etc.)When asking someone to be your reference, make sure that they plan on giving you a positive recommendation. You should try to select people you know will give you an excellent recommendation.
 Only do this if the company you are applying to specifically asks that you provide references. If you are applying for housing (such as when you wish to rent an apartment), you will most likely have to provide references with your housing application.


You should not mention references unless you are asked to do so by the company or program you are applying to.
 Use the same fonts, sizes, dividers, graphics and phrasing methods. Your references sheet should be a complementary piece to your resume., Write your name out at the top of the page in a large, clear font in bold. Write your address, phone number, and email in a smaller font underneath your name.If you would like to make a clear break between your header and the content of your page, add a line below your contact information.
 The title should be about the same size as your name. Your title should be to the point--do not make it flowery in any way. Something like “References” or “Professional References for (Your Name)” would work.
 You do not need to list your references in a specific order. If you have a reference who is “best” (someone you know very well and will give you a stellar review) you could list this person first. Otherwise, you could organize your list so that it is alphabetical.


Write down your first reference. His or her name should be in bold. Underneath his/her name, write his/her relationship to you (ie. Professor, or Boss) and the company or program that you both worked for.
Write down the company’s address if your reference still works at that company. If he/she does not, do not list any address.
List your reference’s contact information a line below your relationship to your reference. This should be the contact information they provided you--either a telephone number, email, or both.
 Do so by following the format detailed above. If you are listing a lot of references, you could format your list so that your references are placed in categories (ie. References from School, References from Work, etc.) This is optional and only should be done if you must list many references.
 Spelling errors on your reference page can reflect poorly on you.

