 When a person goes through a difficult time, such as the loss of a loved one or job loss, they usually have a swell of support. As time passes, other people move on and continue their lives, leaving the person in distress to fend for themselves. You should check in every week with the person you sympathize with to be sure that they are still doing well.This does not have to be an awkward check in. You could simply have coffee with them once a week and say things like “So how are doing this week?”

, Your friend may need to talk about what they are experiencing. Let your friend know you are available to listen, and make it clear they have your undivided attention. Put away electronics like your phone and turn off the television or other distractions. Make eye contact, nod and make sounds where appropriate (such as "Uh huh," or "I see,") to show that you are listening. Put aside judgement and don't think about your response or what you think they should have done/should be doing. Let them talk and don't interrupt.


Don't rush the person. They may not be ready to talk, or it may take them a while to articulate their thoughts.
 People often judge others harshly if they do not remove themselves from a bad situation (such as a hostile relationship) or “get over” a tragic event (such as a death in the family) in a certain time frame. Keep in mind that everyone fights their own battles on their own time, and it is not your place to decide when or how someone else moves to the next phase of their life. Remain caring and compassionate toward the person you sympathize with and reserve judgment for how the deal with their situation.This does not mean that you have to condone any behavior that they exhibit. You are free to cut ties with the person if/when the connection becomes unhealthy for you.
 Aside from frequent check-ins, you should make it clear that you are available to the other person any time they need someone to lean on. Answer their calls, texts, emails, etc. and be willing to help them do chores or other daily tasks. If there is a big project to be done, such as remodeling a room after a spouse passed away, volunteer to help out.