 Buy-sell agreements differ slightly depending on whether you are a partnership, closely-held corporation, or LLC. You should ask other business owners if they have an agreement you can use as a guide.


Search also online. Some sample agreements have been posted which you can modify.
However, don’t simply copy from an agreement you find on the Internet. Instead, tailor it to your situation.;
, Open a blank word processing document and set the font to something legible. Times New Roman or Arial 12 point works for many people. Also provide a one-inch margin on each side.
 Your buy-sell agreement is a contract between each owner and the business. Identify these parties in the opening paragraph.


For example, you can write: “This agreement (‘Agreement’) is between April Jones, Alex Smith, Kyle Kristiansen, and Bettina Castle (‘Owners’) and ABC Fluoride Company (‘Company’).”, Provide a few sentences stating why you are making this agreement. For example, you probably want to provide for the continuity of the business in the event an owner leaves or dies.


For example, you can write, “Owners and Company wish to guarantee the continuity of management. All interests in Company now owned or subsequently acquired are subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. No interest may be transferred, in any manner, except as provided by this Agreement. In consideration of the mutual promises in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:”, It might be helpful to include a chart showing each person’s ownership percentage. For example, you can write “April Jones owns 25% of the business.”, Although a departing owner might have a buyer in mind, you can get a right of first refusal to buy the ownership interest. You should also state that the departing owner shall provide the business with written notice of their intent to sell.


Sample language might read: “No Owner shall have the right to sell, dispose, or transfer any ownership interest unless they deliver a written Notice of Intent to Transfer to the Company. This Notice shall contain the name and address of the proposed transferee, as well as the terms and conditions of the transfer. The Company and other owners have an option, but no obligation, to purchase the interest proposed for transfer. They may exercise this option within 60 days of receiving the Notice. If the Company and other owners do not exercise this option, then the transferring owner may complete the transfer within 60 days after the end of the option.”This provision also helpfully requires the departing owner to give notice, and it provides deadlines for exercising the option to purchase.
 You have a couple options. You can have the departing owner set the price, which the business must pay. Or, you can set the price in the buy-sell agreement.If you choose to set the price in the agreement, you will explain how to calculate it later.
 This is a “triggering” event you need to plan for in your buy-sell agreement. You have a couple options when an owner wants to retire or quit. For example, you can provide for the business to have the right of first refusal. You can also give the departing owner the right to force a sale. Furthermore, you must decide whether the business entity itself will purchase the ownership interest or whether the remaining owners will.To give the departing owner the right to force a sale, include the following: “An Owner who voluntarily quits or retires can require Company to buy all of their ownership interest by delivering to Company at least 60 days before departing a Notice of Intention to Force a Sale. The Notice shall include the following: (a) date of departure, (b) name and address of the Owner, (c) description of the Owner’s interest, and (d) a statement that the Owner wishes to force a sale. The price and payment will be determined according to this Agreement.”, The disability or incapacity of an owner is another typical trigger. You can provide the same options—right of first refusal or forced buyout—that you did for a retiring owner. However, you might also want to define “disability.” If the business has disability insurance, then you can use the definition in the policy.


For example, you can write, “A Business Owner will be considered totally disabled in accordance with the definition of ‘total disability’ included in the Company’s disability insurance policy, listed in Schedule A.”, When the owner dies, their ownership interest transfers to their estate. If you want to purchase it from the estate, you should include a provision to that effect. You can alternately provide for a right of first refusal or for the estate to force the sale.


For example, you could write: “Upon an Owner’s death, their estate shall sell, and the Company shall purchase, the entire interest in the Company for the price agreed to herein.” This is a mandatory purchase by the company. Revise if you want instead a right of first refusal, or if you want the remaining owners to purchase the deceased owner’s shares.
Under state law, the death of a partner typically ends a partnership automatically. Accordingly, if you have a partnership, you’ll want to state that it will continue. For example, you can include the following: “The Owners expressly agree that they shall continue the Company without any interruption.”, Sometimes owners need to be expelled. You should provide for what happens to the ownership interest in this scenario. You also need to clearly define what qualifies as “adequate cause” for being expelled. This is often an area with a lot of lawsuits.


For example, you can write: “An Owner may be expelled upon a unanimous vote of the remaining Owners for adequate cause. Upon the expulsion, the expelled Owner’s interest in the Company is deemed to have been offered for sale to the Company . The Company shall have the option, but not an obligation, to purchase all or part of the ownership interest within 30 days after the vote to expel. The price paid shall be specified in this Agreement.”Remember to define adequate cause: “Adequate cause includes, but is not limited to, any criminal conduct committed against Company, a serious breach of the Owner’s duties to the Company, or a breach of any written policy.”

, As part of a divorce settlement, part of an owner’s interest in the business might be transferred to an ex-spouse. You will want to provide for this scenario. For example, you can state that the owner can purchase the interest from the divorced spouse or give the company the right to purchase.For example, you can write: “If a court issues a decree or awards part of the ownership interest of an Owner as part of a divorce proceeding, the former spouse is deemed to have offered the acquired ownership to the divorced Owner for purchase on the date of the court award or settlement.” This provision gives the divorcing owner a chance to buy back their share of the business.
You can also give the company an option to buy the interest from the ex-spouse. Ask for written notice from the divorcing owner that the ex-spouse is being given the interest in the property.
 You can value a business interest in different ways. You should state in your buy-sell agreement which one the business will use. Here are some of the more common:Agreed value. You can set a value in the buy-sell agreement. Alternately, you can provide that all owners will set a value later in a writing.
Book value. Book value is assets minus liabilities as shown on the company’s balance sheet. To determine the value, you multiple the owner’s ownership percentage by the book value.
Multiple of book value.
Appraised value. You can hire an appraiser to determine the fair market value. Both the withdrawing owner and the remaining owners should agree to the appraiser. If they can’t agree, each side can hire their own appraiser, who can try to reach agreement. If they can’t, the two appraisers will hire a third.
 Give considerable thought to where you will come up with the money in short notice to purchase the departing owner’s share of the business. There are many common funding mechanisms, but you should identify the best one for your business by talking with your financial planner or accountant:Insurance. In the event an owner becomes disabled or dies, you can use proceeds from an insurance policy. However, insurance won’t cover every triggering event.
Loans. You’ll need sufficient cash reserves or business assets to obtain a loan. You may need to include clauses in the buy-sell requiring sufficient reserves.
Installment sales. If you stretch out payment over several months, you can avoid taking a loan. However, the departing partner faces increased risk you won’t have the money to pay for their interest in the business. You might have to compensate by giving them a security interest in the business.
 Once you decide on a price, you need to pay the withdrawing owner. You have many options. Consider the following:Pay in full using cash. State when you will make payment, e.g., within 30 days of stating an intent to buy the departing owner’s share.
Pay in monthly installments. You can divide payment over several months and provide interest that compounds annually. State the day of the month you will make payment.
Customized payment plan. You might not want to make monthly installments. In that case, all owners can agree to a different payment schedule.
 The owners might decide to change the agreement or get rid of it altogether. Include a provision explaining how they can do this.


For example, you can state, “This Agreement may be amended by a writing signed by the Company and all Owners.”Termination usually occurs when the business dissolves or when the owners decide by writing to terminate the agreement.
 If a legal dispute breaks out, a judge must interpret the agreement according to a state’s law. You can choose the state. Unless you do business in multiple states, you should choose the state where you are located.


A sample provision will read: “This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.”, This article describes a basic buy-sell agreement. You might want to provide for other scenarios, such as an owner’s bankruptcy. You should show your draft to your business lawyer. If you don’t have one, obtain a referral from your local or state bar association.


Buy-sell agreements work in concert with other business agreements, such as partnership agreements, bylaws, or operating agreements. It’s a good idea to draft them at the same time. Your lawyer can help.
 Include signature blocks for all owners. Everyone should read and agree to the buy-sell agreement before signing. Each owner may want to hire their own lawyer to review the agreement.


Each individual owner should get a copy of the agreement.
Keep the original with your business records at your principal place of business.

