 Don’t worry about how it sounds - you won’t be showing it to others just yet. Concentrate on getting your story or book outline on paper, and worry about honing it later. Many a book has failed to eventuate thanks to wrong-end perfectionism––let the red pen come out after the words are down on paper.
 Your vocabulary, sentence structure and sentence length should be appropriate for the age group for whom you’re writing. If you're unsure, talk with various children of the age group you're writing for, and share some of the words you're keen to use, to gain an idea of the extent of their comprehension. While it is good to push children's learning a little, there is a limit to having every second word require a dictionary!


Write concise sentences that clearly communicate the ideas you want to share. This is a basic tenet of good writing for all ages. And it's especially important for children who are learning to grasp meaning from ever-increasing complexity.
Don’t underestimate the intellect of your readers. Children are fiercely intelligent, and if you make the mistake of writing “down” to them, they’ll quickly get bored with your book. Even though the themes are age appropriate and the sentences are simply written, your writing concepts should captivate your readers.
Keep up-to-date. Just because something doesn't interest you or seems too technical doesn't mean you can avoid it. Children want to read what's current in terms of language and concepts, so if that means learning about innards of such things as programming or texting lingo so that your story or information comes across as genuine, embrace the learning opportunity with enthusiasm!

, The ending doesn't always have to be happy––that can be a real disservice to a young reader, as life isn't about constant happy endings. The ending should be as strong as the rest of your book and not feel abrupt or disjointed. Sometimes it helps to take a break and come back to the book later, when a suitable conclusion will have shaped itself in your subconscious in the meantime; while for others, the conclusion is known well before the book begins!


For non-fiction, always seek to provide a conclusion of some sort, to end the work neatly. It might be an observation of where the topic is likely to head in the future, or a summary of what main points can be taken from the book, or perhaps a whimsical reflection about what the reader might like to do/read/learn next. Whatever your approach, keep it short as a young reader is not likely to want to read anything more than about a half page long by the end of a non-fiction work.

