 There is not only a category for all white oaks, there is actually a White Oak (Quercus alba) as well. It is distinguished by scaled, wart-like marks on the acorns and lightly colored bark. The leaves have:


5-7 lobes, fanning out wider as you get to the tip of the leaf.
Indentations roughly halfway to the center.
Bright, light green color.
 This Midwestern oak has dark bark and distinctive leaves:


Usually 5 lobes.
Wide, cross-like lobes.
Leathery, dark texture and color.
 Bur oaks, also found in the Midwest, have enormous leaves and distinctive acorns, which have an enormous cup (the little hat on the end) that almost covers the entire thing.


Leaves can get up to 1ft long
Wide, almost flat-ended lobes.
 Found often in rocky terrain, this widespread tree has reddish-brown acorns, dark brown, furrowed bark.


The edges of the leaves look like a serrated knife, but the veins don't go all the way to the points.
Leaf is wide on top, then gets smaller near the base.
Leaves between 4-9" long and 4" wide., The common red oak has flat-topped acorns, like it was wearing a pork-pie hat.


Light-green leaves with 6-7 lobes.
Indented roughly midway to the center.
Pointed lobes may have two smaller points on either side.
 The cup of the egg-shaped acorn only covers 1/4 of the whole nut, and the bark is long and light colored. A tall tree, it can get over 100 feet in height.


Leaves are dark green.
Lobes divide at the end into many bristle-tipped teeth.
Deep indentations.
 A common decorative tree, these fast-growing oaks have small, distinctive acorns with a saucer shaped cap and smooth, gray bark.


Thin leaves with deep indentations, making the leaf look skinny.
5-7 lobes, each with multiple points at the end.
Very bright, vibrant fall coloring to leaves.
The northern Pin Oak has similar leaves, but a much longer acorn.
 Black oaks have indistinctive leaves, but they do have a bright orange under-bark that you can often see in cracks on the tree.


Dark green leaves.
Large leaves, up to 12-inches long, that are wider at the ends than the base.