 Compared with high-fat breakfasts, high-carb and high-fiber breakfasts will leave you feeling full longer. With the right breakfast, you will be less inclined to snack throughout the day, and eat less during lunch and dinner.


There are many ways to achieve a healthy, high-carb, high-fiber breakfast. For instance, one cup of orange juice, one banana, and two slices of whole grain toast with two teaspoons of peanut butter will give you about 500 calories.
 These foods have high fiber, fat, and protein content, all of which have been proven to increase satiety (the feeling of fullness after eating).


Animal protein — eggs, meat, and dairy products — will also help you feel full, but is associated with many negative health impacts like high levels of cholesterol, cancer, and heart disease. Avoid these protein sources or limit them to just a few times each week.
Don’t overdo it with protein. Too much can leach calcium from your bones.
Most people need only about 40 – 50 grams of protein each day. Use the USDA’s online calculator at https://fnic.nal.usda.gov/fnic/interactiveDRI/ to figure out how much protein you should be consuming.
 A healthy diet based on whole grains, fruits, and vegetables will have plenty of fiber. Fruit is loaded with fiber. Try strawberries, blueberries, and honeydew melon for dessert or as a snack.


Also, choose whole grains whenever possible. Don’t just get whole grain bread — try whole grain pasta, too.
Air-popped popcorn is also a great source of fiber.
 Instead of sitting down in front of the TV or computer when you work, focus exclusively on your meal. This will help you have the most satisfying meal possible.


Chew slowly and deliberately. Chewing at least eight times per bite will elicit feelings of fullness faster than if you chew quickly.
After you’ve eaten, reflect periodically on the meal and think about how delicious it was. What was your favorite part of the meal? What did it taste like? Think about these questions will help you recall the sensation of eating, and you will stay full longer.
 In other words, you might attain the same feelings of fullness whether you eat 500 calories or 700 calories in a meal. If you want to lose weight, try to cut the calories in your foods by adding vegetables or substituting high-calorie ingredients for low-calorie versions.


For instance, use soy milk for cow’s milk when making smoothies or pasta sauce.
Add a side of vegetables to your meal instead of a side of greasy potato chips.

