 Spray paint is available in dozens of brands and hundreds of colors, so check out what types are offered in your area to see what will meet your project’s needs. A few other supplies are needed to do a professional spray paint job.


Pricier spray paint from art supply stores may be a good investment if you are short on time, as it typically requires less coats than cheaper varieties from hardware stores.






Keep in mind that light colors especially need multiple coats, so you may need to purchase multiple cans of spray paint in the same color.






Whenever possible, use a primer on your project before you spray paint. This will help the paint to adhere to the surface better, give a smoother surface, and enhance the color of the paint. It is also advisable to use a sealant as a final touch, to protect the paint.






Gather newspaper or plastic tarp to lay on the ground before painting. This will help keep your work area clean of the paint mist.






Always keep old rags available during the painting process to clean up any accidental paint application or messes.






If desired, use painters tape to cordon off certain areas of the surface you are painting or to give a smooth edge to your project.






Because most spray paint is toxic, it is always a good idea to use disposable gloves and a mask during the painting process. If you do not have a mask, be sure to paint in a well-ventilated area, and take a break if you feel even the slightest bit dizzy, queasy, or have difficulty breathing. Remember, your health and safety is always more important than your project.





;
, Paint has difficulty sticking to surfaces that are dusty, greasy, or otherwise unclean. Take a few minutes to wipe off any debris that might be clinging to the surface of the material you are working with.


You can use a damp rag only or use a household cleaner to aid in cleaning your project.






If there is any sticky residue on the surface of your item, such as the remnants of a price tag sticker, be sure to scrape it off and remove it completely during the cleaning process.






For surfaces that have a shiny wax coating or finishing product, use sandpaper to roughen it a bit. This will help the paint to stick better.
 Whenever you spray paint, you should always work outdoors in a well-ventilated area. Spray paint won’t adhere well if it is too cold or wet outside, so wait for a time when humidity is below 65% and it is sunny and at least slightly warm.

Place your newspaper or tarp down with weights (like rocks) to keep it from blowing around in the wind. Be sure to spread it far enough out, otherwise your yard or driveway may have a light misting of color.






Tape off any areas you don’t want painted on your project. Be sure the edges are sealed well to the surface to prevent paint from leaking underneath.






Get your mask and disposable gloves on. These are important for keeping your lungs safe during the painting process.