 Take pictures or video, if possible. If dead fish wash ashore, then you can collect those as well. Also collect the following information, which you will want to share with the appropriate government authority:the identity of the polluter, including the individual’s name, company name, and contact information
the type and quality of materials used
where the pollution occurred
the dates of the polluting
any bodies of water impacted
whether you have contacted any other government agency;
, Your state probably has a department that accepts complaints about pollution. In Virginia, for example, the Department of Environmental Quality makes an online complaint form available to the public.To find your state’s agency, search for “your state” and “report pollution.” There may be a phone number you can call.
You might be able to report anonymously. However, you should think about giving your name. If you give your name, then the government agency can contact you with follow-up questions. You may also be asked to testify if the government sues the polluter.
 You generally cannot sue for pollution on public property. This is called “public nuisance.”Instead, you will need your city or state to sue a polluter.


Find the phone number in your phone book or look online. Call and report the pollution. Offer to show the lawyer’s office your evidence.
 If you were injured by the pollution, then you should meet with a lawyer. The lawyer will help you understand whether you can bring a “public nuisance” lawsuit. Typically, you can only bring a public nuisance lawsuit if you were injured in a way that is different than the rest of the public at large.For example, the pollution might have triggered a family member’s allergies, leading to their incapacitation. You might be able to sue in this situation.
To find a qualified attorney, visit your state or local bar association and ask for a referral. Once you have a name, call the lawyer and schedule a consultation.
Take all relevant documents to the lawyer, including medical records, your pictures of the pollution, and any response from government officials.

