 It is absolutely important to make sure that you have a secure yard to keep your dog on your property. Check the fence around your yard for weak spots that your dog might be able to chew through or dig under, such as holes or dents. For wooden fences, inspect the quality of the wood to ensure that fence posts aren't weak enough to loosen (e.g. from termite damage.)In terms of sturdiness, aluminum, vinyl or wrought iron are the best types of fences to opt for.;
, Repair your fence by fixing any gaps that might allow your dog to escape. When fixing a picket fence, for instance, this might mean replacing a wooden fence post. It could also mean patching a chain link fence., To prevent your dog from digging under the fence, lay chicken wire or standard 2" by 4" chain link fencing under your fence, at a 90 degree angle to it. The extra fencing should extend 2-3 feet into the yard, where you can then bury it underground or weigh it down with large rocks. Alternatively, you can lay a cement footer around the base of the fence to solidify it in the ground., Ideally, a fence should be at least 6 feet tall to keep in all dogs - shorter fences can be adequate for smaller dogs, but 6 feet is the best number to play it safe. Be sure to monitor your dog outdoors to note if it has a tendency to jump. Remember that the fence should not only keep your dog in the yard, but also keep other, potentially dangerous animals out of it., To prevent your dog from jumping out of the yard, or an unwanted animal from getting in, consider adding an extension to your fence. The height of the extension is not important as long as it tilts inward at a 45 degree angle, which will thwart escape or entry. Visit a hardware store for pricing or call a local fence installation professional for a quote or more information., If your yard does not have a fence, or if your fence isn't solid or high enough to contain your dog, consider having a new one installed. Note that this will either be a large investment of your time or money - building your own fence is an ambitious project, but paying professionals to install it will cost several thousand dollars on average. Note that chain link fencing is the cheapest option either way, at about $16 a foot.