 How would you list every sensation that you find pleasurable off the top of your head?;
, This will take trial and error, time, and a lot of frustration, but there's nothing else to be done for it. Observe their reactions to stimuli, note what makes them overwhelmed, and talk to them when they have problems.


Notice underlying patterns. For example, if your daughter is afraid of unexpected touch, refuses to wear jeans, and avoids getting her hands dirty, she is probably hypersensitive to touch. Checklists of various hyper- and hyposensitivities exist online to help you find patterns., Some children can't tolerate lumps in their food. If this is the case, puree their soups and make sure mashed potatoes are completely mashed, to begin with. Some children can't tolerate certain fabrics. If they don't know how to express this intolerance, which is likely no matter what the age of the child, this may result in epic meltdowns if they are dressed in the fabric or made to sleep with a blanket of the fabric.
 An occupational therapist can help your child learn to handle greater amounts of stimuli, or find constructive ways to deal with their excess energy. A therapist can increase your child's comfort levels, making them more engaged and cheerful.


Sensory integration therapy takes a while to make progress. It's better to start sooner rather than later.
 Sensory overload can feel frightening and disorienting, and your child may have no idea how to cope or handle the stress.


Quickly escort your child to a quiet place where they can recover. You may want to set up a calming down corner for this purpose.
Avoid placing demands on an overloaded child. They will probably not be able to handle the request, and may even lose the ability to process what you are saying. Try to avoid talking unnecessarily or touching them.After the child feels better, you can ask them what triggered the overload, and brainstorm ways to prevent similar situations in the future.
 Time spent exploring, walking around, and getting exercise will engage your child's senses in a comfortable way that they can control.
 Engaging their senses in a fun, relaxed way will help their brains handle sensory input better. Try finger paints, swings, climbing, bear hugs, jumping rope, and other activities.
 In all but the very most mild cases, the person actually cannot tolerate the sensation. It's not a preference, it's not just that they don't feel like it, they can't stand it.


The intolerance can manifest itself as distraction (like a mosquito buzzing around your ear), irritation (like those noisy neighbors who party all night), or even physical pain (like someone holding your ear to a megaphone and screaming into it). You'd cry too if it felt like your shirt was made of fire ants.
 Life is rough when it feels like the world is constantly attacking you. Your love and respect will help your child put on a brave face and stay confident.

