 One of the best ways you can enhance your lunch break – and likely the rest of your day – is by meditating during lunch. Right before you eat, go somewhere you won’t be disturbed and meditate for five or ten minutes. Doing this just a few times can be especially routine-enhancing, as your brain will start to crave meditation as your belly starts gurgling for lunch., If you aren’t a morning person, there are plenty of other options that might be perfect for a daily meditation session. Try to get in the habit of meditating every day after work. For instance, if you have a commute, meditate outside before getting into your vehicle.Meditating as soon as you get home is another great option. Post-work meditation sessions may be especially beneficial, as they will help you shift gears from your work day to your life at home.
 Another good way to increase your familiarity and appreciate for meditation is by simply taking the opportunity to meditate whenever it comes up. If you’re having trouble deciding on a time and sticking to it, shoot to meditate for one minute at least five times in the course of a day.Set a timer for 60 seconds and close your eyes. Focus only on your breath, thinking of how it feels entering and leaving your mouth, your throat, your lungs. This alone will increase your calmness.
Points in your day where you could likely meditate for at least a minute include right when you wake up, right when you arrive at work (perhaps before entering the building), between completing tasks, and right before preparing or eating dinner.
 There are lots of opportunities to meditate that may be passing you by unnoticed. Next time you’re doing the dishes, in the shower, or hanging with a pet, meditate. Simply choose something to focus on. A great option is the way something feels, or the ways a repetitious or cyclical noise sounds. Think only about whatever you choose, pushing away any other thoughts that arise., Do you find yourself scrolling through your Instagram feed pretty often, perhaps even looking blankly at the same posts more than once? Whenever you catch yourself wasting time, immediately sit down to meditate.Many, many people fill the momentary pauses in their lives with further stimulation – often via their phones. Look to stop using your phone simply to kill time, and use that time to meditate instead!

