 In order to reverse your body image from bad to good, you need to understand the inner working of why you feel the way you do. Do you feel bad about your body because a loved one called you too fat or too skinny? Are you idolizing celebrities and models that you see on TV? Are you unhappy about some other aspect of your life and your body image is suffering because of it? Maybe your body is not changing at the rate of everyone else your age and you feel ashamed or disappointed?Whatever the underlying reason for your poor body image, you need to strive to uncover the root of this problem. Only after identifying the cause can you make an effective attempt at overcoming this issue.;
, Challenge negative thoughts. When you notice a rampage of negative thoughts targeted at your body, take note of the trigger and then try to challenge these thoughts.Firstly, examine where the thoughts came from. Unhealthy thoughts about our bodies might arise from reading magazines, hanging with friends who use "fat-talk", or being insulted by a classmate or family members. Try to figure out why you are having negative thoughts about your body today.
Next, attack these thoughts. Negative thoughts are typically the result of a cognitive distortion. These include over-generalizations, jumping to conclusions, and discounting the positives, among others. For example, you might receive many compliments on a new outfit but one key person does not seem to notice. As a result you discount the other compliments saying to yourself "this outfit looks stupid. ____ didn't even say anything about it."
Challenge cognitive distortions, or negative, irrational thought patterns, by turning them into more realistic and positive thoughts. For instance, a better way of looking at the situation might be "Lots of people thought my outfit looked cool today. Maybe ____ was too preoccupied and didn't notice."

, Hold up a finger and "shhh" yourself and others when you put down your own body or that of others. Body-shaming occurs when a person is criticized for being fat, chastised for being skinny, called out for conforming to society's strict guidelines of beauty, judged by others in the gym, or depicted due to a body size at either extreme as being unattractive sexually.When you catch yourself or someone else taking part in these body-shaming behaviors, stop them immediately. Emphasize the significance of overall health and inner beauty rather than bashing people for not meeting the twisted standards of outer-beauty.
 It's virtually impossible to feel great about your body when you are wearing clothing that is too big or too little. Dressing in clothing that fits your body well can help you to feel more confident and attractive. There is something captivating about every body - thin, curvy, apple-shaped, or boxy. Visit a local retailer or check out an online buying guide to help you determine which clothes flatter your unique body shape best.