 Decide how many people you want to invite. Make the evening feel special by sending out invitations by post or email. Include details about the activities you have planned and tell them if it will be a slumber party. Encourage your friends to wear comfortable clothing.Ask your friends to bring a towel and open-toed shoes.;
, Pick up indulgent snacks, like chocolate covered strawberries and potato chips. Buy beverages that will help you relax, for example wine, cocktails (or mocktails if you don’t drink alcohol), tea, or hot chocolate. For a spa feel, have lots of sparkling or spring water with cut-up citrus slices and pretty glasses.


Make the food and drinks available throughout the evening.
Replenish snacks and drinks when they are running low.
Consider ending the evening by making chocolate fondue. Some nice things to dip include marshmallows, strawberries, mango, dried fruits, and pieces of pound cake.
 For mani-pedis, buy fresh nail polishes, pumice stones, polish remover, lotions, foot soaks, and nail files. Pick up some cucumbers for putting over your eyes, headbands, facial masks, toner, and moisturizer for facials. Also buy some non-oily lotion for massages, and candles and an aromatherapy oil or lotion for meditation.Consider getting or making some deep conditioner to do scalp and hair conditioning treatments.
 Prepare for different pampering activities in your bathroom, kitchen, and main room. Gather supplies for each station and put them together. Set out towels for mani-pedis, facials, and hair conditioning. Include bowls for soaking hands and feet during mani-pedis. Put out pillows and candles for meditation and massage.You’ll need access to running water for facials and hair treatments.
 Clean up the areas where you’ll be hanging out. Clear out clutter and wipe down surfaces. Put out comfortable throw pillows for lounging and fluffy towels for spa activities. Create a relaxing atmosphere with candles and low lighting. Add some mellow music to help your friends relax., Greet your guests and help them settle into the cozy space you’ve set up for your evening. Show friends around your home if they haven’t been there before. While you give the tour, point out the different spa stations you've set up.


If you’re having a slumber party, set up your sleeping area together.
Put out a basket for cell phones. Everyone can put their phone to the side, unplug, and really unwind.
Tell your friends anything they should know about your house, like if there are door locks that don’t work.
 Begin your facials by steaming your faces over a bowl of hot water to open your pores. Wash your faces and smear on the face masks. You can also smear the masks on each other. Lie back and put the cucumber slices over your eyes. While you let the masks dry, listen to music or chat. After about 15 minutes, rinse the dried masks off of your faces and apply moisturizer., Soak your hands and feet. You can use warm water and a mild soap or you can make a relaxing soak from scratch. Use a pumice stone to smooth rough skin and then moisturize well with a nice lotion. Use an emery board to file each other’s nails. Be sure to ask about the length and shape your friends prefer before filing. Finally, paint each other’s nails.


Use a base coat under colored nail polish to keep the polish on your nails longer.
Apply two coats of colored polish. Let it dry a bit between coats.
Finish painting your nails with a clear top coat to protect your polish and keep it on your nails longer.
You can use nail stickers to decorate your nails after you paint them.
 Once your nails are dry, have fun by putting makeup on each other. Next, give each other fun hair styles. You can make braids or use a curling wand or straightening iron for different styles. Be sure to take pictures when you’re all made up.


Do not share makeup, especially eye makeup.
 Settle on the pillows and ask everyone to find a partner. Pass around the lotion and have one partner use it to massage the other partner’s shoulders and hands, or their feet. Encourage your friends to apply firm pressure to knead muscles and to ask their partners about what feels best. The partners should switch places, so the person who gave the first massage now receives a massage., Set up for meditation by lighting candles and getting comfortable on the pillows. Use an oil diffuser to permeate the air with aromatherapy oils. If you have aromatherapy lotion, everyone can massage some into their hands or even their temples. Ask everyone to close their eyes and steady their breathing. At this point, you can play a very short meditation tape (you can find these online or in stores), or you can lead your friends through a guided practice if you know how., Finish relaxing with a movie. Make sure everyone is comfortable and has something to eat and drink. Play a movie, but keep the volume low so you can talk. Chick flicks are very popular for slumber parties and ladies’ nights in.

