 The run menu can be found in the Start menu.;
, If you have a .SED file, pick "Open existing SED", but because this is probably your first time with this, pick the top option, then "Next".

If you want the files will be extracted to a folder the installation makes, check the first option, and click on "Next".






If you want the installation file only to be installed, check the middle option, and click on "Next".






Do NOT pick the third option. It will make a CAB file, not an installation file.
 This will be the file name for the installation, but you can also see it on the Title Bar (The blue bar above programs), and click on "Next".
 This asks the user if it's sure if it wants to install the program.
If you want that feature, pick the last option, what will it ask, and click on "Next".






If you don't want that feature, and the installation starts right away, pick the first option, and click on "Next".
 This must be a .txt file.
If you don't want a license, pick the first option and click on "Next".






If you do want to add a license, pick the second option, pick the file and click on "Next".
 Click "Add" to add a file. If you want to erase I file you've uploaded, click it to highlight it and click on "Remove". After doing so, click on "Next".
 This is all up to you and your preferences.
If you want the size will be in about the size of an error message, pick the first option and then click on "Next".






If you want the window to be behind everything, pick the second option and then click on "Next".






If you want the size will be small, pick the third option and then click on "Next".






If you want a full screen installation, pick the last option and then click on "Next".
 Messages that pop up after the installation ended, like "Thanks!", "Installation Completed, You may exit" or even "Visit my website!".
 This is where the final product will be saved at your computer, to send it to others or to upload. Click next, and go through the finishing notes.
 It loads the files to the installation, as well as creates the installation.

