 The best and fastest way of researching is to search on the Internet for legal information and things you should know well in advance of traveling to that country. View travel advisories from reputable sources such as the US, UK, and Australian Governments, and take note of any potential issues you may encounter. A streetwise traveler should also know emergency numbers, and at least a bit of the language (like the word for "help"). Also find out places to avoid, like alleys, bad neighborhoods, and red light districts. Your government may have resources available to travelers that will outline what you need to be prepared for.Know the local customs. There are many gestures that you may be accustomed to, but are frowned upon in other countries where they may be seen as the opposite of their intention. For instance, the thumbs up "OK" sign that is used in much of the West is a nasty hand gesture in other countries such as Greece. Your travel agent should be able to help you with determining the customs you're used to that might have the opposite effect in a different country.
Learn how the locals dress. If the locals are dressed in a moderate way, you should dress the same. You don't want to draw unwanted attention to yourself, especially at sites of religious importance.;
, Make copies of your passport, travel itinerary and tickets, credit cards, driver's license, and any other important documents. Copy the back of everything, as well. This can make it easier for you to recover if any of your documents are stolen, but keep the copies in separate locations, and keep them safe. You can also consider making scans of your documents and e-mailing them as attachments to yourself to be printed when and if needed. You may be able to store your important documents in an online "safe" for more security.
 For some countries, such as the USA and Australia, it is possible to register with a consulate online, ahead of travel. Once you have done this, if there arises any kind of natural disaster or military conflict, the consulate will know that you are in the country, which is the first step in being able to offer assistance.


Contact your country's embassy (or closest embassy) upon arriving. Advise them of your location and your name, especially if you are in a politically turbulent foreign country. If possible, travel to the embassy, or at least spot it on a map and know how you can get there if you need to.
 Generally, don't wear any of the following:


Excessive or expensive-looking jewelry
A nice pair of sneakers (especially white ones) - You might be tempted to because you might be doing a lot of walking, but a nice pair of sneakers will show people that you are indeed a tourist (which makes you look like a target to thieves).If you must wear sneakers, make sure that they are not the type that would attract attention.
Fanny pack - A pickpocket could easily unzip (or take a knife to) and empty the contents of the the fanny pack without you being aware.
Tote bags imprinted with a tour group operator name or symbol
Obviously new apparel
Electronics - If you must bring them, put them in the oldest, most beaten-up backpack you can find.
 Remember that the tap water may be treated with different chemicals from those in your home country and could still make you ill if you drink it, especially for children and the elderly.Also, when buying water from a vendor in the streets, make sure that the cap is still attached to its ring.
 Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are common to all cities across the world, even your own. The occurrence of STDs like AIDS and syphilis is higher in some cities, especially among prostitutes. Remember, the only guaranteed protection is not having sex in the first place, but if you do, wear or require your partner to wear protection that reduces the transmission of disease, and if necessary take precautions against date rape.
 No one but you needs to know where you are staying, where you are going, and when you are doing it. No matter how trustworthy a person seems, it's not important they know your personal information. If somebody asks where you are staying, then lie. When checking in a hotel, don't say your room number out loud at any time. Ideally, the hotel clerk should be discreet about it also (writing the room number on your key envelope) but if you think others heard your room number, simply ask to have it changed.
 Ask for a room that is not on the ground floor or near the elevator or fire stairs, as they tend to get thieved more often. Bring a rubber door wedge and put it under your door every night, just in case. If someone has a key or picks the lock, the rubber wedge will give you enough time to make a commotion and call for help. If you don't have a wedge, put the chair up against the doorknob. Put a "do not disturb" sign on your door when you leave so that people think you're in there. Leave the TV on at a moderate volume so that people cannot tell if your room is occupied or not. Keep your valuables out of sight in a safe or in a not-so-obvious container (like a bread box)., If you are quiet and respectful, you are less likely to draw attention to yourself through your behavior. Depending on the local customs, however, do not assume that being extra friendly is beneficial -- it may be interpreted as an invitation that you never meant to offer, especially if you are female. Avoid doing anything (having drinks, doing drugs) that makes you loud or belligerent in any way. Not only will you draw attention to yourself in a negative way, but you'll also be more vulnerable because you're not completely alert.
 Do not place your credit cards, cash, ID cards, and passport all in the same place.


Keep cash and credit cards separate from ID cards. By keeping things separated you eliminate the risk of having them all stolen.
Always have some cash stashed away in a shoe, a hidden pocket, or in yet another shoe, in case you need immediate cash for taxi ride or something fast to eat. Do not carry too much cash, and never flash it all when you pay.
If you have a wallet, wear it in your front pants pocket instead of in the back and your pocketbook close to the body. To be extra safe, prepare a mugger's wallet -- an inexpensive wallet with a small amount of real cash plus expired credit cards and fake IDs.
 Throw it towards them but aim for further than them. As they run to get the wallet, you have the chance to run the opposite way to get away from them. The muggers are more interested in the cash and won't take the time to examine the fake cards and IDs until later.
 This way, no cars can sneak up behind you and commit a crime. It has also been known for thieves on scooters to snatch handbags as they drive past. Keep your handbag/suitcase on the side of your body that is away from the traffic. By doing this, you can also minimize the risk of any accidents, which could arise from not seeing the speeding cars behind you.
 Steer clear of unlicensed taxis. Better still, hire a car, or get a bus or train. Try to get a seat at the front of the bus, as you will be near the driver. You should never go on the top floor of a bus late at night. If you are getting a train, try to find a seat in a busy carriage somewhere in the middle of the train. This means you will only have to walk down half a potentially lonely and poorly lit platform. If necessary, sit close to the emergency button/intercom.
 If it is a certified taxi driver, then make sure by asking for identification. If you find out too late that you are in an illegal taxi driver's car, break away through windows or the door.
 Make sure the doors open from the inside. When you arrive at your destination, have the money ready immediately and do not linger in the car.
 Some countries will drive on the left side of the road, others on the right. In the U.S., you drive on the right side; in Japan the UK, Australia or New Zealand you drive on the left side. Driving on the opposite side of the road to what you are accustomed is a significant adjustment; in particular, be very careful when turning to be sure you end up on the correct side of the road. Also, don't back up more than absolutely necessary. For example, back out of parking spaces, but don't back up if you missed a turn. Backing up on the wrong side of the road is even more difficult than driving on the wrong side of the road.

