 Inspect your house, garage, and fence. Look for holes 3 inches (7.6 cm) in diameter or bigger. Check downspouts for scratches and body oil stains where racoons might have been climbing. If they're in your attic, look under nooks, dormers, or broken vents. If you hear them in your crawl space, look for broken vents or borrows. It might also help to check for footprints, especially if recent rains have created muddy conditions.
 Raccoons don't use nesting materials like birds do. The only way to identify a nest is by the fecal matter they leave. Look for brown cylindrical objects with digested berries. Raccoon feces look similar to those left by small dogs. When in doubt, contact your local extension office.
 Boil one cup of cayenne pepper and 3-5 chopped habanero chilis with water in a pot and let it cool. Transfer it into a spray bottle. Spray the entry points you've identified. Because raccoons follow their noses, this spray will make their nesting area unbearable.Use goggles and a respirator before spraying in enclosed areas. Although hot peppers are technically non-toxic, they can irritate mucous membranes in your eyes and mouth., Check around your roof, foundation, or siding. Look for telltale signs like freshly dug holes, nesting materials, dirt stains, or hair stuck to the entry point. If the point of entry is in or near your foundation, you can also check for paw prints in the soil.
 Make sure the raccoons have left the area before you seal off any openings. You're most likely to find an empty space if you start working between 8:00 and 11:00pm, when most raccoons are out scavenging.Cover the entry points with 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) of wire meshing. Then, seal the mesh with a foam or caulking gun.
 Wait until between 8:00 and 11:00pm. Stuff the newspaper lightly into the opening. Check the newspaper in the morning. If it's been moved, the raccoons might have left. Put it back in place. Continue to monitor the area for 48 hours. If the newspaper is still in place, you can permanently seal the hole.









If it has been moved, the raccoon(s) might be back. Check if you're dealing with a mother and her young. If this is the case, let the young grow up so that the mother can move them on her own. If you find abandoned young, call your local wildlife rehabilitation center for assistance.If no young are on site, hire a professional to install a one-way door that will allow raccoons to exit but not re-enter.Don't permanently block any vents with newspaper.
 Raccoons can easily scale wood or metal fences. They also use nearby tree limbs or shrubs to help them over fences. Run electrified wires at the top and bottom of your fence to deter intrusions. Prune tree limbs near fences.


If you decide to replace your fence, make sure the mesh is no wider than 3 inches (7.6 cm). This will prevent young raccoons from entering your yard.