 The faster you can address a spill, the less likely it will be to cause a permanent stain on the fabric. Address new stains as soon as possible after they occur., Use a gentle touch and a towel to carefully blot at fresh spills. Do not rub the fabric, since this can push the stain even more deeply into the tweed fibers. Soak up as much of the liquid as you can from the fabric.
 Modern tweed may be a mix of other fabrics with wool, so it’s possible that you can wash it in the washing machine. If your tweed item still has its care tag attached, check it for instructions. If it's machine washable, place it in a mesh bag first to protect it, then follow the care tag's specific directions.If your item's tag says “Dry Clean Only,” follow those instructions.
If there’s no care tag and the item is expensive, dry cleaning may be the safest option for dealing with set-in stains.
 Spot-cleaning with a mild detergent is the best option for most stains on tweed, since it's effective on oil-based and water-based stains alike. If you're dealing with a water-based stain, attempt to spot-clean it with mild detergent first before resorting to a dry cleaning kit. For oil-based stains, always spot-clean with detergent; dry cleaning solvents may make oil-based stains worse or ruin the fabric.
 Before you address the stain with a cleaning solution, place a dry cloth or handful of paper towels underneath the stained fabric. This will help to capture the moisture that runs off during the cleansing process.
 Make sure the detergent you use is labeled “wool safe.”Use the water and mild detergent solution to address water-based stains like soup or juice. Use detergents that are petroleum-based to get rid of greasy or oil-based stains.
 Dip the sponge in the solution, then gently dab at the spot with it. After applying, allow the solution to sit for a few minutes on the fabric, which will help to loosen up the spilled substance embedded in the fibers., Dampen a clean towel with warm water and press it against the area to rinse away the detergent. If the stain persists, you can try to apply the detergent again or dry clean the tweed item.
 Use another clean dry towel to absorb excess moisture from the area. Lay the item out flat on a towel and allow it to air dry completely before using it. Never put any woolen fabrics in your dryer; this will ruin the item.