 Moleskin is used to prevent and treat blood blisters if they have already formed. Apply a layer of moleskin to the area on your hands or feet that may chafe against tools or your shoes to prevent blood blisters from forming.


You may also apply additional layers of moleskin to the area if one isn't enough by taping one layer of moleskin to another.
If you need a thicker layer of protection, you may also tape the area or use a blister plaster to protect it.;
, The hands and feet are most commonly affected by blood blisters, since you're most likely to encounter friction in those areas. Keeping these areas dry is an important way to prevent blisters. Sweaty and moist skin will encourage the layers of your skin to separate, resulting in blood blisters.


If your hands tend to sweat while you work, try a sprinkling of baby powder or cornstarch to keep them dry.
Keep your feet dry by wearing breathable socks and shoes. You can also use foot powder or cornstarch to absorb extra moisture.
 During tasks or activities that have a higher likelihood of blood blisters forming, use appropriate layers of protections. Any task that involves friction between your skin and another object could put you at risk for developing a blood blister.For example, if you're using a rake or an ax to do yard work, wear gloves to prevent the wooden tool handles from damaging your skin.
If you're planning a long hike, wear socks that won't rub against your skin.
 Wear a breathable shoe that offers support and isn’t too constricting. Give your feet room to move in your shoe, but not too much room as that can cause unnecessary friction. Use gel insoles or liners to help you get a better fit in your shoes if needed.


Insure that your shoe is properly fitted to your foot by assessing its length, width, and adjustability.Avoid cotton socks, as they retain fluid. Synthetic socks work best with wicking away moisture from the skin., When you are working with your hands, wear gloves designed to wick away moisture and to prevent friction or pinching from occurring. Be mindful of wearing a sport- or task-specific glove. Wearing the right gloves for the task can help prevent blood blisters from forming.


Make sure there are no seams where you will be applying pressure or between areas of high friction, such as the curve between your thumb and forefingers.