 Abandoned properties are often in default or near foreclosure. Sometimes you can find them on online databases like For Sale by Owner, Zillow, Trulia, or MLS. Advertisements for recently abandoned properties are likely to have key words like “immediate possession,” “must sell, “below market value,” or “under appraisal.”Alternatively, you can drive around looking for houses that show signs of disrepair. You will, however, need to do additional legwork to find the owner, including going to city hall and talking to neighbors.
You can also scan a neighborhood on google maps, searching for signs that an area is abandoned. However, this can be a difficult way to get a truly accurate assessment of the situation.;
, Neighbors are likely to know something about who the owner is or was and might be aggravated enough to talk about it at some length. They could also be able to tell you something about the condition of the house, which could be useful if you are considering a purchase. They might even be able to direct you to recent tenants.


If you have information about the condition of the home you can use it to negotiate a lower price.
Past tenants can be a particularly useful resource, because they have intimate knowledge of any problems with the property that could bring down its price., Without entering the property, walk around and see what condition it is in. Untended, overgrown gardens and lawns are the obvious signs the property is abandoned. Grass that is a foot deep would indicate that it has not been mowed in six months or so. Check if the path to the front door is blocked by branches or other debris. It is illegal to take mail out of the mailbox. But if you see any packages out, you can write down the name of the recipients and contact them to see if they know anything about the property or the owner.When the mailbox is full, mail might be piled around the base of the mailbox. Checking the date on the paper at the bottom of the mailbox may give you an indication of the last time the mail was picked up.
Weeds growing out of driveway cracks will be trampled and crushed by repeated vehicle use. If weeds on driveways are present, then the driveway hasn't been used.
In the power meter box by the front door, there is normally a master switch that controls all power to the house. If it is switched off, then the house is not permanently occupied. Similarly, the water meter tap may also have been turned off.
 Ask to speak to whoever can help you find the owner of a piece of property.Typically you will want to check with the probate court and the tax commissioner.You should try to collect as much information as possible, including the name of title owner, the name of the person who pays property taxes, and a full list of liens on the property.If you have trouble finding the owner, you can contact the person who pays taxes on the house. She probably know something about the whereabouts of the owner.
Unpaid taxes and liens can be used in negotiations to demand a lower price.
 Begin by searching “social security death record” to see if the owner is still alive. If the owner has passed away, find the next of kin.Use online databases to find contact information for the owner and any past tenants you have discovered.