 This paper bracelet uses extra long strips woven together to form a regular shaped band. You'll need scissors and tape to create your extra long strips, as well as:


Paper
Pencil
Piece of ribbon or twist tie
Ruler
Scissors
Tape

, To weave your bracelet, you'll need four thin strips of paper that are ten inches (25 cm) long and ¼ inch (½ cm) wide. First measure out these lengths on your paper with your ruler and mark the outline with your pencil. From there it should be a simple task to cut your strips free with your scissors.


You might want to use different colored paper to create a unique design in your bracelet., You'll need to combine two of your strips together to do this. Connect each strip end to end with tape. You might also use glue, but if you do, allow your strips to dry completely before weaving, as weak glue could cause your strips to come apart., Take one of your 20 inch strips and lay it horizontally in front of you. Take your other strip, and thread it under and around your horizontal strip to create a V shape. Starting left to right, number each strip with your pencil from one to four.
 Begin with four, folding it over three and aligning it with strip two. Do the same with strip one: fold it over two and align it with strip three.
 Adjust strip one so that it comes in front of strip four and aligns with strip three. Then fold strip three over strip one so it is parallel with strip four. Take strip two under strip four and then above strip three so it is in line with strip one.


Your strips should now be arranged in the following order from left to right: four, three, two, one., Fold your first strip over the second so it is side by side with strip three. Weave strip four under strip three but over strip one so it comes alongside strip two. Repeat this pattern until your bracelet is long enough for your wrist.At this stage, your strips should be in the following order: three, one, four two.
 When the weave of your bracelet as at the right length for your wrist, you can trim the loose ends to equal lengths and then tape along the end to prevent your weave from coming undone. Then:


Use a ribbon or a twist tie poked between the strips of your weave to connect the beginning to the ending.