 If you have had canker sores more than once in the last six months, you should see your physician. If your child has a canker sore, talk to your physician before using any home remedies. Most home remedies are considered safe for children over two years of age, but it is always best to speak to your physician first. You should also see your physician if you have:A large canker sore
A fever associated with the canker sore
Difficulty swallowing
Sores that are spreading
Sores that last more than three weeks
Sores that are still painful after using home remedies;
, Canker sores may be the result of an underlying condition, which will also require treatment. For example, if you have Crohn’s disease and have recurrent canker sores, then you would need to have treatment for the Crohn’s disease as well as for the canker sore.


Other conditions that can lead to canker sores include celiac disease and Behcet's disease.Canker sores are not contagious, but make eating and chewing more difficult.
 Treatment with silver nitrate solution, which will cauterize the canker sore, can relieve the pain of a canker sore within a few hours. Silver nitrate should only be applied by trained medical personnel, because it needs to be applied directly to the sore. Silver nitrate can leave a “burnt” taste in your mouth. It may also cause skin irritation, staining of the skin, and chemical burns.Silver nitrate hasn’t been shown to speed healing, but has helped out with the resulting pain.
 Another medication that can be used for canker sore pain is Debacterol. This medication can produce rapid relief from canker sore pain. This medicine should also be applied by a trained doctor or dentist.Debacterol is available by prescription only.
Similar to silver nitrate, Debacterol chemically cauterizes the canker sore. It can speed up healing to about a week., Some dental work, such as braces, may irritate a canker sore. If you have dental work that may be irritating the canker sore, ask your dentist for some dental wax to cover the dental work and minimize the irritation., Viscous lidocaine can be applied directly to the canker sore for pain relief. Lidocaine is an anesthetic, which means that it will numb the pain. Keep in mind that lidocaine should not be swallowed or used more than four times per day.