 A new family is being created and it takes time for everyone to get used to it – stepfamilies have their own dynamics and are different from a biological family.Blending a family successfully doesn't happen overnight. It takes time, and sometimes it never happens as you hope. Everyone is adjusting and it will continue to evolve. Clear, open, and honest communication is vital for success.Your dad may be eager for you to get along with and accept your stepmom, or become one "big, happy family," but this is probably unrealistic.If you feel your dad is pushing you, tell him you are open to the idea of a relationship with your stepmom, but it needs to happen slowly.
 Sometimes people are just so different from each other that it makes it difficult to build a relationship. When personalities clash it can make it almost impossible to find common ground to get to know each other.


If you do your best to be kind and respectful, you won’t be making the situation worse. In the meantime, look for any common interests you might have as a way to improve your relationship.
It's okay if you want to spend more time with friends or other family members right now. If you are invited to do things with your stepmom, it's okay to say you don't want to. Just try to do so in a respectful way.
 If your stepmom is difficult, rude, or bossy and continues to behave the same way after repeated attempts to keep the peace, it might be best to ignore her. Focus on yourself and what you can change within yourself to better adapt to her.


If your stepmom is rude to you, try not to take it personally. Take the power out of her rudeness by choosing to treat it as her problem, not your problem.Try to remember that you have a choice in how you react.
Don't let your stepmom's mood disrupt your day. The best way to diffuse difficult behavior is to stay friendly and helpful, rather than getting angry.
Joining in the drama will escalate the situation.
 Remember that you can't change someone's behavior. In fact, trying to get someone to change their behavior can often make things worse. Sometimes, you just need to accept that their negative attitude is not your fault.You might try to giving your stepmom some space and put your focus elsewhere.
If you need to, spend time playing sports or doing activities that get you out of the house. Hang out at your friends' houses and minimize your contact with your stepmom.

