 Selamectin and moxidectin are ivermectin (a broad spectrum anti-parasitic drug) derivatives and have shown to be specifically effective against ear mites. These are both prescription products, and will thus need to be supplied by your veterinarian. Their mode of action is to disable the parasite by interfering with their nerve conduction. This results in paralysis and eventual death of the mite.


Selamectin, in particular, is usually effective against ear mites. This drug works specifically by stimulating release of gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) which paralyzes the mites by blocking the neurotransmission of muscle fibers. Products containing selamectin are marketed in the UK as "Stronghold," and in the US as "Revolution.
 The mites pass readily between animals, and exposure to ear mites on another dog can quickly lead to re-infection, even while you are treating the affected dog.However, as a rule, no medications are licensed for use in pregnant or nursing dogs, and puppies less than 12 weeks of age. This is because the effect of the active ingredients on this group of animals has not been tested by manufacturers and cannot be verified as safe.
 Always get an accurate weight for any dog you plan to treat using spot-on remedies. Dosages depend on the dog's weight, and just making an "educated guess" can lead to over- or under-dosing your dog. Specifics will be printed on the packaging. Be sure to read these carefully, even if you've treated your dog for ear mites before, because proper dosages and usage instructions can vary from product to product.


Usually, around 2.5mg/kg is recommended for moxidectin (which is applied directly to the skin on the back of the neck).
Again, see the pack insert for specifics. However, the above is generally equivalent to:

0.4ml of moxidectin product for 3-9 lb. dog
1ml for 9.1-20 lb. dog
2.5ml for 20.5-55 lb. dog
4ml for 55.1-88 lb. dog
For dogs over 88 lb. an appropriate combination of packs should be used. Talk to your vet to determine the best combination for your situation.
 The placement of the medication will depend on the size of the dog and the volume of product to be applied. However, spot-on treatment will be often be applied to either the back of your dog's neck or between its shoulder blades. To apply spot-on treatment to one of the these locations: Ensure you're using the right amount of the ingredient. As stated above, different concentrations of the active ingredient are necessary, depending on the size of the dog, so you should be absolutely positive that you are using the recommended pipette strength for your pet’s weight.
Part the hair and place the tip of the tube onto a visible area of skin.
Squeeze the tube three or four times until the container has been emptied.
Avoid petting the area for a few hours after application to prevent the product from being spread to your hands.
 Some spot on treatments can be reapplied once a month for continued protection. If you find that your dog is frequently affected by ear mites, this might be a good option for you. Check with your vet to determine the best product to use in this case.

