

The best choice is a log from a fire-killed standing dead tree. A wildfire burns diseased trees to the ground, but leaves healthy trees dead but still standing. Therefore, your chances of getting good logs are best from these trees. Fire-killed wood also loses its bark, saving you time when you start building.



 


You can find fallen logs or logs that wash onto a beach or riverbank. You can also buy logs from a sawmill. However, you may find after you start working that these are rotten or have other problems that make them unsuitable.






Cut live trees down to get logs if it's legal to do so. You will have to wait about a year for the wood to dry enough to build with it. Stripping the bark will help it dry faster.





;
,

Saw 2 4-foot (1.2 m) posts and 2 3-foot (90 cm) posts to make the legs and the ends of the headboard and footboard. The posts should be cut from large, sturdy logs.






Saw 4 rails to separate the posts. Measure the mattress width and cut the rails to be 1 inch (2 to 3 cm) longer. When you cut the tenons to fit the rails into the posts, they will be the width of the mattress.






Cut spindles to place between the rails of the headboard and footboard. You need 36-inch (90 cm) spindles for the headboard and 24-inch (61 cm) spindles for the footboard. After cutting the tenons, they will measure 1 inch (2.5 cm) shorter. The number of spindles you need depends on the size of the bed.






Prepare 4 bed rails to connect the headpost to the foot post on each side. Measure the mattress length and cut the bed rails so they're 1 inch (2 to 3 cm) longer.
 These are blades with 2 handles that you set against the wood and pull toward you. A curved drawknife removes bark and a straight drawknife shapes the log.
 You can do this with a drawknife, but it's easier to do with a tenon maker, which attaches to a drill and operates like a giant pencil sharpener.
 Frostner bits drill flat-bottomed holes large enough to hold tenons.

Mortises for the headboard should be cut at 9 inches (23 cm) and 44 inches (1.1 m) from the floor. For the footboard, the mortises are cut at 9 inches (23 cm) and 32 inches (80 cm).






Spindle mortises are cut so the spindles will be evenly spaced.






Mortises for the bottom bed rail are drilled at 5 inches (13 cm) above the floor in all 4 posts. The mortises for the top bed rail are drilled at 13 inches (33 cm) from the floor.

