 If you're looking for free horse information online, a good all-in-one resource to start with is a horse discussion forum. At these sites, experienced horse caretakers, professionals, and newcomers alike have a space to discuss all things "horse." Odds are that if you can't get your question answered on a horse forum, you can at least get pointed in the right direction.


One very active horse forum is located (appropriately) at horseforum.com.With tens of thousands of threads on topics like horse health, horse grooming, horse training, and much, much more, it's likely that any question you might have has already been answered.
Other great forums include the official forums at the Chronicle of the Horse and the community forums at community.horse.com.;
, Believe it or not, streaming video sites (especially YouTube) can be a great source of information on horses. For instance, if you're trying to figure out how to accomplish a specific task (like shoe your horse), there will likely be at least several video tutorials submitted by users for you to browse through. These sorts of DIY video guides are fantastic for beginners because they show you what to do, rather than explaining it through walls of text.


Note that YouTube also has several full-length documentaries on horses available (including The Path of the Horse) which are great for supplemental information.
 Societies and charities dedicated to the well-being of animals have a natural interest in providing free, high-quality care instructions for animals. If you're looking for information on how to care for a horse humanely or trying to figure out what sorts of responsibilities you'd have if you got a horse, these sites can be very valuable resources.


The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) is a valuable resource for information on properly caring for a wide range of animals including horses. With tips on general care, nutrition, behavior, and preparing for potential problems, the ASPCA's horse resources have plenty to offer newcomers.Similarly, the British Horse Society, the largest equestrian charity in the UK, has a huge range of horse care guides available online., Horses aren't as easy to buy as, for instance, cars — there a number of precautions and preparations a prospective buyer must make before she even brings her new horse home. If you're looking on information for what to expect after buying a horse or the accommodations you'll need to make to be able to buy one, try visiting the sites of the agencies that breed, sell, and register horses.


For example, the American Quarter Horse Association (AQHA), a horse breed registry, offers an extremely detailed guide covering the most important basics of buying a horse, including determining which type of horse to buy and making housing arrangements., If you're trying to learn about the ways that horses function as living, breathing organisms, scientific resources are your best bet. While even sources as general as Wikipedia can have useful horse information, sources put together by scientists and/or horse experts are generally more reputable.


A good place for beginners to start is the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL), a free online biological resource. The EOL horse page contains the most important foundational information about horses, including the species' complete scientific classification.The National Geographic horse page offers a good amount information on the history of horse evolution and domestication.The Journal of Equine Veterinary Science is a professional-level resource that publishes articles on the latest in horse medicine. Unfortunately, only the abstracts of the articles are available for free., While the sources above should answer most questions about horses, they may not always be 100% exhaustive. If you're unable to find the horse information you're looking for with these sources, don't be afraid to do some digging on the search engine of your choice. There's much more free horse information on the internet than can be listed here, so start exploring!

