 Make it clear that you're willing to talk to people and that you'll be interested in what they have to say to you––the biggest compliment of all. Show smiles and warmth. The first contact with another person is your face! Make sure that you present as warm, friendly and happy. A smile and a sincere desire for friendship will resonate in your voice and be demonstrated in your every action. First impressions are powerful; present the way you want to be remembered - so smile! Smiling shows that you are happy to see the other person and like them. Smiling and warmth make others feel good around you; use this skill and you will shine.
 Most people instinctively like people who like them (and vice versa). Many people like each other, but rarely tell each other. Make it a point to tell people close to you that you like them and appreciate them - they already know this, but it's still great to hear. With people you've just met, if you like them, say things like "It's been great getting to know you; I love to meet warm, open people."" I really liked the way you talked about (insert comment)." Or, "Thank you for making me feel so welcome in your home. I had a great time today - let's pick another time to get together soon." These are just a few examples. Can you come up with better ones? Sincere appreciation like this supports friendship and cements relationships.
 Matching and mirroring simply means that you match the approximate characteristics of the other person to help create alignment with them. Therefore, if they cross their legs, do the same shortly after. If they tend to talk more slowly, slow your rhythm down so it is closer to theirs. If they use certain lingo, you can use it later in the conversation. If they are reserved, you be more reserved. And so on. Remember, we like people who are like us. This is a natural process that most people do unconsciously anyway - now you can know to do it consciously. It is a very powerful tool because vocal tone/speed and body language account for 93% of communication. This tool will make people very comfortable around you and is a very subtle technique.
 Listening is the foundation of all skills. Every person on the planet loves to be listened to! Think about it. How do you feel when someone ignores you or talks over you? Do you feel connected to these people? No! Who are the people you are closest too? It's highly likely that they are the people who listen to you intently and are concerned about your issues and well-being, right? Listening says, "I'm listening because you, and therefore, what you have to say, are important." People's greatest desire is to be truly listened to. Help them accomplish this most important goal, and they will like and admire you for it. Practice "conversational generosity" - don't speak more than 30 percent of the time (10 to 20 percent is optimal).
 Opposites don't attract! People like each because of their similarities. So, whenever possible, notice similar interests and be sure to talk about and expand on them. This may take some searching and questioning to discover their interests - that's okay - people will be glad that you are so interested in them that you ask several questions about them. Even if you don't have any similar activities, have them discuss an area you find interesting or want to explore.


For example, you boss might love golf but you have never played. However, if you have a sincere interest in learning the game, ask your boss to explain some things about the game to you. It's likely that you boss will be thrilled that you are interested and will feel complimented that you want him or her to be your teacher and that you value his or her advice. Think of ways you can use this tool.
 An old quote by Thoreau states, "The greatest compliment ever paid me was when someone asked me what I thought, and attended to the answer." Asking for advice is perhaps the most sincere compliment you can pay to a person. You also have to humble yourself ever so slightly to ask for advice, and this vulnerability will create a sense of openness and trust between you. People are always happy to give advice and will associate that sense of happiness to you quickly. Aren't your friends the ones whom you go to for advice? How can this person give you advice and not be your friend? See how strong this link is? People also admire someone who can ask for and accept advice. So few people can do this well that it has become an admirable trait. Try it and see.
 No, this is not "kissing up" or being phony - this never works! What we are looking to do is notice praise-worthy things people discuss and mention them to the person. Notice the difference in the next two responses. Your new friend tells you they just won an award for helping children and you say either "that's great!" or "Wow, that's quite an accomplishment! You must have made a tremendous contribution to the lives of those children, you should be very proud." Which response would you rather hear? Are they both true? Yes! Will one response have more impact and create a stronger connection? Definitely, yes! Noticing and commenting on the good people do and their special qualities is a great way to live, it is classy, and a great way to connect with others.
 As you are listening to the other person speak, notice their values/beliefs, and discuss areas where your values/beliefs sincerely overlap with theirs. Remember that is best to speak 30% or less of the time. Take at least half of this time and use it to agree with, support, or expand on whatever the other person was talking about. You will never make a friend by disagreeing with them. Let points you don't agree with slip by, and chime in when you hear something you agree with. By doing this you will make a friend, and at the same time, subtly promote the areas you believe in and starve the areas you don't.
 This simply means that you attend to the needs of the people you are with. It follows the lines of simple good manners, i.e., holding the door for someone, offering them a drink or a chair, buying them lunch, shaking their hand right away when you see them, etc. Almost any small courtesy or act of kindness falls in this category. These simple acts say without words that the other person is like, respected and appreciated. (And an action is worth what? That's right! A thousand words!)

, Helping others may impress people around you, but helping not only impresses others, it gives you that warm glow inside you. You lose nothing but give out kindness and may even receive thanks (but don't do it with that expectation in mind). Help your friends and all those around you, don't leave them when they have a problem.

