 Hold a piece of human food in your hand and show it to your dog. Say “leave it” as you slowly lower the food to the ground. If your dog stays seated and looks calmly at the food as you lower it to the ground, reward it with a doggie treat. If it tries to grab the food from your hand, close your fist and do not let it get the food.Repeat this until your dog understands that “leave it” means not grabbing at the food. It may take some practice for your dog to get this command.
Always reward your dog when he follows the command with a treat. Do this command during dinner or when someone drops human food on the ground so your dog does not eat it and “leaves it” instead.
 To keep your dog away from human food, instruct your dog to “lie down” when you are preparing or holding human food. This will neutralize your dog and discourage any begging or stealing of the human food.You can tell your dog to go to lie down in its “spot,” if they know the “go to your place or spot” command. The spot may be its bed in the corner of the room or its favorite spot on the floor.
Let your dog play with toys in its spot while human food is around so they are distracted and do not try to sneak food.
 You can also keep your dog away from human food by putting the dog in its crate. Many dogs are trained to go to its crate when its owner is not home or when they are sleeping. Integrate the “go to your crate” command around human food into your dog’s obedience routine. This may be easier to do if your dog is already used to being in its crate.You can also try putting your dog on its leash by the back door or in another area of your home, away from the human food. This way, they are not tempted to try to get to the human food.
 Make sure you reward your dog if they behave properly around human food. Reinforce this good behavior with treats and verbal praise like “good job!” or “great going!” This will remind your dog that acting obediently around human food is a good thing and something to be rewarded with treats.Give your dog treats and verbal praise if it stays in its spot and lie down while you have dinner. Reward your dog with treats if they “leave it” and go to its crate while you are having a meal.

