 Spray on your favorite perfume before you leave the house in the mornings. One or two spritzes are usually enough. Scent is one of the most powerful senses for attraction, and smelling great has long been a staple of the feminine image.
 Makeup is one of the few fashion provinces that are almost exclusively feminine. Men rarely wear make-up, but can successfully pull off eyeshadows and liners for a more feminine look, as many rock stars like Morrissey or Marilyn Manson show regularly.


Paint your nails, experiment with new makeup, or emulate celebrities whose look you admire.
You do not need make-up to appear more feminine, but it helps.
 The "feminine walk" is meant to accentuate feminine figures and show off curves. Think of pulling yourself forward by your lower half of the body, not "falling" forward and letting your feet catch up.The first step is to have good posture (spine straight, shoulders over hips, chin parallel to the ground), but there are a few extra steps that can help make your walk extra-feminine.


Keep your shoulders back, elevating your chest.
Swing your hips slightly towards of the foot taking a step (ie. swing left when stepping with your left foot).
Walk slowly, as if you're never in a rush.
 This is not a necessity for femininity, as many gorgeous women have illustrated. But long hair is traditionally feminine, so consider growing it out past your shoulders. Take care of you hair with regular brushing and conditioning once a day.


Many traditional hair styles, from ponytails to braids, require longer hair.
 Another holdover from more antiquated notions of femininity, many women nonetheless see hairlessness as a sign of the feminine. Remove any and all body hair that is visible to you, whether on your legs, under your armpits, or in your nose.


Pluck your eyebrows to avoid bushiness or a unibrow.
 Smiling promotes happiness and shows off your radiant, accessible personality. Appearing more feminine is about being open, helpful, and caring, and a simple smile is often all you need to show off your feminine side. Help yourself by becoming a happier, healthier person and make it easy for people to like you by smiling more often.


Smiling is shown to increase your own happiness as well, so make it a part of every interaction you have.