 Whenever you're starting a new diet, it's a good idea to talk to your doctor first. This is especially important if you're following a diet that's limiting an important macronutrient like carbohydrates.


Although a low-carb diet is most likely safe for most people, there are some health conditions that this may not be safe for. Ask your doctor if they think a low-carb diet is appropriate for your current health conditions.
If weight loss is your goal, talk to your doctor about other ways to lose weight. They may have some additional resources or advice for you.
 If you want to really be specific with your low-carb diet, keep a count of your total carbohydrate intake each day. This is great if you're aiming to keep your total carbs under a specific amount.Consider downloading a food journaling app that keeps track of your nutrient intake each day.
You will be able to see how many carbohydrates you're eating as you continuously track more and more foods throughout the day.
For example, if you notice your carbohydrate intake getting close to your limit by lunch, you'll know that dinner has to be exceptionally low-carbohydrate.
 In general, a low-carbohydrate diet isn't necessarily considered balanced. You will be limiting your intake of a variety of food groups (like grains, starchy vegetables, fruit and some dairy products). To help compensate for this to some degree, make sure you choose a variety of low-carb foods daily.


Even though you're limiting your overall food choices, make sure to choose a variety of other foods. The more foods you include in your diet, the bigger the variety of nutrients you'll be getting.
For example, don't only have steamed broccoli or cauliflower for side dishes. Try dark greens, eggplant, asparagus, peppers, artichokes, brussels sprouts or zucchini. Each one of these veggies offers you a different set of nutrients.
 Following a low-carb diet doesn't mean that you can't have any carbs. Some carbohydrates are essential to the normal functioning of your body, so make sure you choose nutritious sources of these foods when you do eat them.


Many low-carb dieters avoid grains since they have some of the highest carb counts; however, 100% whole grains are a great choice if you do decide to have a grain-based food.
Whole grains are less processed and contain higher amounts of fiber and protein compared to more refined grains (like white rice or white bread).Always measure your portion sizes of these higher carb foods. For grains, measure out 1 oz or 1/2 cup per serving., If you want to have a more structured diet to follow, consider following a plan like Atkins or South beach. These diets can help you lose weight and give you more ideas for low-carb meals.


Look online for low-carb diet plans. Atkins and South Beach are very common and have a variety of resources you can use to help you follow a reduced carb diet.Many of these diet plans also have books with meal plans, recipes and grocery lists to help you build low-carb meals.
 In addition to eating low-carb breakfasts, you'll also want to choose low-carb meals when you go out to eat. This will help you stay consistent with your diet.


When you're out, review the entire menu before making any decisions on your meal. This will help you figure out exactly what's offered and what options you have.
Look over the menu to see if they have a "healthy," "reduced calorie" or "low-carb" section. Many restaurants help consumers by highlighting these types of meals.
If you can't find specific "low-carb meals," just order a meal that contains a source of protein (like chicken, fish, pork or beef) and a vegetable.
You can order a side dish of vegetables or ask to skip a starchy or high-carb item (like fries or potatoes) for a side of vegetables.

