 Since you need to use your hands to stop the bleeding, it’s best if you can clean your hands first. Obviously this will be more difficult if you’re attempting treatment where you were injured.Alternatively, use protective medical gloves if you happened to have some, or they’re accessible nearby.
Avoid using your bare hands directly on your tongue to stop the bleeding, if possible.
 You do not want to swallow any blood if possible, as this will just cause you to get nauseous and vomit. Instead, sit up with your head tilted forwards and downwards so the blood will drain out of your mouth.If you had anything in your mouth at the time of the injury, remove it now (e.g. gum).
If you have a piercing in or around your mouth, and you can safely remove it, do so.
 Use a clean cloth, or the cleanest cloth you have available, to apply pressure to your tongue. Only use your bare hands to apply pressure if you have nothing else to use, especially if you weren’t able to wash your hands first.Because it’s winter and you’re likely outside, a scarf or hat might be useful. But try to avoid using gloves or mitts as they’re most likely filthy.
Any cut or laceration of your tongue is going to bleed a lot because your tongue (and the rest of your mouth) contain a lot of blood vessels. This, however, can also be beneficial as the increased number of blood vessels also speeds up healing of the area., Do not let go of whatever material you’ve put on your wound for a minimum of 15 minutes. Use your watch or a clock to make sure you’ve keep constant pressure for a full 15 minutes. Do not be tempted to lift the material up to check if the wound is still bleeding.If blood soaks completely through the material you’re using, apply another piece of material on top of the existing one without removing it (or decreasing pressure).
Most mild bleeding will slow down significantly after 15 minutes, but the wound may still continue to bleed lightly for another 45 minutes.
If the wound is still bleeding profusely after 15 minutes, call 911 or go to the emergency room.
Avoid exercising for several days after your accident. Exercising, or exerting yourself, raises your blood pressure and can cause the wound to start bleeding again.
 Granted, under the circumstances, the last thing you may want to do is put ice in your mouth, but it does help. Instead of ice, you can also use a cold compress (e.g. a clean face cloth run under cold water).For ice, you can use it two different ways. One way is to simply suck on an ice cube or ice chips. Another way is to wrap the ice in a thin (clean) cloth and apply the cloth to the wound on your tongue.
Use the ice or cold compress method for one to three minutes at a time, six to ten times per day, for at least the first day.
Ice, or cold, will not only reduce swelling and stop any additional bleeding, it will help reduce the amount of pain you feel.You can also use a popsicle or something similar in lieu of ice if you prefer.
 Mix up a solution of salt water using 1 teaspoon of salt for every cup of water. Use the salt water solution to rinse out your mouth by swishing the water around inside your mouth, then spitting it out. Don’t swallow the salt water.Don’t start the salt water rinse until the day after your injury.
Use the salt water solution at least after each time you eat, but up to four to six times a day.
 While your tongue (or lips) are healing, you may be more susceptible to frostbite or chilblains (skin sores or bumps) in those areas. Protect yourself from the cold with a scarf, gloves, or balaclava to cover your face while you heal.
 Your tongue and mouth will not only be sore, but most likely quite sensitive. Try to eat only soft foods that are gentle on your mouth at first. Avoid any foods that are salty, spicy or have a high level of acid, as these may be painful to eat.Foods to consider eating are: milk shakes, yogurt, ice cream, cottage cheese, eggs, tuna, smooth peanut butter, and well-cooked or canned vegetables and fruits.
Do NOT smoke or drink alcohol while your tongue is healing.
You may wish to avoid mouthwash that contains alcohol while you’re tongue is healing, as that may sting quite a bit.
 If you have gone to see a doctor, they will advise what medications you should or can take. Follow their instructions explicitly. If the injury wasn’t serious enough to see a doctor, you can consider taking over-the-counter pain medications to help reduce any discomfort.Over-the-counter pain medications that may work would include acetaminophen (i.e. Tylenol), ibuprofen (i.e. Advil) or naproxen (i.e. Aleve). The generic and brand name versions of all these medications are readily available in any pharmacy and most grocery stores.
Always follow the instructions on the package for over-the-counter medication, and speak to your pharmacist if you have any questions.
If you are pregnant, or might be pregnant, do not take ibuprofen or naproxen.
 If one or more of the following things occur, consider going to your doctor as soon as possible to have your wound checked:


If the pain from your wound increases over time, instead of getting better
If your tongue, or other parts of your mouth, start to swell
If you develop a fever
If you have trouble breathing
If the wound won’t stop bleeding, or opens up and starts bleeding profusely again

