 Investments are similar to grants in that they do not have to be paid back. However, they are different from grants in that the investor contributes to the company in exchange for shares, or partial ownership, of the company. This is called equity financing. Companies who choose to find investors are typically young companies that cannot qualify for other types of financing.
 Venture capital is perfect for businesses that cannot qualify for traditional financing either because of their small size, early stage of development or lack of equity capital. Venture capital funds invest cash in exchange for shares in your business and an active role in running the business. These investors target young, high-growth companies. This is typically a long-term commitment that gives young companies time to grow into profitable businesses.Find venture capital funds through the Small Business Investment Program (SBIC). This program is administered by the SBA. It licenses private funds as SBICs and links them to businesses seeking equity financing. You can find the list of licensed funds by state at www.sba.gov/content/sbic-directory.
Each venture fund is a private company with its own application process. In general, the fund begins by reviewing your business plan. Then it does due diligence on your business to evaluate the worth of the investment. If the fund decides to invest, it will take an active role in running the business with you. As your company meets milestones, more financing may be available. Venture funds typically exit the investment after four to six years via mergers, acquisitions or Initial Public Offerings (IPOs).
 Angel investors are high-net-worth individuals who seek lucrative investments in young, high-growth businesses. These investors may be doctors, lawyers or former entrepreneurs. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has established specific criteria for accrediting angel investors.According to the SEC, angel investors must have a net worth of at least $1 million and make $200,000 a year (or $300,000 a year jointly with a spouse).
Angel investors give you money in exchange for shares in your company. This exchange must be registered with the SEC.
Find angel investors through networking with your local Chamber of Commerce or Small Business Development Center. Also, a trusted lawyer or accountant may be able to link you to an angel investor.
Find angel investors online at the Angel Capital Association (ACA), AngelList and MicroVentures.
 You may have friends or family members who are willing to invest in your business. Be very careful about making this choice. Unless they are already wealthy, sophisticated investors, they may not understand the risk involved. If your business fails, you cannot easily shut it down and walk away if friends and family are partial owners. Before accepting their money, make sure they understand how easily it can be lost.