 It can be any size, since you can cut the molding to whatever length you need. The mirror does need to have straight edges, like a rectangle or square shape, as opposed to a round one.;
, You can find molding at a lumberyard or a home supply store, usually for just a few dollars a foot.


Choose a style of molding: There are traditional, unfinished styles and more decorative ones that come with rosette corners and different patterns. To determine how long each piece of molding should be, measure the length and width of your mirror, then add 2 inches (5.1 cm). Use a miter saw to cut the four pieces, and cut 45-degree miters on both ends of each piece. Check the opposite parts' lengths by holding them against each other to make sure they're equal.
Assemble the frame on a flat surface: Paint the inside of the corners with construction adhesive or wood glue, and then use painters' tape to hold the pieces together temporarily. After the adhesive dries, fill in any gaps in the miters with Spackle or wood putty. After the spackle dries, paint the frame, if you wish.
 Your backboard should be a piece of plywood that is also two inches longer and wider than the mirror. If your mirror is already on the wall, you don't need a backboard, and you can skip this step.
 Your lattice pieces should be two inches wide; two of the pieces should be the length of the mirror, and two should be two inches longer, so that they frame the entire perimeter of the square. This is another step you can skip if your mirror is already on the wall.


Use wood adhesive to attach the lattice pieces to the backboard. Make sure the mirror is fitted snugly inside the lattice pieces.
Secure the lattice pieces with spring clamps, and let the adhesive dry for about 24 hours.
 Line them up so that they extend just slightly over the lattice edges onto the mirror. Glue the molding to the lattice pieces.


Be careful not to get any glue on the mirror.
If you are using rosettes, glue them into each corner.
Weight the mirror with a piece of plywood, and let the glue set for about 24 hours.
Cover the molding with towels to protect the wood while the glue dries.
 Immediately check the frame with a level, and then make any adjustments before the glue dries.
Use painters' tape to hold the frame to the wall while the glue dries.
 Turn your molded mirror over, and use an electric screwdriver to screw a one-inch screw into the center of each rosette. Insert two evenly spaced screws into each horizontal piece and one into each vertical piece, about a third of the way from the bottom.
 Insert one into each vertical side, about a third of the way down.


Cut the wire long enough to run between the two rings, with enough for the peak of the wire to hit three inches below the top of the frame.
Twist the wire into each D-ring.
Attach vinyl picture bumpers to each corner, to prevent the mirror from scratching the wall.
 Finish the mirror by sanding the edges of the frame, if they are rough, using a sanding sponge or sandpaper. You can also opt to paint the frame with a glossy finish.

