 You don’t have to spend 24 hours a day monitoring them, but a good way to support them is to check on them every now and then.Just asking how they’re doing can go a long way in supporting them as they cope with having a hard childhood.


If they seem to be having a difficult time coping with what they told you, you might check on them every day or couple of days. You might call and say, “Hi! How’re you doing? Are you okay after our talk?”
Stop by and see them when you can. Sometimes people can sound fine, but seeing them can give you the full story.
 There are several ways that you can do this that don’t require a lot of effort of time, but may have a positive impact on the person. Being there for them lets them know that someone cares and that they’re not alone in what they’re going through.A powerful way to do this is often in writing. Send them a card with a heartfelt message. This effort lets them know that your support is genuine and not just something you said.
You might offer to just be with them. You don’t have to do or say anything, sometimes a person’s presence is enough.
Offer to listen if they want to talk more. For example, you might say, “I’m here if you need to talk about this more. Just let me know.”

, In some cases, a hard childhood can lead a person to have other challenges such as substance abuse or post-traumatic stress disorder.They may need professional support to work through what happened to them. Gently suggest that they talk to a therapist or counselor.


For example, you might say, “Something like that seems hard to get over. Have you thought about talking to a therapist about it?”
Or, for instance, you could tell them, “I think your childhood might still be affecting you. Would you consider seeing a counselor to work through it?”
If you have seen a counselor yourself, then you can say, "I talked to someone about what happened to me and it was incredibly helpful." Making it about you and not them helps with stigmatization.
You could refer them to a hotline such as 1-800-656-4673 or suggest that they text crisis counselors by texting ‘GO’ to 741741.

