 If you're experiencing contact lens discomfort, you may feel any number of sensations in your eye. Other symptoms may not be felt, but rather seen in a mirror or by others around you. Some of the most common symptoms pf contact discomfort include:Stinging, burning, or itching in the eye
Gradual reduction in comfort the longer the lens is in
The sensation of something foreign in your eye
Excessive tear production
Unusual fluid secretions
Reduced vision or blurry vision
Rainbows/halos/orbs around objects in your field of vision
Sensitivity to light
Dryness
Redness;
, Allergies are a common cause of eye irritation, especially for contact lens wearers. Airborne allergens can easily latch on to your lenses, and if you don't remove, clean, and replace your lenses as often as you should, exposure to those allergens could cause eye irritation.If you know you experience seasonal allergies, pet allergies, or other common environmental allergies, try taking allergy medication on a daily basis.
You can buy over-the-counter eye drops that contain antihistamines. These can help reduce swelling, inflammation, and irritation in your eyes.
Always follow the directions on your contact lens packaging or from your eye doctor on how often you should remove or replace your lenses.
 Wearing contact lenses for longer than the recommended time span can cause deposits to form on the surface of the contacts, which can cause mild to severe irritation.Always check the recommended wear times on your contact lenses to avoid this simple problem.


Everyone has a different level of comfort regarding how long is too long to continuously wear contacts.
Every brand that manufactures contact lenses has their own guidelines for how long to wear contacts before removing or replacing them. These guidelines are approved by the FDA and should appear on the packaging., Wearing lenses that are past the recommended replacement date can lead to the same protein and mineral buildups that result from not taking out your lenses. Reusing old lenses can also increase the risk of lens tears, which can irritate or injure your eyes.


Always follow the recommended replacement schedule indicated on your contact lens packaging.
As a general rule, two-week silicone hydrogel lenses should be replaced every two weeks, one-month silicone hydrogel lenses should be replaced every four weeks, and daily disposable lenses should be replaced every day., If you're new to wearing contact lenses, your eyes will need time to adjust to having them in. Trying to wear contacts all day with no previous experience can cause irritation, pain, and discomfort.Limit yourself to four hours or less of wear time during the first two days.
You can increase your wear time to eight hours on days three and four.
On days five and six, limit your wear time to six hours.
On the seventh and eighth days, increase your wear time to 10 hours.
Only wear contacts for 12 consecutive hours after approximately nine to 10 days of wearing lenses.
 This is often an issue with people new to wearing contact lenses — they may be unable to identify when their contact lens is inside out and put them in the wrong way, causing discomfort. A simple way to check is to place your contact on the tip of a (clean) finger and observe its shape. Hold the contact up to your eye to get a close look — does it look like half of a ball or more like a soup bowl, with edges that flare out? If the contact looks like a sphere sliced in half, then it is correct and you can put it in your eye. If the sides are flared, then it is inside out., Most eye irritation/discomfort is caused by environmental factors, like allergens and debris, or by improper use of contact lenses; however, sometimes eye discomfort is caused by a more serious problem. See your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms:Severe eye pain
Swelling
Persistent redness or irritation
Signs of infection
Flashes of light
Persistent blurred vision
Sudden loss of vision
Goopy discharge

