 Loperamide is an antimotility medication usually recommended for IBS-related diarrhea. Loperamide works by slowing the contractions of muscles in your bowel, which slows down the speed at which food passes through your digestive system. This allows more time for your stools to harden and solidify.Some medications, including Loperamide, also increase the pressure of the anal canal, which helps with leakage.
The recommended dosage of loperamide is 4 mg initially, with an additional 2 mg after each loose stool, but you should not exceed 16 mg over a 24-hour period.
 Antispasmodics are a group of medicines that control gut spasms, reducing diarrhea as a result. The two main types of antispasmodic medicines appear to be equally effective in treatment of diarrhea caused by IBS.Antimuscarinics: Antimuscarinics or anticholingerics block the activity of acetylcholine (a neurotransmitter which is stimulates the stomach muscles to contract). This allows the muscles to relax, thereby relieving symptoms of abdominal muscle cramping. The commonly used antimuscarinic drugs are hyoscyamine and dicyclomine. For adults, the ideal dose is 10 mg taken three to four times per day.

Smooth muscle relaxants: These work directly on the smooth muscle in the gut wall, allowing the muscle to relax. This relieves pain and prevents diarrhea. One of the most commonly used smooth muscle relaxants is alverine citrate. The usual dose for adults is 60-120 mg, taken between one and three times per day.
If your diarrhea doesn't improve using one form of antispasmodic, try another.
 Painkillers can be used to relieve the pain associated with abdominal muscle cramping. Painkillers work by blocking pain signals to brain. If the pain signal does not reach the brain, then pain cannot be interpreted and felt.Simple Painkillers: Simple painkillers are available over-the-counter and can be used to relieve mild to moderate pain. Examples include paracetamol and acetaminophen. Doses of simple painkillers may vary according to age, but the usual recommended dose for adults is 500 mg, every four to six hours.

Stronger Painkillers: Stronger painkillers are usually only available by prescription and are used to relive moderate to severe pain. Examples include codeine and tramadol. Only take prescription painkillers according to your doctor's recommendations, as they can be addictive.
 In some cases, antidepressant medications can be used to treat IBS. Antidepressants block pain messages between the GI tract and the brain, thereby reducing visceral hypersensitivity (increased sensitivity of the GI tract nerves).Tricyclics (TCA's) and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRI's) are the groups of antidepressants commonly prescribed for IBS.
Consult with your healthcare provider for dosage recommendations as the ideal dosages of these medicines vary according to the manufacturer.

