 The vegan and vegetarian diets are quite similar, though the vegetarian diet allows a little more flexibility. As such, a vegetarian should follow all the advice given for vegans attempting to gain weight, alongside suggestions that incorporate dairy into the diet.


Try to consume 3,500 calories more than needed to maintain your weight every week. This will result in a weight gain of about 1 pound per week.
Eat calorie and protein-rich foods like beans, nuts, peanut and almond butters, soy products, and so on to replace the role of meat in your diet.
Eat multiple smaller meals to help you consume enough calories to gain weight, and snack often.
 If your diet allows dairy and eggs, you should take advantage of the calories and protein available in these products. While eggs are quite rich in protein, eating too much yolk can cause your cholesterol to rise to dangerous levels.Yolks are healthy in moderation, but you shouldn’t eat more than one per day. Egg whites, on the other hand, are healthy and protein-rich in any amount.Simply remove the egg yolks or buy liquid egg whites from the grocery store to make egg dishes dense with protein, calories, and nutrients.


For example, stuff an egg-white omelet with beans, cheese, chopped tomatoes, onions, and bell peppers, then top it with sour cream, salsa, and avocados.
 Just as with a vegan diet, you can add calories to your meals by adding nuts, fruits, and other calorie-rich garnishes to your salads and other meals. However, if your diet allows dairy products, you can opt for regular sour cream and cheese instead of the soy substitutes used by vegans. Cheese, sour cream, butter, and other dairy products are high in saturated fats, so they should be consumed only in moderation. Too much of these foods can lead to heart problems down the line.


However, just one ounce of shredded cheese might add 100 calories to a baked potato, omelet, or salad!Two tablespoons of sour cream will add 60 calories to your cup of vegetarian chili.Spreading a pat of butter over your toast in the morning can add 36 calories.Garnishing your meals with dairy will help you reach your daily 500-calorie surplus without stuffing yourself.
 Cheese should be approached with some wariness. While cheese is linked with obesity and heart disease, it's also a key component of the incredibly healthy Mediterranean diet.The key to gaining weight the right way with cheese is to choose the right types of cheese. Avoid unhealthier cheese like cheddar and Swiss, and look for healthier cheeses like goat cheese, feta, and mozzarella are lower in calories, and can be eaten as a light snack for a calorie boost. Cottage cheese is a popular snack that adds a good deal of protein to your diet without posing a potential health risk.


Yogurts are also a popular snack option, but avoid yogurts that add a lot of sugar through flavoring. Instead, choose a plain or Greek yogurt and flavor it with fresh fruits.
 This is called “pescetarianism,” and can be a good option for those trying to gain weight. Like chicken, fish is a lean meat that adds calories and protein to your meals. Human bodies can’t produce the omega-3 fatty acids found in fish, but these acids help build muscle mass, increasing weight without adding flab. The American Heart Association recommends eating fish at least twice a week, and emphasizes the following fish:


Mackerel
Lake trout
Herring
Sardines
Albacore tuna
Salmon

