 Think about why you want to start boxing and what you expect out of your boxing experience. Are you interested in becoming a professional boxer or just looking to get in better shape? If you are simply looking to get into shape, a boxing gym may be a good choice. However, you can also take boxing classes at your local YMCA or fitness club. If you want to become an amateur or professional boxer, you will need to join a boxing gym and receive personal training.If you are a beginner, taking a few fitness boxing classes might be a good way to test your interest in the sport.;
, Once you have determined what kind of gym you want to join, you should begin looking around for gyms. Do a simple Google search of boxing gyms in your area and visit a few websites. Many gyms will give you a rudimentary list of their services and what you might expect at their gym.Be sure to check out the fees of prospective gyms. Most pure boxing gyms only charge a small monthly fee. However, you will also have to pay for a trainer.
If you want to be a professional fighter, look for gyms that advertise their professional and amateur fighters. You should also be able to find info about trainers as well.
 Once you have checked out some places online, you should go visit the prospective gyms in person. Get a feel for the atmosphere and determine which place is the most appealing. Be sure to visit multiple gyms and try not to join the first gym you visit. You want to weigh your option.You should take advantage of day passes or trial memberships to test out individual gyms. Working out in a gym is the best way to determine if you will like being there.
 A high-quality boxing gym will have all of the equipment that you will need to train as a fighter. The gym should have heavy bags, speed bags, double-end bags, a ring, a timer, and free weights. If any of these things are not available, you might want to consider another gym.However, do not be quick to judge the quality of the equipment. New equipment does not necessarily indicate the quality of a gym. A good gym has equipment that is worn from use but still taken care of.
 While you are checking out the various gyms, make a point to talk to prospective trainers. Ask the gym staff or the person at the front door if there are any trainers that you can meet. When you talk to the trainers, ask them about their fees, hours, and how many clients they have. This will give you an idea of how much attention your trainer will give you and how much it will cost to work with them.You should take advantage of free trial classes to work with potential trainers. Try to find someone that like and who motivates you.
You will also want to find a gym that has enough trainers available to give you the time and attention you need.Be sure to ask potential trainers questions like “How long have you been training?” and “Who did you train under?” You should also ask about how many clients they are currently training.
 A quality boxing gym will have a clientele of professional fighters. Start online and look for gyms posting about their amateur and professional fighters. When you visit the gyms, look for local pros using the ring and sparring with their training team. A stable of good fighters is a strong indication of a gym’s quality.The downside of training at a high profile gym is that the pros will get priority use of the equipment over regular joes like yourself. If you want to have regular access to the ring and sparring equipment, you might want to go for a middle of the road gym.
 Most serious boxing gyms will post memorabilia from their fighters on the walls. These will be newspaper clippings, fight boards, and pictures of the fighters. The more accomplished the fighters, the more mementos there will be on the walls. Although it is not a guarantee of a gym’s quality, you can feel confident that a good gym will produce good fighters., If you want to gauge the quality of a gym, you might want to evaluate fighters that trained there. One of the best ways to do that is by attending some fights and paying attention to how various gyms’ fighters fare in the ring. If a certain gym’s fighters seem to do particularly well, you can reasonably assume that they are getting good training.