 If you have a Gmail or YouTube account, you already have a Google account. All Google accounts allow you to upload up to 50,000 songs to your Google Play Music account for free. You can then stream these songs from anywhere using the Google Play Music app on your iPhone.


You can sign into Google Play Music at music.google.com.
Signing up for a Google Play Music All Access subscription gives you the same storage abilities as a free account as well as unlimited access to the entire Google Play Music streaming library.
 This is the easiest way to upload a large collection of music to Google Music. You can download the Music Manager from here., After the manager has finished installing, you will be prompted to log in with your Google account. Once you're logged in, select "Upload songs to Google Play".
 You're given an initial list of locations that the music manager can look for your music files. You can add more locations later. If you were using iTunes to play your music, Google Play Music will transfer your playlists and song ratings.


If your music is stored elsewhere, select "Other folders" and then click Add folder to browse for folders on your computer that contains your music files.
Your remaining songs will be displayed at the bottom of the window.
 The music manager can monitor your music folders and automatically upload any new songs that are added. This will ensure that your mobile collection is always up-to-date.
 You can right-click on the music manager icon in your System Tray or menu bar and click the "# songs uploaded" option to monitor the progress of your uploads. It may take quite a while to upload large collections of music.
 You can get it from the App Store for free. Sign in with your Google account once it is installed. It may take a few moments for your library to load for the first time.
 Once your library has loaded, you can browse through your artist and album lists and start playing music. You can also create playlists, just like with the iPhone's Music app.
 Google Play Music normally streams your music files to you over the internet, but you can store any of your songs on your iPhone to listen to without an internet connection.


Tap the ⋮ next to the song, album, or playlist that you want to save to your iPhone.
Select "Download". The song(s) will begin downloading to your device.
Tap the ☰ button and toggle the "Downloaded Only" option to just see the songs that are currently stored on your iPhone.

