 Even if you have great times together when things are good, a person who constantly hurts you by yelling, cheating, or disappearing will never change. If you find yourself fighting or hurting regularly then you are stuck in an unhealthy relationship, and you need to get out.Don’t let patches of happiness make you second-guess your decision. Your partner should almost never hurt you or break your heart, no matter how good they are the rest of the time.
 A relationship is between two people, so never let your partner blame your for all of the issues in your relationship. Someone who passes blame and refuses to think about their own role will be very difficult, if not impossible, to get on your side. Never let someone force you to change to save a relationship – this is a sign of a controlling and unhealthy relationship.


You should always feel free to be yourself with your partner., Healthy relationships have their share of arguments, but they usually resolve themselves quickly and without violence or screaming. If you fights last for days or weeks, or you keep having the same fight time and time again, it may be time to look for someone new.This applies if you fight over different things every day as well. If you find yourself fighting over every single thing that happens, step back and ask yourself why.
 Couples that once had perfect chemistry can run into trouble when life-goals and missions collide. If one person, for example, wants to go back to grad school while the other wants to travel the world, one person might feel slighted or cheated no matter which choice you go with. If you are constantly fighting or drifting apart because you have different dreams, it may be time to pursue your goals on your own.Discuss marriage or having kids – if you and your partner have opposing viewpoints, then this is a red flag that a long-term relationship might have problems.
 Love is about having fun, feeling secure, and enjoying your life together. If you find yourself regretting time together, waking up unhappy, or miserable in your partner’s company, it is time to move on.