 However, in itself it is not diagnostic, as there are other medical conditions that may present similarly.


Congestive heart failure (CHF) also has shortness of breath (that is worsened with exertion) as one of its cardinal signs. The difference with CHF as opposed to COPD, however, is that CHF is also worse when lying down, and may be worse in the middle of the night. CHF also shows different results in lung function tests, on a chest x-ray, and with other diagnostic tests, as described in Part 2 of this article.
Shortness of breath may also be confused with asthma, and both COPD and asthma can have a "wheezing" component. However, asthma responds better to medication, shows different results on diagnostic testing, and is more often associated with "episodes" tied to a direct trigger (such as an allergen, cold weather, exertion, etc.);
, However, once again, a cough is a very generalized symptom, and can be present in a number of different conditions.


A cough may be present in a respiratory tract infection. This can be distinguished from COPD by the presence of a fever and other infectious signs, as well as testing the sputum for the presence of bacteria or other microbes.
A cough may be present in lung cancer. This can be distinguished from COPD by the detection of a mass (lump) on imaging techniques (such as an x-ray or CT scan), as well as other signs of cancer such as night sweats and/or significant unintentional weight loss. The hallmark of lung cancer is hemoptysis, which is coughing up blood.
 These include wheezing (which may be present in both COPD and asthma), a tight feeling in the chest, and/or frequent lung infections (you are more prone to recurrent respiratory infections if you have COPD). You may also experience unusual fatigue, and/or unintentional weight loss (this may be a late sign of severe COPD. It is also a common sign in lung cancer and other cancers).
 If you have a history of smoking, and/or if you are currently a smoker, your likelihood of having COPD increases dramatically. It increases in proportion to the amount of cigarettes (or pipes or marijuana) that you have consumed in your lifetime. Other risk factors for COPD include:


Workplace exposure to chemicals, fumes, dusts, and/or toxic vapors
A history of other lung conditions, such as asthma or other chronic respiratory conditions
Age above 35-40 years old
A genetic disorder called alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency
An increased airway responsiveness to allergen or allergic stimuli and atopy
Gender: women appear to be more susceptible to developing COPD and emphysema than men are
Antioxidant deficiency: deficiency in antioxidants, vitamin C, and vitamin E may be a risk factor for COPD, They are capable of diagnosing COPD even before you begin to show significant symptoms!


However, lung function tests tend to be used only in people who show suspicious signs of respiratory disease (such as the possibility of having COPD, among other things).
Lung function tests may also be used for ongoing monitoring of a lung condition such as COPD, and to measure the effectiveness of various treatment options.
The lung function test will give you a ratio of the FEV1/FVC, and this number is one of the main diagnostic criteria for COPD and asthma. In COPD, the number is decreased., For instance, a chest x-ray can help to rule out congestive heart failure, which normally shows signs of an enlarged heart on x-ray. A chest x-ray can also be used to look for other causes of a cough or shortness of breath, such as pneumonia, lung cancer, or interstitial lung disease.


Finally, a chest x-ray can show signs of emphysema, which is one of the contributing factors to COPD. If emphysema is detected on x-ray, you most likely have COPD.
Signs of COPD on CXR include a flat diaphragm, increased radiolucency, and a long and narrow heart shadow., It can elucidate conditions like interstitial lung disease, a pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lungs), lung cancer, pneumonia, and COPD.
 This test helps to inform your doctor about the severity of your COPD, if you do in fact have it, and what degree of treatment will be needed (such as whether or not you will require oxygen supplementation).
 Therefore, one of the most effective things you can do in the treatment of COPD is to quit smoking, if you currently smoke. This will decrease the severity of your symptoms and prevent the condition from progressing with further lung damage.


If you are interested in quitting smoking, you can speak to your physician for help and support.
There are medications as well as nicotine replacement strategies that can make it easier - and increase your likelihood of success - when it comes to quitting smoking.
Follow the START acronym: S= Set a quit date; T= Tell you friends and family you are quitting; A= Anticipate difficulty and plan ahead; R= Remove tobacco products from your home, car, and at work; and T= Talk to you Doctor and inform him of your plans., Some options include:


"Bronchodilators" - these help to widen your airway passages and can improve your breathing. An example of an inhaled bronchodilator is Salbutamol (Ventolin), or Atrovent.
Steroids - you can use inhaled steroids to decrease the inflammation in your airways, and thus to improve respiration. An example of an inhaled steroid is Fluticasone (Flovent).
Make sure you take your medication as prescribed by your doctor.
"The symptoms of COPD tend to continue at a fairly steady rate on a day-to-day basis. However, there are periods of a few days where you may experience what is called a "COPD exacerbation." This is when your symptoms temporarily get noticeably worse. Signs of a COPD exacerbation may include a worse cough, more mucus production, increased shortness of breath, and/or a fever. Treatments for COPD exacerbations include the following:


Administration of antibiotics if an infection is the underlying cause of your COPD exacerbation.
An increased dosage of inhaled bronchodilator and inhaled corticosteroid medications to get better control of symptoms.
Systemic (pill form) steroid medications to decrease inflammation if needed.
Supplemental oxygen, and machines to aid with respiration if needed.
Administration of necessary vaccines (such as the influenza vaccine, among others), if you have not already been vaccinated, to prevent further infections that could be avoided by being vaccinated.
 Some people with more severe COPD are greatly benefited by supplemental oxygen, and it can greatly ease respiratory distress.


Supplemental oxygen usually involves having an oxygen tank that you can wheel with you.
You usually have nasal prongs which deliver the oxygen from the tank to your lungs.
Indications for supplemental oxygen include a pulse oximetry less that 88% on ambulation., These are:


Surgery to remove a diseased portion(s) of your lung. If certain areas of your lung(s) have been rendered essentially non-functional from your COPD, these areas can be surgically removed. This, in turn, opens up space in your chest for the functional areas of your lungs to work better - they then have more space to expand with air, and your ease of breathing should improve considerably.
A lung transplant. This tends to be used as a last-resort option, because any organ transplant is a major procedure with significant risks, and you are required to be on life-long immunosuppressive drugs in hopes that your body will not reject the transplant. It is used in very few COPD patients. However, for those whose condition is very severe, it may be the best option for treatment.

