 A VA purchase loan can help you buy a home and obtain a mortgage with a competitive interest rate. You do not need to be a first-time home buyer and you can reuse this benefit multiple times. If the VA approves you and you qualify, a VA purchase loan has the following benefits:No down payment needed so long as the purchase price does not exceed the appraised value of the home
No mortgage insurance requirement
Limits on closing costs
No penalties for paying off the loan early
VA assistance when you are having trouble making mortgage payments;
, As you pay off your home loan, the amount you have paid becomes equity. You can use that equity as collateral to borrow more money if you need it to send a child to college, make home improvements, or pay off other debts. Using a VA Cash-Out Refinance Loan, you will be able to borrow money and refinance your existing home loan. The new home loan will have all the benefits of a VA purchase loan.


You can even use this benefit to refinance a non-VA loan into a VA loan., In some circumstances, you may want to refinance your mortgage in order to get a lower interest rate. If you choose this benefit, the VA offers an Interest Rate Reduction Refinance Loan (IRRRL). Unlike the other benefit packages available from the VA (i.e., the Purchase Loan and the Cash-Out Refinance Loan), you do not need to meet the same qualifications to be eligible for the IRRRL. To qualify for an IRRRL, all you need is an existing VA loan. When you utilize an IRRRL, no appraisal or credit packages are required.When you lower the interest rate on your mortgage, your monthly payments will likely decrease and the amount of interest you will owe the bank will decrease as well.
 If either the VA Purchase Loan or Cash-Out Refinance Loan is right for you, you will need to get qualified by the VA in order to get the benefits. As an initial matter, you can only qualify for a VA home loan if you are using the home for your own personal occupancy.For example, you would most likely not be able to use a VA home loan to buy a house for a sibling.
 In the financial world, credit is simply borrowed money. Before a bank will lend you a large sum of money to purchase a house with (i.e. a mortgage), you will need to prove to the bank that you have the financial ability to manage such a loan.To prove your ability to repay a mortgage, you will need to point to your borrowing history and show that you make payments on time, do not go over set credit limits, and that you can manage different types and amounts of credit simultaneously.You can track your credit by studying and building up your credit score. Your credit score is calculated based on your payment history, the amount of money you owe, the length of your credit history, and the types of credit you have.Keep track of your credit score and do your best to maintain a score of 700 or better., In addition to needing good credit, a lender will not offer you a home loan if you do not have the ability to make the required monthly payments.Most commercial lenders (i.e., banks) will sit down with you and determine how much you can reasonably spend on a home given your current financial situation.


In addition, some banks, for example Chase, offer an online affordability calculator. Once you input your monthly income and expenses, the calculator will estimate how much home you can afford., In order to be eligible for a VA home loan as a current, active duty member of the military, you will need to have been serving for 90 or more continuous days. If you are an active reservist or national guard member, you must have at least six years of service. These numbers may change if you were, or are, ever called to active duty., If you are a veteran, the minimum active duty service requirement will differ depending on the period you served. You can check the VA website for in depth information. For example, if you served during World War II (from 9/16/1940 to 7/25/1947), you would be eligible if you were on active duty for 90 or more total days during that period. If you served Post World War II (from 7/26/1947 to 6/26/1950), you would be eligible if you were on active duty for 181 continuous days or more during that period., If you have been discharged from the military, you must have been discharged under conditions that were not dishonorable.The best way to determine your "separation information" is by obtaining a copy of DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty. This form will lay out what type of separation occurred and the character of your service., If you have determined that you meet all of the eligibility requirements, you will need to apply for a COE. A COE verifies to the lenders that you are eligible for a VA home loan. In order to get a COE from the VA, you will need to provide evidence of your qualifications. The type of evidence you need will depend on the nature of your military service.


If you are a veteran, you will need to provide the VA with a copy of your DD 214.
If you are currently on active duty or are a reservist or national guard member, you will need a letter signed by your commander or higher headquarters. The letter must contain your name, Social Security Number, date of birth, entry date on duty, the duration of any lost time, and the name of the command providing the information.
 Once you have the evidence you need, you will need to apply for a COE using VA Form 26-1880. The form can be submitted online, through your commercial lender, or by mail.Once you have obtained the required form, you will need to input the following information:Your personal information (e.g., name, date of birth, Social Security Number, and address)
Your military service history (e.g., the branch of service, the type of service, the dates of service, and your service number)
Information about previous VA loans (e.g., have you previously obtained a VA-guaranteed loan and what type of VA home loan are you applying for?)

, If the VA accepts your COE request, you will receive the certificate at the mailing address you provided on VA Form 26-1880. You will take this certificate with you when you shop for a good lender. When shopping for a lender, see what types of loans are available (adjustable rates, fixed rates), what interest rates are available, and how much each lender is willing to loan you. Do not take the first offer you get and do not be afraid to negotiate with the bank.


While comparing lenders, make sure all of them know you are eligible and want to receive the benefits of a VA-guaranteed loan. This will ensure you are getting the most accurate and advantageous deals available.
Once you choose a lender, get pre-approved for the loan. This pre-approval will make the home shopping and purchasing process a lot easier. Being pre-approved shows sellers that you are serious and that you can afford the homes you are looking at.If you are looking to refinance, you will not have to get pre-approved for a loan.
 Real estate agents are professionals that will help you navigate the purchasing process. If you are refinancing an existing home loan, do not worry about this step. When you are looking for a qualified agent:Search online for respected agents that are familiar with the area you want to buy in
Talk with friends and family who have recently purchased a home and get their recommendations
Talk with multiple agents in order to find the best fit

, Once you find the best home for you, your real estate agent will put together an offer and negotiate the sale. Once a price has been agreed on, you and the seller will sign an initial purchase agreement, which is a legally binding contract. It sets out the conditions for the sale and the schedule of events leading up to closing.


Within the purchase agreement, make sure your real estate agent includes a VA Option Clause. This clause creates a contingency whereby you can void the contract if you are unable to get VA-guaranteed financing.
You can find an example of an acceptable clause on the VA's website., At this point, you will have a VA approved appraiser come in and look over the home. They will determine the home's value and make sure it is safe to live in.As one of the benefits of a VA-guaranteed loan, if the agreed purchase price is less than or equal to the appraised value, you will not need to make any down payment on the home.
 When you finally close on your home, you will complete the purchase and finalize your VA home loan. During closing you will sign legal documents, which will likely include the mortgage, the note, and the deed. When the closing process is complete, you will own the home and your VA home loan will have been obtained.