 Go to the App Store and search for “Remote Mouse.”  Download and install it on your iPhone by tapping the “Install” button.;
, Locate it on your computer.


The filename is usually “RemoteMouse.exe” or “RemoteMouse.zip.” Double-click on it to install the program to your computer.
  Make sure your iPhone and your computer are both connected to the same Wi-Fi network. The devices need to be on the same network in order to find and talk to each other.
 Look for the Remote Mouse program on the computer. It has an icon with a mouse having a bright-green background. Usually, a shortcut is created on your desktop; double-click on it to open.
 Your computer’s IP address will identify itself to your iPhone.The iPhone can’t just connect to any computer within the same network, so proper identification and connection must be done.


Locate the Remote Mouse icon at the bottom right of your taskbar. Click on it to open its menu and click on “Show IP address.” Take note of this.
 Look for the Remote Mouse app on your iPhone. Tap on it to open.
 There is a big “Start” button at the middle of the app on your iPhone. Tap on it to connect the iPhone to your computer.


It will begin connecting to your computer. If the link isn’t established properly, tap on the right arrow below the big “Start” button to manually input the IP address you got from step 3.
Tap on the green check button to start the connection.
 The whole green background of the app is your touch pad.


Tap on it and scroll using your fingers and the mouse cursor on your computer will move accordingly. This now works as your mouse navigation.
You can also turn the iPhone into a full screen touch pad by rotating it to the right.
 The app has wide left and right buttons at the middle of the screen. These represent the left and right mouse buttons.


Tapping on the left button is the same as left-clicking with your mouse. Tapping on the right button is the same as right-clicking with your mouse.
 The app has a computer icon at the middle of the screen. Tap on this to launch the keypad.


Use this as you normally would for typing. Whatever you type here will be reflected on your computer. You can also turn the iPhone into a full screen keyboard by rotating it to the left.

