 When you're sick, it's important to drink a lot of fluids. Water is the best beverage for staying hydrated, but juice and hot tea will also help.Staying hydrated can help loosen mucus in your sinuses.Hot beverages like tea can help relieve a sore throat and sinus problems, including runny nose, sneezing, and coughing.Adding honey may help further soothe a sore throat.Diluted sports drinks (mix one part water with one part sports drink) and electrolyte solutions can replenish essential minerals that may be lost through vomiting, sweating, or diarrhea.
Avoid alcohol, coffee, and soda.;
, Steam can help soothe sore throats and nasal congestion.You can use cool mist from a humidifier, or hot steam from a warm shower.You can also pour a bowl full of hot water and drape a towel over your head while breathing the steam from the bowl.


This method is not as effective for children younger than five. Often they are too young to know how to properly gargle., Rinsing your throat with saltwater can help soothe a sore or scratchy throat.To make an effective saltwater rinse, mix about half a teaspoon of salt in an eight ounce glass of warm water. Gargle, rinse, and repeat as necessary., Mucus buildup caused by colds and allergies can be painful, and may lead to infections.Blowing your nose offers temporary relief, but nasal irrigation can help remove pollen, dust, and dander, and may help reduce the chances of a sinus infection.Irrigating the sinuses can help relieve some cold symptoms, offering quick relief from a stuffy or runny nose.When flushing your sinuses, you must use sterilized or distilled water. You can buy a sterile solution at the drugstore. If this is not available, you can sterilize water by boiling it for five minutes, then allowing it to cool.There are many different types of sinus irrigation products available. Do not flush your sinuses if you are experiencing a fever, nosebleed, or severe headaches.Consult your physician to determine whether sinus irrigation can help you with your ailment.
If you're not comfortable flushing your sinuses, you can also try using over-the-counter saline sprays. These products are simply squirted into the nostrils to soothe irritation and relieve stuffiness., Over-the-counter medications can help relieve the symptoms of a cold or flu, and may help you get to sleep at night to ensure a restful sleep; however, children under six years of age should not be given any over-the-counter cold or cough medicine unless otherwise directed by your pediatrician.Antihistamines help reduce the body's response to allergens and can reduce runny noses and sinus congestion. Common antihistamines include cetirizine (Zyrtec), fexofenadine (Allegra), and loratadine (Claritin).Cough medicine is available as both an antitussive, which suppresses the body's need to cough, and cough expectorants, which increase the production and secretion of mucus.A common antitussive is dextromethorphan (Triaminic Cold and Cough, Robitussin Cough), and the most common expectorant is guaifenesin (Mucinex, Robitussin Chest Congestion).Decongestants can help reduce congestion and open up nasal passages. This type of medication is often combined with antihistamines, cough suppressants, or pain relievers, and can be found in brands like Afrin and Sudafed.Pain relievers and fever reducers can help treat body aches, headaches, and fevers. Common pain relievers include aspirin, acetaminophen, and ibuprofen.Note that aspirin should never be given to children or teenagers, as it has been linked to a serious and potentially-fatal condition called Reye's syndrome., Studies have shown conflicting results on how effective vitamin supplements are in treating colds and illness. Some experts recommend vitamin C and zinc to help strengthen the immune system, but studies suggest that vitamin C must be taken consistently (not just at the beginning of an illness) to effectively strengthen the immune system. Care must be taken when using zinc supplements, as taking more than 50 mg per day over an extended period of time may cause health problems., Some studies suggest that certain herbs may help reduce the symptoms of colds and illness, though these products are not tested by regulatory bodies like the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In addition, some herbs can cause side effects, especially when taken with other medications or supplements (this is known as the drug-herb interaction).As such, anyone wishing to experiment with herbal remedies should first consult a physician about what to try and how much to use. Common herbal remedies include:


Elderberry — Used to reduce congestion and promote sweating.Eucalyptus — Helps relieve coughs and cold symptoms. Commonly found in over-the-counter lozenges and cough syrups.Peppermint — Reduces congestion and soothes upset stomach. Peppermint should not be used with infants., Most colds and viruses will run their course within a few days, and typically do not require medical attention; however, some ailments are more serious and require a physician's diagnosis and treatment. Common illnesses that may require medical attention include:


Bronchitis — Marked by heavy coughing and mucus, often appearing yellow or green in consistency. These symptoms may also be accompanied by a persistent fever, pain in the chest, or trouble breathing. An x-ray will usually determine if you are suffering from bronchitis.Pneumonia — Also marked by heavy coughing, mucus, and difficulty breathing. Pneumonia typically results from a bacterial infection that develops during the flu. Like bronchitis, an x-ray is usually required to diagnose pneumonia.Symptoms of pneumonia also include chest pain and shortness of breath.

