 There are different types of skimmers available. These skimmers will filter your water to prevent the build-up of protein and other organic compounds in your water. The two most common are known as air-driven skimmers or venturi skimmers.


Air-driven skimmers use air stones to filter the water. These skimmers are typically less expensive, but they require more maintenance. The air stones will have to be replaced every month.
Venturi skimmers use a special valve to filter the water. They also require a special high pressure water pump to filter the water. They require less maintenance, but they are more expensive. You may have to buy the pump separately from the skimmer., Most skimmers attach to the side of your tank. Others simply sit in the water. Place the skimmer in the tank. You should make sure that your skimmer is sitting in between seven and ten inches of water.The electrical cord should sit above the surface of the water line. Make sure that the electrical cord does not touch the water. Keep the cord high above the skimmer, and plug it into an outlet where water cannot drip on it. This outlet should ideally be above the aquarium or sump.If you have a sump (an extra tank for water maintenance) attached to your tank, you can install the skimmer there. This will still effectively filter the water., No matter what type of protein skimmer you have, it will move its waste into a collection cup. This cup needs to be emptied or cleaned on a daily basis. In most models, the cup is attached to the top of the skimmer. It can be unscrewed, and the waste can be dumped out into the trash., Skimmers need special care to ensure that they are working properly. You should check your skimmer frequently to make sure that there is no debris pumping up in it.


If you have an air driven pump, you will need to replace the stones at least once a month.If you have a water pump (such as a venturi pump), you will need to check it weekly to make sure that there is no debris blocking the pump.

