 You will probably need ways to manage the symptoms of strep throat even after you’ve started antibiotics. Non-prescription medications like ibuprofen and acetaminophen can help reduce pain and fever. There are also over-the-counter (OTC) anesthetic throat sprays and lozenges that work to relieve pain.Before you start taking any OTC medications for strep throat, ask you pharmacist if these medications are safe to take with any of your prescriptions, what the recommended dosage is, and what the possible side effects are, if any.
Always read and follow all the directions on the medication packaging.
 Allow your body to get plenty of rest while you are fighting off strep throat. You can vary the amount of rest you get depending on how you feel. For example, if you feel weak and overly tired, stay in bed for a good portion of the day. Once your symptoms have started to decrease and you’re feeling back to normal, it is not necessary for you to stay in bed.


You will be contagious for up to 24 hours after starting antibiotic treatment. It is a good idea to stay in bed during this period to avoid passing strep throat on to others., You’ll want to keep your throat moist while you’re dealing with strep throat. This will help reduce the irritation and pain you experience. To do so, drink lots of liquids. It is always a good idea to drink lots of water when you’re sick, but you can also try the following to help relieve your strep throat symptoms:


Orange juice, which contains Vitamin C, can help get rid of your strep throat faster.Warm beverages, like herbal teas or hot teas with honey or lemon, can help relieve the pain from your sore throat.
In addition, using a humidifier helps keep the air moist and will help keep your throat from getting dry., Swallowing is difficult when you have a sore throat. To help prevent pain from swallowing, eat soft foods like applesauce, ice cream, and yogurt.


In addition to eating soft foods, opt for foods that are warm or cold, for example, soups and ice cream. Not only will these be easy to swallow, the temperature of these foods can also help ease throat pain., Another remedy to ease strep throat pain is to gargle with a salt water solution. Your solution should consist of ¼ teaspoon of salt and eight ounces of warm water.Gargle the solution in the back of your throat for about 30 seconds at least once every hour until your symptoms subside.As an alternative, try gargling with diluted apple cider vinegar, which has antibacterial properties. Apple cider vinegar is acidic, however, and can be harmful to tooth enamel so check with your doctor before you try it.