 One good way to start getting your puppy used to you is to sit on the floor and place the puppy in your lap. If you can't sit on the floor, sit in a chair, and place the puppy in your lap.Try to hold on to the collar so he doesn't run away. You can simply put a finger in the collar.
 Rub the puppy's head. Use gentle, soft strokes, running all along the pup's head. In addition, gently rub his chest. Another good place to rub is at the base of his ears.You can also talk to your pup in a soothing tone, telling it all is well, and that it is safe and comfortable.
Continue your soothing patting and talking until the puppy is completely relaxed.
 Once your puppy is relaxed, you can turn him on his back, still in your lap. Gently rub his belly in circular motions, making sure to not be too rough. You can also rub where the thigh meets the tummy.Start with short sessions first, under five minute. Get your puppy used to it.
After your puppy can relax, make the time it spends in your lap longer each time.
 You don't want to only socialize the puppy with you. You need to also socialize it with other members of the family. Additionally, try having anyone who visits the house socialize with your pup by picking it up and holding it for a few minutes.Teach them how to soothe the puppy, so it will feel safe in the person's arms.
Socializing your dog with a variety of people will help when you take the puppy out in public, as it won't be as wary of strangers. Also, it helps when you go to the vet, as your pup will be accustomed to being restrained by strangers.
 If you let the puppy down when it struggles, it learns that is the way to get down. Therefore, if your pup struggles during a cuddle session, hold on. Place his back to your stomach, where the pup cannot bite you in the face. Have a hand on his stomach, pressing it up to you and another hand on the collar.Hold the pup in this position until it calms down, then try petting it again.
However, you may not want to put friends or family who visit through a struggling pup.
 Another way to help encourage socialization is to use food. When it's time for the pup's meal, have someone touch an ear or a paw, for instance, then give the pup a piece of it's food. The pup will associate the touching with positive reinforcement.