 Usage of the SHOP marketplace is based on the number of FTE employees you have. While you must have fewer than 25 FTE employees to qualify for the tax credit, you can still use the SHOP marketplace if you have up to 50 FTE employees.


You must either have a primary business address within the state where you're buying coverage, or at least one eligible employee whose primary workplace is within that state.
If you purchase a plan on the SHOP marketplace, you must offer coverage to all full-time employees. Whether an employee is considered full-time is not based on your internal designation, but rather whether that employee works an average of 30 hours or more per week.
You can use the FTE Calculator available on healthcare.gov to determine the number of FTE employees you have, if you haven't already made this calculation to determine whether your business is eligible for the tax credit.
A full list of the eligibility requirements, as well as tools to help you determine if your business meets those requirements, are available in the SHOP marketplace area at healthcare.gov.
 Four categories of plans are available on the SHOP marketplace, arranged in metal levels of bronze, silver, gold, and platinum. Each level corresponds to a different percentage of healthcare costs covered by policies in that category.


All plans cover the same essential coverage, such as for routine doctor visits, prescriptions, and hospitalization. Any additional specific benefits offered will vary between plans as well as among states.
To offer one health plan, you choose the specific category, insurance company, and plan. Some companies may offer more than one plan in each category.
You also have the option of choosing a category and then allowing your employees to choose the insurance company and plan they prefer from among the available plans in that category.
Which category you choose will determine the portion of their medical bills your employees will have to pay. The greater amount of costs that are covered by insurance, the higher the premium will be.
 In addition to health plans, the SHOP marketplace also offers dental plans that you can offer to your employees either on their own or in conjunction with a health plan.


There are two categories of dental plans, low and high. These categories reflect the amount of dental costs covered by the insurance company.
The category you choose affects the amount your employees will spend for dental benefits each year.
You can offer a dental plan without offering a health plan.
If an employee wants to enroll a dependent in the dental plan, they must first enroll themselves.
Employees enrolled in health and dental can enroll their dependents in dental only.
 The SHOP marketplace gives you a number of options to decide how much you'll contribute toward your employees' premiums and whether you'll pay for dependent coverage, so you can set a fixed contribution that fits into your budget.If you've decided to only offer one plan, you choose a fixed percentage of that plan premium that you'll pay for each employee.
If you've decided to give your employees a choice of plans within a single category, you can choose a fixed percentage to contribute. The amount will vary depending on the plan each employee chooses since the plans in each category have different premiums.
You also have the option of contributing a fixed percentage based on a single reference plan in that category. While your employees still can choose among the plans available in that category, the amount of the premium they pay will vary depending on whether they chose the reference plan, a cheaper plan, or a more expensive plan.
For example, if the reference plan you chose has a premium of $100, and you want to pay 50 percent of your employees' premiums based on that reference plan, you would pay $50 of each employee's premium.
If one of your employees chose a plan in the same category that had a premium of $150, you'd still contribute $50, and the employee would be responsible for the other $100 of the premium.
Premium amounts still will vary among your employees even if they all have the same plan, based on their age.
Keep in mind that if you are eligible for and want to claim the tax credit, you must pay at least 50 percent of your employees' premiums.
 Participation requirements vary among states, but most require at least 70 percent of your employees who are offered insurance to either enroll in your plan or to already be insured from another source, such as on their spouse's plan.You can use the SHOP Minimum Participation Rate Calculator on the healthcare.gov website to determine how many of your employees must enroll.
If you don't meet the minimum employee participation requirements, you still have the option of enrolling between November 15 and December 15 of any year, when the minimum participation requirement is waived.
 Once you've met the applicable minimum employee participation requirement, you can submit your enrollment at any time. As long as you enroll by the 15th of any month, your employees' coverage will start on the 1st of the next month.To submit your enrollment, you'll have to set up an employer account on healthcare.gov. You'll use this account to manage your plans and pay your premiums each month.
When you submit your enrollment, you must pay the first month's premium immediately. Payment is made through the SHOP marketplace, not directly to the insurer.
If you want coverage to start on the 1st, the premium payment must be received by the 20th of the previous month at the latest, otherwise your enrollment will be cancelled.
While you can use an agent or broker to enroll in SHOP marketplace policies, an agent or broker cannot make your premium payments for you.

