 "Pump filters" may be your cheapest option in this category, but can be slow and tedious. For long trips, look into "gravity filters," which are typically a pair of bags connected by a hose. The bag with the filter is filled with water, then hung up to let the water drain through the filter into the clean bag. This is a fast, convenient option that doesn't require you to carry around a supply of disposable filters.These filters do not protect against viruses, but they are effective against bacteria. Not all wilderness areas require protection against viruses, however, especially in the US. Check your regional disease control center or a tourist information center for more information on the risks in your region.;
, Tablets are slow but cheap, and are effective against most bacteria and viruses. Tablets come in two common types:


Iodine tablets should be left in the water for at least 30 minutes. They are sometimes sold with a companion tablet for hiding the iodine taste.Pregnant women and people with thyroid conditions should not use this method, and no one should use it as their main source of water for more than a few weeks.Chlorine dioxide tablets normally have a 30 minute wait time. Unlike iodine, they are effective in areas contaminated by the bacterium Cryptosporidium – but only if you wait 4 hours before drinking., Ultraviolet light lamps can kill bacteria and viruses, but only if the water is clear and the light is applied for long enough.Different UV lamps or light pens have different intensities, so follow the manufacturer's instructions.
 This is an extremely effective method of killing pathogens, as long as you let the water boil for at least one minute. It may not be convenient to boil water several times a day, but be aware that you won't need additional filtration if you're already boiling water for your evening meal or morning coffee.


At high elevations, boil the water for at least three minutes, since the water will boil at a lower temperature in the thin air.The high temperature, not the boiling action itself, is responsible for killing bacteria and viruses.
 Plastic bottles are only designed to be filled an used once, since the plastic can break down over time, adding potentially harmful chemicals to the water and even harboring bacteria. Even aluminum bottles often have an inner plastic coating, and are not dishwasher safe, making them difficult to clean., If you're lucky enough to find a mountain spring bubbling from the rocks, it's usually safe to drink directly from it – but this does not apply even a couple feet (0.6 m) away.This is not a foolproof rule, and may be dangerous in agricultural regions, areas with historic mining, or lower-elevation areas near population centers.

