 In addition to washing your face and body, moisturizing your skin should be a part of your daily regimen. Use toner on your face to remove any excess oil or dirt, and follow up with a gentle moisturizer. You should also use a moisturizing lotion on your hands and any other parts of your body that are prone to dry, itchy skin.Choose a moisturizer that works best for your skin type: dry, regular, or oily.
Make moisturizing a part of your daily routine at least once or twice each day.
 The circles under your eyes can make you look tired, old, and worn out. The good news is you can treat those dark circles for healthier, younger-looking skin.Place cool, moist tea bags over your eyelids. This can help reduce darkness and puffiness in your skin.
Use a specialized cream for dark under-eye circles. Look for a cream that contains caffeine, which reduces puffiness, as well as retinol and vitamins C and E.
If all else fails, you can always use a tiny bit of concealer under your eyes. Choose a color that matches your skin tone to effectively cover up dark circles for a brighter, younger-looking complexion.
 The sun can cause tremendous damage to your skin, leaving you burnt and tender. After many years of overexposure to the sun, your skin can prematurely develop wrinkles, age spots, and an increased risk of skin cancer. One of the best ways to care for your skin over the long-term is to prevent unnecessary exposure to the sun's harmful U.V. rays.Use broad-spectrum sunscreen. Make sure it has an SPF of 15 or higher, and reapply it at least every two hours.
Try to avoid being in direct sunlight between 10:00 AM and 2:00 PM, when U.V. rays are the strongest.
Wear tightly-woven clothing that protects against ultraviolet rays. Opt for long sleeves and pants, and try to wear a wide-brimmed hat when you'll be spending a lot of time outdoors.
 Smoking is a significant contributor to prematurely aged skin. In addition to the health risks associated with smoking, daily exposure to cigarette smoke can decrease blood flow, leaving your skin more wrinkled and less elastic. It can also cause premature creases around your mouth and eyes.The best way to prevent smoke-induced skin damage is to avoid smoking altogether.
If you're currently a smoker, talk to your doctor about how to break your smoking habit.

