 The types of clouds in the sky, as well as the direction in which they're moving, can tell you a lot about upcoming weather. In general, clouds that are white and high indicate good weather, and clouds that are dark and low mean rain or storms are on the way. The presence of cumulonimbus clouds early in the day, with more developing throughout the day can mean there's a greater chance of severe weather occurring soon.
Mammatus clouds (formed by sinking air) can form with both severe and non-severe thunderstorms.
Cirrus clouds, or "mare's tails," high in the sky like long streamers, mean bad weather is coming within the next 36 hours.
Altocumulus clouds, which are like mackerel scales, also point to bad weather coming within the next 36 hours.
Mackerel skies and mares tails formations sometimes appear in the same sky. When that happens, rain is sure to follow the next day.
Cumulus towers indicate the possibility of showers later in the day.
Nimbostratus clouds hang low and heavy in the sky, and mean rain is imminent.
Cloud cover on a winter night means you can expect warmer weather, because clouds prevent heat radiation that would lower the temperature on a clear night.;
, Remember the rhyme: "Red sky at night, sailor's delight; Red sky at morning, sailors take warning." Look for any sign of red in the sky (not a red sun); it will not be a bold orange or red the majority of the time, but that depends a little on where you live.


If you see a red sky during sunset (when you're looking to the west), there is a high pressure system with dry air that is stirring dust particles in the air, causing the sky to look red. Since prevailing front movements and jet streams weather usually move from west to east, the dry air is heading towards you.
A red sky in the morning (in the East, where the sun rises) means that the dry air has already moved past you, and what follows behind it (on its way towards you) is a low pressure system that carries moisture.
 This is the result of the rising sun's morning rays from the east striking moisture in the west. Most major storm fronts in the Northern Hemisphere travel west to east, and a rainbow in the west means moisture, which can mean rain is on its way. On the other hand, a rainbow in the east around sunset means that the rain is on its way out and you can look forward to sunny days. Remember: Rainbow in the morning, need for a warning., If it is reddish or pale, dust is in the air. But if the moon is bright and sharply focused, it's probably because low pressure has cleared out the dust, and low pressure means rain.


A ring around the moon (caused by light shining through cirrostratus clouds associated with warm fronts and moisture) can indicate that rain will probably fall within the next three days.
Remember the proverb: Circle around the moon, rain or snow soon.


