 To work your shoulders and chest, try a shoulder sweep. You will need dumbbells for this exercise. Choose a weight that is challenging but allows you to finish the circuit. Try five or 10 pounds to start.Start with your hands by your sides. Raise your arms up until they are at shoulder height. Keep your palms facing down with the weights parallel to the floor.
In a controlled motion, squeeze your arms together in front of you until the two dumbbells are almost touching. Your arms should still be at the same height and your weights parallel to the floor.
Sweep your arms back wide to your original position. Then lower your arms back to your sides.
Do two sets with 10 to 15 reps each.;
, The triceps press works your triceps muscles. The triceps are the muscles in the back of your arms. You need dumbbells for this move. Try three to five pounds.Start with your arms behind your head with your elbows pointed out. Your weights should be parallel to each other right behind your head.
Extend your arms up towards the ceiling until the weights are parallel to the floor, palms facing out. As you press your arms overhead, lift up onto your toes.
Lower back down as you lower your arms back into the wide position with your elbows pointed out.
Make sure to keep your abs tight during this exercise.
Do three sets of 15 reps.
 This move focuses on the biceps and triceps, but it also works your whole body. You have to engage your core as you bend over, and it provides some strength training for your glutes and legs. You need hand weights for this move. Try five or 10 pounds.Bend your knees slightly as you lean over at a 45 degree angle. Bend your arms at a 90 degree angle.
Extend your arms all the way out until your arms are straight. Then, in a slow controlled movement, draw your arms back. Keep your arms close to your body so that your biceps are sliding against your ribs. When your arms are at a 90 degree angle again, pull them back a little more until you can’t anymore.
Do three sets of 12 to 15 reps.
 Upper back flies target your upper back muscles. You can either do this on your knee or standing. You will need one hand weight for this exercise. Try five to 10 pounds.Start on your hands and knees. Straighten the opposite leg of the arm you will be doing the fly with. For example, if you hold the dumbbell in your right hand, straighten your left leg. Point your toes and rest them on the floor. The other leg should be bent.
Brace yourself with the arm on the same side as your straight leg. Hold the dumbbell in the other arm. Draw your abs to your spine.
Lift your arm out to the side, keeping your arm straight with your elbow soft. Raise your arm until your arm is at shoulder-height. Your palm should be down.
In a slow and controlled manner, lower your arm back down to the floor.
Complete the reps on one side before you switch to the next.
If you prefer to do this exercise standing, bend slightly at the waist like in the bent-over row. Complete the same movement as you would on the floor.
Do 15 reps on each arm for one set. Complete three sets.
 This exercise works the bicep, which is in the front of the arm. You will need two hand weights. Try five to 15 pounds. You want enough weight to feel challenged towards the end, but not too heavy to be unable to finish.Start standing with your feet shoulder width apart. Hold your hand weights in your hand by your side, your palms facing out.
Slowly, curl your arms toward your chest. Keep your elbows by your side and don’t let them push outwards. As you curl, your knuckles and palms should be facing you.
Once you get to the top, slowly lower down in a controlled motion.
Do three sets of 15 reps.

