 This feature should be clearly indicated on the label of potential pork chops, but in the event it is not, simply inquire with your butcher which pork chops are pasture raised. These cuts will be available at most butchers and groceries.


In some cases, pasture raised pork can be a little more expensive than other varieties. If you're on a budget, you might want to avoid this kind of meat.
Pasture raised pork generally has a better consistency, taste, and quality than "farm raised" pork, which usually refers to pigs raised and processed in an industrial style of butchery.;
, Much of the pork available today is raised to be as lean as possible, which can cause your meat to become easily overcooked. Thicker pork chops will retain moisture better, so you might want to ask for a double-cut for your chops, or specify you want yours at least 1½ inches (3.8 cm) thick.


Bone-in cuts also help prevent the loss of moisture when cooking. If you find you have a problem with dryness in your chops, bone-in cuts may help with the problem., At most butchers, you'll have the option to look over the meat you plan on buying to inspect its quality. The most important feature for you to look for at this point is called "marbling," which is the presence of veins of white fat in the meat.


Ideal pork chops will have a small amount of marbling throughout the chop and no yellow fat.
Fat not only helps retain moisture in your meat, it also enriches the flavor of it. If you dislike fatty meat, you can always cut the fat out after it has been cooked., The meat of your chops should be light pink in color. They should be wrapped in clean packaging that has no holes or tears. The packaging itself should have little to no leakage, and the tray in which the meat is presented should also have little to no fluid.If you notice discoloration, like a graying or browning in your pork chops, your meat has already started to spoil.
Smell is a great indicator of freshness. If you notice a sour, unpleasant, rotten, or decaying odor, your chops have spoiled and should be thrown away.
Check the sell-by date on the packaging of your pork chops. If your meat has passed this date, it may be safest to throw the meat away.

