 If you know just when the alarm is going to sound, you can take steps to better prepare a student.
 Children need to know what to expect during a fire drill, and teachers should be very clear about rules and procedures for drills.


Anxiety can cause a child to lash out or misbehave in unexpected ways, which may require disciplinary action from the school. Help your students to understand the importance of following official procedure despite their fears.
Why not take a moment to address a fear of fire alarms in front of the whole class? There may be several students who share the same anxiety.
 Because there will be no sudden alarm sounding, the child can practice your school’s safety routine in a much less fearful situation.


Try giving the child a positive responsibility during the drill, such as letting them lead the students from the front of the line or turn off the classroom lights from the back of the line.
Separating the fire drill from the sound of the alarm can also help you determine just what triggers the student’s fear.
 As in exposure therapy, gradually bring the child closer to the classroom or the school building as they become familiar with the drill routine and the sound of the alarm.


Maybe a teachers’ aide can escort the student out of the room before the alarm sounds.
Keep in mind, if the child avoids all fire drills because of the alarm, they will not learn the important ways to act during a real fire emergency.Do not let fear get in the way of proper fire safety training.
 There are an increasing number of tools, media products, and safety technologies available to teachers for helping a student manage anxiety over fire alarms.


For example, many children with an Autism Spectrum Disorder find relief from anxiety by wearing weighted vests.The physical pressure of the heavy vest comforts and relaxes the body.
There are CDs available for sale online that contain common school sounds that can be helpful when practicing exposure therapy at home or in the classroom.
Check with local fire safety programs or the local fire department for any tools they might be able to donate to your classroom or school.

