 When they meet each other for the first time face to face, your dog and cat should be held so that they cannot attack the other. It is typically best to do this when there are two people present. Have one person hold the cat while the other keeps the dog on a leash.Your cat should be secure in your arms but not pinned down. The cat may be scared of the dog and react by squirming or scratching. If your cat wants to escape, take them back to their room.
If you do not have two people, you can hold the cat in your arms, and command the dog to sit as you bring them together. You could also let the cat wander free, and hold the dog on a leash. It is better to confine the dog than the cat in this scenario, as a caged or confined cat may become even more frightened., If the dog is calm and ignores the cat, you might consider letting the cat walk around the room freely. Watch where the cat goes and how they behave. If the cat and the dog ignore each other, it means that they do not see the other as an intruder or a danger.


Do not let the dog go off their leash at first. The dog may try to chase the cat.
Your cat may still be scared of your dog. The cat might try to bolt from the dog, hiss at the dog, or hide. In this case, take the cat back to their room, and try again another day., As you introduce the dog and the cat, you should carefully watch their body language for signs of aggression. If either animal seems tense, they may bolt or attack the other.


If the cat hisses, growls, swats, or runs from the dog, your cat may be scared or aggressive towards the dog. The cat may also raise their back while hissing.If your dog stares at your cat for long periods of time and ignores your commands while the cat is around, they may be anxious or worried about the cat. Their body will become tense and stiff, and they may start whining. They may also try lunging at the cat or tugging at their leash. This is a bad sign, as it means that your dog could become aggressive towards the cat.If your dog’s body is relaxed, it may mean that they are comfortable with the cat’s presence. A wagging tail is also a good sign. You should be able to easily distract your dog from the cat.
If the cat and dog are ignoring each other, it means that they do not mind each other’s presence. While they may not be fully comfortable with each other yet, they are not aggressive towards one another.
 Even if the dog and cat appear comfortable with each other, you should keep an eye on them during their first month home with each other. At this point, you should still confine the cat inside of their special room while you are not home. While the dog and cat may be calm at a distance, if one comes too close to the other, there might be a problem.If you notice the dog and the cat playing together or sleeping together, it may be a sign that they have become friends. Be warned that dogs can injure young cats even during innocent play.
Some breeds of dogs, such as Siberian Huskies or German Shepherds, have a high prey drive. This means that they may see your cat as prey or try to hunt your cat.While these breeds may be fine with a cat inside the house, they may start to hunt or attack the cat if they are outside together. If you have a dog like this, you may want to keep your cat inside at all times, and you may want to supervise their interactions for a longer period of time.
If the cat stops eating, drinking or socializing or if the cat refuses to use the litter box, it may be a sign that the cat is stressed or unhappy. Take the cat to a vet.