 Scrub your hands with hot, running water and unscented soap, then rinse them off. Besides washing away dirt, this will remove skin oils that can prevent whites from fluffing., Cold yolks are less likely to break than warm ones, and easier to separate from the white.If you store your eggs in the fridge, separate them right after taking them out. If you store them at room temperature, you can put them in the fridge half an hour before you cook — though it's not a big deal if you forget.


Most recipes call for whites or yolks at room temperature. You can warm chilled, separated egg by placing the bowls of yolks and whites in a pan of warm water (not hot) for 5–10 minutes., If you're only separating a couple eggs, you only need two bowls. But if you're separating many eggs, get another bowl to crack the whole egg into. This way, if you break the yolk, you've only lost one egg instead of ruining a whole bowl of whites.The faster method is to crack all the eggs into one bowl and lift out the yolks one by one. It's best to leave this until you've had some practice, since one broken yolk will ruin all your whites., Crack the egg carefully into the first bowl, taking care not to break the yolk. If you can, you can crack the egg gently, then drop it right into your cupped palm instead — or even crack it in one hand.


If you have trouble with shell fragments in your egg, try cracking it against a flat countertop instead of the edge of the bowl.
If a bit of shell falls into your egg, pick it out with your fingers, without breaking the yolk. It's easier to get it out with half of the shell, but that increases the risk of salmonella contamination.
 Reach into the bowl and cup a yolk, lifting it up. Move your hand over to the second bowl and separate your fingers slightly, letting the whites drip through. Use your other hand to gently pull down thick strands of white if it doesn't fall on its own. If there is still white attached to the yolk, pass it back and forth between your hands until most of the white has dripped into the bowl below.
 Move the yolk over to the last bowl and drop it in gently. Repeat the process with all your other eggs.


It typically doesn't matter if the yolks have a little bit of white stuck to the them. As long as the bowl of egg whites is 100% free of yolk, you're fine.

