 The most highly-recommended homes for gerbils are large fish tanks. A fish tank allows you put in plenty of bedding for them to bulldoze and burrow into without worry that they'll kick it out like they would with a wire cage. Wire cages can work in a pinch, but are not recommended for the long term.


A gerbil will chew the wires of a wire cage and this can hurt their noses and muzzles.
The most important part of your gerbil's environment is room to dig, a minimum of 6 inches (15.2 cm) of substrate. So never go solely with a wire cage, as this can limit the gerbil's ability to dig and tunnel.;
, Plastic "hamster homes", or any cages with plastic trays or components, are highly discouraged. A gerbil will easily chew through the plastic and escape.Modular systems, such as Rotastak and Habitrail, are also not recommended for any rodent. As well as causing serious health and enrichment issues, in the case of gerbils you run the risk that one of your gerbils will 'claim' a section of the tubes and this can lead to major fighting and even death.
 Adding a topper to your large glass tank means your gerbil will be secure in its home but the tank will still get the ventilation that it needs. If you are buying a wire topper that is not made specifically for the tank you have, just make sure that it will fit the tank securely.Make sure the top is tight, as gerbils can jump!
If you only have a topper that is a bit loose, you can make sure your cage topper is secure by placing heavy objects on the edge of the topper.
 Remember gerbils must be kept in pairs but you cannot introduce an adult to an adult without a split cage. A divided cage allows the gerbils to slowly acclimate to each other, otherwise they may fight and once can kill the other.Instead of dealing with a slow introduction, consider getting several gerbils at the same time that were raised as pups and litter mates.
 Place food and water away from really deep sections of bedding. Also keep spinners, hammocks and rope toys away from water and food. In addition, the area where your gerbil takes a dust bath should be far enough away from food and water that it doesn't contaminate them.


Keeping food and water away from areas of heavy bedding and activity will make your life easier. It will make cleaning up food and water spills much easier.
 This can consist of recycled paper bedding, plain shredded paper or corncob, or various kinds of wood shavings. However, avoid pine or cedar wood shavings, as they have harmful wood oils that can hurt your pet's respiratory system.Gerbils must have a minimum of 6 inches (15.2 cm) of a decent substrate to burrow in. Add hay for support and essential chewing and you'll soon see your gerbils construct an impressive array of tunnels.
Use aspen shavings if you feel the need for wood shavings. Avoid using sawdust. This should not be used as bedding for any rodents.
 Buy a healthful, nutritious food formulated for gerbils. Some pellet foods provide the full spectrum of vitamins and minerals your gerbil may need. However, pellets may not provide your rodent with enough variety to keep them eating an appropriate volume of food. If you buy this kind of feed, be sure to combine it with another food mix that contains more diverse flavors.


Give your gerbil little bits of vegetables daily and bits of fruit every other day. Vegetables can include peas, broccoli, and carrots. Fruits can include apples and bananas.Gerbils eat a lot of small meals throughout the day. This means that they should always have access to food in order to keep a healthy eating schedule.Gerbils need access to clean water at all times. This is best provided with a water bottle that attaches to the cage, so that water is not spilled all over the cage.
 Your gerbils need plenty to chew. They should always have hay and thin cardboard available.


A gerbil's teeth will grow continuously for the entirety of their lives. If you don't get your gerbil something to chew on and wear down their teeth, they can grow too long and inhibit their ability to eat, causing your pet to starve and die.
Empty paper towel rolls, tissue, and cereal boxes can be put in their cage. They will have fun shredding the boxes up into little pieces.
It's fun to also watch them stuff their cheeks with tissue paper to bed out their bedroom.
 These busy creatures need exercise and fun, so don't let them be bored for the entirety of their lives. A bored gerbil can become antisocial and aggressive. If you can't afford more costly toys engineered specifically for gerbils or rodents in general, try a few toy balls, like those you might buy for a cat. If you need something cheaper, try toilet paper rolls.Be aware, however, that you will need to replace most toys you buy for your gerbil on a regular basis, as they are avid chewers and will eat their way through plastic and wood.
 Instead, give the gerbil a shade if you need to put it in an area that gets a lot of light.
 Gerbils do well when kept in a room that is between 65 degrees and 85 degrees. This temperature range will assure that the gerbil does not get too hot or too cold.It should also be put in a place where it is not exposed to drafts. This can cause the gerbil to get sick.
 This light cleaning should include removing bedding covered in waste, and removing old fruits and vegetables.


A more thorough cleaning, in which all bedding in replaced, should be done weekly.During this cleaning, the cage should be cleaned with soap and water, left to dry, and then filled with new bedding, items to chew, and food and water.

