 Aside from some salts, most iron compounds tend to be in the iron (III) state. This includes things like railroad ties, nails, steel wool, paperclips, etc. Choose your source based on the amount of iron you need, how fast you need it, and what is available to you. For example, steel wool is cheap and oxidizes quickly, but railroad ties contain a larger mass of iron., You want to be sure that you have enough water in the container to cover the iron piece at all times. Keep in mind that the process of electrolysis may heat the water. This can increase the rate at which the water evaporates., You will need to use a battery or other direct current power source to power the reaction. The power source should have a lead connected to the negative side and a lead to the positive side. Choose the size of your power source based on how much rust you are trying to create and how fast you want it. Larger power supplies will generally create rust faster., The leads should not touch each other. Instead, they should be submerged in opposite sides of your water tank. This will make the water solution part of the circuit and force electricity to flow through the water., While iron will typically rust under atmospheric conditions without any help, submerging it in water increases the rate of oxidation. Submerging iron in water that is being electrolyzed will increase the rate of oxidation even more since the electrolysis produces hydrogen gas (H2) and diatomic oxygen (O2). Diatomic oxygen is a great oxidizer and readily reacts with the iron to form rust., Now that your tank is setup, you can turn on the power. This will start the current flowing through the solution and oxidizing the metal. Be careful not to touch the leads, or touch them together. Also, do not put your hands in the water unless you turn the power off.


If you are using a power source without a switch (like a battery), either put the leads in last, or do not hook the leads to the battery until you are ready for power.
 While the reaction is relatively fast compared to natural oxidation, it isn’t instant. You will need to leave the reaction for several hours at least to yield rust. You will probably need to leave it for a day or two to get a decent amount., When your rust forms, it will be in the tank of water. The first step to getting it in a dry and usable form is to filter out some of the water. You can stretch cheesecloth or some other fabric over a jar or sink and pour the solution through. Allow it to sit for an hour or so to drain as much water as possible., To finish drying your rust, you will need to bake it. Set your oven at 400 °F (204 °C) and bake the rust for one to three hours. Be sure to use an old pan, the rust will stain it.