 Patients may need to be isolated for two reasons. Some patients may need to be isolated to protect them from infections from other patients. Other patients may need to be isolated because they have an infection that could be passed easily.Patients who may need to be isolated because they are a risk to other patients include those with epidemic strains of bacterium, those with skin rashes, those who have communicable diseases, and those who have diarrhea.
Patients who need to be isolated for their own good include those with compromised immune systems.
Isolate patients in rooms with tightly sealing doors. Patients who are a danger to others should have negative-pressure ventilation, while those who are more in danger of infection should have positive-pressure ventilation.
 Certain patients may have a weakened immune system or other condition that makes them more susceptible to infection. For example, people who are in shock or who have had major trauma are at a higher risk for catching an infection. You will need to be more vigilant with at-risk patients.Older patients and very young patients are also more at risk, particularly those over 70 years of age or young children (who are sick) and infants.
Other conditions that put patients at risk include those in comas, those who've taken antibiotics in the past, those on drugs that compromise the immune system (such as chemotherapy), and those with acute renal failure. Diabetes can also contribute to a compromised immune system., Studies have shown that most professionals think they wash their hands more often than they do. They also think they wash their hands for longer than they do. In other words, you probably think you are washing your hands enough for a long enough period, when in reality, you're not doing it as much as you should.Make sure to wash any rings and then remove them to scrub away as much bacteria as possible. Scrub your hands thoroughly for at least 20 seconds, and rinse them under the water.
Wash your hands after every time you touch or deal with a patient, as well as after removing gloves after patient care. If you are doing an activity that may contaminate the hands, such as touching contaminated equipment or working on a person's bedding, then gloves should be worn, and hands washed immediately after removal.When entering a patient room, you should immediately wash your hands. When leaving a patient’s room, hands should be cleaned again.
While hand washing is better than hand sanitizer, hand sanitizer does reduce the spread of germs and can be done more quickly than thorough hand washing.
 When examining a patient, it's important to wear gloves in addition to washing your hands when dealing with any wounds or moist surfacesWhen you wear gloves, remember to wash your hands immediately upon their removal.Wear clean, sterile gloves for surgery and for sterile procedures. Wear non-sterile gloves when touching blood, other body fluids and contaminated items and any other potentially infectious materials.Change gloves when changing procedures on the same patient to avoid spreading infection from a contaminated area to a clean area.Remove your gloves after caring for the patient and change gloves between patients. Wash your hands after removing the gloves, and before donning new gloves for the next patient. Never wear the same pair of gloves to examine multiple people., When inserting anything into a patient, from IVs to catheter, it's important to clean the site first. Chlorhexidine is a good choice, though some hospitals also employ alcohol swabs to clean the skin before insertion., Stethoscopes can pass infections between patients if they aren't cleaned properly. Best practices suggest you should clean stethoscopes at least once a day with a cleaning agent such as a non-ionic detergent or isopropyl alcohol, focusing particularly on the diaphragm., Rooms should be cleaned thoroughly after each patient, including the floor and bathroom. While the patient is there, the room should be kept as dry as possible to lower the ability of bacteria to spread. Equipment should also be cleaned between patients.Patients' rooms need to be cleaned with hospital-grade disinfectants.Particular attention should be paid to all the surfaces the patient comes in contact with, including the television remote, the bed rails, the telephone, the doorknobs, and the faucet handles.
 As often as possible, patients should not be transferred. Of course, patients should be transferred if it's absolutely necessary, but every time a patient is moved, it increases the chances of infection spreading across the hospital., When examining wounds, skipping the white coat can be beneficial. These coats often harbor bacteria, particularly in the cuffs and pockets. A plastic apron is a better choice, so you should take off the coat and put on an apron when preparing to examine a wound.Though it looks nice, male doctors should also skip wearing neckties for the same reason.