


If you are 35 or younger, have had unprotected sex at least 2 times per week and have not been able to conceive in a 12 month period, you may need to contact a fertility specialist. When you are under the age of 35, your body is still at a good and healthy age to conceive naturally. It is important to contact a fertility doctor and have him run some fertility tests at this point.
Women who are over the age of 35, have had unprotected sex at least 2 times per week and have not been able to conceive should schedule an appointment with a fertility specialist after only 6 months. This is because women who are over the age of 35 often have a more difficult time conceiving naturally, and additional fertility measures may be needed. As women age, the quality of their eggs declines, menstrual cycles are more likely to become irregular and the process of conception can just become more difficult in general.;
,


If you are thinking about trying to conceive a child, but you have had 3 or more miscarriages in the past, it can be a good idea to go see a fertility specialist before trying to conceive. Although many women who have had prior miscarriages have gone on to deliver healthy babies, the fact that you have had problems carrying a child in the past may signal an underlying fertility problem. Repeat miscarriages can be due to a variety of factors, including an irregularly shaped uterus, a weak cervix, a hormonal disorder or problems with implantation. It is best to have a complete fertility workup performed to rule out any underlying conditions that may result in another miscarriage.
 These issues can cause problems when you are trying to conceive. If you have been diagnosed previously with these or other problems with your fallopian tubes, you may need the assistance of a fertility specialist to conceive.


Another issue that may warrant the help of a fertility specialist is if you have had any irregular ovarian reserve tests. It does not matter at what age you had the irregular test, if the test was positive, you should seek assistance from a fertility specialist.



Many times after trying unsuccessfully to conceive for many months, a couple will ask their family doctor to perform a sperm analysis on the male. If the analysis confirms that the male has a low sperm count, it can have a significant impact on the couple’s ability to conceive. Sometimes the family doctor will offer tips on improving sperm quality and tell the couple to give it more time. Because there can be an underlying cause for the low sperm count, it is important that the couple seek the assistance of a fertility specialist.

