 The following are the most popular sites for free blogging:

WordPress. The most popular free blogging platform, WordPress provides you plenty of templates and customizable features. If you want a more in depth control of your features and built in analytics, this is the best platform for a free blog.



 


Blogger. Google bought this popular blogging platform, and it is considered the most user-friendly option. It may not have as many customizable features as WordPress, but it is preferable for someone with fewer computer skills. Create a Google account, and click on the "More" tab to find the sign up on Google.com.






Tumblr. This is free blogging designed for visual artists and photographers. If you are excited about posting photos and videos, they can be combined seamlessly into the available templates.





;
,


Free blogging sites host a domain that leads with their website and includes your name on the URL. Services like WordPress and Blogger allow you to buy your domain name for $10 to $17 per year. Although this is not technically free, it is a good idea if you are blogging for professional reasons.
 Click on the option to start to sign up for a new account.


On Blogger, you will need to confirm your Google profile before signing up for your blog.
 You will need to add information about your email, name and a password. Make sure it is something secure that you can remember.
 Preview several options. There are hundreds to choose from on these 3 sites.
 Before your blog is available to the public, you will need to access your email and click on the verification link.
 Many people simply blog about what is relevant in their lives.


When in doubt, keep it short. People usually like to scan for topics that are important to them.
 Instead of listing blog posts by date, use the free options to categorize them by topic. Each post will apply to several topics.


Each blogging platform gives you the opportunity to associate different keywords with your post. These will help you categorize them for your blog and on search engines.
 Include a relevant picture in each post. Each platform allows you to change the position of the photo and its size, as well as keep a media library.


Keep a camera phone or camera with you at all times, so that you can get unique images for your posts.
Some people sort through Google images to find media that goes with their post. Beware of using copy written images in your blog.
 Add widgets to your blog that bring up Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn posts. This is especially important if you are trying to increase the number of followers or friends you have.
 You must remain consistent to encourage people to read your blog.
 Your blog should regularly cross-reference other interesting people so that it becomes a source for reliable and fun information.
 Create a conversation with each post.
 If you are writing a professional or hobby blog, giving your opinions on the industry will get more people to subscribe and read daily., Things that are in the news will bring more readers to your blog.



The most popular blogs involve people who can articulate a thought or argument. Make your main point early on in the article. Support it with evidence, such as links to news articles or photos.
 Many sites keep a comprehensive list of bloggers.


Blog directories can drive some traffic your way. Consider submitting to blog listing, blogarama and globe of blogs. Search for other options using your search engine.
 This site functions as a directory and ranking system for bloggers.


Create an account. Then, write a description of your blog and the URL. You should see increased traffic if you post regularly.
 SEO allows you to use Google and other search engine crawler rules to your benefit. You will be ranked higher on search engines if you follow their best practices.
 Regularly read other people's blogs and comment on them. Post your blog's name in addition to your name.


Important SEO topics include using keywords in the article, using keywords in the headline, learning to write meta tags, naming your images correctly and simplifying URLs.
 Trade blogger spots with a writer you like. You can share subscribers.

