 Is he really your dream guy, the one you'd do anything to get a date with? Be wary of this being about proving something, such as showing this guy that you're irresistible to anyone, no matter who. If you suspect you are only feeling this way to prove a point, back off now. On the other hand, if your feelings are genuine, and you've noticed things about this guy that are calling to you to notice him with affection rather than being mean-spirited toward him, proceed with caution.;
, Find out what he or she thinks of your sudden revelation about this guy. It is useful to get perspective from someone whose opinion you trust and consider worthy. This person may make it clearer for you, either way. Make sure to always talk to a "trusted" friend. You don't want word to get around about your crush or even worse end your friendship for that reason!

, What are you truly feeling? If your heart says that this is worth pursuing, then be prepared for rejection but hope for the best. Realize that this probably isn't going to be easy. If you've been strong enemies for some time, it will take a lot of time, effort and strength on your behalf to make him see you any differently. Accept that it may not work but if you're willing to give it a try, then do so with your eyes wide open.
 Just as a friend though! A guy is much less likely to hit on a girl his friends don't approve of, so this aspect is important. A group of guys is like a wolf pack, they work together and understand each other. The best way to get on his friends' side is by complimenting (not flirting with) and respecting them. Do not go for his best friend first, ever. This is too forward and too close. Try outer ring friends first, and work your way in. Realize that this may take some planning, and when it comes time to make friends, you get one shot, so make it count.
 There are two ways this could go, and you have no control over it so don't get caught in it:


Path 1: He hates you so much that he is mad at his friends for hanging out with you that he leaves them, they all get really mad at you, and that's the end of it.
Path 2: He finally gives in, but doesn't look at you as a friend or enemy. Now he secretly watches you. This is your big chance! Now for the next few weeks, be yourself and be friends with those friends you're now closer to but don't hassle him. Make yourself look good, such as dressing nicely, putting on jewelry, possibly make-up etc. This is usually what gets a guy's attention. Just don't overdo it.
 By this stage, it helps to be friends with most of his friends by now (again, not flirting with anyone but him).


Don't bother him when he's with his friends. Since he's your "enemy" he'll just act mean to you, and might humiliate you.
 You can try to bring up something from television or something that happened at school. Get his interest, and try to make him have fun. Offer compliments and aim to become a friend.


Approach him casually. Try not to do anything stupid around him! Also, try and start a conversation about schoolwork or something else that you think is suitable.
 Tell him how you feel about the enmity and want it to end. Also, let him know you are sad he still has bad feelings toward you. Next, tell him you would like to make up with him by making a deal or a truce.
 Flirt just a little, not much yet, and only near him; this must not be directed at anyone else. Stay near him more (if he lets you).
 Usually, a teenage guy doesn't stay mad like girls do, but if he is, try to flirt. Don't try too hard, or else he may spread rumors about you and take advantage of you. A flirty argument will do, but don't overdo it, as it's too easy to turn this into a joke.
 Don't ask him.
 If it is, fireworks!

, Well done!

