 You can't have an auction without things to auction off to bidders. Since this is a kid's auction, most of the items will probably be for kids. Go into your attic, garage, basement, etc. and find items that you no longer use, but that are in good condition. You need to remember that this thing should be something that people are going to actually want to bid on.;
, Do this carefully. Don't simply pick a random day! Weekends are good days to hold auctions, as nobody is in school, and some people are off work. If you're going to hold your kids auction on Sunday, be wary of the time, as some people may skip your auction to go to church. Also, remember that you'll need to be at the auction (or somebody will) the whole time that you're holding it, so don't make it 12 hours long if you know that you'll get bored. If you want to have your auction over multiple days, go for it!

, It can be in a hall, school gymnasium, garden, auditorium, or even on your front street. Make sure that this place isn't too expensive, because you'll want to make money out of your auction. Depending on how many people you think will come, you want to make sure that there's enough room for everyone. You don't want everyone stuffed in the room like sardines!

, You'll need to let people know that there's an auction going on! Make posters that tell people all about your auction. Also, make flyers to hand out door-to-door. If you want to spend a little more money, put an advertisement in the local newspaper. Whatever you do, make sure that all the information is included, such as:


A bold title that people can easily see. ie: "Kid's Auction!"
The date and time. ie: "Saturday, August 4th, 2011! 10 AM to 2 PM!"
The place, including the address. ie: "Sunnyside Hall, 1324 Sunny Street"
Something to intrigue them. ie: "Quality Kid's stuff at Great Prices!"

, Hang up your posters in your community. Put them on streetlights, and community and school bulletin boards. Hand flyers out door-to-door. You don't have to ring the doorbell; just stick them in people's mailboxes. Put ads in the paper, if you want. Also, tell people about it! Word of mouth travels pretty fast!

, You don't want to be setting up chairs when people are coming in! Get there 1-3 hours early, depending on how much stuff you need to set up. Make sure that you have chairs out for the people that are coming. Always put extra ones out, or have some hiding in the corner, in case you get more people than you expect. Have a couple tables to display your items before they're auctioned off. Have a podium or something of the like so that the person auctioning all the stuff off has a place to stand. Make sure that they have a microphone so that people can hear them!

, If people are driving by the place where you're holding your auction, you want them to know that it's there! Also, having balloons, signs, and posters up will help people find the location if they're having trouble finding it.
 Have fun!

