 If at all possible, try to see your friend when you can. In some situations, this may be nearly impossible, like if your friend moved to a different part of the country or to a new continent. But, if you have the ability to see each other and your parents are willing to accommodate you, try to meet up. Just having a date set when you might see your friend again can help you manage the distance.


For example, if your friend’s family comes home on holidays, be sure to schedule in some one-on-one time. Or, if your family is vacationing at a nearby beach, see if her family can join, too.;
, Thankfully, there are tons of ways to stay in touch with a long-distance friend. Work with your friend to negotiate a schedule of how often you two can contact each other. Depending on your age and access to technology, you can talk as much as you like.


Send text messages every morning to say “hi.” Stay updated on each other’s social media pages. Plan to do video calls over Skype or Hangouts. Even if you don’t have time to stay on the telephone talking for hours at a time, you can still keep in touch with your friend through different types of media., Either before your friend leaves, or through mail, the two of you can exchange personal tokens. This allows you to have something to remember your friend by. It can be a special teddy bear, a CD that you both like, or even a picture you drew.You can even send care packages of things you think your friend may like, such as fresh-baked cookies or a fun book to read., A great way to increase the connection between you and your friend over a long distance is to reminisce about past experiences you’ve shared. Talk about your first day of school in 3rd grade when you accidentally had your shirt on backwards and she was the only one to tell you. Stay up at night laughing about the time you had a sleepover and he was snoring horribly. Send each other old photos and videos of fond memories you both share., Just because you and your friend no longer live in the same area it doesn’t mean you can’t do some of the fun things you once did. Watch your favorite movies together. Play an online game or download one from your phone’s app store. Engaging in shared activities helps strengthen your bond and makes it seem like you are hanging out just like old times., Be honest with yourself and be willing to adjust your expectations of the friendship. While it's entirely possible for the two of you to maintain a rich relationship, things will not be the way they once were. Accept that your friendship will be slightly different, but no less valuable and important.