 Tight sports clothing such as sports bras, compression shorts, and jockstraps cause a type of acne known as acne mechanica, which occurs when skin becomes irritated due to a combination of sweat and friction. When wearing these garments, make sure they fit comfortably instead of feeling restrictive.


You should also make sure equipment is snug enough to do its job. For instance, a snug helmet is actually better than a loose one, since a helmet that moves around will create more friction and acne.
Remove sports equipment with tight straps during breaks in play. Football helmets and other sports equipment with straps can cause friction and irritation, even when properly sized, resulting in acne. By removing these pieces of equipment while taking a break, you give your skin a break, as well.;
, Cottons and other breezy natural fabrics are usually good, as are synthetics specially made for athletics, since these are often designed to wick away sweat and moisture. Most major sports clothing brands now offer moisture-wicking fabrics that keep your skin dry and comfortable for the duration of sports games and workouts.


Stop wearing heavy fabrics that retain moisture, and avoid synthetics that aren’t designed with athletics in mind, especially lycra or nylon. These can trap moisture against your skin and create the perfect breeding grounds for acne-causing bacteria. , Never stay in your dirty clothes for longer than necessary after you work up a sweat. It’s best to change into a fresh set of clothing immediately after your practice or game--even if there’s a post-victory celebration going on afterward that everyone else is wearing their uniforms to.


If a fresh set of clothes is unavailable, you could change into whatever clothes you were wearing prior to changing into your uniform for the game.
You should also shower before changing, but if you don’t have time, at least blot-dry yourself with a clean towel or wipe yourself down with acne-fighting, medicated wipes.
 Storing gear in environments that lack air circulation promotes the development of mold, mildew, and bacteria, and these contaminants make you more likely to break out when they come into contact with your skin.


Remove sports gear from your locker or gym bag following sporting events so equipment can fully dry and air out. Once everything is dry--and preferably clean, as well--you can return these items to their normal storage spaces.
 This cuts down on the amount of bacteria that accumulates on dirty gear and clothing that contributes to the development of acne. Use disinfectant wipes to clean the inside of your baseball or football helmet after every game, and wash your uniform after every use, especially when you know you did a lot of sweating in it., This removes all traces of bacteria and sweat from your skin so you can avoid clogged pores, which otherwise contribute to acne. An ordinary body wash will usually suffice, but if you generally have significant problems with acne, consider using a medicated acne-fighting body wash instead.Always blot yourself dry instead of wiping your skin down. Wiping can aggravate your skin, causing glands to produce more pore-clogging oils and sweat.
Change into a fresh set of clothing if showering immediately isn’t possible. This prevents you from having to spend excess time in wet, sweaty clothing before you can make it to the nearest shower facility. It’s also a good idea to wipe yourself down with medicated anti-acne to give your skin a quick cleanse.
 These substances often contain synthetic ingredients that clog pores and encourage the development of acne.


Shower products containing artificial scents and colors can have a similarly damaging effect, so it's best to stick with fragrance-free options when cleansing yourself before and after a game.
 Astringents and alcohol-based products can worsen acne by removing your skin’s essential oils that help maintain pH balance and combat bacteria. Similarly, mentholated treatments can actually strip your skin of healthy oils, too, and scrubs can cause small tears and spread bacteria., If sunscreen is the culprit behind acne problems, switch to using an oil-free brand made specifically for athletes. An oil-free version should provide you with the protection you need from the sun without clogging your pores and contributing to the cause of acne.


While you should consider switching your sunscreen, you should not completely skip sunscreen altogether. Sunburns can irritate your skin, causing more acne, and may cause worse damage beyond that. Always apply at least an SPF 15 sunscreen to all exposed skin--including body and face--before playing and outdoor sport.
 If you normally wear makeup, you should skip it whenever you plan on playing sports. Makeup that gets applied directly to the pores on your skin such as liquid foundation, powder, and blush can trap sweat and bacteria, and lead to acne.


If you don’t want to go the entire day without makeup, pack some makeup removal wipes in your athletic bag and quickly wipe any cosmetics off your face before heading out to the playing field or court. As a bonus, you can also use these wipes again to quickly cleanse your facial pores after you finish playing and before taking a shower or washing your face.
 Touching your face to wipe away sweat and dirt transfers bacteria from your hands onto your face, and triggers acne.


Use a clean towel to blot and wipe away sweat, or wear a bandana or moisture-wicking hat to prevent sweat from dripping down your face and clogging pores during sporting events.
 Ideally, you’ll already be showering after your games and practices, in which case, washing your face when you shower should be enough. Even if you’re skipping the shower, though, you should still make sure you wash your face to remove any sweat that’s built up on your forehead (beneath your helmet) or elsewhere.


Remember that makeup removal wipes can help even after your activity, especially if they’re medicated, but washing your face with an anti-acne facial cleanser is still your best option.
Consider also applying a light, oil-free facial moisturizer after washing your face. The moisturizer should soothe your pores and limit irritation, which will also reduce sweat production.
 Sports-related acne is typically acne mechanica, or friction acne, which occurs when friction caused by clothes and equipment irritates the skin, causing more oil and grime to clog your pores.


Friction acne typically occurs where tight clothing and equipment sit. That’s why properly fitting, clean clothing and equipment are so important, and it’s also why thorough cleansing of the skin is important, too.
You can also get sports acne due to heat, allergies to elastic, and normal sweating attributed to increased physical activity. The same things that help prevent friction acne (loose clothing, adequate washing, etc.) should also help acne caused by these issues.
 This helps determine the source of your acne, and how you can change your current routine to avoid acne. For example, if acne develops on your forehead, a tight or dirty hat may be to blame, while acne across your buttocks can indicate too-tight compression underwear that traps sweat and bacteria.


Evaluate where your problem areas are and focus your efforts there. Note, however, that you should still practice overall good hygiene to prevent acne problems from eventually developing in other areas, as well.
 Products containing benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, or tea tree oil can be especially helpful.


If you have sensitive facial skin and are unable to use benzoyl peroxide on your face, you might still be able to use these products on the rest of your body since the skin there tends to be thicker than on your face. Simply apply a small amount on acne covering unbroken skin, but avoid applying benzoyl peroxide where the skin is cut or scratched.
 Your healthcare provider can determine whether acne is originating from sports play or another underlying cause, and recommend the necessary course of treatment.

