 You will need a shoe polish brush; a dauber brush for cleaning and a horsehair shine brush.


The Kiwi brand sells shoe shine kits for $40 to $50. It includes a shoe stand to use while shining.;
, You should also have a few rags to remove grime and excess polish.
 Kiwi polish is the standard polish for men’s dress shoes and boots. Also, consider purchasing conditioner to improve the durability of the leather.
 You will need to lay down a large towel or several newspapers to ensure you don’t get shoe polish on your floor or table.
 Use small strokes.
,, Brush it in medium strokes across every section of the shoe. Try to work in one direction across the sides, the uppers and the tongue.


Make sure to cover every part of the shoe with the conditioner.
, Excess liquid can gather on these seams.
 Spritz it lightly with water.
 Apply to each section of the shoe. Dip your cloth into the polish again before starting on a new section. This will ensure that you get enough polish onto the shoes.
 Buff the leather. This requires light sweeping movements across each part of the shoe.
, Open the clear coat polish and spray it with water. Apply it to each section of the shoes with a clean shoeshine rag.


Buff the surface of the shoes with your horsehair shine brush again.
This clear coat can also add extra shine.
 Spray it lightly with water.
, Rub very quickly from side to side, starting at the top of the upper and working down to the toe of the shoe.
 Then, repeat on the back of the shoe. The toe and heel are the places you want to achieve the most shine.


The spritzing cloth uses friction to create heat. The heat and water on the shoe makes it shine.
In place of a spritzing cloth, you can lightly wet a few cotton balls and dip them in shoe polish. Work the cotton balls into the toe of the shoe with circular motions until they shine. This should take five to 10 minutes per shoe to achieve the desired shine., Apply the shoe-dressing wand to the edge of the soles and the heel. It will make them shine brightly; however, it can wear off quickly.

