 With dozens of beans available at local coffee shops and supermarkets, it can seem impossible to narrow down your search for the perfect coffee bean. Thankfully, a few criteria can help you choose the best bean for your preferred palette.









If you want a coffee with high caffeine levels, choose one that is a light roast. Contrary to popular belief, the darker a roast of coffee does not increase the amount of caffeine it has, but rather decreases it. The darker a coffee bean is, the longer it has been roasted, and the more of the beans’ natural caffeine has been burnt out. So, to help keep you awake longer find a light-roast coffee.
Decide on how rich a flavor you want. Although each roast differs, typically dark roast beans are known for a deep, full flavor. Light roasts are a little less bitter tasting and have sweeter undertones. If you are new to coffee and are afraid of the “burnt” taste of beans, choose a light roast. If you are a coffee connoisseur with years of experience, then a light or dark roast is a good option.
Make sure your beans are a coarse ground. Unlike espresso and drip coffee pots which require a fine ground for coffee, you want to have your beans in larger granules. This means that instead of being the consistency of a powder, your coffee beans will be closer to the consistency of sand.
Always use fresh beans. No matter what method of coffee brewing you use, it is imperative that you always use fresh beans. Old, stale beans lose flavor and give a your cup of coffee a bad taste. Buy your coffee beans in two week batches (enough to last only two weeks at a time), and always grind your beans immediately before brewing.;
, A French press is a type of coffee pot formed by a large glass cylinder with a flat filter attached to a long pull/handle on the lid. This allows you to place your coffee grounds in the bottom, place the filter over the top, and add hot water.









Although some people complain about having a lot of grinds in their coffee as the result of a French press, this more likely has to do with the grind of the coffee itself. If it is too fine or of irregular size, it will go through the filter and into your hot water.
French presses also go by the name of “Cafetiere.”

, Nearly as important as the French press itself is a good coffee bean grinder. Find a conical burr grinder rather than going budget with a cheap version. The grinder is responsible for breaking up the whole coffee beans into the perfect size grains, and in revealing the coffee’s true flavor.
 You will need boiling water to make the coffee and mugs to pour it in, otherwise the rest is up to you! Feel free to add your favorite sweeteners to your coffee whether they be sugar, honey, caramel, or chocolate in addition to half and half cream. Or go purist and drink your cup of coffee black, for a rich, deep flavor.








