 Everyone who is viewing your slideshow is getting paid for their time. Most of them would probably rather be earning their money doing something other than watching your presentation, so make it short, punchy, and straight to the point.


Keep it brief. Unless instructed to hit a certain target length by your boss, make your presentation as short as possible. Don't spend a lot of time on illustrative examples beyond what you think is necessary to get your point across.

Prepare handouts for your audience so that you don't have to cover every small detail in your presentation. Put in-depth information in the handout, and use the slideshow and presentation time for painting the big picture.
 Charts and graphs are fine, where necessary, but other graphics should be simple and unobtrusive.


Consider using clip art. Clip art is a stock of simple, black-and-white images that are not copyrighted. Nearly every slideshow program comes with a limited clip art library. The simplicity of clip art makes it an ideal choice for accenting slides with graphical elements while avoiding a lot of clutter and visual noise.
Don't ever use movies or music in a business presentation unless you have an ironclad reason for doing so.
Don't use slide transitions. Nobody in your audience cares about them, which means they're just a waste of time.
 More so than in other environments, a business slideshow and its accompanying speech should be nearly identical in terms of substantive content. Aside from a brief introduction and connecting phrases, your speech should more or less follow the slideshow point for point.


Use handouts to your advantage. If you prepared a handout, as recommended above, tell people to refer to certain sections of it as you give your speech. They'll be able to easily get more information without you having to cram it into the slideshow.
 As opposed to an academic slideshow, the end of your business presentation isn't a simple conclusion; it's a clear and bold call to action, an imperative statement that is supported by your presentation rather than an educated opinion that is explained by it. This difference in tone is all-important in getting people to take your presentation seriously.

