


Choose a color that reflects your mood or matches what you're wearing that day. Remember that darker colors like purple, black or dark red will make your nails appear longer, so you should only choose these colors if you want your nails to look longer
Choose a nail polish that isn't too old - older nail polishes will become thick and gloopy and you'll find them harder to paint your nails with.
If you really want to salvage an old nail polish that has become thick, try adding a couple of drops of acetone nail polish remover to the bottle, twist the lid back on, and shake to combine. It is also possible to buy specialized nail polish thinners from some of the most popular brands.;
, When choosing a place to paint your nails, go for a clean, stable surface in a well-lit room. A study desk or the kitchen table are good options, just make sure to put some paper towel beneath your hand so you don't get any polish on the surface. The room should also be well ventilated, as fumes from nail polish and nail polish remover are not good for your health.
 Gather some cotton balls or rounds or professional tissues, some q-tips, nail polish remover, nail clippers, a nail file, a cuticle stick and a bottle of clear nail polish. Having all of these items easily at hand will speed up the nail painting process and minimize the chances of you smudging a nail.
 Soak a cotton ball in some nail polish remover and hold it against the nail for ten seconds. Then swipe the cotton ball along the nail to remove the polish. Use a q-tip soaked in nail polish remover to get rid of any polish trapped around the edges.It is recommended to use professional tissue instead of cotton balls as the tiny cotton pieces may get onto your nail if your nails have not dried.









Even if you don't have any nail polish on, you should still swipe some nail polish remover over your nails before you begin painting, to get rid of any natural oils on your nails. This will allow the polish to go on smoothly and help the color to last longer.
 Use the nail clippers to trim your nails if they are too long or have any uneven edges. You want all of your nails to be approximately the same length. Then use a nail file (glass ones work really well) to smooth and shape the edges of your nails. You can give your nails a rounded or a square finish, depending on your personal preference.









When filing your nails, rub the nail file from the outside of each nail to the center, doing each side of the nail separately. Each stroke should go in the same direction - you should never use a sawing motion when filing, as these may weaken and break the nails.
 Your cuticles are the little pieces of skin at the bottom of each nail. They can make your nail polish application look messy if they are not pushed back before you paint. Cuticles are easier to push back when they have been softened, so try soaking your nails in a small bowl of warm water for a minute or two first. Dry your hands and nails thoroughly, then use a cuticle stick to push the soft skin of each cuticle back to the edge of the nail.
 This helps to mix up the contents of the bottle, stirring up any color that has settled on the bottom. Don't shake it -- rolling the bottle instead will prevent bubbles from forming in the polish and keep your nails smooth.








