 Get into a college with a photography or photojournalism program by getting good grades in high school and participating in as many photography and journalism extracurriculars as possible. Get involved in a school newspaper, a photography club or group, an internship with a newspaper, or an assistant position with a local freelancer., Get a college degree in a photography related field, ideally photojournalism, to provide you with the skills and the background needed for most entry-level photojournalism jobs. It’s important that you get both the technical and artistic skills of photography as well as a good understanding of news and journalism, though you don’t necessarily need a degree to make it in the industry.


If photojournalism isn’t an available major at your college, try majoring in photography and minoring in journalism or communications, or vice versa.
If it’s been awhile since you graduated or took photos for a class or job, try taking an individual course or workshop to refresh your memory and skills.
 In classes or on your own, learn and perfect the basic skills that most photojournalism job descriptions require. Focus on areas in both photography and journalism, such as:


Electronic photojournalism
Visual communication
Visual editing
News reporting
Interviewing skills
Journalism ethics, Invest in professional quality camera equipment, including a good camera body, a wide angle lens, and a telephoto lens as your basics. Do some research to find used gear or older models with the same main features as the newest ones. You may have access to cameras and accessories through the job, but you look more established and attractive as a job candidate if you come prepared with all of your equipment.
 Check calendars for local events and attend them, tag along with a photojournalist on an assignment, or simply walk around your town and city to practice shooting events that you see take place. Try to imagine telling the whole story of the event with just your photos. Practice writing captions or a small news brief to accompany the photos, and show them to a seasoned photojournalist for feedback if you can., Set yourself apart from other amateur photographers by focusing on people more than the objects or overall scenery of an event. Be bold and don’t be afraid to approach people to get their facial expressions and a more personal take on the event., Keep up with advances in new camera models, lenses, and other photography equipment. Research the advantages and disadvantages of new features and consider saving up for new models or testing one out by renting or borrowing it from another photographer.

