 Your vet may recommend a drug called cyclosporine, which is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. Unlike steroids, long term cyclosporine therapy is generally well tolerated by dogs.However, cyclosporine is expensive, especially for large breed dogs.Fortunately, as a dog starts to respond to cyclosporine therapy, the required dosage would decrease. Therefore, the cost of cyclosporine therapy would decrease over time.Talk with your vet if you are concerned about the overall cost of cyclosporine.
Atopica® is the brand name for cyclosporine that is used in dogs.
 Cyclosporine is an oral drug. Initially, it is usually given daily for 4‒6 weeks. Then, the dosage is gradually decreased to the lowest effective dose.Give the cyclosporine on an empty stomach., Cyclosporine can cause several side effects, including vomiting and diarrhea. Side effects usually occur within the first two weeks of therapy. Contact your vet if you observe these side effects. Your vet may recommend stopping the cyclosporine for a few days, then restarting it by giving it with a small amount of food. If there’s no diarrhea and vomiting after a few days, go back to giving cyclosporine on an empty stomach.Infections and thickening of the gums are rare side effects of cyclosporine., Unlike the rapid treatment response with steroids, it may take 6‒8 weeks before your Golden Retriever responds to cyclosporine therapy. Even if you become impatient with waiting for a treatment response, do not change the cyclosporine dosage on your own—this could lead to treatment failure, which could make your Golden Retriever feel even itchier., Because cyclosporine decreases the immune response, your Golden Retriever’s immune system function may go down. Your vet will want to check your Golden Retriever’s white blood cell count regularly to assess the health of its immune system.If the white blood cell counts are low, your vet may need to adjust the cyclosporine dosage.


These follow-up visits will also allow your vet to determine how well your Golden Retriever is responding to therapy.

