 Use warm water to wash away oil and dirt. If your hair is frizzy, use a moisturizing shampoo to help smooth it down. If your hair is very fine and straight, you may want to use a volumizing shampoo keep it from ending up limp and lifeless., Continue using warm water to help open up your hair's pores. This will help the conditioner to penetrate into the shaft of each hair. Conditioner is especially important if your hair is frizzy, as hydration helps to smooth hair out.
 A final rinse with cold water locks moisture into your hair, reducing frizz. A cold rinse will also help to flatten your hair closer to your scalp.








If your hair is normally very straight and fine, use warm water instead. A cold rinse may flatten your hair too much.
 Bunch your hair up like a ponytail and carefully squeeze from the roots to the tip. Be gentle to prevent breakage.
 A microfiber towel or a soft cotton t-shirt is best. Never rub your hair dry with a towel, as this can cause breakage and frizzing.Make sure you've gotten most of the water out of your hair before moving on. It should only be a little damp at this point.
 Massage them in by hand, working from the roots to tips.









Leave-in conditioners and argan oil help to smooth out frizzy hair by locking in additional moisture.
Mousse will help to volumize fine hair that may fall limp when air dried.Many styling products are specifically designed for heat activation through blow drying. Check the label before use., Gently move the comb through your hair from roots to tip. Brushes can damage hair and cause tangling. This is especially important with wet hair, which is more delicate and prone to breakage.









If your hair is already straight, then all you need to do now is wait for it to dry.
If your hair is frizzy or curly, go on to the next section.
 You will need large plastic hair rollers for Dominican roller setting. These can be found in most beauty supply shops and many drugstores. Smaller rollers will curl your hair more. If your hair is short, be careful not to buy rollers that are too big, or they will not stay secure in your hair. You will also need two long bobby pins for each roller and a spray bottle of water in case your hair starts to dry before you've finished setting it., Make a separate section for each roller your plan on using. Make sure each section is wide enough to cover most of the roller. This will help keep the rollers in place while your hair air dries, which may take a few hours.
 Place the roller on top of your hair's tips. Smooth the hair flat onto the roller. Wrap the hair, bringing the roller up towards your scalp. Once the roller reaches the hair root, secure it in place with a bobby pin and move on to the next section.









Make sure to maintain tension as you roll. Loose rollers will not straighten hair., Make sure your hair dries completely, or your hair will not straighten out. Drying time will depend on your hair's texture, thickness, and length. Expect to take at least two to three hours. Many women sleep with their rollers in., Comb your newly straightened hair out and style as normal.









Keep in mind that, unlike many chemical relaxers, roller straightening is temporary. You can expect it to last at least a week.