 International investment disputes are very complicated. You will need someone who has sufficient experience in the field. Generally, you should already have a lawyer who represents you or your company in regular business disputes. They may have an international dispute practice.


If your current lawyer cannot handle the dispute, then he or she should be able to find a specialist in international arbitration or international investment disputes. In a large law firm, there should be a group of lawyers who specialize in this field. If your regular lawyer works in a smaller firm, then he or she could find lawyers in a larger firm who could represent you.
You could also get referrals by talking with other businesses that have been involved in international investment disputes. They can tell you whether they would recommend their lawyer., Because of the money at stake in international disputes, you should carefully screen your attorney to make sure that he or she has sufficient experience resolving international investment disputes. For example, you should try to get the following information at the consultation:How many international disputes they have handled. You will want someone who has handled several international arbitrations or trials.
The size of the disputes they have handled. If your dispute is very large (say over $100 million), then you will want someone experienced in large-scale arbitrations or trials.
Whether they think arbitration or a lawsuit is the best option. Be sure to bring copies of your contracts so that the lawyers can see whether or not arbitration is an option.
The lawyer’s fee structure. Large law firms are more open to alternate billing arrangements. For example, they might charge a flat fee or a blended rate, which mixes a flat fee with regular hourly billing.
 International disputes can be very expensive. For example, the average tribunal costs of an ICSID arbitration is over $700,000.This does not include lawyer’s fees. Accordingly, you should talk with your attorney about whether even bringing an arbitration or trial is worthwhile.


In some situations, there may not be a cost-effective way to resolve the dispute. Accordingly, you may have to eat the loss.

