 Most strong acids will degrade glass and metal, but will not react with plastics.There are many different types of plastics so make sure you obtain the correct container for your acid. The acid should already be stored in such a container, but you will need a second container for diluting and neutralizing the acid.


Make sure the container can hold at least twice the volume of solution as the amount of acid you have. This allows you enough space for diluting and neutralizing the acid.
Take care not to spill any of the acid if you have to transfer it to a larger container.
 When diluting and neutralizing a strongly acidic solution, a large amount of heat is released.To limit the possibility of burns or melting the container, place your empty container into a bucket of ice.
 If you have a highly concentrated acid, you’ll want to dilute it first with water. This step can be dangerous so follow all instructions carefully. Use cold water to prevent the solution from boiling and causing splashes. Add water to the empty container. Slowly, add the acid to the water paying close attention to the temperature of the container as you do.The amount of water needed to dilute the acid is dependent upon how concentrated your solution is. The more concentrated, the more water you will need. You can calculate the exact amount by following the steps in how to dilute an acid.
Never add water directly to the acid, this can cause the water to quickly boil and splash the acid.
Take care not to spill any of the acid as you dilute it.
 pH strips can be obtained from a science supply catalog or a pool supply store. To determine how much neutralizing solution you’ll need, you must know the pH of the acid you’re trying to neutralize.


Dip the end of the pH strip into the solution. The strip will change color based on pH.
Remove the strip and compare the color to the pH chart supplied with the strips. The color that matches the strip is the pH of your solution.
The lower the pH of the acid, the more neutralizing solution you will need.
 Solutions such as sodium hydroxide or magnesium hydroxide are basic and can be added to acids to neutralize them. Sodium hydroxide is also known as lye, while magnesium hydroxide is the main ingredient in milk of magnesia. Both substances can be purchased at the store.


Follow the instructions on the container of lye to make your sodium hydroxide solution.
Milk of magnesia does not need to be altered and can be used directly to neutralize the acid.
 Basic solutions react with acidic solutions to neutralize the acid and produce water and a salt.Slowly add your basic solution a little bit at a time to the diluted acid. Gently stir as you add. Pay attention to the temperature of the container and be careful not to splash any of the solution.
 Periodically test the pH with a pH strip to make sure you don’t overshoot the goal pH range of 6.6-7.4. Continue to slowly add the salt solution until you reach the desired neutral range.


Alternatively, you can use a universal indicator solution. The liquid will change color according to pH.Add the salt solution until the indicator changes to the color around the range of pH 7.0.
If you go beyond the neutral range, slowly add a dilute acidic solution to get the pH back down to at least 7.4.
 The neutralized solution can be safely poured down the drain while running cold water.Continue to run water down the drain after the container is empty for at least 30 seconds.

