 Benzos are primarily prescribed to treat anxiety disorders by working with the GABA receptors in the brain. When used as antianxiety medications, benzos are best prescribed for short-term use (two to six weeks).Long-term use of benzos should be avoided due to the addictive nature of benzos over time.
They are not available over-the-counter, but must be prescribed.;
, Benzos can be used as a short-term treatment for insomnia. It can aid in sleep for a matter of days or intermittently. When prescribed as a sleeping aid, courses should not exceed two weeks.For long-term insomnia, benzos are not recommended.


Typically, benzos are used 30 – 60 minutes prior to bedtime. Check with your prescriber prior to starting a course of treatment.Non-benzodiazepine alternatives for sleeping aids include the following: Ambien, Sonata, and Lunesta.
 Benzos are a first line treatment in treating alcohol withdrawal. Benzos can help curb some of the more difficult side effects of withdrawal, such as tremors, delirium, and hallucinations.Commonly used medicines used to treat withdrawal include chlordiazepoxide (Librium), diazepam (Valium), and lorazepam (Ativan).
 Benzos can be used to treat epilepsy.Benzos can be highly effective at treating epilepsy and convulsions due to drug poisoning.


Some common medications used to treat epilepsy include diazepam, clonazepam, clobazam.Benzodiazepines are used to treat agitation in patients experiencing withdrawal and to stop the progression of minor symptoms into major symptoms.
Generalized tonic clonic convulsions usually occur 12 – 48 hours after the last drink of alcohol.
 Benzos can be used to treat dystonia and involuntary movements, myoclonus, akathisia, restless leg syndrome, and painful muscle spasms.The muscle relaxing effects of the benzos can help with these disorders.
 Prior to starting medication for mental or emotional health, seek the advice of a mental health expert. While some people choose to visit a general practitioner, you may find more support and information from an expert in mental health, such as a psychiatrist. Many psychiatrists will encourage you to attend therapy to increase the success of your recovery. Additionally, therapy does not have the side-effects medications do.


A mental health professional will guide in exploring your options and making an informed decision. In many cases, therapy alone can be the best course of treatment., Prior to being prescribed benzos, know your medical history and discuss it openly with your prescriber. Those with liver problems, kidney disease, drug allergies, or issues with addiction should communicate this clearly prior to receiving a prescription. Benzos can interact with other medications, so be sure to bring up any medications you currently take.Don’t hide anything from your prescriber. Be open and honest about your medical history.
If you have a history of addiction, your doctor may wish to explore other options before considering benzos. He is unlikely to prescribe them for long-term use, as they can be highly addictive.
Discuss any medications you are currently taking. This includes vitamins, herbs, and supplements. Note any allergies or adverse effects you’ve encountered with other medications., An interfering agent is something that disrupts or inhibits the drug. Your prescriber may tell you to avoid taking allergy or cold medications, and avoid eating or drinking grapefruit. Smoking can decrease the effectiveness of benzodiazepines. Limiting alcohol consumption is advised.Some interactions can lead to severe sedation, such as interaction with alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics, and tranquilizers.If you drink socially and cannot see yourself cutting back or stopping, benzos are not right for you.
Alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics, and tranquilizers must be avoided while on this medication — using both at the same time can lead to toxicity and poisoning.
 Benzos are a schedule IV controlled substance. This means that they run the risk of becoming addictive, being abused, or used for diversion.Benzos can become addictive, which is why they are not recommended for long-term use.


If you are at-risk for abusing benzos or for using them recreationally, do not take them.
You doctor will assess your risk and determine if you are a candidate for benzo use.
 Benzos can cause drowsiness and dizziness. Other symptoms can include nausea, stomach upset, blurred vision, headache, confusion, depression, trembling, weakness, grogginess, or memory loss.It’s important to notify a medical professional if you develop chest pains, changes in heart rate, vision changes, or yellowing in the eyes or of the skin.


Few people develop an allergic reaction to benzodiazepines. If you do develop a reaction, watch out for rash, itching, swelling, dizziness, or difficulty breathing.
 Benzodiazepines are not recommended for long-term use. Tolerance, dependence, and withdrawal can occur. It’s best to use benzos for a matter of weeks and no more.If you wish to treat a disorder long-term, steer away from benzos. Ask about other options that are safe for long-term use, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for long-term treatment of certain types of anxiety.
 As you start to take medication, be sure to monitor the effects of the medication. Notice any side effects, changes in thoughts, moods, or behaviors. Make regular appointments to discuss mental health and medication, and take note of any emerging or persistent symptoms.Find a supportive provider whom you feel comfortable discussing your medication, mood, and thoughts.
 Each person will respond differently to medication, so it’s important to note any adverse side-effects you may encounter. Your prescriber may try a handful of medications to find one that suits you best and is most effective.Be consistent in taking your medication as prescribed and do not deviate from recommended dosage without speaking with your prescriber first.
 If you experience unpleasant side effects, let your prescriber know. If you feel like the side effects outweigh the benefits, make sure you communicate this to your prescriber. Your dosage may be adjusted or you may try a different medication.Any major impacts such as hallucinations, confusion, or major health upsets should be reported to your prescriber right away.
 Your medication is your medication and no one else’s. If someone near you suffers from similar problems, do not offer to share your medication to “try it out.” It can be dangerous to share medications and the person may have adverse effects. Under no circumstances is it advised to share medications., Long-acting benzos are generally not recommended for elderly patients as they can be more difficult to excrete from the body and can have unpleasant side effects, particularly in the elderly. Short-acting benzos typically have fewer side effects and excrete from the body quickly. This makes short-acting benzos more effective for sleep disorders.