 Ariana is well known for her "half up half down look" and dark long brown hair.


Ariana's signature hairstyle is a voluminous half-up half-down do, with curled, or straight ends. To accomplish this look, slick the top half of your hair back into a sleek ponytail and tie it carefully. Then curl the ends of your hair. This gives you a major boost in the process.
She also wears a high sleek ponytail. You can tease your hair to get volume (if hair is thick no need) or add extensions like her. Wrap your hair around the ponytail then add a bobby pin.
She also likes to wear space buns for fun and it is very easy to do. Instead of just pulling your hair up into one half ponytail split it into two parts and secure with a bobbin. You can either braid them and wrap into two small buns or just leave them like normal buns.
Try a version of her "half-up, half-down " look with the bangs pinned behind your ear. Don't worry, you don't even need bangs. Take your hair and part it more to the right of your head. Take a comb, and from the start of your part to the back of your ear. Hold that for now with a bobby pin, so we can focus on the rest. Do the signature half up half down look discussed above. Then when you are done with that, take those bangs you made, and tuck them behind your ear. Make sure there aren't any bumps in your bangs. Secure them with a bobby pin and you're done! If you're not really sure of this method you could go for fake bangs, these are usually sold in beauty stores such as Boots.;
, Take a strip of hair from under your pony tail then, wrap it tightly around your hair tie. All you need to do then is secure it with a bobby pin.

Some hair accessories that Ariana likes to wear are ribbons and bows if you prefer her girly Cat Valentine style.
 Ariana uses simple, fresh makeup that doesn't distract from her natural beauty.


Ariana loves keeping it basic since she's very in to the 60s, she only uses; concealer/foundation, bronzer, mascara, a thick line of eyeliner, and a nude palette for her eye. Her main shadow color is an orangey pink gold all over her lid. If you're not into a color like that try a light creamy honey color for your lid and a chocolate brown on your crease to create something she wore in 2013. She likes to finish off her look with a swipe of pale pink lip gloss.






Ariana wore a lot more eyeliner and mascara when she was younger, so you can try that if you want your eyes to appear larger. She claims that since she's Italian, she has dark circles under her eyes, so she always wears concealer.






Ariana has also confessed that she hates when red carpet stylists put too much makeup on her, so keep your makeup simple. Don't overdo it.






Two days a week Ariana tries not to wear make up at all in order for her skin to breath. That's a really good thing that you should do.
Ariana uses Hoola bronzer by benefit and Laura Mercier or MAC blush. One of her favorite brands is Urban Decay. She also loves Too Faced Palettes as well. So stock up on these brands for a true Ariana-style make up look.
You can also look online for millions of Ariana Grande makeup inspired videos online.
 Ariana's style is rich, toned down, and sophisticated. She has many different personalities when it comes to style. You can see her in anything from an outfit from her Honeymoon Tour , to a fancy small dress to jeans and her favorite sweatshirt, or even some vs pink sweats and a tank.


Ariana's newest look is an over-sized sweater with a black ribbon choker and a baseball cap with bangs. Throw in some knee high boots and your done!
To have an Ariana inspired wardrobe, you'll need a few essential pieces, such as nude pumps, flirty dresses, knee high boots, crop tops, skirts, over-sized sweaters and high-waisted shorts.
Ariana's favorite clothing stores are Nasty Gal, Wildfox Couture, Forever 21, Topshop, American Apparel, Brandy Melville, Abercrombie, LF Stores, and Urban Outfitters. Her favorite designer is Kenley Collins, who custom makes a lot of outfits for Ariana.
 Ariana doesn't wear too much jewelry, so stick with a simple bracelet or necklace. She likes simple and sophisticated pearl earrings from Mary Millicent designed by her friend Sascha Peralta-Ramos and necklaces -- just like her 50s movie icons Marilyn Monroe and Audrey Hepburn. Ariana also adores chokers, research some of her latest choker styles such as a single plain black ribbon choker or a cute silver chain. Ariana also wears small diamonds, so shop for a cute pair of small diamonds earrings at Kohls or Clarie's. Try a pair of cat ears, Ariana loves them she wears them alot during her Honeymoon Tour (2015) it would go well with your slick back high half up half down pony.


Ariana has lots of small cute tattoos, don't go and tattoo yourself just because you want to look like her. There are many diy temporary tattoo videos on the internet. She has a small heart outline on her ring finger, another heart on her toe, 'honeymoon avenue', 'BABY DOLL' and some Japanese characters tattooed to the side of her fingers, the letter 'A' on her thumb, the woman symbol on her middle finger, 'bellissima' on the side of her torso, a moon crescent outline under her ear and 'mille tendresse' on the back of her neck.
Ariana has recently been wearing baseball caps with her bangs, she even cut a hole at the top to keep her pony! Now don't force yourself to cut your hat unless you are 100% sure that you are doing the right thing!
In terms of shoes, Ariana always wears high heels when she preforms or even walking from the airport. (her favorite pair are her white pointed pumps). But if you're still pretty young, Ariana also likes wearing the white original Keds .






Ariana's favorite brand of nail polish is Chanel, but don't worry if you can't afford it. She usually wears pale pink or white.






One must have accessory is a cute simple ring, and her Victoria Secret fashion show phone case. This is often caught on camera when Ariana takes selfies on her phone!

, Ariana's skin is very healthy. She's Italian, so she has a olive skin, which is easier to tan with. If you're not tanned and you really want to be like her, go for some fake tan but be careful that you don't overdo it.


To get beautiful, glowing skin like hers, drink lots of water (one of her personal tips) and eat lots of fruits and vegetables. Ariana's favorite fruits are strawberries and grapes, and she eats them a lot to keep her skin looking healthy.






Wear sunscreen everyday to protect your skin from sun damage. This is especially important if you live some hot and sunny like Ariana (who currently lives in L.A).






If you suffer from acne, make sure you wash your face twice a day (don't wash it any more than that because it can irritate your skin and cause even more acne) and use a spot cream containing benzoyl peroxide or to get rid of any pimples.
 Ariana loves to eat healthy, as it gives her the energy to keep going during long work days and helps her to keep her slim, feminine figure.


Ariana eats organic oatmeal with fruit every morning to get her body ready for the day. She eats a handful of almonds with this for protein, and Ariana has become vegan. You can do this too if you really want to be like Ariana, or go Vegan just like her .






Since she has long work days, she usually eats healthy snacks like Think Thins, Live Raw bars or Pure bars, which are healthier than Special K bars.
Ariana is a vegan but if that is not the road for you, try some lean protein like salmon or chicken along with fruits and vegetables for lunch or dinner. By eating this way, you get to eat every 2-4 hours and have around 5 small meals a day instead of 3 big ones.






Remember that eating healthily is more important than counting calories. In fact, consuming a lot of calories is better than skipping meals, as long as the calories you're consuming are from good, healthy foods.
 Ariana's good friend and choreographer Isaac Calpito has helped her to stay fit and look her best by teaching her how to stay active.


Even if you're not a hardcore athlete, taking walks or slow jogs will help you stay healthy, as long as you do them regularly.






Find a fun way to exercise that you enjoy -- try signing up for a dance class, get some friends together to play volleyball or jump on a trampoline. If you can find something you enjoy, you'll find it much easier to motivate yourself to exercise!







, Ariana's personality is sweet, bubbly, and fun, just like her character on Victorious. She loves to joke around with her friends, and she can act playful and childish while still having a good time.


Ariana has what you'd call a "happy go lucky" personality -- she's always in a happy, energetic mood and that's why people are drawn to her and want to be just like her. Try not to be too serious or moody, as that is the opposite of Ariana.






Ariana's real passion is singing -- her idols are Mariah Carey and Whitney Houston. Download some of their songs and listen to them on repeat! If you have a good voice, have a go at singing them yourself.






Ariana has become rather fond of swearing, but only does it when she is hanging out with friends or on an adult show. She never wants to set a bad example for her younger fans. Though she tends to swear a lot more now, over-swearing will make you seem ignorant and unladylike. Ariana prefers to keep it classy, so unless you are with your friends, try not to swear way too much.






Do some charity work -- Ariana has several causes she's passionate about, including helping disadvantaged kids and fighting against animal cruelty. Get involved with helping others if you really want to be like Ariana.
 Ariana is always on Snapchat, Twitter and Instagram. She loves taking selfies and posting them on these sites to share her fun personality and style with her fans. Get some ideas by looking at her snapchat story (her username is moonlightbae)


To take selfies like Ariana, tilt your head to one side and look up at the camera from this angle - avoid looking at the camera straight on. This pose is really flattering as it highlights your cheekbones and makes your eyes look bigger. Pout your lips and wink. You can also sweep your hair over one shoulder to make your hair look more voluminous.
Use flattering filters and fun stencils. Ariana favors soft, golden filters which give a warm look to her photos or classic black and white for a touch of retro glamour! Add cute heart-shaped stencils and other fun effects to your photos with the AfterLight app (which Ariana loves).
Be playful. Try to have fun with your photos - there's no need to look serious and pouty all the time - Ariana certainly doesn't! Stick out your tongue, take silly pictures with your friends or pets and just have fun with it (Miley's not the only one sticking that wild tongue of hers out)!

, Find caring, genuine friends who love you for you and will be there for you no matter what. Some of Ariana's closest friends are Alexa Luria, Elizabeth Gillies, and Jennette McCurdy.


A tip for making good friends is to talk to people you see a lot. For example, if you're in a dance class, art class, etc. where there's a ton of people, talk to them and a great friendship could blossom. Ariana does the same. She's around her crew members a lot, and now she's best friends with most of them.






Remember that it's okay to have close guy friends too! Ariana has had many close friends in her life of the opposite gender, such as Jones Crow and Isaac Calpito.






Try Become Closer to Your Family Members as well. Ariana and her older brother Frankie have a great brother-sister relationship.
 Ariana's not afraid to show her true personality to her fans, family, and friends. She's not afraid to say what's on her mind or tweet something totally silly sometimes.


Find your own personal style and stick to it. It's okay to want to follow in Ariana's footsteps and look up to her, but remember not to act exactly like her. Let your true self shine as well!

