 Every iPod should be packaged with a standard USB cable that allows it to interface with your computer. Connect your iPod to your computer via the USB cable by plugging the square end into a USB port on your computer and plugging the other end into the iPod itself while it is on. If you have iTunes installed already, it should open automatically. If this is the very first time using your iPod, iTunes may prompt you for basic setup information.


If you don't have iTunes yet, you'll need to download and install it before you can sync your iPod. Luckily, it's completely free and easy to install.
If you're using Windows, when you plug in the iPod, you may get a pop-up window asking which program to use to open the device. Since we'll be using iTunes, you can select this from the list or just close it and open iTunes manually.;
, To be able to put songs, videos, or other media files on your iPod, you'll need to import your media into iTunes first. You can do this for audio and video files by either dragging a file from where it's located on your computer into the iTunes window, or selecting File>Add File to Library..., then locating the file(s) you wish to import.


To be clear, it's also possible to add files to your iPod with other software, including Windows Media Player and Winamp. However, to use iTunes' syncing feature, the files you want to add need to be imported into your iTunes library.
 Select your iPod from the list of devices — depending on the version of iTunes you have, this will be either in the top corner of the screen or on the side, but it's always prominently featured. You should now see a screen showing your iPod's storage capacity and data settings.
 Look for the "Music" tab at the top of the window. Click it to access your iPod's syncing options for music. By default, your iPod will sync with all of the music in your iTunes library — that is, when you sync, everything in your iTunes library will go to your iPod.


The "Sync only checked songs and videos" option is a nice feature if you want to sync only some of the files you have in iTunes to your iPod, rather than all of your files. For more information on this, see the section below.
 Change the tab at the top of the windows to "Movies". Here, as with your music, you'll see that the default setting is for all of your videos to transfer to your iPod when you sync. Here, you can choose to sync only select movies and playlists if you wish. This is covered in more detail in the section below.


Note that you can also just turn off video syncing entirely by unchecking the "Sync movies" box. If you do this, your videos will stay in iTunes — none will transfer to your iPod.
 If you'd like to add any of these other file types to your iPod, navigate to the appropriate menu with the tabs at the top of the window and follow the same basic steps as above. While the individual menus will vary slightly for each file type, the general idea is the same for each — you'll want to use the options on each page to decide whether or not to have the files sync automatically or not, then, if not, specify which files or playlists you want to have sync.


"Photos" is the exception here because it allows you to sync directly from a file on your computer, rather than through your iTunes library. To sync a photo collection with your iPod, make a folder on your computer with all of the photos you want to sync (you can also use the "Pictures" folder that is usually the default save location for image files). Click the "Sync photos from:" button on the "Photos" menu, then click on the drop down arrow and locate the folder containing the image files you wish to sync.
 Now you're ready to sync. Navigate back over to the "Summary" tab of your iPod in the iTunes window. Click the "Sync" button (usually at the bottom of the window next to the bar displaying how much of your iPod's storage is in use, but can vary based on the version of iTunes you have). Your iPod's screen should read "Sync in progress, do not disconnect." The exact message can differ depending on your iPod model but will always be similar.


Your iTunes window should also show you that it's syncing at the top part of the window where it usually displays what you're listening to.
For some versions of iTunes, the "Sync" button may instead be labeled "Apply" on the Music, Apps, Movies, etc. screens if you've changed your sync settings., When iTunes reads "iPod sync is complete, okay to disconnect" you can disconnect the iPod safely. Your iPod screen should change from displaying a "do not disconnect" warning to a battery icon, indicating that the iPod is charging and is no longer syncing.


To be clear, you don't have to disconnect your iPod immediately after syncing. You can also leave it in to charge or change your syncing preferences and sync again.

