 Fraud is defined as an intentional misrepresentation of fact by someone who knows that the fact is false, all with the intent of encouraging someone to act to their detriment.A person commits fraud when they intentionally lie in order to rip someone else off. In the aftermath of a natural disaster, someone can commit fraud in the following ways:


File a false insurance claim with an insurer. For example, someone might tear down a structure on their property and claim that the hurricane knocked it down.
Steal government supplies or money intended for victims of a natural disaster. For example, a person might volunteer to coordinate the delivery of water or medical supplies. Once they get the supplies, they keep them.
Form a fraudulent charity allegedly to help victims of a natural disaster.
Make a fraudulent claim to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which provides funding for rebuilding efforts.;
, Once you suspect that someone is committing fraud, then you should write down as much helpful information as possible. Try to get the following:the names of the alleged offenders
the names of the victims
the identity of any witnesses

, You might have documents that show fraud was committed. You should hold onto them, since investigators might want to see them. For example, you might have:


an email in which someone admits to fraud
any document that contains false information which was used to defraud someone

, The Department of Justice created a Disaster Fraud Task Force in the wake of Hurricane Katrina to investigate fraud. The task force continues to operate and will investigate any fraud committed in relation to a natural disaster.You can mail a letter to the Disaster Task Force at the following address:


National Center for Disaster Fraud, Baton Rouge, LA 70821-4909.
Make sure to send the letter certified mail, return receipt requested. Hold onto the receipt, which shows that the letter was received.
Keep a copy of the letter for your records.
 If you don’t want to write a letter, then you could report the disaster-related fraud by telephone. Call 1-866-720-5721.You also could send a fax to the Disaster Fraud Task Force. The fax number is 225-334-4707.
 You also have the option of sending an email to the Task Force. Type up the email as you would a letter, including all relevant information, and email to disaster@leo.gov., If someone has filed a fraudulent claim with FEMA, then you can report the fraud to FEMA’s hotline. Call 1-800-323-8603. The hotline is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.An automated messaging system may answer. You will be asked a few questions.
You can report the fraud confidentially to FEMA. However, if you leave your name, then an investigator can call back. The investigator must verify the complaint within 90 days.
 If you don’t want to call, then you can send a letter to FEMA which includes all the details you know about the fraud. You should mail the letter to:


Office of Inspector General/MAIL STOP 0305, Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Drive SW, Building 410, Washington, DC 20528.Mail the letter certified mail, return receipt requested. The receipt will serve as proof that the letter was received.
You should also keep a copy of the letter for your records.
 Lastly, you have the option of reporting fraud to FEMA by visiting the Office of Inspector General’s website and completing an online form.At the website, click on the “OIG HOTLINE” button near the bottom of the page and provide the following information:name and contact information (if you don’t want to report anonymously)
whether you are a Department of Homeland Security employee
the identity of the offenders, including their contact information
the date the incident occurred
the location of the incident
a short summary of your allegation, including information on witnesses and supporting documentation

