 The most common recommendation for dry eyes is to use rewetting drops or artificial tears. These eye drops can help lubricate dry eyes by replicating the composition and effect of real tears.If you use artificial tears, look for a brand that is preservative-free. The preservatives in regular over-the-counter drops or artificial tears can cause buildup on your contact lens and even cause you to develop an allergy.


Wash your hands before inserting eye drops or touching your eyes in any way.
Gently shake the eye drop container and remove the cap. Avoid touching the applicator tip so you do not contaminate it.
Tilt your head back and hold the bottle upside down against your forehead, directly above your eye.
Use your other hand to gently pull down your lower eyelid and eyelashes, and try to simultaneously raise your upper eyelid without touching it.
Lightly squeeze the bottle until the desired number of drops fall onto your eye.
Close your eye without squeezing it shut and gently dab at the outside of your eye with a clean tissue.
Gently press on the inner part of your eye while your eyes are closed, and hold it for 30 seconds to prolong contact with the eye drops.Carry eye drops with you wherever you go if you are prone to dry or irritated eyes.
 Depending on the severity of your dry eyes, your doctor may recommend an anti-inflammatory agent. This may be in the form of eye drops (like Restasis) or steroids.Anti-inflammatory prescriptions will help treat dry eyes caused by chemicals/medications, heat, or certain autoimmune disorders.
 Some causes of dry eyes, like medications or certain medical conditions, are unavoidable. But other environmental causes can be avoided or diminished with proper planning and care.


Wear eye protection if it is windy outside, and try to limit exposure to the wind.
Avoid smoke.
Try to avoid dry air. Use a humidifier at home if your heating system is drying out the air.Carry eye drops with you wherever you go if you are prone to dry eyes.

