 Take the bike out of its box. Set its protective wrapping aside. Locate the owner’s manual. Refer to this for exact instructions regarding your specific bike.If you don’t have an owner’s manual, check the manufacturer’s website. Many post instructions for assembly there.;
, Before you begin, make sure you have everything you need. Double-check the box’s contents with the parts listed in your owner’s manual. If anything is missing, contact the seller and notify them.Don't throw anything away until you’re finished. Smaller parts could possibly be hidden in the box or protective wrapping.
 Again, refer to the owner’s manual to double-check which tools are required for assembly. Expect types and sizes to possibly vary according to the make and model. However, generally speaking, you will most likely need:Allen keys
Cable cutters
Phillips head screwdriver
Wrench

, Check your manual to find out which parts should be lubricated (and with which type of lubricant). Inspect your bike to locate any metal parts that will come into direct contact with other metal parts. Apply lubrication here to reduce damage from friction and corrosion. Such areas will probably include parts like the:Axles
Quill stem
Seat post
Seat tube
Threads

, Inspect the post attached to your seat's saddle. Locate the mark that indicates how far this should be inserted into the seat tube. If desired, you can place it deeper than this for a lower seat, but always insert it at least this much to make sure your seat is securely in place.If you want a higher seat than the insertion mark allows, you will need to purchase this separately.
 First, grease the seat post if you haven’t already. Slip it into the corresponding tube on the bike’s body. Push it in until the minimum insertion mark is inside the tube., Depending on the make and model, there should be either a bolt or a quick release mechanism on the outside of the seat tube. Whichever one it is, tighten this once you’ve inserted the post to your desired depth. Secure the seat post in place so it isn’t jarred out of place as you ride., Once the post is secure, move up to the seat’s saddle. If needed, adjust its position so it’s centered over the post. Then tighten its bolts to fix it., Locate the wheel mounting slots and axle on the bike’s fork for the forward wheel. Make sure they’re facing away from the bike itself. If they aren’t, simply twist the fork around until they are., Before you attach it to the bike’s body, make sure the handlebar isn’t able to move on its stem. Adjust it so it’s positioned as though you were riding forward in a straight line. Then tighten the stem bolts to fix it in this position., If your bike has any brake or shift cables attached to the handlebar, give them a quick inspection. Double-check to be sure that they haven't become tangled up or knotted. If needed, undo any knots or twists., First, refer to your owner’s manual to determine if your handlebar has a quill stem or an A-head. Each requires different steps to attach it to the bike’s body. Depending on which you have:Quill stem: Lubricate the stem with grease. Locate the minimum insertion mark on the wedge-shaped part at its bottom. Insert this into the bike’s corresponding tube. Make sure the handlebar is aligned with the fork, then tighten the stem center bolt.
A-head: Locate the stem cap, undo its bolts, and remove the cap. Fix the handlebar on top of the stem. Replace the cap and bolts and retighten them.
 Go over each side of the wheel. Look along the rims. Confirm that the tires are evenly placed over the rims. Adjust if necessary., First, find their recommended air pressure, which should appear on the tire itself. Then remove their caps and fasten your bike bump to the valve. Inflate them slowly so you don’t go over the recommended air pressure and burst your tire by accident.
 Once the tires are inflated, give them a spin. Make sure they’re still seated evenly over the rims once they come to a stop. If not, release the air, readjust the tires, and repeat until they’re in the proper position once inflated. Replace the valve cap when you’re all done., Center the wheel evenly between its fork and place it into the front fork’s drop outs. Open the brake to do so if necessary. Tighten all bolts. As you do, tighten each just a little bit at a time, move on to the others and tighten them just as much, and repeat until you’re all done. Then double-check that the wheel is still centered between the fork.Instructions for this step possibly vary the most between designs. Refer to your owner’s manual for precise steps for your specific wheel.
 First, identify which is which by checking the spindles. Find the L and R markers respectively. Use the L pedal on the bike’s left side and the R pedal on its right (which would be your left and right when seated on the bike). To attach them:Screw each pedal onto its corresponding thread with your hands at first (turning clockwise for the right pedal and counterclockwise for the left). Then switch to a wrench to tighten them firmly into place as you near the end., If your bike has gears, raise the back tire off the ground. Turn the pedals and shift through all the gears as you do. Make sure each one shifts to the next smoothly. If they don’t, set the bike to its highest gear before making your adjustments., Locate the brake pads. Keep your eyes on these as you turn your pedals. Squeeze the brake lever and make sure that:The brake pads make contact on the rim without interference.
They do so when the brake lever is only a third of the way to making contact with the handlebar.
Each pad retreats the same distance from the rim when you let go of the level.
 First, make sure any gear or brake levers are in front of your handlebar, at a 45 degree angle between the bar and the ground. Squeeze them to make sure they’re working properly. Then set both wheels on level ground. Check the angles of both the front and back reflectors. If necessary, adjust them so they’re at least within five degrees of being perfectly vertical with the ground.At this point, you should be done assembling. However, inspect your handiwork step-by-step before using your bike. Make sure that you haven’t overlooked anything or made any mistakes.

