 Ask yourself how far you want to travel for basic services and shopping and how you will get there if your car is inoperable. Visit the town closest to your desired area to see if the shops and services will accommodate your basic needs.;
, An agent who only sells residential properties in established communities may not have enough familiarity with a mountain area's regulations about septic systems, water wells and road infrastructure.


Choose an agent based on good customer feedback from friends and family.
 When you are trying to buy land in the mountains, research local restrictions that determine how the land can be utilized. Many homeowners associations (HOA) require property owners to commit to building a structure on the property. Others dictate what types of vehicles can be parked on the property and prohibit agricultural use.
 These improvements can substantially increase the cost of your purchase. Drilling for water can be expensive if a property is far from a reliable water source. When a large amount of earth and rock needs to be excavated for a new septic system, construction costs will also rise.
 Check for soil suitability, the sunniest and darkest areas, whether or not it is located on a floodplain and if the land has year-round access.


If you want to install a solar system, a piece of land in the forest may not receive enough sunlight.
Land located close to rivers may flood during excessively rainy years while land located in drought-prone regions may require you to store water in cisterns during the driest years.
 Many mountain properties are located in areas that restrict how the property is used, what can be built on the land and whether or not individuals or state governments can own the rights to minerals located underneath the soil. In some western states, water is owned by the state and restricted to domestic, in-house use only.
 A majority of land is purchased with cash.


Approach a local bank first if you need financing. Local banks with an intimate knowledge about the area may be more willing to lend than national institutions that are unfamiliar with local trends in the marketplace.
Consider building a primary residence or rental property on the land. Banks are often more willing to lend money for raw land if collateral exists on the property.
 If you will need fast, easy access to your property during all four seasons, look for properties with well-graded driveways and maintained roadways.


Learn who is responsible for maintaining roads leading to your property. Homeowner association dues often pay for local road maintenance. Sometimes property owners must collaborate to pay for maintenance.
Verify that you have year-round, permanent access to roads leading to your property. If you can only get to your property on privately-owned roads, verify that your purchase includes permanent use of those roads.
 You may need to purchase a snowplow, snow and mud tires or a heavy-duty vehicle to access your mountain land during inclement weather.
 Look for a steady rise of property values in the area where you want to buy. Slow, upward growth often indicates that land will be more valuable in the future.

