 Include photos in every posting method that allows for them. Take care to choose an especially attractive photo for listing methods that will include a thumbnail photo, as this is likely what people will look at when scrolling through a list of listings. Post multiple photos if you’re able, featuring every room and feature of the unit. If the posting method does not allow for multiple photos, include a link to another website, such as a facebook page or imgur album, that will allow a viewer to see me of the unit., Lots of people look for a place to rent according to cost in particular. For both your sake and the sake of any prospective tenants, convey this information clearly and prominently. Most importantly, people need to know what it will cost to move in, as well as the expected monthly cost of living at the property. As such, clearly list the security deposit, monthly rent, and any bills the tenant is required to pay, as well as projections for what these bills will likely run.More specifically, note the utilities and other services that are or are not covered, as well as what they usually cost at this property.
When posting on craigslist.org, for instance, consider including the monthly rental fee in the title of the posting.
 Include the square footage, as this is concrete information that many interested parties will want to know. Even better, include a schematic of the property that shows the layout and the dimensions of the property. This alone will provide a substantial amount of important information to those viewing your listing., Let prospective tenants know of the specific area in which the property is located. However, so not include the full street address in public listings. Instead, note the neighborhood, the nearest intersection of well-known streets, or information about what prominent destinations are nearby., Most importantly, note whether you’re looking for a month-to-month, one-year, or other type of lease. Additionally, be sure to mention any occupancy limits, as well as any rules about people staying in the property without being on the lease. Check the laws in your city and state, as some ordinances either require or disallow certain occupancy regulations.Are pets allowed? This is another important piece of information to include, along with any rules regarding pets if they are allowed.
 If the property you’re hoping to rent has an unique or interesting features, be sure to feature these prominently in any listings. Further, if the property comes furnished in any way, include the details. In particular, make a note of any recent upgrades to the unit’s amenities. Just replaced the washer and dryer or updated the kitchen and bathroom? Make a note of this, and include photos!Make sure to mention any patios or decks, furniture that’s included in the rental, appliances, types of flooring, and access to a garage or shed.
Be specific. If the ceilings are higher than average, note their height. If there’s a killer view from the living room window, or a popular park across the street, include this information as well.
 Ideally, provide a working phone number that is likely to answered. This may be your own phone number of someone you’ve hired to field inquiries. Receiving these calls on the first try is the best way to book showings and find a tenant quickly. Also include an email address, as some tenants will prefer this method of communications.Include the date and time of any open house as well. This will make it easier for potential tenants to simply stop by and see the property, and allow you or someone else to show the place to a larger number of people within a short time frame.
 There are a few things you should mention in almost any property listing. Mention that credit checks, rental history verification, and background checks will be required, even if you don’t intend to actually require them. This will reduce the number of applicants who might not pass these checks.Also make a point to be clear and accurate in all aspects of the post, as misleading information can get you in legal trouble.
Finally, articulate the fact that the property is open to anyone as long as they meet the legal requirements of the lease.

