 Your biggest supporters most likely will be people who know and care about you. If you're passionate about animal rights, let those closest to you know about the issues and encourage them to help you.Pay attention to the context of your conversations. You may be working tirelessly to advocate for stronger protection laws for cows, pigs, and other farm animals – but describing the conditions of slaughterhouses in gory detail may not be the best topic of conversation over dinner.
Sometimes the best way to gain support from friends and family is to draw their attention to specific issues. They may not agree with you on everything, but be willing to assist in your efforts on a particular case.
Remember that these people are your friends. It can be easy to get overheated when you're passionate about something, but try to keep your tone civil and don't attack people just because they disagree with you.;
, Having a blog provides you with a platform to educate and spread awareness of the need for stronger animal protection laws throughout the country and even globally.Many websites enable you to start a blog for free. Once you set up your blog and write a few posts, search for and follow other blogs with an emphasis on animal rights or animal protection laws – many of those bloggers may follow you back.
Keep your posts short and use active voice. Internet readers are more likely to finish – and share – a briefer article that gets straight to the point.
Don't be afraid to let your own passion and personality shine through in your posts.
Provide links where necessary to provide sources for factual information you present or point your readers to other websites or articles of interest.
 Having a letter to the editor published in a local, or even national, publication is a way to get your message out to a much larger audience than you may be able to build yourself.Most publications have guidelines regarding the length of letters. Read and follow those guidelines, but generally keep your letter short – between 150 and 200 words.
Many organizations have form letters or lists of talking points you can use to draft your letter, but don't just copy these letters word for word – make your letter personal.
Keep the audience of the publication in mind. For example, if you're writing a letter to the editor of a local newspaper, give your words a local angle and stress your connections to the area.
Read and research if necessary before you write your letter. Check your facts and make sure you know the law and are stating your case accurately.
 If there is legislation pending that would provide stronger protection and recognition for animal rights, you can write a letter or even meet with your elected representatives to encourage them to vote for the bill.You can find contact information for your representatives in Congress by visiting usa.gov. For state representatives, check your state government website.
Write a letter to your elected representative when there's pending legislation for stronger animal protection.
Many organizations such as The Humane Society and the ASPCA create form letters that you can use to guide your writing and ensure you include the most important information, but be sure to make your letter your own.
If you voted for the representative to whom you're writing, or live in his or her district, say so. You also may want to do a little research and talk about the representative's prior record on animal protection or animal rights.
Contact your representative's home office, located in the district, to see if you can schedule a meeting to speak with the representative or with a staffer.
 There are a number of websites that enable you to create your own petition online. Whenever there's a current event that impacts animal rights, a petition can draw people's attention to the issue and encourage them to express support for your position.Use talking points from a nonprofit organization, if you have those available, to focus your petition. You also may want to read other petitions to get a sense for the best, most persuasive language to use.
Make sure you proofread your petition before it goes live on the website. You might also read it out loud to check how the language flows. If you find yourself stumbling at any point, reword the language so it reads more clearly.
Once you've created your petition, share it across your network, including on your blog and any social media accounts, and encourage your friends and followers not only to sign it but also to share it and help spread the word.
The signatures you gain on your petition help show support for stronger animal protection laws.
 While coordinating a public event requires a lot of time, skill, and attention to detail, if you think you're up for it you might want to try organizing your own rally in support of stronger animal protection laws.Many nonprofit organizations offer assistance to activists who want to hold their own rallies for stronger animal protection laws. Check organizations with which you're affiliated to find out more information.
You must plan ahead and choose a location for your rally so you can learn your city and state rules for public demonstrations and get a permit if necessary.
Once legal permission is in place, spread word of your rally and encourage others to join you. Many nonprofit organizations have listings of rallies and events on their websites and will promote your event for free.
You may want to get together with two or three other people before the event to plan the rally itself and set rules for what people will do. Schedule any prominent speakers and make arrangements to clean up the site after the event.
 There are numerous organizations working to protect animals and give them a voice. By joining these groups you not only make a statement of commitment to animal rights, but enable the group to continue its work.Organizations typically have a set annual donation amount you must give if you want to become a member of the organization.
When you join an organization, you may receive a subscription to the organization's magazine or newsletter, as well as other updates and information.
Most organizations also provide a gift, such as a T-shirt or a tote bag, for people who join.
 Even if you choose not to join a group, you can always donate smaller amounts of money to demonstrate your support and provide assistance for particular efforts.Nonprofit organizations take one-time donations as well as regular monthly donations. Typically if you visit their websites, a "donate" button will be prominently displayed. When you click that button, it provides you with options regarding how much you want to donate and how often.
You also can donate to animal protection organizations through your regular shopping. Look for products that send a portion of the purchase price to animal rights organizations, or sign up for a program such as Amazon Smile, which donates 0.5% of your purchase price to the nonprofit organization of your choice.
Buy products from companies that support animal rights or have their own advocacy programs to further animal protection.
 When you hear about an event near you in support of animal rights and stronger animal protection laws, making an effort to show up – even if you can only be there for a short time – adds to the number of participants and can help increase the event's impact.For example, The Humane Society organizes "Humane Lobby Days" each year in nearly every state. Animal advocates join together and speak to state legislators about the need for stronger animal protection laws.
Many nonprofit organizations have pages on their websites listing events happening all over the country. Bookmark the sites you like and check regularly for new events.
If the leader of an event is listed, you may want to contact that person and find out if there's anything you can do to help organize the event or clean up afterward.
 Although it won't necessarily help any new laws get passed, part of advocating for animal rights includes doing what you can to help animals that are abused or neglected.Helping care for the animals not only has a positive impact on their lives, but it broadens your perspective on the issues facing animals and the need for stronger animal protection laws.
Getting to know these animals and learning their stories puts a face on the issues. You can share the animals' stories on your blog and social media accounts to advocate for animal protection.
Animal shelters are always in need of volunteers. Call the animal shelter nearest you and ask about volunteer opportunities.
 If you're a law student, you might consider an internship or clerkship in animal law. However, regardless of your educational background, there are plenty of employment opportunities that allow you to work for the improvement of animal rights.Animal law intersects with a number of different areas of law. If you're a law student and your law school doesn't have any dedicated animal law classes, you can take classes in property and personal injury law, as well as family law – which can help you in cases where the custody of a family pet is disputed.
Taking veterinary classes or working at a veterinarian's office, even as a receptionist, helps animals and allows you to earn your living protecting and caring for them.
You also can find jobs working for nonprofit animal rights organizations. These organizations need people with many different backgrounds, including people for administrative and technical support.
 Many animal rights groups have regular email newsletters that keep subscribers up to date on issues effecting animal rights as well as court cases and pending animal protection legislation.You typically don't have to join an organization or donate money to subscribe to the newsletter.
If you have created a blog or regularly post about animal protection on social media, the newsletters can keep you up to date and give you information to share more widely on the internet.
If you want to subscribe to several newsletters, consider setting up a separate email account so they don't get lost among your other emails and skipped over. With a dedicated email account for receiving animal rights newsletters, you can set aside a time specifically to read them.
 You can create an alert through your favorite search engine for keyword searches you use frequently to find new information about animal rights and animal protection laws.Separate alerts can be particularly beneficial if there is a pressing issue such as a specific case making its way through the courts that could potentially affect animal protection.
You can use filters in your alerts so they only retrieve new articles, or information coming from a specific geographic area.
Don't forget to tailor your report. You probably don't want to receive multiple emails a day if new results come up for your search. Typically you can choose how often to receive an email alerting you to new search results, and how much information will be included in each email.
 Many animal rights groups have an active presence on social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter, and following these accounts allows you to quickly learn about breaking news and other situations that impact the legal protection of animals.If you share posts on your social media accounts to advocate for stronger animal protection law, following nonprofit organizations allows you to more quickly and easily share their posts with your friends and followers.
Following an organization also gives you the opportunity to potentially interact with the organization and learn more about how to advocate for stronger animal protection laws.
After you've followed the organizations that interest you, look through the organizations followers to find other individuals and organizations that share your interests.
 Keep an eye out in your community for any informational events involving animal rights. These events may be advertised at your local public library, and many are free and open to the general public.You also can find events sponsored by nonprofit organizations on their websites. Many of these events have fees, which go to support the nonprofit organization and its work.
You also can attend conferences to learn more about how to protect animals and methods you can use to advocate for stronger animal protection laws.
If there's a law school near you, find out if it has an animal law class or a professor who specializes in animal law. You may be able to sit in on the class or talk to the professor.

