 Do you routinely prepare for trash day, sweep up when necessary, and pitch in toward a functional house? Many of these tasks may be considered part of your chores or expectations, but extra effort may be rewarded. Most parents like to see their kids attempting to be responsible with money, so ask them for a weekly or monthly allowance.


Negotiate a fair amount of money for the work that you do. Don't expect them to pay you $20 for nothing. They may expect you to complete a few more household chores since they are paying you regularly.
Think about how you will justify this allowance. Why do you need it? Why do you deserve it? Be prepared to give your parents good reasons if asked.Common tasks that parents pay their children allowance to complete include: cleaning your room, emptying and loading the dishwasher, vacuuming, washing and folding laundry, and dusting.;
, Look for opportunities for some extra cash in less common tasks. Think of any "someday" projects your parents have been talking about. Does Mom keep saying she needs to organize her tools in the garage? Does she always talk about reorganizing the pantry? Does Dad want his shop organized? Great! Come up with a plan to complete those tasks and present it to your parents along with your asking price. Present a reasonable plan with a realistic price and, after a little follow-through, you've got a payday.
 If you are trying to make money from your parents, don't hurt your chances by acting up. Arguing with your siblings, talking back to your parents, and breaking the rules may result in them taking away your allowance or punishing you by requiring you to do the work for no money.
 If your parents give you money for drinks, snacks, or sweets when you go to school or out with your friends, spend that money smartly. Instead of using all of it, maybe limit yourself to a can of coke or lemonade and put your other money away for later. That way you can still enjoy yourself, but save a little for later.


If your parents send you into a store to pick up a few items, ask them if you can have the change. If they expect the money back, ask them can you keep the coins. Pennies, pounds and other coins quickly add up.
 If you've already got a savings account, talk to your parents about moving your money into an account which gains interest - that is, one that grows your money. They might not know much about these accounts, and that's okay. Ask if they would go with you to a bank or credit union so you can all ask questions about ways to save and grow your money.

