 The biggest danger to pets in urban areas involves them freely roaming without supervision of their caretakers. Such dangers come in the form of heavily trafficked streets, other animals, and malicious humans. As a result, you should never allow your pets to freely roam in an urban area.


Always keep your dog on a leash at all times. This is important, as you don’t want your dog getting distracted and running in front of a car. In addition, you don’t want your dog getting into a fight with another pet.
Don’t let your cat roam outside.
Maintain control of all animals., While you or your pet may be comfortable around elevators, that does not mean that they’re safe. Ever-present as they are in urban environments, elevators represent a huge danger to pets.


Make sure cat or dog leashes don’t get stuck in elevator doors.
Consider carrying small dogs, cats, or other pets in crates when transporting them in elevators.
If your pet is not in a crate, make sure to hold them tightly as the elevator door opens or closes., One urban danger that people don’t think about is hot pavement on the pads of dog or cat feet. While people may not feel the effect of pavement or cement that has been heated up all day in the sun, dogs, cats, and other animals sure can. Always consider this when walking your pet.


Avoid walking your pet on concrete or pavement that has been in the sun all day.
Consider dog shoes when walking on hot pavement., One of the greatest challenges of urban environments are the lack of green space for animals to enjoy. As a result, you should spend some time searching for a safe places for your pet to enjoy.


Dog parks are a popular solution for many dog owners. However, carefully consider the safety of a dog park before letting your dog play in it.
Try to locate a large park or field to bring your pet to play in., Another important thing to consider when living in an urban area is to make sure your pet has identification on them at all times. This is important, as your pet may at some point get lost. Without identification, your pet could get lost in the animal shelter system or be adopted by someone else.


Fit your pet with a tagged collar that includes your personal contact information, such as phone number, address, your name, and the name of the animal.
When getting a collar for your pet, consider a breakaway collar. These collars are designed to break off if your pet is at risk of suffocating.
Consider having your pet chipped. There are a number of companies that offer affordable microchip identification programs. A vet will insert a tiny microchip under your pet's skin, which will allow animal control authorities or other vets to access your contact information if your pet is ever lost.

