 Your cafe should be in a central, high-traffic area. Ensure the area is free of crime so that customers feel safe visiting you. Finally, the location should be highly visible.


Cafes can exist comfortably in malls, shopping centers, downtown areas, business and industrial parks, and many other places. There is no right or wrong location, but you should consider all the above factors when deciding the best location to buy a cafe in.
Don’t rush into a location. Scout out a couple spots and take your time.
 Spend some time looking at several cafes for sale in your area before deciding on the one you want to buy. Look at the interior and exterior. Is the parking lot crumbling and cracked? Is there enough space both inside and outside the café for customers to feel comfortable? Get a feel for the space and imagine how it could be improved, if necessary.
 Even after you think you’ve double-checked every little detail on the sales contract, go back over all your paperwork, licenses, financial data, and the contractual offer one more time before signing. Ensure that after finalizing the sale you’ll be able to hit the ground running with your new cafe.


Try to find free advice.Talk to friends who run their own businesses, especially ones who have owned food service businesses. Connect with cafe owners or former cafe owners online through LinkedIn and other networking sites.
 While it’s usually impossible to find out what a competitor (or future competitor) is going to do, you can investigate local feelings about the competition by reading reviews online. Visit other cafes in the area to get a sense of how the cafe you want to buy stacks up against some of its local competitors.


In addition to other cafes, think about check out other places that might be capturing some of your potential cafe customers. Fast-food places (including fast casual joints), small restaurants, and even pubs might be your competition.
 Find a cafe that has respectable earnings when starting your search for a cafe you want to buy.


While this initial income statement is useful for narrowing down the list of potential cafes you might want to buy, you’ll need more information before making a purchase. Obtain the last three years’ worth of financial records from the owner and check if the revenue is increasing, decreasing, or staying the same. To obtain this information, you’ll need to sign a confidentiality agreement with the current owner promising not to use the data you obtain for anything other than making a decision to purchase the cafe.If the revenue is increasing or staying the same, you’ve got a good business on your hands.
If the revenue is slowly decreasing over time, however, you might want to wait to get into the cafe market, or find another cafe to buy. Or, if you like taking a challenge, buy the business, but prepare for an uphill battle as you institute changes to the cafe that can turn it around.
 In addition to the raw financial data, talk to the customers of any cafe you’re thinking of buying.Find out whether they like the place, if they think it’s gotten better or worse lately, and if they’d recommend it to their friends. This will help you gauge whether a place is popular.


Ask the customers to compare the cafe to some of its local competitors. Do they prefer the competition or the place you’re interested in buying?
Use and continue these conversations with customers after buying the cafe. Customer feedback is invaluable in helping you decide what aspects of the cafe should change and which should stay the same.
 Get a feel for how competent and motivated they are. Ask them directly if they’d be interested in staying on if you bought the place. If you think they’d stay after you bought the cafe, that’s a big plus. Factor this information into your decision to buy the place or not.


Cafes often have high turnover rates. Eventually, you’ll have to hire new staff and have a protocol in place for doing so. However, when buying a cafe, if you can retain staff that’s already trained, you have one less thing to worry about doing when you actually make the purchase.
 Are there irregularities in how often it ships new products? A cafe that cannot pay its bills regularly is probably in financial trouble.
 In addition, cafes need to receive continuous shipments of coffee, tea, flour, sugar, and other baking essentials. Be sure to include these costs when calculating the effort and expense that your cafe will be over the long-term.


You might also offer bottled beverages and other products that will need to be replenished frequently.
Communication services -- wi-fi and phone -- are also important.
To ease yourself into cafe ownership, keep most services that the prior owner used, at least when you start out. Look into changing services or upgrading to better products as you get a handle on what’s working and what’s not working I the cafe.

