 Pour the beans very slowly, examining each bean. This will allow you to identify any rocks or other small debris that got caught in the beans.If a bean looks suspicious, play it safe and take it out.
 Measure out two or three cups (.5-.7 liters) of water for every cup (200 grams) of beans.Next, pour the water over the beans. Don’t worry about any beans that float to the top. They will sink as soon as they soak up enough water.


Cover the bowl with a lid or wrap it in plastic wrap to protect the beans from debris.
 Store the bowl of mung beans in a cool, dark place for at least twenty four hours.This will allow the beans to soak up the water and begin to sprout. Choose a low-traffic location to avoid spilling your beans. Some great storage locations include:


The corner of a pantry
Under your kitchen sink
In an unused cabinet

, After twenty four hours, drain the water away from the beans. You can either dump the entire mixture in a colander or carefully tip the bowl over the sink. Next, cover the bowl with a piece of cheesecloth, gauze, or a thin dishtowel. This will protect the beans while allowing air flow. Return the beans to their cool, dark spot to continue sprouting.
Cheesecloth can be bought at most gourmet grocery stores, cheese making depots, and online.
 After twenty four to forty eight hours have passed, examine the beans to see if they’re ready to eat. Sprouted beans will have a small white tail and a split bean body. If you prefer bean sprouts with longer tails, let the beans continue sprouting for a few more hours.Don’t let the beans sprout for more than a few days. Otherwise, the beans will become waterlogged and flavorless., First, rinse the sprouted beans under cold water to remove any unwanted debris or residue. Allow the beans to dry for a few minutes on a plate lined with a paper towel. Serve the beans immediately. Some excellent serving methods include:


Adding the beans to a salad
Seasoning the beans with olive oil, salt, and pepper for a fresh side dishLining your sandwich with sprouts for a healthy crunch

