 The best way to buy nuts that have been shelled is in vacuum-sealed containers. Always look for a freshness date. If the nuts themselves are visible, they should be uniform in size and free of any shriveling. If you're selecting nuts that are still in their shells, choose those with shells free of cracks or tiny holes. As a rule of thumb, raw whole nuts should feel heavier than they look.Shake nuts that are still in the shell. Avoid nuts that rattle, as this indicates they are likely no longer fresh.
Tree nuts, including walnuts, pecans, and hazelnuts are somewhat seasonal, and will be fresh in late fall or early winter.
When buying bulk nuts, make sure that they are fresh and firm to the touch. Limp, rubbery, musty, or rancid-smelling nuts should be avoided. Unfortunately, bulk nuts lose their freshness rather quickly.
You can purchase nuts either shelled or still in the shell. This is mostly a matter of convenience, though nuts that are still in their shell will keep longer, especially at room temperature.
 The nutritional quality of most nuts will be preserved for a few months at room temperature. However, both flavor and nutritional value will persist longer in nuts that are stored at a lower temperature. Use an airtight container to store your nuts in the fridge, and they’ll last a year or more.Ideally, your fridge should be set to 40 degrees F (4 degrees C). Nuts will last even longer - up to two years - in a freezer set to 0 degrees F (-18 degrees C).
A nut that is no longer fresh will begin to taste rancid. While it is not unsafe to eat a nut that is beginning to taste differently, many people find the taste undesirable.
 If you prefer the taste of roasted nuts but want to maximize their nutritional value, roast nuts yourself. This will allow you to use lower roasting temperatures, and minimize the reduction of the nuts' nutritional value. Arrange a single layer of nuts on an non-greased stainless steel baking sheet. Bake in the oven for ten to twenty minutes.Generally speaking, the shorter the cook time, the better. Feel free to check on the nuts, and shake the pan periodically to ensure uniform roasting.
Don’t roast a large amount of nuts at once for storage. The nutritional quality and flavor of roasted nuts will degrade more rapidly than nuts that are stored raw. As such, only roast as much as you want to eat over the course of a few weeks.

