 If you've been a couch potato and you want to start exercising more, your first goal should be making it a part of your normal routine to get out and get moving for a little while each day.When you've led a relatively sedentary lifestyle, changing that to a more active lifestyle is the first step towards increasing your overall fitness. Steady-state cardio can be a great way to do this.
While your results will be minimal, you will improve your cardiovascular fitness and maintain muscle mass and strength. Steady-state cardio may be necessary to get your body ready for higher intensity workouts, where you will make more significant strides towards meeting your goals.
 Steady-state cardio is meant to be done at the same intensity, but for longer periods of time. If you're just beginning a fitness regimen, you may not be able to go as long at first, but you should increase your time incrementally every few sessions.For example, if you start by going for a light jog in the morning for 15 minutes, after a week you should increase your time to 20 minutes. After each week, increase your time by five-minute increments until you eventually are jogging for an hour each morning.
Be sure to plan ahead when you start your steady-state cardio program to make sure that you'll have time in your schedule to gradually increase the time. For example, if you're going for a morning jog, don't start jogging an hour before you have to leave for work. It's generally better to build the habit of exercising at the same time each day, rather than having to start earlier when you increase your time.
 If you're starting a new fitness plan with steady-state cardio, doing it every day may be easier than only doing it two or three times a week. Steady-state cardio will get you in the habit of being active, and give you more energy to do other things.Because of the low intensity, you need a lot of steady-state cardio to see any real benefit, regardless of your fitness goals. The same low intensity also means steady-state cardio is safe to do every day without risking injury.
While steady-state cardio may not be the most efficient way to lose weight, you're still burning calories and improving your overall fitness.
 After you've made daily activity part of your regular routine, gradually add in other types of exercise so you won't get bored with the repetition. Doing the same thing every day for a long period of time can cause you to plateau.Doing different activities is about more than mental boredom. When you're working your body in the same way for a longer period of time, your body will adapt to the stress of the exercise and you'll no longer get the same results.
If you want to continue working out at the same intensity, choose a different activity that works different muscle groups, or that challenges your body in a different way. For example, if you've been jogging, you might want to try cycling. If you've been cycling for awhile, you might decide to start going for a morning swim.

