 Try frozen because nutrition experts say this method preserves vitamins and minerals unlike food in cans which is full of sodium and other preservatives.;
, Whenever your local supermarket holds a frozen/canned food sale, be the first one to take advantage.
 It saves you precious time and you can cook multiple items in the same cooker. For example, rice and lentils (daal) can be cooked by putting them in different compartments in the cooker. The compartments are usually two different vessels which can be taken out for cleaning or storage purposes.
 Chop vegetables ahead of time while watching TV or talking on the phone (you can cradle your cordless or cell phone in one ear and chop, chop away). Vegetables like okra (ladies finger), tindora ( the ivy gourd, also known little gourd or gentleman's toes), beetroot, carrots can be cut whenever you have some free time and kept in the refrigerator. But remember to use it the next day!!

, Frozen rotis (Indian bread) are available in the Indian store - different brands mean different results in the softness and taste of the rotis.
 You can also use other types of dry beans which your Indian market will definitely have in stock.
 So if you come back exhausted from work, all you have to do is temper (tadka) the daal and add curry/cilantro leaves

, Like tomatoes, potatoes and onions. Curry leaves, green chillies, cilantro or coriander leaves are the staples in Indian cooking - you can pick up cilantro and some varieties of green chillies at your local supermarket also.
, When it is done, add some fresh cilantro and lime juice if you think it might work well with the vegetable.
 After ten minutes, pressure cook for one whistle, stop the cooker and let the rice cool inside. You can make pulao out of the cooled rice. Add frozen corn, peas, carrots and fragrant cinnamon, cloves to a tablespoon of ghee(clarified butter) and add the cooled rice. Don't forget to add salt!!!

,, Pressure-cook the beans for about 10 minutes. Add the mung to the sauteed tomato-onion mixture, add any kind of masala powder and enjoy with plain rice or rotis.
 Raita is a cool accompaniment to most rice dishes and curries. Chop onions, tomatoes into tiny pieces, add a few tablespoons of thick yogurt and top with a sprig of cilantro.
 Kachumbar can be an instant side-dish. Chop tomatoes and cucumber into small pieces,add some chickpeas if you want, squeeze some lemon juice, add cilantro and mix it up.
 Temper (canned and rinsed) chickpeas with mustard seeds and green chillies. Add two tablespoons of grated coconut, salt and mix well and let it sit for 10 minutes. Voila! A protein-rich dish is ready. This goes by the name of "chundaal" in south India and can be eaten as a snack also.

