 The most important thing you can do for your spouse when he or she is grieving is to be there with love and support. Even if you are unsure how to be there for your spouse or you are scared you will upset him or her even more, you can show love and understanding.It’s natural to be afraid that you might upset your spouse. That’s okay. Get upset if you are upset. It may be comforting to your spouse to know that you are grieving or upset, too.
Tell your spouse, “I love you. Let me know what I can do to help you. I am here for you.”

, When people are unsure about what to say to someone, they sometimes fall back to cliches and tired phrases. When someone is grieving, people often say, “She’s in a better place” or “He is at peace.” You might feel like saying, “He had a long, great life” or something similar. Although these phrases may be true, refrain from telling them to your spouse.You should also avoid reminding your spouse of what he or she should be thankful for.Don’t tell your spouse to move on and stop thinking about the death. That may make your spouse feel like he or she is forgetting the person.
You may feel like these phrases are comforting, but they may feel empty to your spouse and cause him or her irritation.
Instead, say things like, “I’m sorry you have lost someone who means something to you.”

, Don’t ignore the death or avoid talking about it around your spouse. Denial won’t help your spouse with the grieving process. Stepping around around the issues on eggshells and ignoring it will only make your spouse feel isolated.Instead, acknowledge the death. For example, you can say, “I know that your loved one has died” or “I’m sorry that your loved one has died. That’s a difficult thing to deal with.”
By mentioning the death to your spouse, you let your spouse know that he or she can talk to your about the death. Use words like “death” or “died.” Softer terms like “gone” or “not here any longer” is another evasion. Don’t be harsh or cruel, but be honest and direct.
 Your spouse may go through a time where he or she cannot do his or her normal tasks due to grief or depression. Your spouse may not ask for help, may say he or she doesn’t need help if asked, or may not realize he or she needs help. You can offer help without your spouse having to ask.For example, you can offer to do the grocery shopping, make dinner, mow the lawn, or pay the bills if your spouse usually does these things.
 Talking about the grief is not the only way you can help your spouse. You can also help your spouse by doing normal or recreational activities with him or her. Take your spouse grocery shopping with you or have him or her help you make dinner. Encourage your spouse to help you with light house cleaning tasks, making sure not to expect more than he or she can do.You can also take your spouse for a walk or on a picnic.
Take your spouse out for a nice dinner and a movie.
Do a fun activity at home, like playing a game or renting a movie.

