 There are lots of reasons why your mom or dad might not want you to have a snack, even if it’s healthy. For instance, they might want you to eat dinner soon and worry that you’ll get full on your snack. You might also have a food allergy and need careful supervision to ensure that you avoid certain foods and ingredients.To ask your parents’ permission to make a healthy snack, simply ask, “Can I make a healthy snack?”
If your parents say no at first, ask, “Can I make a healthy snack later?”

, Even the best chefs need help. Always ask an adult – your mom, dad, another family member, or a friend’s parents – to help you out when preparing snacks in the kitchen. This will make the snack-making process easier. Plus, it will give you and your parents (or your adult caretaker) a chance to bond.Having an adult help you is especially important if you’re using knives, the stovetop, or other appliances.
To ask an adult to help you out, just ask your parent or guardian, “Will you help me make a healthy snack?”
As you become more skilled at making healthy snacks for yourself, your adult might begin to let you take on more responsibility in the kitchen, including allowing you to make some healthy snacks unsupervised.
 When you make a snack, you might get messy. Before making your healthy snack, you should don an apron. If you don’t have an apron — or don’t have an apron that fits you — you could wear an old t-shirt that you don’t mind getting messy.Don’t wear baggy clothes when making a healthy snack. Baggy sleeves might cause you to accidentally make a bigger mess than you otherwise would.
 Kitchen safety means that you only eat clean food. If your hands are yucky, your food will not be clean. Before you start making your healthy snack, wash your hands with warm water and mild soap. Scrub the fronts and backs of your hands all the way up to your wrists. Don’t forget to clean between your fingers and under your nails, too.Scrub your hands for at least 20 seconds.
 If you’re a kid looking for new healthy snacks to make, you should visit the library or search online. If you’re headed to the library, ask the librarian to help you check the cookbook section for healthy snacks for kids. If you want to discover more healthy snacks online, choose your favorite search engine and type a word string like “healthy snacks for kids” or “yummy kids’ snacks for good health.” Browse the search results and click on a few links that look promising.


Having a lot of healthy snacks to choose from ensures that you won’t grow bored with your healthy snack selection.
KidsHealth, a nonprofit organization whose mission is to keep you and other kids healthy, offers many healthy snack ideas online at http://kidshealth.org/en/kids/recipes/#catfood.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture also has an excellent list of healthy snacks you can make as a kid. Check their recipe list at https://healthymeals.fns.usda.gov/hsmrs/Texas/SnacksThatCount.pdf.
 Only eat a snack when you’re hungry. Healthy snacks are great when you need extra energy after a hard day at school or soccer practice. But you shouldn’t eat so many snacks that you don’t eat a balanced meal with your family. Don’t snack just because you’re bored or because you’re in the habit of snacking while watching TV., After your snack is ready to go, put away all the unused ingredients in the fridge or cupboard. This will ensure that you and others in your household will be able to find and use those ingredients.If any crumbs have fallen on the floor, sweep them up. If crumbs or something sticky has fallen on the countertop, wipe it up with a damp sponge.
Don’t forget to promptly refrigerate all leftover snacks or uneaten portions of snacks in sealed containers. Consume within two or three days.
Wash your hands again when you’ve finished making your snack, if necessary.

