 In order to register for organ donation through the Donate Life California website, you will require an email address for confirmation.If you do not currently have an email address, consider signing up for a free email address through Yahoo, Gmail, or Hotmail.
 The Donate Life California Registry can be found at the following web address: http://www.donatelifecalifornia.org. The website includes information about organ donation as well as a registry sign-up.


The Donate Life California group is a nonprofit that partners with the state of California in order to facilitate organ donations. They have complete state approval and authorization., Clicking "Sign Up" will take you to the following web address: https://register.donatelifecalifornia.org/register/ . This page will provide you with important information about organ donation, the privacy policy of the organization, and the registry form itself. From this page, you will be asked to enter your identification information. You will also be asked to give your consent for organ donation.
 Donate Life California requires your full name, driver's license or identification number, address, gender, birthday, date of birth, email address, and ethnicity. You will also be asked to create a password for security purposes., If you wish to donate some (but not all) of your organs and tissues, you can indicate this on your registry form. Simply click on the box that asks you whether you wish to set limitations on your tissue donations and follow the website instructions., Before you are officially on the donor registry, you have to indicate that you understand that you consent to your organs being donated to patients and that no other person can revoke this consent. You are also agreeing to any medical examination or procedure necessary to determine whether you can donate these organs. You indicate your consent by clicking "Yes" on the sign-up page and then clicking "Continue with Sign Up.", Donate Life California will send you a confirmation email upon your online registration. Keep your eyes peeled for this email since it might contain additional instructions about your donor profile. Make sure that Donate Life California is not filtered into your "spam" folder so that you can receive all your updates in a timely way.
 With your identification information and password you can log in to Donate Life California at any point to update your profile. You can update your address, email address, or your name as necessary. If you like, you can also choose to remove yourself from the registry via the website. You can choose to revoke your consent for organ donation at any point.