 To make sure the oven is warm enough to bake the cookies, you must preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it fully heat., Add 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter, 1 cup (200 g) of brown sugar, and 1 cup (200 g) of granulated sugar to a large bowl. Use an electric mixer on medium speed to beat the mixture together until it is light and fluffy.You can use a stand mixer to make the cookies if you prefer.
You can also mix the cookie dough by hand, though it requires more time and effort. #Add the eggs, flour, salt, baking soda, and vanilla. After you’ve creamed the butter and sugar together, mix in 2 large eggs, 2 ½ cup (313 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (4 g) of baking soda, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla. Blend the mixture on medium-low until the ingredients are just combined and a soft dough forms.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 When the cookie dough has come together, add 2 cups (113 g) of potato chips and 2 cups (350 g) of chocolate chips to the bowl. Use a spatula to gently fold them in so they’re fully blended throughout the dough.You can use any type of chocolate chip that you like in the cookies. Milk chocolate, semisweet, and bittersweet are all delicious options.
 Once you’ve mixed all of the dough together, cover the bowl with a piece of plastic wrap. Place the dough in the refrigerate and allow it to chill for at least an hour.If you want to prepare the cookie dough the day before, you can chill the dough overnight. Let it sit out for 15 to 20 minutes before making the cookies, though, so it’s softened slightly.
 After the dough has been chilled, use clean hands to roll the dough into 1- to 2-inch balls (2.5 to 5-cm). Set them out on a non-stick baking sheet so they’re at least an inch (2.5-cm) apart.If you don’t have a non-stick baking sheet, spray the sheet with nonstick cooking spray before placing the cookies on it.
 When you’ve arranged the cookies on the baking sheet, place them in the preheat oven. Allow the cookies to bake for approximately 11 minutes, or until they are golden brown around the edges., When the cookies have finished baking, remove the cookie sheet from the oven. Leave them on the sheet for 1 to 2 minutes to ensure that they’re set. For the best taste, serve the cookies while they are still warm from the oven.The recipe makes approximately 3 dozen cookies.
Store leftover cookies in an airtight container. They will usually keep for 1 to 2 weeks.

