 It will come back to haunt you! The person whom you said you "liked" will hear it faster than most people and they will most likely spread the word and confront you about it!;
, Because when you look back at your school life it will just include drama and you would probably regret it. Crushes are fine, but wait at least a year or two after coming to a new school before you get involved with boys. Also don't tell anyone if you have a crush on a boy.
 This is usually the school dress code. Also, people will not want to be friends with you because they will think you're a really sleazy person.
 It's a dirty look that mixes the messages of "don't mess with me" and "you'd better not be looking at my boyfriend". Whatever you do, do not return the look or try to counteract the look with the "stink eye". Don't say anything, simply do a very casual closed-mouth smile. Also make sure your smile looks friendly, not "cocky.
 and you are in a group of your friends, reply with something like, "That's alright, you can say what you have to say, we're all friends here right?

, You don't necessarily have to be over-friendly to people that you dislike, but always be polite. This way you know that you are not giving anyone any reason to hate you, and if they do start hating on you, it's not your problem but theirs.
 That is the same if you tell peoples' secrets, they will not believe you!

, If someone around you begins to gossip about someone or says mean things, do not join if they ask you what you think, say "They're fine" or "I like them". An example of a conversation with gossip would be something like this; " OH my gosh look at Jasmine's sleazy make-up! It looks so stupid! " " I think it looks decent. ". After you say anything of the sort the girl/boy you're talking to might give you a look, and leave the conversation, but ignore it.
, It shows that you care, but you don't want to be involved in it any further.
 Chances are you will only make the situation worse when the whole thing could have been resolved quietly, and you'll be thought of as an interference.
 Hear both sides of the story, but don't take sides yourself. Doing so could seriously damage your friendships. Offer them both some advice, but allow them to fix the situation themselves. Never attempt to 'sort out' an argument between your friends - this never works. try to enlighten the mood as in make a joke and try not to be so serious as it could end up getting you involved, forget negative things and just don't care about it because it will help you to be happy and focus on your life ahead of you!

, Real friends don't let an argument get between them, and you will be likely to make up again later. If you go around telling everyone that you had an argument, everyone will start taking sides and spreading rumours until the whole thing is completely out of control. Even worse, every time someone tells somebody else about the argument, they may twist what was said until the only people who know what really happened will be you and the friend you fell out with. Therefore when you fall out with a friend, keep it between you and don't say mean things behind their back. If someone else hears of the argument and says mean things, ignore them. Doing otherwise will only get you in trouble.
 You may be popular but also very miserable. Lots of people tend to gravitate towards popular people and you may find yourself surrounded by people that you barely know or like. Big, popular groups also struggle a lot with dramas and confrontations. Clichéd as it sounds, it's better to have a small group of real friends who you know well and trust and who will stick by you.
 If you really must, talk to them calmly in a private place. Never walk straight up to them and start shouting.
 If this is the case, quickly lead them away and explain to them that it's not worth the drama, however angry they may feel. Try not to care about little negative things and stay happy and positive!

