 In order for you to become a Soul Linker, you need to have a Taekwon with job level of 40 or above. Job points should be used as well, so make sure to distribute it to your preferred skill before taking the job-change quest.;
, If you're qualified, head to Morroc City, found southwest from Prontera.


You can also just use the Kafra NPC to teleport to Morroc City. Keep in mind that you need to pay a fee in order for you to use their Kafra service.
 To take the Soul Linker quest, you need to cross to the other realm where you can meet the job-change NPC. In order to get there, talk to the Little Boy first at the northwestern part of Morroc City.


Enter the building near portal that leads to the pyramids and then approach the child NPC. The boy will tell you about his problem. As reward, he will help you go to the other dimension.
For his quest, you need one Worth less Rose, one Immortal Heart, and one 3-Carat Diamond.
 There are two options in obtaining this item: buy it or get it from drops. If you want to buy it, simply enter the portal at the upper right of Morroc City and then approach the small lake found in the map. Once you reach there, head east to find the trader NPC.


Each Witherless Rose is 55,000 zeny, which is quite expensive.
 This second option saves you money, but it requires effort. Witherless Rose is dropped from Wild Rose in any city of the game. Though their number is quite few, they're not hard to find.


Obeaune also drops Witherless Rose, which can be found in Undersea Tunnel.
To get in the Undersea Tunnel, simply go to Izlude and take the ship heading for Byalan Island at the upper-right side of the city. Once there, go to the center and enter the portal.
 The only way to obtain an Immortal Heart is by killing Verit. Verit is an undead monster found in Pyramid Dungeon at floor 3 or in the basements.
 Kill Isis in the Pyramid dungeon.


Isis is a snake-lady monster found in upper level 2 or level 4.
Be careful in hunting Isis in level 4 as Osiris, an MVP monster, also appears in that place.
It is best to bring a Priest with you in a party or a good tank.
 After completing the materials, head back to Morroc then talk to the Little Boy again to hand in the items. You will then be transported to the other world for you to meet the quest NPCs. Talk to all three NPCs until you reach the end of the maze.


Each NPC will explain to you the skills of the Soul Linker and their ways. Simply press Enter until their dialogue ends so that you can proceed to the next room.
 In the last room, you will meet the Little Boy again. Talk to him and he will tell you more about the Soul Linker. He will then change your job, successfully completing the job-change quest. After he turns you into Soul Linker, you will be teleported back to Morroc.