 Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) may be prescribed in very severe cases of depression, people who are acutely suicidal, people experiencing psychosis or catatonia in addition to depression, or people who have not responded to other treatment.The treatment begins with a mild anesthetic, followed by several shocks delivered to the brain.


ECT has the highest response rate of any antidepressant therapy (70%-90% of patients respond).Some limitations of ECT use include the stigma associated with it, as well as potential side effects, including cardiovascular effects and cognitive effects (such as short-term memory loss).
 Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) uses a magnetic coil to stimulate the brain. It is approved by the FDA for use in people with major depressive disorders who do not respond to medication., Treatment is required daily, which makes is difficult for the average person to undergo.
 Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a relatively new treatment that requires implantation of a device for stimulating the vagus nerve, a component of the autonomic nervous system. It is approved for use in people who do not respond to medication., Data on the effectiveness of VNS is limited and there are potential side effects associated with having a medical device implanted, including interference with other medical devices., , Deep-brain stimulation (DBS) is an experimental treatment and has not been approved by the FDA. It requires the implantation of a medical device that is used to stimulate a part of the brain called “Area 25.”There is limited information on the effectiveness of DBS.As an experimental treatment, DBS would only be used if other treatments failed or were not an option.
 Neurofeedback aims to “re-train” the brain when a person with depression shows a particular pattern of brain activity.Newer forms of neurofeedback are being developed using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) techniques.


Neurofeedback can be costly and requires a lot of time. Insurance companies may not pay for this procedure.

