 There are some good resources like RollRandom that will help you locate local raves and ravers.;
, This one can solve the problem very easily. There are raver message boards and forums online where you can obtain information about an upcoming rave near you. Try looking at a ravers message board, social networking site or a similar website. These can be very helpful in finding a nearby rave.
 Try finding out when your favorite DJ is in town on a tour. Check their website, also their Facebook or Myspace page if it exists(most DJ's have at least one). These pages usually say the dates and locations of any shows on their tour.
 If you can get a few friends excited about going to a show, you'll have more than just yourself searching for one. Two heads are better than one.
 A good start may be as simple as "Hey I heard you were a good person to talk to about finding a rave nearby." or "Hey I'm trying to find out where the next rave is around here, have you heard anything?" Much of the initial information about raves travels by mouth from raver to raver. Gossip is a great place to start.
 Many raves are heavily promoted at the previous rave. Once you find your way into one, it becomes exceedingly simple to find the next one. In fact, you may have more fliers than you bargained for by the end of the night.
 If you sit there and stare at the date without buying a ticket you could show up and find that it is sold out. Buy your tickets as early as possible and make sure you have enough for everyone in your group. Buying early can also get you a very good deal, as tickets cost more the closer the event is and are generally much more expensive at the door.
 It can be easy to buy your ticket so early and become burnt out on the excitement. If you stash your ticket in a drawer somewhere you may completely forget the rave is even happening in the months it can take to wait for it to arrive. Put your ticket somewhere you can see it, if you're worried about misplacing it and need to stash it away somewhere make sure you have some way of reminding yourself about the rave. A picture on the refrigerator or a countdown to the rave can help you remain as excited as the moment you saw that your favorite DJ was playing at a venue nearby.

