 Use special dog shampoo to wash your dachshund. If your dog has short hair, you should give your dog a bath once every three months. If your dog has long hair, you may need to bath her more frequently. Use a spray hose and wet all of your dog’s fur, but do not wet the areas around her eyes, ears, and nose. Then massage the shampoo into your dog’s fur. Rinse all of the shampoo out and then dry her off with a towel.Offer your dachshund plenty of praise and a treat after baths to help him to associate bath time with good things.
 If your dachshund has short hair, you may only need to brush him once a week. If your dachshund has long hair, you will need to brush him daily to avoid tangled and matted fur. Use a wide comb to help remove tangles before moving on to a brush. Make sure that you offer your dog lots of praise while you brush him and give him a treat when you are finished so that he associates brushing with good things., To clip your dachshund’s nails, you will need a special nail clipper for dogs. You can purchase one in a pet store. You may also need to get your dachshund used to you handling his nails before you try to clip them. If your dachshund is wary of you touching his feet and nails, help him get used to it by petting his feet and touching his toes. Give him praise and a treat when he lets you touch his toes. After he becomes comfortable with you touching his feet, you can try to clip his nails.Make sure that you do not cut too far down or you may hit the quick of his nail. This area is very sensitive and may cause bleeding.
If you are concerned about hurting your dog while trimming his nails, ask your vet to show you how or have a professional groomer trim your dog’s nails.
 Grooming time is a good time to check your dog for fleas, ticks, and other potential health problems. Make sure that you inspect your dog’s skin for any unusual growths, wounds, or tender areas. You should also check your dog’s ears for excessive wax buildup and foul odors. If you find anything that seems abnormal, schedule an appointment with your veterinarian as soon as possible.