, Don't worry about excessive salt at this stage. Bring the water to the boil on the hub at 9.,

Add the rinsed rice to the boiling water (adding good rice to boiling water makes the rice lumping together).
Set the kitchen timer for 5 minutes.
Use a wooden spoon and stir gently just to separate rice lumps into grains. Once separated leave the rice keep boiling, until the 5 minutes ends. Note : Be careful; if you stir more, then the rice grains will become broken.
Take the boiling rice from over the stove.
Reduce the hub to 2 to keep it warm.
 Taste the rice. If the rice is too salty, rinse the rice with the cold water., Stir gently to mix them., Increase the heat to 8. Add oil to cover the bottom of the pan., Be very careful when doing this as the oil could spatter.,

If you like tortilla put it on the sizzling oil wait for a minute; turn it back for another minute. Then add the rice and raisin and lentil mixture over it.
If you choose potatoes, wash and peel the potato. Slice it from its larger cross section into the chips (not sticks) of 3 to 4 millimeters thick. Fill the bottom of the casserole dish with one layer of sliced potatoes. Wait for two or three minutes just to lightly fry. Then turn potatoes back and wait for another two minutes and add the mixed risotto over them.
If you do not put tortilla or potato, then reduce the heat to 2 and just pour the mixed risotto over the sizzling oil. At the end you'll have a layer of nice crispy crunchy rice when you turn back rice into the serving dish.
 Try to reduce the amount of rice contacting to the sides of the casserole dish., Wrap the lead of the casserole dish in a clean cotton kitchen towel. Firmly secure corners of the towel with a good knot or a large safety pin; preventing them to fall when left unattended. Put the wrapped lid on the casserole dish and leave for half an hour. After half an hour take the lid, drizzle or generously spray the top of the rice with oil. Empty out all fried meatballs over the rice. Spray meatballs with oil. Put the wrapped lid back and wait for another half an hour.,

First take the lid then turn off the cooker, allowing steam to escape.
 The golden crust should be at top now., Break the crust, using a serving spoon, and serve pieces of crust, risotto, and meatballs into the plates.