 Film tint is a great option for tinting your tail lights, as it allows the light through the tinting, but restricts the light that comes back in. There are many different types of film tint available both online and in car accessory stores.


Depending on the effect you wish to achieve, you can choose a regular black tint, or go for something a little more out there, like yellow, red, gunsmoke or optic blue.You can even find some film tint that's pre-cut to fit certain car models, so if you have a popular type of car, look out for those.
 Before applying the film tint, it is important that your car's tail lights are extremely clean. Use some window cleaner and a microfiber cloth (that won't leave any lint) to get rid of any debris or watermarks.
 Depending on the size of the vinyl sheets, you may want to cut the film tint to an approximate size, so it will be easier to work with. Use a precision knife to do this., Peel the film tint from the protective plastic sheet and spray either some soapy water or a solution of 85% water and 15% rubbing alcohol in a spray bottle on the adhesive side. This will prevent the film from sticking before you have properly aligned it on the taillight., Place the film tint over the taillight. You may need to stretch it to fit the shape of the light, which can be difficult if the light is very curved. Try to get the film tint as smooth as possibly, using your hands to work out any creases.


If you're having difficulty, spray some more solution on the outside of the film and use a heat gun or hair dryer to help stretch out the film and make it more malleable.Just don't hold the heat source too close to the film or apply heat for too long, as this may weaken or shrivel it.
 Use a vinyl squeegee to push any excess water or air bubbles from underneath the film, working from the center outwards. You will need to apply firm pressure to the film to ensure you get the film tint looking as smooth as possible.


If you don't have a squeegee, you can improvise using a credit card or a spatula wrapped in a microfiber towel.You can also continue to use the heat gun or hair dryer at this point to help you to smooth the film.
 Once you are happy with the surface of the film, use a precision knife to cut around the taillight, leaving a little extra film around the perimeter. Be vary careful when doing this, so you don't accidentally cut any of the film covering the taillight.
 The final step is to use the heat gun and the squeegee (though the smaller spatula may be better for this) to stretch and tuck the edges of the film around the edges of the taillight, out of sight. Once the film sets it will hold its position.

