 Incorporate test prep books and questions into daily lessons.These fills curriculum requirements and prepares the student for the questions and skills on the ACT and SAT.Look for questions at the official ACT or SAT sites. Test prep bodies such as the Princeton Review also have sample questions.;
, Allow your student to enroll in a course at a local university. Entry-level math, science, and English classes can complement what they’re learning at home. They can also prepare your student to answer the questions asked on the SAT and ACT., Official testing and test prep bodies offer courses to prepare students for the ACT and SAT. These may be online or in a classroom and can range in price from free to $2,000. Have your student take an online exam to see if a section-specific class or general class can help them better succeed on the actual tests.Consider the student’s specific learning style when deciding on which course is best for them.
 Working with a private tutor can develop your homeschool student’s testing knowledge and skills. This is especially true for advanced math and science. Have the tutor work through test-specific questions or focus on developing more general skills that the SAT and ACT cover., Once you have a sense of the student’s abilities, adjust their learning goals to areas that need work. This meets not only their curriculum goals, but also further develops their skills for the tests. Spend more time on subjects with weaker practice scores until the student takes the test or show signs of improvement., Both the ACT and SAT test a student’s math skills. Your student will benefit from lessons that develop these, which may also help them in science. Helping them get a handle on Algebra 1 and 2 and geometry can provide a better base knowledge.Assess math skills by giving the student sample questions that you can get for free online.Tailor math lessons to area of weakness.
 Like math, both tests assess a student’s English language skills. On the SAT, this is a part of the verbal section.Both have similar content and will test other knowledge based on reading 4-5 passages.Prepare your student for the English sections with the following:Reading higher level texts
Building vocabulary
Reviewing word etymology
Refreshing grammar
Taking practice tests to identify weak areas

, The SAT and ACT test reading comprehension, rhetorical skills, and language mechanics. Give your student challenging reading material, which develops reading and comprehension skills. Ask specific questions about grammar, to strengthen rhetorical and language mechanics skills.Readings that can prepare your student include:


Magazines such as The Economist, The New Yorker, or Foreign Affairs
Newspapers such as the New York Times and Wall Street Journal
Classic literature including Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Frankenstein, War of the Worlds, and The Tales of Edgar Allan Poe

, The ACT and SAT have optional essay sections. These test comprehension, evaluation, and analytical skills. If your homeschool student plans to take this section, have them write essays about any reading they have done. Ask questions to guide the essays, which the ACT or SAT websites provide.Identify areas that need work by evaluating the following:


Clarity
Analysis
Development of ideas

, The ACT has one section on science. This section contains reading passages and 40 related questions. A student must answer these in 35 minutes.These questions cover biology, physics, chemistry and Earth/ space sciences such as geology and meteorology.Figure out where the student needs work by looking at a practice exam.Have the student review data, make predictions and synthesize information. This helps them with the question format on the exam., Both the SAT and ACT have sample questions from each testing area online.Other study prep organizations also have questions online that your homeschool student can answer.Have your student track their progress by routinely answering the same or similar questions online.
 Purchase, borrow or rent test prep books. These can help your homeschool student anticipate the types of questions on each exam. If you can, get books published by the official designers of each test. Have your student study with prep books for a set time after school each day. This concentrated study can develop skills and provide valuable tips and information for the exams. Download prep books and study guides for free online when possible., There may be other homeschool students in your local area who also preparing for the SAT and ACT. Finding or setting up a local study group of homeschool students taking these exams may help your student further develop their skills. It may also boost their test scores and give them a chance to meet possible future friends.Use known networks of other homeschool students or organizations to help you find support groups. You can also advertise a prep group you’d like to start.
 Give your student a prep test. Not only can these help your student learn, but they can also identify areas for improvement. It can also improve test timing and pacing skills as well as their confidence.The College Board and ACT offer free, full SAT and ACT practice tests.Time practice exams for the same allotted time as the actual test.