 One of the most important investments you can offer your children is quality time together as a family. Family time presents an opportunity to monitor your children’s interests and strengths in a relaxed environment. It also gives you an opportunity to enhance your connection with one another and enforce family values.There are a multitude of ways for you to get the family together. Share mealtimes several mornings or nights each week. Create a family hobby such as playing basketball or going for bike rides. Attend church or other community events. Go shopping. Make sure everyone attends important events for the children like sports games, recitals, and spelling bees.
 Although time together is beneficial, so is time spent with your children separately. It can be challenging to dedicate attention to each individual child when you’re all together. So, allotting a bit of time each week to each of your children is yet another beneficial strategy for building a positive home.


When you spend one-on-one time with your children you can find out what’s happening in their lives, what their unique abilities and interests are, and offer them affection and encouragement in a way that best suits their personality.How you spend quality time will depend on each child. For example, a shy child might simply enjoy watching a movie with you while sitting side-by-side. Meanwhile, a more gregarious child might want to go on a shopping trip and tell you all about their latest adventures with friends. Select appropriate activities that work for you and your child.
 Family time spent together or individually is also an ideal time to talk with your children. Make an effort to reach out and ask about their experiences at school, with friends, and in other environments.


It can be hard to know how to talk to your children as an adult.Let them lead you. Pay attention to what each of your children are interested in or receptive to and use those topics as openings. For example, if you have a daughter who is on the swim team, you might go swimming with her and ask her to give you some pointers. Then, you might ask, “What do you enjoy most about swimming, and why?
Another way to encourage open discussion between you and your children is to have regular family meetings. Set a time each week or every other week where everyone comes together and shares some details about what’s new with them or any challenges their facing. Then, discuss any problems proactively as a family. This helps your children feel comfortable bringing problems—big or little—to you when they encounter them.
 No matter how busy you are, when your kids are talking, don’t tune out. This sends the message that what they’re saying doesn’t matter. Listening requires being active in not just hearing the words, but also understanding the thoughts and feelings behind the message.Use active listening principles when your children are talking, such as making occasional eye contact, demonstrating open body language (e.g. uncrossed arms and legs), and nodding or making appropriate facial expressions.
When they are done, ask appropriate questions like “How did that make you feel?” or “Are you worried about that?” to further the conversation and show you were listening.

