 For the most part, diarrhea should be monitored for a few days at home before veterinary assistance is necessary. However, under certain conditions, you should talk to your vet right away.Blood in the stool requires immediate evaluation. Bloody stools will be black and tarry in appearance.
If you think your pet got into something toxic, take it to the vet right away.
Pale gums and a fever accompanying diarrhea should be evaluated right away.
Diarrhea accompanied by vomiting should be evaluated.
If you have a young kitten who has not yet been vaccinated, have a vet evaluate things like diarrhea.
 Usually, your vet will conduct a brief physical exam of your pet. He or she will listen to your pet's heart beat and breathing and examine them for any obvious signs of injury or sickness., From here, your vet will ask for a brief medical history. You should include any unusual behaviors you've noticed previously. Diarrhea and constipation can sometimes be caused by underlying conditions, and a full medical history can help a vet determine which tests are necessary.If your pet was recently exposed to wildlife, or if it ate something unusual, mention this here.
Also, tell your vet about any medications your pet is taking. Some medications may cause diarrhea or constipation as a side effect.
 There are many different ways to treat diarrhea, if your vet determines medical treatment is necessary. Go over a potential treatment plan with your vet to make sure you understand how to properly correct the issue.Parasites can sometimes cause a problem with diarrhea, so your vet may recommend medication to correct this. If diarrhea is severe, your pet may need to stay overnight to receive intravenous liquids to correct or prevent dehydration. Other medications may be used to calm the gastrointestinal tract.
Not all cases of vomiting and diarrhea can be treated easily. If your pet is diagnosed with a lifelong condition, like diabetes, you will have to have a long talk to your vet about longterm treatment.
 It's a good idea to have constipation evaluated as well if it does not clear up on its own within a few days. You can talk to your vet about how to properly treat the issue.Stimulants or laxatives are frequently used to treat mild constipation.
Severe constipation can be more of a problem. Surgery or dietary changes may be necessary to treat an intestinal blockage or other issue.

