 You may want to try steaming the hat first. The most common way to steam a straw hat is to use a steamer or the steam setting on an iron. You could also take the hat to a hat store that has an industrial steamer, but it's usually not necessary.


Apply the steam around the entire brim of the hat first. The steam will loosen the fibers. The steam will help the hat regain its natural shape.
You could use steam from a pot of boiling water if you don’t have a steamer, but be very careful around boiling water.If the steam seems like it’s saturating the hat too much, stop for a few minutes before restarting the process.;
, Keep the steam about 6 to 8 inches away from the straw hat so the steam doesn’t damage it or hurt your hands. Pop the brim back down.


After directing the steam around the brim, put steam throughout the inside of the hat’s crown.
The steam should start popping the dents in the hat back out. You don’t want the steamer or iron to actually touch the straw though.
Continue steaming until the hat is damp. Don't worry that you are getting too much moisture in the hat because the moisture is what will help straighten it out.
 After you wet it or while you are steaming the hat, push everything back into shape, constantly molding the straw with your hands throughout the steaming process.


Pull the fibers apart with your fingers as you mold the hat. You could also use a spoon to mold the hat’s shape while it’s steaming instead of your fingers.
After you’ve steamed the hat, put a bowl, folded towel, or other object inside the hat. This will help its crown further regain its shape.
You may need to wear garden gloves or oven mitts when steaming the hat. It can be dangerous to be around hot steam, so be very careful that you don't burn yourself by getting too close to it.
 If steaming the hat doesn't work, you may want to wet the hat instead. This approach can especially work with a squished straw hat brim. Spray the hat with water. It should dry back in shape because the moisture will make the straw more pliable.


Just spray the hat with a misting of water. If that doesn’t work, you may want to dip the hat’s crown into a bowl of warm water. You don’t want the hat to be too dry or the straw could crack.
Make sure it’s evenly wet by turning it around and around in the bowl.After wetting the hat, you will want to mold it back into shape with your fingers or another object.
It might worry you to get a straw hat wet, but don't worry about that. It's one of the most common ways to reshape a hat.
 When you're done steaming or wetting it, you need to give the straw hat a chance to dry.


Start the steaming or wetting process all over again if the hat still hasn’t regained its perfect shape.
It depends on the hat and amount of damage. Some hats only require one steaming or wetting, but other hats may need to go through the process a second time.
Try for one steaming or wetting if possible, though, because you don't want to constantly reshape a hat.

