 Because possums can grow to be the size of a large cat, i.e., two to three feet long and four to 15 pounds, you will need to buy a large, steel cage trap. These traps are also known as raccoon traps. Buy a cage that is about 30 to 40 inches (.762 to 1 meter) in length and 12 inches (.305 meters) in height. Visit your local hardware store to purchase a trap cage.Most traps come in one or two-door models. It is recommended that you buy a one-door model. One-door models offer better bait protection and are better at catching larger animals.;
, The best location for the trap is near the possum’s den. However, if you don’t know where the possum’s den is, then place the trap in the area where you have noticed the most activity or damage, like near garbage cans. Because possums are nocturnal marsupials, place the trap in the designated area just before nightfall.If the possum is living in your attic or garage, place the trap in the center of the space.






If the possum lives underneath your house, or in a crawlspace or in a tree’s hollow, place the trap three to five feet outside of the entrance.






Remember to place the trap on an even surface. Place a brick on top of the trap to keep it steady and to prevent the possum from flipping it over.
 Because possums are omnivores, almost any type of bait will work. However, try to choose bait that will only attract possums and not other animals, like cats. Apples, aniseed oil on bread, marshmallows, and other sweet breads are good examples of bait that will only attract possums.Using a small amount of food, create a trail that will lead to the trap.






Make sure to position the food in a way that will force the possum to step on the trigger plate, which will close the trap door. For example, make sure the possum has to step on the trigger plate to get to the food.






If the food gets stuck between the trigger plate and the bottom of the cage, the trap door will not close.
 Check the trap every morning after you set it. You do not want the possum to be stuck in the trap for more than a day. This can cause the possum to become hungry and thirsty, and thus, anxious and aggressive. They are also more vulnerable to predators if they are trapped for long periods of time.If your trap is still empty in the morning, close the trap to avoid catching day time animals, like cats and squirrels.

