 Include what you spend at the grocery store or super market, restaurants, canteens, coffee shops etc. Unless you include everything you spend on food, you won't, overall, make any saving. Doing so will let you know how much you are currently paying and whether you are within your desired budget.;
, If there's a staple food such as rice, flour, potatoes etc, that you can buy cheaper in bulk, do so. Bulk buy items must be something you will use up before they can perish. If you're one of those smart shoppers, you would've paid much attention to the regular individual prices or stuffs that comes in bulks. Check the prices and buy bulk, if it's cheaper. To figure out the cost the divide the cost of the article by its size or volume. For example: Divide $8 by 12 ounces to figure out the cost of a can of coffee. The cost per ounce will tell you what the actual price is. Compare this with the bulk price per ounce. Take care to ensure your household will consume the bulk food within its use by or sell by date, otherwise this can compound the problem and create more waste.
 Consider only buying meat once every 9 or 10th day and make it last. Meat can be purchased in bulk and then portioned up into smaller serves, wrapped in cling film and frozen for future use. It's best to do this before freezing the meat to ensure its not frozen and then refrozen (which may create food poisoning conditions)

, Very often most recipes are better if made in a large quantity as opposed to cooking for one. There's a lot of food that can be made in large portions, be made cheaply and can last for a couple days in the fridge for a future lunch or leftover dinner, or put into a freezer safe container for a future time. Some examples are:


Chilli
Fried rice (which stores well in the refrigerator but does not freeze well)
Homemade soups, casseroles and stews.
Stir-fry

, If you buy food that you could sometimes have some extras left over for next time, consider how you can use those for the next days meal. Good ideas would be:


Tomato soup with basil and a garlic bread as a side.
Vegetables with tips and milk
Pasta with tomato sauce and water

, If you do buy some food but usually ended up at least a good solid half of it away then don't think about buying that as you'll lose valuable money that goes out the drain.
 If you may only consume, for example, half a block of cheese before it goes moldy, shop and share the bill with someone who can use the other half.
 If you spend too much money on food a week you'll risk getting too much that you could use.
 That includes any soda, chips, and everything else that comes along with that category. A lot of the times they can actually be a lot more expensive than healthy food in the long run.
 Those things can actually help you save money. Granted, you'll only save bits here and there but you can save up to $20 or more easily enough if you take advantage of them.
 Doing so will help you make sure you don't don't overuse more than what you should.
 This will help you not feeling hungry throughout the day and at the same time if you incorporate this with the single portion step, it will help you not eat more than you really should.
 This is a good opportunity to catch up with them and possibly get free food out of the entire thing so don't feel bad to eat and save some money out of this opportunity if arises.

