 Organize everything you'll need. Getting some pencils, a backpack, a few notebooks, pens, folders, a good book, a compass, an eraser, a protractor and a good luck charm is a good start, but use your supply list from your new school as a guideline.;
, You don't want to spend a week in wrinkled, stained, torn, or dirty clothes! Make sure you do laundry before the first week and iron every single clothing article you have. For the first day, wear your best T shirt and pants. Skip this step if your school requires uniform.
, An hour and a half before school is a good time if it's far away. Now don't just sit back and watch cartoons for an hour! . Get ready quickly and run like the wind. You want to make a good impression on your teachers.
 A quick five minute shower will save precious minutes. Also remember to put on deodorant. After all, if you smell on the first day you may be called "Skunk" for the rest of the year or even worse names.
 Get there 10 minutes in advance and wait with your parent until you're picked up. When your picked up, sit alone unless a friend from elementary comes. Wait until the third or fourth day until you ask a stranger to sit with you. If you ask a random person to sit with you that person may end up being a backstabber or bully.
 It's really easy to get lost within the never ending halls full of lockers and classrooms that all look the same. Try to keep a map so that you don't get lost resulting in you to live in a locker and treat the halls like the wilderness.
 There's a good chance that that's where you'll sit for the rest of the year. Choose your seat carefully.
 There is a good chance that they will introduce you to their friends.
 You usually have no choice, but some schools have "a la carte" which means you can get whatever you want. Choose the best food available if your school has a la carte. If it's a no choice menu, then make do with what you have even if it looks like throw up.
 There's a basic table for every group: The popular girls, the cool guys, the outcast girls, and the outcast boys. When you decide which group will most likely accept you, go to the table and sit there. Try to socialize with the table's kids.
 This will personalize it perfectly. If you're a girl, a mirror is great to keep for when you want to apply makeup or lip gloss. Add posters of your favorite singer, a few books, and other items to make it your own.
