 For example, someone might have increased their order, or you made a mistake on the original invoice. Go down through each piece of information on the invoice and look for changes to any of the following:client information
amount due
payment deadline
description of goods or services provided;
, Go into your invoicing software and update whatever information needs to be changed. You should change the invoice number so that it reflects that it has been revised. For example, invoice number 12567 would be 12567-R. Put the words “Revised Invoice” at the top of the document.


You should also change the date of the invoice.
If your client simply lost the invoice, you don’t need to update the information or include the words “Revised Invoice” at the top. Instead, you are simply providing a new copy of an invoice that hasn’t changed.
 If you had to revise the invoice to reflect additional services provided, then extend the due date. However, you don’t need to extend the due date if your client merely lost their copy.
 You’ll need to send your client a copy of the revised invoice, so print it out and prepare for mailing it. Many invoice software programs allow you to send invoices by email, so send it that way if it is more convenient.Print off a copy for your records and staple it to the original invoice.
 You need to include a short note with the new invoice and explain any changes. Open a blank word processing document and set the font to something readable, e.g., Times New Roman 12 point.If your business has letterhead, then leave space at the top of the page for the letterhead.
If you are sending a PDF of your invoice, then you can type up this cover letter in an email.
 It should be clear from your letter why you sent the invoice again. For example, you might have made an error when calculating how much you were owed. You can write something like, “The enclosed invoice reflects the corrected amount due. I apologize for the error on the original invoice.”


If there were no revisions, then write something like the following: “I have provided an additional copy of the invoice dated May 30, 2017, per your request.”

, Your invoice might already state the payment due date, but it’s a good idea to repeat the due date in the letter. For example, you can write, “As a reminder, payment is due on July 1, 2017.”

, Remind the client to contact you if they have questions, which is particularly important if you’ve changed how much the client owes. Thank them for their business and include “Sincerely” and your signature., If you don’t receive payment by the due date, prepare a letter to send to the client. Some clients forget when bills are due, so a friendly reminder might help. Format a business letter.


You can also send a late payment reminder by email, if you think it is easier., In the first paragraph, tell the client that their account is past due and you are sending this letter as a payment reminder. For example, you can write, “This letter is a reminder that your account with us is now past due.”Avoid showing anger or attacking the client. Mistakes do happen, so try to be understanding.
 Write something like, “We have not received payment for the following invoices….” Include the invoice number, the due date for the invoice, and the amount owed. If the client is past-due on multiple invoices, list them in columns., Make getting paid as easy as possible. Remind the client which payment methods you accept, e.g., cash, major credit cards, personal check, etc. If you accept online payment, include a link to the website., You might charge a late penalty for payments that are more than 30 days past due. Now is the time to remind the client of those terms, which should prompt them to pay you quickly.


For example, you can write, “As you probably know, your payment terms are 30 days from the invoice issuance date. A 5% late fee will be assessed if we don’t receive payment by then.”Don’t threaten to sue in this letter. Instead, hold that threat for a subsequent letter if the client still refuses to pay.
 Thank the client for their prompt attention to this matter and remind them that they are a valued customer. Type “Sincerely” and then include your name underneath., Include the letter with a copy of the unpaid invoice. Send the letter certified mail, return receipt requested so you know when it has been received. Remember to keep a copy of the letter for your records.
 Hopefully, one letter is enough. If not, you should draft additional payment reminders. Your ability to collect on the debt will decrease once your invoice is more than 60 days past due.