 These days, everything ordered online will have a tracking order. Check the order confirmation email to find the one for your package. Your order may have run into some problems and will be delivered later than the expected delivery date, but this should be noted online.


If you're looking for a package sent by a friend, ask them for the tracking number -- it should have been given to them when they sent the goods.
Print out the receipt for any online orders. This lets you easily point to the item's value in case of a dispute.;
, If you miss the mail courier, often times they will place a delivery notice or your package at your door. Depending on the weather, however, they might try to place it somewhere where it won't blow away or get wet. This delivery notice is usually your best chance to get the package recovered, so you should check:


Under your welcome mat and front steps
Your back and side doors
Your mailbox
Behind or on any fences
Your neighbor's house

, Make sure that your package didn't end up at the front desk instead of your apartment or office. While this doesn't apply to everyone, many mail carriers will deposit packages in the front of the building, where they may be taken in for safe-keeping by your building manager.


If you’re expecting the package to arrive in an institution like a school or business building, there may be a time delay between the arrival of your package and the time it takes for the mailroom to notify you to pick it up.
Check your building’s mailroom. Usually, a notice will be placed in your usual mail locker to notify you that you have a package in another locker.
 Call, e-mail, or go visit the local post office of the sender or the intended receiver of the package. Let them know about the missing mail package as well as the package’s tracking information and description so they can look within their building for it. The earlier you file a claim (a 1510 form in the US), the better your chances of getting your package.


Visiting the office, which allows you to pick your package up on the spot, is usually your best bet. Ask to file a claim for a missing package.
Get in contact with the USPS Mail Recovery Center, which is basically the lost and found of the postal service. They may have any wrongly-addressed or delivery packages sent to them.
Even without a tracking number, you can use the USPS website to file claims and find your missing stuff., Most websites will offer a simple button to handle disputes or missing packages, and the added pressure of the sender may help the post office find your package. Be sure to attach any relevant information, like tracking number and your claim number with the post office, to speed things along.


If a friend or family member sent the package, they too can call the post office and file a claim. There is a chance the issue was with the sending post office.
Ask the sending post office if they have any undeliverable packages. There is a chance yours never left., In the event your package is not found and you purchased insurance on it, you can file a claim to recover the value of the items in the package. You will need to provide proof of mailing and damage or loss to make the claim along with a description of the items. You can contact your local post office to file an insurance claim. Before your file your claim:Locate your package’s tracking number.
Check that the items in your package are insurable. Each post office will have a list of non-insurable items.
Verify that your item was mailed within the timeframe your post office allows. For Canada Post, claims can be filed within 90 days of delivery while for the USPS, claims can be filed within 60 days of the package’s mailing date.
Locate the receiver or sender's name, address and contact information.
Prepare a description of the contents, including the value and insured amount.
 Most post offices will require you to file a claim or create a service ticket until they can help you find your lost package. You can then check the status of your claim periodically until both you and the post office come to a resolution. If you don't see any effort being made to help recover your package, call again and let them know your concerns.


Unfortunately, filing a claim does not guarantee that you will be able to recover your lost package. However, they are so busy with other requests that you must be your own advocate.
You can usually file and check a claim or report your problem online on your post office’s website. Canada Post asks customers to fill out an online service ticket that describes their problem.While the United States Postal Service (USPS) will ask customers to fill out a Claim Form 1000 from the post office or online to start a search for a pack at the Mail Recovery Center (MRC)., Most post offices will require you to file a claim or create a service ticket until they can help you find your lost package. You can then check the status of your claim periodically until both you and the post office come to a resolution. If you don't see any effort being made to help recover your package, call again and let them know your concerns.


Unfortunately, filing a claim does not guarantee that you will be able to recover your lost package. However, they are so busy with other requests that you must be your own advocate.
You can usually file and check a claim or report your problem online on your post office’s website. Canada Post asks customers to fill out an online service ticket that describes their problem.While the United States Postal Service (USPS) will ask customers to fill out a Claim Form 1000 from the post office or online to start a search for a pack at the Mail Recovery Center (MRC).