 The seeds inside a papaya contain carpaine, benzylisothiocyanate, benzylglucosinolate, glucotropacolin, benzylthiourea, hentriacontane, sitosterol, caricin and an enzyme called myrosin, all of which help to kill parasites. They also help the intestines to contract and reduce inflammation caused by the worms. You can eat the seeds whole or dry them and make them into a powder that you can eat with yogurt and honey.
 This fruit contains a digestive enzyme called bromelain that specifically combats tapeworms by removing the free radicals the worm produces. The acidity of the pineapple also decreases the amount of glucose available to the worm, which causes it to starve and die., Take one banana, mush it up, and mix it with one teaspoon of lemon juice. Bananas act like a natural laxative, which helps to remove worms. The oligosaccharides present in bananas stimulate the intestine to contract, while lemon has antibacterial, antiprotozoal properties that help kill parasites., You can drink five glasses of pomegranate juice a day to cleanse your intestines and rid yourself of parasites. Each glass should contain about eight ounces of pomegranate juice.
 Pumpkin seeds contain a compound called as cucurbitacins which paralyze the worms in your body by attacking their nervous system, which causes them to stop growing and eventually die. These seeds also contain several other worm-killing nutrients like flavonoids, palmitic, oleic and linoleic acids.


You should eat at least 10 to 15 pumpkin seeds a day., If you decide to use this method, you should take the castor oil on an empty stomach for a greater effect. The oil induces diarrhea which helps to flush the worms from your symptom.


You should talk to your doctor before using this method, as some worms, like hookworms, attach to your intestines and having diarrhea could make them dig in harder and more painfully.
 Some herbs and extracts also have worm-killing properties. You can increase the amount of these herbs that you use in your cooking, or take supplements. The herbs and extract include:


Garlic: Studies have shown that eating one to two cloves of garlic a day can combat intestinal parasites. This is because garlic contains allicin, a broad spectrum antibiotic that kills parasites.Coconut oil: Coconut oil contains caprylic acid which has medium-chain fatty acids that have anti-parasitic and anti-bacterial components.
Oil of oregano: This extract contains two antimicrobial properties, thymol and carvacrol, which help to manage parasitic infections.

