 They may think the drug use is just a good time or nothing to worry about so it might be easy to lie away the behavior. The lies may even start out as a way to somehow protect the person being lied to from worrying or overreacting since they do not see the problems associated with the drug use., Someone who abuses drugs may sometimes believe that they are exempt from the negative consequences of drug use. Often, someone using drugs does not see the full effect the drugs have on the body and one’s health, or the people around them. Your loved one may lie about the behavior because they don't think negative consequences like overdose or legal troubles could happen.The need for the drug often clouds the fear of getting caught buying illegal drugs, stealing to obtain drugs or even taking risky chances in the name of the next high. They may not see things like stealing to sell items to buy drugs as a real crime because they are not physically hurting anyone.
They may also not consider the risks of sharing needles or having sex for drugs with other drug users as a way to get exposed to HIV, Hepatitis or other infections. These consequences of drugs use can be almost shocking to them.
They may also not understand—or want to acknowledge—the strain the drug use puts of personal relationships and family bonds.
 Ignoring a drug problem or finding a way to justify going against a gut feeling of something not being right does not help the situation. This includes giving your teen surplus money without knowing where it’s going, consistently bailing your spouse out of jail after being arrested, or covering for a friend who is using.When you turn your head the other way you are almost condoning the behavior and preventing the person from getting help. Think about your actions and see if there is a chance you have been enabling your loved one to use drugs.
 Accept that being lied to did not happen because you are a bad person or easy to trick. Drug addiction drives the need to manipulate to continue to have access to drugs, and this would be the same for any person coming into contact with the problem.It is not something you caused, nor is it something you should ignore out of shame.

