 Your parents might be worried that you’ll be coming home too late if you are dating.Make sure to negotiate a reasonable curfew with them to ease their minds at the prospect of dating.


Don’t bring up the conversation after you’ve come home late.
You can say “I’m going out, but my homework is done and I promise to be home by 9 p.m.”
If you’ve broken curfew in the past, the only way to build trust back is to stick to it in the future.
 One of the greatest fears for many parents is that their children will become physically intimate too early in life. Talk to your parents about what is acceptable under their rules in regards to kissing, holding hands, and sex. Assure them that you’re responsible enough to make the right decisions, and ask them any questions you might have. Don’t rely on TV, the internet, or friends for advice around this because the advice they give can often be inaccurate or misguided.You can say “I know you’re worried about me getting physical with someone, but I’m way too young for that and I think it’s gross. I just like this person and want to spend time with them.”
If you talk to your parents about physical boundaries and show that you agree with them, they may allow you to date.
Don’t just talk about sticking to the rules, make it a point to prove it to them through actions over time.
 If your parents think that dating someone will occupy too much of your time and take your focus off studies, then make sure to have an in depth conversation with them about setting limits. Stick to the limitations you set yourself by getting off the phone early, or only agreeing to go on one date a week. If your parents say “I don’t want you dating because it’ll take too much time from your studies,” respond by saying “I have some free social time each week, and I’ll make sure not to monopolize my time with this person. I just want to go out and have a good time, but my responsibilities and school is my top priority.”


You can start by setting limits on how much you talk or socialize with your friends to prove to your parents that you can do it.
Remember to discuss this with the person you’re dating as well.
 Your parents may not like the idea of you being out late, and this could be a reason why they prevent you from dating. Instead of going on a date later in the night, try asking them if it’s okay that you go to the park or museum during the day.


It’s easier to go on daytime dates during the weekend, when you don't have school.
Other daytime date ideas include the mall, a matinee, a hike, or a trip to a community garden.
 Going to a public place for your date is not only more fun, but it will ease parental concerns about intimacy between you and your date. If your parents are restricting you from dating because you’ll be alone with the person, reassure them by telling them you’re going to a public place and won’t have time or space to be alone.


If your parents say “I don’t want you alone with them,” you can respond by saying “We will be in a public place the entire time, and won’t have to be alone in a room unsupervised. I’m just trying to have fun with this person, not be physical.”
Being alone with your date in their room or house unsupervised may bring up concerns about sex.
A music concert, a play, or amusement park are a ton of fun and in public places.
 Hanging out with a bunch of friends doesn’t seem as serious as an exclusive date, but you’ll still have the opportunity to spend time with the person you like.


You can all go to the movies, a restaurant to eat, or to the bowling alley.
Going out with friends you’ve made in the past will make your parents feel more comfortable.
 Although it may be tedious and embarrassing, this is a good way to compromise with your parents. Once they start letting you go on dates, you can have a conversation about limiting the texting.


Say “I want to go on a date, but I promise to keep you informed and in the loop so you know everything is okay.”
The more that you go out without parental supervision, the more that they will trust that you can handle yourself.
 Some parents don’t like the idea of their child in the car with an inexperienced driver.Other parents may not believe that you’re telling the truth about your destination, so they will prevent you from catching a ride with your friend. A great way to get around this is to have them drive you and pick you up on the date.


Allowing your parents to drive you will ease their mind about where you’re going, or what you’re doing.
If your parents can’t or won’t drive, ask them if it’s okay for another parent to drive you.

