 This is the John F. Kennedy accent that is so famous. It’s the elite version of the Boston accent. It’s a very different Boston accent from, say, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck in “Good Will Hunting.”


Obviously, Kennedy is the gold standard for Brahmin dialects. To master it, why not watch some of his old speeches on You Tube? For example, you can find his opening statement in the 1960 presidential debate online. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry is another politician who speaks with a Brahmin accent.
If trying to speak in a Boston Brahmin accent, use the Boston English, but with a British tone.
Some people think the Boston Brahmin accent is harder to find these days. It’s the upper-crust accent more associated with English immigration. Brahmin accents are more likely to put the emphasis on a back vowel not a front or center vowel. For example, Harvard is pronounced "Hahvid." , Blue-collar Boston accents can change slightly depending on the specific working class neighborhood they derive from.


Speak in a Southie Boston dialect. The South Boston dialect is sometimes called “Southie.” Southie is the dialect used in working class Boston areas that were made up of Irish, Italian and other immigrant groups.
Some blue-collar Bostonians replace "r" with "v." For example, the word brains becomes “bvains.”
An example of a Southie accent would be Ben Affleck’s role in the movie, the Town. This accent is closest to the stereotypical Irish accent, and is most heavily influenced by the Irish.
The north end and east end dialects have some Italian immigrant influence.
 To learn a Boston accent, strike up conversations with real Bostonians or watch videos of real Bostonians speaking. Observe how they speak. If you listen to a lot of people speaking with a real Boston accent, it will be easier to pick up.


You can also look up “Boston to English” dictionaries online that will translate common words into different dialects used in Boston. Study people who speak who have the strongest accents possible. It's easier to learn it that way. Finding a native speaker of the accent and speaking with them in person is the best yet. So go to Boston. Don't just listen to them talk, either. Study their facial movements when they talk and try to mimic them by looking into a mirror while you speak.
You could hire a voice coach. They will have you listen to a native speaker, and then they will record you saying the same words. Or, they will ask you to answer questions. Then, the conversation will be more natural.
There are many You Tube videos that describe how to speak a Boston accent. One of the best ways to learn how to do it is to watch the locals speaking in their natural habitat, such as a city council member talking at a meeting. You can find books with CDS that will teach you how to speak different Boston accents, such as Southie. 