 Appropriate is actually referring to whatever makes you feel the most comfortable. Whether it’s a bikini or a one-piece; choose a suit, which you feel comfortable wearing.


You don’t want to spend the entire pool party tugging at your suit or trying to find a place to hide in embarrassment, so choose a style of suit that makes you feel confident.
A swimsuit can also serve as your statement piece, so pick a design that says something about you.For example, if you love animal print, choose a leopard bikini. If you're a bit of a hippy at heart, try something with fringe. There are many ways you can express yourself through your swimsuit, so have fun with it.
Keep in mind that the suit should also align with the type of pool party. For example, if there are kids at the event, you may want to reconsider wearing an extremely revealing suit.;
, Tennis shoes probably aren’t the best choice for a pool party, as they could get wet.Opt for a pair of sandals instead.


Shoes that have a good grip are preferable. You don't want to be slipping and sliding around the pool as you socialize.
Avoid wearing wedges. They may look cute, but they aren’t practical for a pool party. Platform sandals may work better as they are sturdier and slip on and off easier.A strappy sandal with a low heel is always a good choice, as they are fairly easy to get on and off and can add a lot to your style. For example, if you're keeping it fairly basic with a black suit and sundress, try wearing a pair of strappy sandals with rhinestone embellishments.
 Layers can help set you apart, keep you warm as the sun sets and cover areas that you feel self-conscious about. Make sure the layers are lightweight though, so that they can be removed easily and dry quickly.Try wearing a floral sarong or a maxi dress over your swimsuit. For a more casual look, consider a bright, lightweight t-shirt or tank top with shorts.
Kaftan's are particularly popular right now. Choose one that is see through and can be worn like a jacket, with an opening in the front, for a more chic look.
Bright colors and bold patterns are a safe bet for pool parties, while dark colors and jeans should be avoided.

