 If your cat obsessively grooms, she will groom to the point of damaging her coat. Her barbed tongue breaks the hair shafts, causing her to swallow healthy hair that has been barbered and broken off in addition to the loose fur.Check your cat for bald patches. Typically affected areas include the tummy, the back of the hind legs, and the flanks. You should not be able to see the skin, so if these areas lack fur and you can see the skin, the cat is likely to be obsessive-compulsive about grooming.
 One of the reasons your cat may obsessively groom is due to fleas.This is because some cats are over sensitive to flea bites and have an allergic reaction to the presence of flea saliva. This creates an intense itch sensation on the skin, which triggers the grooming behavior. If you find fleas, apply an appropriate flea treatment (such as Frontline) as directed.


These treatments often last for a month or more. You should apply to all pets in the house that can harbor fleas to prevent the resurgence of fleas after the treatment application.
 Some cats obsessively groom due to simple boredom. Try engaging your cat with more playtime than usual and some new toys. Anytime you notice your cat grooming for excessive periods of time, distract her from the behavior with playtime., Just like humans, cats can have allergies that lead to itchiness and therefore excessive grooming. Allergies can range from pollen allergies to food allergies.If your cat obsessively licks her back or abdomen, allergies have a higher chance of being the culprit.See your veterinarian and discuss the symptoms.


Your veterinarian may place your cat on a monitored hypoallergenic diet to test for a food allergy. Follow your vet’s instructions to ensure that your cat maintains a well-balanced diet.
 Some cats over groom because of stress.Anything from stray cats in the yard to moving to the arrival of a new pet or baby can cause stress in your cat. Give your cat time to adjust, and try using a synthetic feline pheromones (such as Feliway), which can have a calming effect.
 Obsessive grooming can also be the result of medical conditions such as neurological disorders.If other steps haven’t stopped your cat from over grooming, then you should see your veterinarian to rule out more serious conditions.


If your cat has episodes of retching without producing the hairball, then you should also seek assistance from your vet. This can be a sign that a hairball has past into your cat’s intestine—which can create a dangerous blockage—or it can also be a sign of a respiratory ailment such as asthma.