 It is important to actually do the writing every day. It is most effective if you set aside at least twenty minutes a day.The habit of journaling will allow you to process your thoughts, emotions, and goals., You don’t need to be a literary genius to write a journal, just let your consciousness flow onto the page. Do not worry about grammar, spelling or what other people think. Just let your thoughts flow onto the page., If you feel stuck, try writing all of your thoughts and emotions down on the page as quickly as possible. This can help to remove some inhibitions., Sometimes it helps to choose a theme to focus on for a period, whether it is a week or a month. This can help keep you motivated in your journaling. It allows you to go deeper into a particular part of your life.For instance, you might choose to write on the topic of family, relationships, or marriage. Choose a theme that allows you to dig into a part of your life that you are trying to figure out.Journaling can also be a great way of working through depression. It can allow you to see your thoughts and feelings in a different light., Typically, a diary will record events and things that happen in your life. It is great to record the events in your life. Yet, a journal can go beyond simple recording what happened. It can be a space for you to reflect on your reactions and perceptions of the events in your life. Try to dig deeper into why (e.g., why did I react this way?) and how (e.g., how did I respond in that situation?) questions in your journal., The journal is a form of self reflection so you don’t need to worry about editing for spelling and grammar., When you start a new journal, leave two pages blank at the beginning of your journal. When you finish your journal, write a table of contents on these pages. Review your journal to find significant moments that you will want to review later. Write down these moments with a page number in your table of contents. This will help you find goals and events that you might want to review at a later point in life., The diary is a means of wrapping up a day. Whatever your degree of success or failure on that particular day can be summarized and put to rest in your diary. Once you have finished your diary entry for the day you are free to close the book on the day and move forward to tomorrow.

