 Many parents choose to homeschool, but not all parents provide the instruction. Other instructional options include online schools that meet through video conference, private tutors who will visit your home, or online tutors who will meet and correspond with your child on a regular basis.Think about your lifestyle and your willingness to teach your child to determine if you want to provide instruction or if you want to hire someone to instruct your child.
For example, if you work from home or take care of small children during the day, then it might be difficult or even impossible for you to provide instruction to one of your children as well.
Even if you are going to do most of the teaching, you might also consider having some special guests come and talk with your kids now and then. For example, you might invite a local farmer, religious leader, or member of local politics to come to your home and talk to your kids about their profession.
 Unless you have a background in education, the idea of planning curriculum can be daunting. However, there are many pre-packaged curriculum materials that you can purchase or find for free online. Look into different types of pre-packaged curriculum to see if they might work for your child.For example, if your child has a strong interest in geology and you want to encourage that interest, then you might seek out pre-packaged curriculum that includes several lessons on that subject.
The cost of pre-packaged curriculum varies. Some packages may include a full year of lessons and cost anywhere from $500 to $1,050.However, you can find free materials from sites like Edsitement, Khan Academy, and the Free Federal Teaching Resources website., If you have a background in education or you are knowledgeable about designing curriculum, then you may consider designing your child’s curriculum yourself. You can use online resources to help you determine what to include in a lesson plan or use textbooks to help guide what you teach your child.Try basing your lessons on pre-packaged lesson plans to help you get the hang of designing curriculum. For example, you might use a pre-packaged math lesson on subtraction to help you design a lesson that focuses on a multiplication.
You can also combine pre-packaged lesson plans with lessons that you design yourself. For example, you might use 50% pre-packaged plans and 50% plans that you designed on your own.
 You may already have a good idea about how your child learns and what works best for your child. Maybe he or she is a visual learner and needs to see pictures and videos to understand something. Or perhaps your child has a kinesthetic learning style and he or she has to have a hands on experience with a concept to grasp it. Just keep in mind that what works for someone else’s child may not work for your child. Be open and willing to change the program if something is not working for your child.For example, you might have a friend whose child really loves a specific type of lesson plan or activity, but your child might not respond in the same way. Keep careful notes on what works and what does not work for your child.

