 I will!" and begin to go into action, a little or a lot. You may pray, be mindful, be very aware or think-hard on an idea. Starting and succeeding are not destinations, but represent continuous processes. Be committed to your calling; not arrogant, not easily put off, nor too angry. Keeping the peace and showing tender kindness can bring gratitude and appreciation to brighten your day. Do what you feel "called" to do, new or old. Don't jump out of a calling into a mismatch.;
, Nobody else knows your dreams nor can they; talk to someone for inspiration and clues but not their answers; look for something; read up on your subject; find events that make you think happy thoughts; laugh.



Fan the spark inside yourself in play or work, building an inner-fire including dedication, happiness, joy to get others interested and inspired for a cause, helping each other working, performing at optimal levels.


Overcome doubts and embarrassment by standing-up, being brave even using fear and "stage-fright" in everyday life to kick up your flame. For instance, be cool/or warm and outgoing with enthusiasm, showing tender, loving care and kindness, with courage in the face of danger.
 Never settle for being lax or sitting on your assets. The way you do this one thing may become the way you do everything, providing for some progress every day.



Live the appropriate attitude/beatitude (for your moment in its place). Always pressing forward toward your higher calling makes a big difference!

, Write them down. Put your immediate goals into action as soon as possible. Plan your greater vision ("your hopes/and dreams"). Start making your future clearer -- with at least the three kinds of goals. Long term goals may be sketchy, so try to get clarity, using realist shorter term goals that need to be leading you to an outcome, somewhere:


Short term goals include the basics such as schooling -- much of this can work for many possibilities: Up close/hopefully within reach.
Intermediate goals are for leading into your vision -- continue to do useful objectives, fine tune them -- out in the midstream, out of school often unless your field requires doctorate degrees.
Long term goals -- being reached by the previous goals being fulfilled, maturing your dreams. Long distance out (your ultimate goals).
 Expand a venture creatively, financially (perhaps career wise), spiritually, and physically, travel or work abroad (with a charity or in your occupation).

Change your dullness to brightness; try "smiling" -- showing reasonable levels of enthusiasm and dedication. Sure, expressions of your personality can change, hopefully for the better, from frowns to "happy faces" sometimes, remembering: "It won't rain nor be clear weather always."

Build mutual appreciation with winners -- being proactive with all who try, who care. Have one-an-others backs, preferring good efforts -- and wanting each to win their "events", whether in business or other just causes. Get involved in career learning; career activities, knowledge and the truth. Choose what to read, and study more while getting/giving help; learn to do (and) be better at your chosen subject.
 "I never had a talent!" -- No?! Talent involves (or is) work. Practice/or study 5 or 50 hours? No! more, say: 500 hours, if it takes that! Do something positive with your knowledge and talent now and as time passes.



Build a repertoire (or a portfolio). Get a certification, or a degree, if you should and can!

, A trade opens doors. Training and skills opens doors, and that hard earned talent can too.



Use other peoples money (OPM) to buy a business or rental building with little or no money (down payment) -- but use skill, talent and "sweat" (painting-up and fixing-up the property) as your down payment -- with a motivated seller, perhaps retiring or sick or tired. Borrow? How about getting financing by the owner/seller.

Be an entrepreneur: If you fail, the experience you receive can be valuable later. Life is a series of small successes and failures, among glimpses and gasps of greater progress/success. So start an enterprise, and fail or succeed, ultimately you win, by keeping on with your life.

Buy and hold income property; then the renters buy it/pay-it-off for you over the years! Get another one as often as you can! You could sell one that you fixed up for "sweat equity", and use that money to buy two or three more of the fixer-uppers. Understand leveraging your money using small down payments (as leverage) to control (acquire) a $300,000 property, for example:


Put only $1000 down (some people find a deal for nothing down), and if the property goes up in value $30,000 you show $29,000 gain on paper, where each $1000 increase is another 100% gain (less the expenses of the fix-up), if you sold it.

Or, put 10% down, investing $30,000. If the house goes up in value by $60,000, you could make $30,000 gain (before interest, taxes and expenses). That's 20% increase in the value, but your return on investment was 100%.

Consider a nose-dive in the house value by $60,000, so then you see a paper loss (don't panic -- but hold on, wait; let rents pay for it, if possible). If you sold out you would owe $30,000 to the bank to pay off what you’re short on the mortgage and lose your down payment, as well -- realizing the investment declined in value by 20%, and you’re now "underwater" by 100% more than you invested, with a loss of 2X of what you invested to begin with.
 Get the right price on property and fixed rate interest on any financing (caution: if interest rates are high, but expected to go down, then be sure you can pay early later without a penalty, with the financing having a "pay on or before" clause, to be able to refinance later at better rates).



Keep the costs low with rents high enough for the income you get from the business to pay all its expenses, including the mortgage, taxes, insurance, maintenance, repairs and a contingency fund. (Yes, it's possible!) Enough rent income can make money for you whether house prices go up or down, on fixed rate financing -- but, of course, taxes may rise from year to year.

Listen to money talk -- as a wise man said, "Money answers all things!" (Solomon). Earn money. Save some. Caution: How many times have you heard some say: 'If I had his money I'd do things my way' -- yet, money can't buy back a love that's grown cold or buy back your youth when you get old.
 Measure rightly. Like: "Do to others as you'd want them to do to you" called going by The Golden Rule.



Keep/Get good credit. Establish/Reestablish it, starting small. Always pay; pay early.

Refuse to over borrow or over loan, or to overcharge or over collect. Honesty pays you!

Keep on schedule -- "Late everyday/everywhere: late to bed; late to get up; late to work and late to finish"? -- No! Be where you said -- when you should.


Do your deals on time. Be prompt. -- "Time to start on time."

Conquer procrastination: Begin today; that's not for "some day". It's decide and go, right away.
 Do you have negative "tapes" from years ago that you play over and over, in your mind, thinking "Why did I (or didn't I) do that?" -- if so: Let it go, by reflecting how it has made you who you are today, okay, then forget it. Think of something else to get your mind off it. You don't need that unnecessary "baggage" when you start, being and becoming who you may be today!

