 Pull all four eights from the deck. With the deck face down, put one eight on the top of the stack. Place the second eight in the tenth position (that is, count nine cards down, including the top eight).









Turn the deck over and count seven cards. Place the final two eights in the eighth and ninth positions. Turn the deck back over. Now you’re ready to go.
 Make a big show while fingering through the deck and telling the crowd that you’ll be making a prediction.


Fan through the deck once or twice while talking to the audience, then restack the deck.
Start fanning cards from one hand the the other, secretly counting to ten. Don’t look at the cards — look at the audience and keep talking. When you get to the tenth card, place your index finger underneath and continue fanning out the deck.
Pull out the tenth card (one of the eights) and place it face down on the table. Tell them this is your prediction card.
 Tell the audience you will be counting through the cards. Pass beyond the two eights in the eighth and ninth positions before telling an audience member “Now you can tell me when to stop.”








, Place them face down on the table. Place the bottom half of the deck (where the eights are in the eighth and ninth positions) to the right, and the top half of the deck (with the eight on top) to the left.
 This will be the eight you placed originally. Look at this card and identify it: “Look, it’s the eight of .”









Then, tell the audience that the eight indicates how many cards you should take from the deck on the right

, Keep the deck face down. Place these cards in a third pile. Put the third pile on the table (along with the pile that was on the left). Keep the other pile in your hand, face down.









Make sure the audience is following. Count out loud “One, two, three, …” as you create the new pile. Remind them that you now have three piles and that one eight is visible.
 Turn over the top card of the pile you just put on the table. It will be an eight. Place it on the table next to the first revealed eight.









Then, turn over the pile in your hand and reveal another eight. Place it on the table with the other two.
Finally, after building up a bit of anticipation, dramatically flip over your prediction card (which has been on the table face down this whole time). Or, have a spectator make the flip.
Expect to see some priceless reactions; this trick fools a lot of people!

