 The Fair Credit Reporting Act not only allows you to dispute an inaccuracy on your credit report with the credit reporting agency reporting it. You also have the right to contact the company responsible for providing the data.


Under federal law, the company must conduct a reasonable investigation of the dispute. The company cannot ask you to pay a fee for this.
If the company's investigation reveals that the information is in error, it must not only correct the information but also notify all companies where it provided the information of the inaccuracy and supply the correct information., Your letter should include your name and address at the top, along with the date you're sending the letter. Also include the name and address of the company to which you're sending the letter, as you would on any business letter., In the body of your letter, state specifically each piece of information you believe was reported inaccurately, along with any additional information.


You should state you saw the information on your Experian credit report; however, if you've seen the inaccuracy repeated on other credit reports tell the company that as well.
If possible, include a copy of your credit report with the inaccurate information marked.
Explain why you believe this information to be inaccurate. For example, if this credit card company claims you missed four monthly payments in a row, but you have receipts for each of those four months as well as bank statements or cancelled checks showing the payments were made, mention those facts., To return to the previous example, you would include copies of the receipts as well as your bank statements or cancelled checks., Once you've completed and signed your letter, make at least two copies of everything you plan to send to the company to keep for your records., If the company has an address listed on your Experian credit report, mail your letter to that address; otherwise, call the company and ask for the correct address where you should send your letter.Mail your letter using certified mail, "return receipt requested," so you know when the company received your dispute.Companies generally have 30 days after receiving notification of a dispute to investigate the disputed items., After the company has completed its investigation, it should mail you a response with a summary of the results of the investigation and the steps that are being taken to correct the inaccurate data, if inaccuracies were confirmed.