 Loving your puppy involves feeding him a healthy and balanced diet. Veterinarians and trainers recommend dry kibble for puppies.Canned food is 80 to 85% and is high in fat.Semi-moist food is about 50% water, but usually contains sugar or salt as preservatives.Remember that not all dry food is created equal. Lower-quality dog foods will use cheap ingredients and will have a protein source that is low in digestibility, which could cause digestive problems in your puppy.High-quality dog food will have high-quality ingredients and better digestibility. The more easily your puppy can digest the food, the less he will have to eat and the less waste he will produce.Every puppy is different, so talk with your veterinarian about which dry dog food is best for your puppy., It may be hard to love your puppy if she develops diarrhea soon after you bring her home. To prevent this, keep her on the same food and eating schedule that she was used to from where you purchased her. After several days of this, transition her to the new food over a period of seven to 10 days.For the first few days, the percentage of new food/old food should be 25%/75%. For several days each, increase the percentage to 50%/50%, 75%/25%, and then 100% new food.Slow the transition rate if your puppy experiences digestive upset (vomiting, diarrhea, constipation)., Feeding your puppy table scraps is a way to overindulge him — not a good way to show love. You may inadvertently teach him to beg for food, which is a bad habit. In addition, table scraps have very little nutritional value to your puppy, and could even cause digestive upset.Once your puppy gets a taste for table scraps, he will probably always want them. Because of this, it may be very difficult to stop feeding your puppy table scraps once you start., When you puppy has a set feeding time, it will be easier for her to go to the bathroom on a schedule. This will make house training easier. Depending on your puppy’s age, she will need to eat several times a day (three times if less than six months, twice daily if older than six months).Let your puppy rest for about an hour to an hour and a half after eating (other than taking her outside). This will help prevent digestive upset from physical activity., You may think your puppy is not eating enough, or needs to eat more to help him grow. However, overfeeding him (including forcing him to eat more) can cause him to grow too quickly and develop bone and joint problems.Talk with your veterinarian if you think your puppy is not eating enough.


Although the bag of food can provide helpful feeding instructions, it is best to talk with your veterinarian about how much to feed your puppy to ensure optimal health and growth., Your puppy will love getting treats from you. Treats are also very helpful when training your puppy. Outside of training purposes, you should limit your puppy’s treat intake to about 10% of her daily caloric intake.


Hard treats are good for puppies. They help satisfy her need to chew on something, keep her teeth clean, and can keep her happily entertained.