 To use Pandora, you can listen without an account, but it won't store any of your music the next time you visit it, so it's helpful to create an account so you can save stations.


With Pandora you can also choose between a free account and a paid account. The paid account essentially allows you to listen to music without commercials or advertisements.
 One way to discover new music on Pandora is by creating new stations and liking or disliking certain songs as they play. You can create a station based on an artist or track, and then Pandora will play music similar to that artist or track.
 As you listen to music, the best way to discover new music is by personalizing your station. When a song comes on that you like, click the "thumbs-up" icon at the top of the screen and when you dislike a song click the "thumbs-down" icon. This will help Pandora play songs that are more suited to your taste.


Each time a new song plays, Pandora will also show similar artists to that song. As you are listening to music, you may discover some new artists or songs by clicking on one of those similar artists.
After you have listened to a station you can also go back to that station and edit the artists and tracks you have liked or disliked. On the left side of the screen where your stations are displayed, you can click on the "Options" button underneath a station. Then click on "Station Details," and you'll be brought to a page that shows your thumbed-up and thumbed-down tracks. If you are tired of certain songs or want more variety you can delete some of those tracks so that the variety of music played on that station will be broader.
 In Pandora you can also browse playlists and genres that Pandora has already created. In the top left corner, click in the search bar. A white box that gives you instructions should come up as well as a link within that box that says "Browse Genres." Click on that link to view the different genres and stations.


Pandora has a number of stations within each genre, suited for the type of music you are interested in or the mood your are feeling. You can view their top stations, for music that is popular, or you can visit their other categories that consist of a number of genres with different stations within the genres.
There are certain categories that aren't necessarily a genre like "Classical," but are more of a mood, like "Dinner/Cooking," "Studying," and "Workout." Within these categories you have different stations that Pandora has created. For example, within "Dinner/Cooking" there are different stations like "Hipster Cocktail Party," "Laid Back Brunch," Funny Feast Comedy," all with songs that are suited for that type of meal.

