 If you are going to send money to an overseas bank account there can be significant charges and costs. These include the explicit fees as well as the more subtle costs levied on you through the use of uncompetitive exchange rates. Unless you are prepared to shop around and open a new bank account, there is not much you can do about these fees but you should make yourself aware of them.


Be wary of special fee deals. It is possible that the money you might save is being made up through the exchange rate you are offered.As with domestic transfers, you can usually get the money to the recipient more quickly by paying extra fees., If you are sending money abroad you will need all the details on the recipient and the receiving bank account that you would for a domestic transfer. International transfers, however, also require the Bank Identifier Code (BIC), sometimes called the SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications) code.


This code is also sometimes referred to as the International Bank Account Number (IBAN).
You will need these codes and numbers from your own account as well as from the receiving account., If you haven't made a transfer to a foreign account before, the best thing to do is to go into your branch and they will take you through the procedure. This way you can learn the process and what information you need for any future international transfers. The staff will guide you through the process.If you discover that you don't know your SWIFT number, your bank will able to find it and tell you how you can identify it on your statements or through online banking in the future.
Dealing with people face-to-face can make things much easier and clearer, especially if you are uncertain about some of the terms and language used.
 You may also be able to send money to a foreign account through your regular online banking. Log into your account and go to the transfer money section. Look to see if there is an option to send money abroad. If so, it will show you what information you need about the recipient bank account to go ahead with the transfer. Check this first and be sure you have all the necessary details.


The amount you want to transfer, and the speed at which you want it to arrive will affect the transfer options you have, as well as any charges you may face., As well as your bank, there are numerous companies that specialise in sending money across borders, such as Western Union. These can be a quick way to send money that doesn't require you to have a formal account. These services can also be expensive, and you will not necessarily get the same guarantees and protections as you would with a bank.


These companies are typically regulated differently from high-streets banks, and as such your money might be less safe if it were held by a company which then went into financial difficulty.Be sure to research any money sending services before using them, checking they are reputable and registered with your national financial service regulators.
You can also use an intermediary service such as PayPal.

