 Often, its is best to start with a breeder style habitat, so you can monitor its feces, eating, drinking, and shedding. Later on, the gecko can be placed in a proper display habitat.
 This is important for a leopard gecko in captivity, because they can't go down into a nice moist burrow. Place some type of leopard "gecko sized" tupperware or tub that is nontoxic and capable of holding humidity in the habitat. Simply wet down some paper towel inside the little box and allow an opening that the gecko can go in and out of. This very important step, will remove stuck shed effectively, and prevent the gecko losing its toes due to a very dry habitat!

, If the gecko was on a substrate such as: ground walnut shells, sand, or some sharp, small, substrate, the gecko may have impaction or eye damage! Carefully rinse the eye with slightly warm, clean, and distilled water to prevent chlorine or other unwanted chemicals from entering the eyes.
 If the gecko has bad eyesight or is now blind and won't eat, the innards of a food item may get them hunting. If that's to gross (you can try using a little bit of chicken), rub that juiciness on their snout and around the mouth; the gecko may back up. But when you stop, the gecko should start cleaning its mouth and a feeding reaction hopefully will be triggered! This technique is used to start hatchlings that won't eat after about a week.
 This can be found at a regular pet store, or purchased online; regardless, it is necessary to make sure that reptiles have access to calcium,. Their food is not wild so this is a responsibility that should not be taken lightly. Make sure the food is suited to their nutritional needs. Without calcium, metabolic bone disorder (MBD) will begin setting in; not much can be done at home for a broken gecko bone, but providing plenty of calcium supplementation can prevent the bone from becoming broken, fractured, rubbery, weak, swollen, limp, or downright painful!

, The best thing to do, is provide the animal with the best care possible and have patience while waiting for the gecko to complete its healing process; don't try playing with it during that time.

