 Baking soda can be used to alleviate the pain of insect bites and poison ivy.


Create a paste out of baking soda and water, and rub it on the bites. Baking soda will relieve minor skin irritation and itching.Baking soda also neutralizes sunburn. Add ½ cup of baking soda to slightly warm bathwater.
You can also use baking soda to neutralize stomach acid, thus relieving ailments like indigestion, heartburn and ulcer pain. Only use it as an occasional treatment, and check with a doctor first.
Dissolve ½ teaspoon in half a glass of water, and take it every two hours. Do not take more than three ½ teaspoons of the mixture if you’re over 50 or more than seven ½ teaspoons in 24 hours.
 Baking powder has cleansing properties for your skin, not just your appliances!


You can create a relaxing bath to soak in using baking soda and apple cider.
Soak your feet in baking soda and exfoliate them by adding three tablespoons of baking soda to a tub of warm water.
Cleanse your hands by mixing three parts of baking soda with one part of water. This creates a natural hand cleanser to rub away dirt.
 Baking soda can be used in place of toothpaste to clean and deodorize your teeth.


Mix 1 teaspoon of baking soda with a few drops of hydrogen peroxide to form a natural toothpaste. The hydrogen peroxide will activate the baking soda.
Some toothpastes contain baking soda. Some studies have found those toothpastes are more successful at removing plaque because the baking soda has a mild abrasiveness. Mix six parts of baking soda to one part of sea salt and turn this into a tooth and gum paste by mixing in a blender for 30 seconds.
Baking soda can also help whiten your teeth. Crush one strawberry together with ½ teaspoon of baking soda. Put the paste on your teeth, and leave for five minutes. Only do this once a week so you don’t damage your teeth enamel., Baking soda can be used as a natural deodorant, and combining it with shampoo can add shine to your hair.


Combine 4 tablespoons (59.1 ml) of baking soda with 10 drops of essential oil to form a natural deodorant. Mix 4 tablespoons of baking soda with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of olive oil to create an exfoliating scrub.
The baking soda will react with acidic sweat or skin oils chemically and neutralize odors.
You can also put baking soda in your shampoo to increase shine.A quarter-size amount is all you need in a single shampoo.
 Once combined with baking soda, vinegar becomes a powerful cleaning agent.


Wet the sink. Place baking soda around the sink and then scrub it. Now, line the sink with vinegar-soaked paper towels. Let them sit for 20 minutes.You can also clean kitchen faucets (or silverware) by using the same process.
To make a homemade cleaner for a bathroom, add 1 2/3 cups of baking soda, ½ cup liquid soap, ½ cup water, and 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) white vinegar.
 A mixture of baking soda and vinegar can also be used to clean drains.


Pour a pot of boiling hot water down the drain, and then pour in ½ cup baking soda. Let it sit.
Now, pour 1 cup vinegar and 1 cup very hot water down the drain. Cover it with a drain plug. Let it sit for 5 to 10 minutes. The vinegar’s chemical reaction should dislodge the grime in the plugged drain loose. Finally, put another pot of hot water down the drain.To make a soda-vinegar cleaning solution for hard water, combine 1 cup of vinegar with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of baking soda. Mix them together in a pot. When the mixture stops foaming, pour it into a bottle., Only do this with great care! To make a bottle rocket, you can use vinegar and baking soda.


Take a piece of paper, and put baking soda on it. Wrap it up tight, and roll the ends tight. Pour vinegar into an empty plastic bottle. Put the baking soda paper roll inside the bottle. Now cork the bottle, shake it and put it on the ground.
The chemical reaction between the baking soda and vinegar should send the bottle soaring off the ground. The reaction releases gas and turns the baking soda into water and carbon dioxide.Make a baking soda volcano by pouring vinegar into baking soda you embed in a snow volcano outside. See how long it takes to overflow.