 Fruits and vegetables contain a number of antioxidants that promote better health in general, and are also high in fiber, which studies have shown can contribute to better blood sugar management., According to Harvard University Health Services, one-half cup (118 ml) of beans will provide you with one-third of your daily fiber requirement. Beans will also slow down the digestion process, and help stabilize blood sugar levels following meals., Fat-free milk and yogurt are rich in calcium and vitamin D, which have been shown to contribute to better blood sugar management and weight loss, the latter of which can help improve most cases of type 2 diabetes.
 Most nuts and fatty fish including tuna, mackerel, and salmon contain omega-3 fatty acids that will help lower insulin resistance, regulate blood sugar levels, and contribute to better heart health. Nuts can also benefit type 2 diabetics who are trying to lower their cholesterol levels.
 Although cinnamon is generally associated with sweets and desserts, research has shown that consuming one-half tsp. (2 ml) cinnamon per day can improve insulin resistance.


Add cinnamon to tea, or sprinkle over fruits, vegetables, and lean meats to increase your daily cinnamon intake without eating more desserts and high-fat snacks.
 Sweets and junk foods such as candy bars, cakes, potato chips, and fried foods will cause your blood sugar levels to spike, which can impact your overall A1C levels.


Snack on foods that contain natural sugars such as fruits, berries, and low-fat cheeses to satisfy any sweet-tooth and dessert cravings. These types of foods all contain natural sugars that will enter your bloodstream at a much slower pace than foods that contain processed sugars and ingredients., Studies have shown that those who drink water throughout the day are able to stave off dehydration, which may lead to high blood sugar levels and higher A1C levels. Sodas, energy drinks, fruit drinks, and other types of sugary drinks will result in higher blood sugar levels and weight gain.

