 There are many colon-cleansing supplements on the market today. Some are designed to help to flush the colon of impurities, while others are made to support your organs in the act of detoxification. Before you take any of these supplements, you should consult with your doctor to make sure these products are safe for you.
 Laxatives are products that stimulate your colon to work faster and to empty its contents. Take great caution with laxatives, because they can cause uncomfortable cramping and diarrhea if taken in high doses. They can also cause other side effects such as belching, bloating, gas, or stomach cramps. Try brands such as Milk of Magnesia, Miralax, or Dulcolax.


If you use laxatives on a long-term basis, your colon will actually become dependent on them, so make sure to use them only for a few days a time.If you want a more natural laxative, a gentle laxative tea is usually sufficient during a colon cleanse. Step one to two tea bags of Yogi Tea Soothing Mint Get Regular Tea in hot water for five to 10 minutes. Drink the tea at night. Six to eight hours later you should have a normal bowel movement., In addition to fiber-rich foods, supplements that contain fiber bind toxins and help the colon excrete them. Add two tablespoons per day of rice bran, psyllium, or oat bran fiber. An easy way to consume fiber is to add it directly to smoothies or oatmeal.


Make sure to drink lots of water when you are adding fiber supplements. Otherwise, fiber can cause constipation or intestinal obstruction.
You can also take dissolvable fiber supplements, such as Benefiber and Metamucil., Magnesium gently draws water into your colon and has a natural laxative effect. Unlike herbal or over-the-counter laxatives, magnesium is non-addicting and will not cause dependence when used long-term.


Take 300 to 600 mg of magnesium citrate per day. Make sure not to exceed 900 mg per day because excessive magnesium can cause health issues.
You can also buy liquid magnesium citrate and drink it instead of using a supplement. Make sure the amount in the drink does not exceed 900 mg of magnesium a day., N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) is a precursor to glutathione, which is one of the major detoxifying substances in the body. It is found in many natural foods such as some yogurt and protein rich poultry, but it can also be taken as a supplement when you are detoxing your colon. When you supplement with NAC, your body turns it into glutathione that can be used to help you detox more quickly and effectively.


Take 500 to 1500mg of NAC per day in capsule form during a cleanse. You can buy these supplements in health stores or pharmacies.

