 If you’re a big consumer of salty foods, this might be contributing to the bags under your eyes. The seasoning causes fluid retention, and the delicate skin around your eyes is very vulnerable. Eating a lot of salt can make your eyes look puffy and swollen.Take notice of when the bags under your eyes are at their worst. What did you eat the day before? If you polished off a large thing of salty fries with dinner and woke up with swollen eyes, you may have found the culprit.;
, When you drink alcohol, you mess with the hormone that helps our body absorb water properly. You may have noticed this if you’ve ever woken up parched after a night of drinking with big, puffy eyes. When the water in your body isn’t being absorbed like normal, it can collect in the delicate skin around your eyes, causing them to swell.If you are going to imbibe, choose shots. Because these don’t have any extra sugar or salt, you’ll minimize the effect it has on your eyes., A major reason for baggy eyes is dehydration. Think of it this way: when your body feels like it isn’t getting enough water, it will cling to the water that it does have. One place where your body will collect and hold onto water is your eyes. Start drinking more water, and you can reduce your body’s fluid retention.The recommended daily intake of water is about 13 cups (three liters) for men and nine cups (2.2 liters) for women.If you have trouble drinking that much water, try flavored water.
 When you have large bags under your eyes, lack of sleep is usually the first suspect, and for good reason. When you don’t give your body enough rest, it will start acting up. Fatigue can cause inflammation, and as you’ve learned, your eyes are easy targets. The blood vessels around your eyes dilate, and your skin looks swollen and puffy.Teens should be getting 8-10 hours of sleep nightly, adults need 7-9 hours, and older adults should get 7-8 hours., Your eyes are only one part of the body that smoking can adversely affect. Not only do cigarettes weaken and dehydrate the skin around your eyes, but it can also lower the quality of sleep you get at night.Both of these things increase your chances of getting bags under your eyes. Kick the habit and your eyes (and lungs and wallet) will thank you.
 It can be tempting to skip the face wash and crawl into bed after a long day. However, sleeping in your makeup can contribute to puffiness around your eyes. Makeup residue can clog pores, cause irritation, and make the skin around your eyes look inflamed. Use a gentle makeup remover and wash your face before bed to help reduce this problem., If you suffer with allergies, you may deal with a whole host of eye issues, from excess watering, itchiness, and redness. Allergies can cause baggy eyes both by the irritant and the consequent rubbing. Talk to your doctor about getting a prescription for your allergies, or try an over-the-counter medicine to help combat your symptoms., If you’ve fallen asleep crying after a particularly depressing movie or an argument with a significant other, you know this can make your eyes look puffy and irritated the next day.If you can, avoid the nighttime tears! Save your sad movie for another time, or do your best to hold back. If you do cry, rinse your eyes with cold water before bed to calm the inflammation.
 When skin is damaged by the sun, it loses its elasticity. This is why people often warn that excessive sun can cause premature wrinkling. When your fragile skin around your eyes loses elasticity, it can accumulate fluid and puff.Make sure when you apply sunscreen to your face, you do not neglect your delicate eye area. Purchasing sunglasses with high UV protection is also critical., Sometimes under eye bags are simply hereditary. If you utilize these tips and tricks and still have baggy eyes, it may be a natural part of the aging process. That doesn’t mean you’re stuck with them forever, though. Rinse your face with cold water every morning to reduce any extra inflammation, and then grab a great concealer to help reduce the appearance of these bags.


There are certain cosmetic surgery options that help with baggy eyes. While these are obviously more expensive and invasive, they can do wonders for genetic eye bags that just cannot be minimized.