 A big part of making a good impression on your professor, and acing your class, is showing up for every class, on time. Being present in class will ensure you do not miss any critical discussions and that you can take notes on the course materials as needed.Showing up prepared to learn means bringing your textbooks and other assigned reading materials to class as well as paper and pens. If you bring in your computer to class, make sure you have the professor’s permission to do so as some professors do not allow computers in class. Try to sit near the front so you can hear exactly what the professor is saying and be visible to the professor.
You should also review the key concepts and ideas for the class before the class begins. This could be a quick review of the class syllabus and the class readings the night before or a review of the class materials a few hours before class. This will help you better understand the professor’s lecture and be more proactive in class.;
, Though you may be hesitant to ask a question that seems obvious or dumb in class, it’s often better to take the risk and ask. This is especially important if the professor is discussing a complicated topic or a complex idea. Other students in the room may have the same questions as you but are too afraid to verbalize them. Speaking up and asking questions will show the professor you are paying attention and engaged in the subject matter. This will likely impress the professor and make you stand out among the other students.Try to ask open ended questions and don’t be afraid to ask questions that are half formed. The professor will likely be happy enough that you are showing an interest in the material and are willing to try to work through your understanding of the material.
For example, if the professor is talking about the role of philosophy in American politics, you may say, “I’m not sure if I understand what you mean. Can you give me an example of this?” Or you may say, “Can you expand on what you mean? I don’t think I quite understand.”

, Many college classes have points set aside for class participation. To maximize your points and earn high participation marks, you should push yourself to ask questions and contribute to the class discussion.You may ask open ended questions to get the discussion going in class or respond to a question posed by the professor. You may also challenge another student on their position or state a position that is contrary to the ideas of the rest of the class. Doing this will help to fuel the discussion and engage other students in the class.
 To make the most of your time in class, you should take detailed notes on the professor’s lectures so you can refer back to them in prep for any exams or to use for any assignments for the class. This will help you do well on any assignments or exams and also show the professor that you are paying attention in class.You should have all the necessary note taking materials with you in class, including, paper, pens, highlighters, and/or sticky notes. You should also focus on key words and concepts when you are taking notes to ensure you capture the most relevant information from the professor’s lecture. You can use shorthand to capture the most information and to make it easier to read through your notes later.
 Avoid disrupting class and distracting others as well as yourself. Put your cellphone away and do not refer to it during class. If you use your computer to take notes in class, do not surf the Internet or do online shopping in class. Turn off your wifi connection and only use programs for taking notes.


You should also try not to be distracting in class in other ways, such as clicking and tapping your pen on your desk or fidgeting with your notebook or textbook loudly. You should also refrain from distracting others by talking during class or while the professor is giving her lecture.

