 Kids may not understand your frustration about repeating yourself multiple times. However, keep in mind that for younger kids, repetition may be necessary to help them understand what you are saying. They may not know that this is part of what makes you irritated or annoyed with their behavior. Be calm and direct about how repeating yourself makes you feel.Sit down and talk with them about this specific expectation that you don't want to repeat yourself more than once. Ask them to repeat back what you said and the expectations so that it is clearer that they are listening.
Get them to understand your perspective that when you want or need something, it can be upsetting when it is not done. Ask them about their perspective on what you said.
 By making clear that there are consequences to their failure to listen the first time, you'll be able to better take action when they continue to ignore your requests. Be clear and consistent with the consequences, and make sure that they fit appropriately.Don't let your anger or frustration impact when or how you set consequences. Make them fair and understandable to kids.
For example, if it's time for them to get ready for bed, and they are still up watching TV. Make it clear that after you have repeated the request for them to get ready for bed twice, they will lose TV privileges for the rest of the week if they don't follow your orders.
Make sure to stick to this consequences and talk with your spouse or other children to make sure that the consequences are followed. Have a conversation with your partner about raising your kids and setting rules and expectations for them. This will help to ensure that you are both on the same page.
 When kids do follow instructions and orders, make them feel validated and reassured. Give them a clear sense that this is the expected behavior and response. Consider the following ways to reward them:Give positive feedback with words, such as "Great job!" or "Thank you for doing what I asked! You are very good at following directions."
Give them a hug and say, "Thank you."
Avoid using rewards that don't match the situation. For example, putting away toys before bed might not merit a trip to the ice cream shop, but you might reward this behavior with a bedtime story instead.

