 A floral crown is a crown of flowers you wear wrapped around your head. It has a lovely, bohemian vibe that can serve to replace your veil if you want something slightly less dressy but still retaining a feminine feel.Floral crowns can be made from real or artificial flowers, depending on your preferences.
A floral crown can easily make use of your wedding colors. For example, if your colors are pinks, you can make a crown using flowers like roses. If your colors are silver, you can try something like baby's breath.;
, If you like flowers but do not want something circling your whole head, you can try wearing flowers or flower clips in your hair. This leaves most of your head and hair exposed, which can be great if you want to show off a particular hairstyle for your big day.Real flowers have a nice, authentic touch, but may wilt throughout the day. However, a florist may be able to treat flowers to keep a fresh look for the duration of your wedding day. If you prefer, however, you can use floral hair clips instead, giving a nod to nature but using slightly more sustainable jewelry.
Flowers can be braided into the hair, tucked behind the ears, or distributed throughout the hair for a more undone look.
As with a floral crown, you can use this to highlight your wedding colors.
 If you're not into flowers, try something that uses pieces of nature like twigs. Real twigs may be difficult to embed in your hair, but you can purchase an artificially made headpiece that is designed to look like twigs. This can help give you a nature look that's slightly less feminine, if that's what you prefer.You can also go for a green crown which features things like herb springs and ivy. This is a look that reflects nature while being slightly less feminine and showy than a floral veil.
 Many headpieces or head bands use real or artificial leaves to give a nod to nature for your big day. Leaves are slightly more decorative than twigs, but not as showy as flowers. They can be a good in-between if you want a nod to nature that's neither too played down or too dressy.You can wear leaves in your hair like flowers, with them tucked behind the ears or braided in. You can also opt for a crown that uses leaves.

