 As a general rule, relatively fresh eggs are safer to use than old eggs. Do not use an egg that is past its expiration date and never use an egg that has any cracks in the shell.;
, Take the eggs you plan on using out of the refrigerator and let them sit out on your kitchen counter for 15 to 20 minutes. The shell of each egg should feel close to room temperature before you proceed any further.


Do not use chilled eggs for this procedure. The egg yolks need to reach a temperature of 138 degrees Fahrenheit (58.9 degrees Celsius) before potential bacteria will die, but cold eggs may not warm up sufficiently during the limited amount of time they can spend in the warm water used for pasteurizing. Room temperature eggs, on the other hand, have a better chance.
 Fill a small saucepan halfway with cool to cold water. Carefully place the eggs inside the water, laying them on the bottom of the saucepan in a single layer.


If necessary, add more water to the saucepan after placing the eggs inside. The eggs should be covered by about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water.
Attach an instant-read thermometer to the side of the pan. Make sure that the tip of the thermometer rests underneath the water so that it can read the temperature of the water throughout the process. You will need to monitor the temperature very closely.
Note that any instant-read thermometer will work, but a digital thermometer is probably your best bet since it allows you to read temperature fluctuations more precisely.
 Place the saucepan on the stove and heat it using a medium heat setting. Allow the water to reach a temperature of 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius).Ideally, you should not allow the temperature of the water to rise about 142 degrees Fahrenheit (61.1 degrees Celsius) during any point of the process. At higher temperatures, the consistency and properties of the egg could be altered. You may end up cooking the eggs slightly without even realizing it.
In a pinch, however, you might be able to allow the temperature to rise as high as 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65.6 degrees Celsius) without seeing significant changes in the quality of the raw egg. In particular, if you are not using a thermometer, you will need to watch the water and wait for bubbles to form on the bottom of the pan. When that happens, the temperature of the water will be about 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65.6 degrees Celsius). While this temperature is a little higher than the ideal, it can still work well enough.
 With the water temperature remaining constant at 140 degrees Fahrenheit, continue heating large eggs for a full three minutes. Extra large eggs should be kept in the hot water for five minutes.


Since the temperature of the water should never rise above 142 degrees Fahrenheit (61.1 degrees Celsius), you will need to continually monitor the temperature during this process. Adjust the temperature settings on you stove as needed to accomplish this task.
If you allowed the temperature of the water to rise to 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65.6 degrees Celsius) or if you are pasteurizing your eggs without the use of a thermometer, you should remove the pan from the heat source before allowing the eggs to sit in the hot water for three to five minutes.
 Carefully fish the eggs out of the water using a slotted spoon and rinse them under cold water until the shell drops down to room temperature or below.


Alternatively, you could place the eggs in a bowl of ice water instead of rinsing them under cool, running water. Running water is preferable since sitting water is more likely to develop bacteria, but either option will technically work.
Rinsing the eggs with cold water quickly drops the internal temperature of the egg, thereby preventing that temperature from continuing to rise or cook the egg.
 The eggs should be pasteurized at this point. You can use them right away or continue storing them in your refrigerator for another week or so.

