 Do so especially if you prefer a more hands-off approach to publishing your album. The publishing rights organizations (PROs) that operate in your country will likely have online lists of affiliated publishers, possibly searchable by the titles of songs they have published. You can also check out the liner notes of your favorite CDs and see who the publishers are.Landing a successful publisher is far from a sure thing, of course. Try to build up a network of contacts with various publishers, artists, and others in the music business, and be prepared to be turned down one or maybe many times.
 A publishing administrator performs essentially the same functions as a traditional publisher, but is a more recent creation of the digital age. If you are particularly concerned about proper royalty collection when your album is downloaded, streamed, or used online, signing up with a publishing administrator — such as TuneCore, for example — might be worth your consideration.A publishing administrator may charge a one-time fee (for example $75 U.S.) and a percentage of your royalties (perhaps 10-20%) for its services.
Make sure the publishing administrator has an existing working relationship with the PRO you are using, so that the process of collecting and distributing your royalties is streamlined.
 If you want to focus on publishing and disseminating your album through a particular online music service (such as iTunes, Google Play, etc.), you may be able to work directly with them. Once again, similar to a traditional publisher or a third-party publishing administrator, you will pay a fee and surrender a percentage of your royalties/revenues in return for having the administrative work done for you.


For example, the Google Play Artist Hub charges an initial fee and thirty percent of your revenues in return for global distribution of your album across the company’s various music platforms., Basically, if you are willing to spend the time to do the administrative work, you can become the publisher of your own album and collect one hundred percent of any royalties it earns. However, if administrative tasks are not your strong suit, or you simply prefer to focus your energies on creating and sharing your music, it may be worth the initial payments and royalty reductions to sign on with an existing publisher/administrator.

