 You can’t short-change a worker for time spent on the job. You must properly compensate for waiting time as well, so long as the waiting time is for the benefit of you (the employer).


Also work performed on the employee’s initiative is also work that must be compensated. For example, if an employee decides to stay late to finish a task, then you must compensate the time worked. If you do not want to pay extra, then you must tell the employee to stop working and go home.
There may be gray areas when considering what counts as time worked. For example, time spent putting on clothing for a job (such as a uniform) may or may not count as time worked. You should consult your lawyer if you have questions.
 An employee must be paid for any meal break unless it is a “bonafide” meal period. A bonafide meal period is at least 30 minutes long.The employee must be completely relieved of work during this period.Having an employee sit by the phone during a slow day is not a bonafide meal period, since you are expecting the employee to answer the phone during the meal break.
 You have options as to how you keep track of employee time. You can use a time clock or instead tell workers to record their time. You must record the time work started, the time it ended, and any meal break or personal break longer than 20 minutes.Whichever system you use, it must be accurate and comprehensive.


If an employee voluntarily comes into work early or leaves work late, then you do not have to compensate for this time if no work is performed.
You must also keep records for at least four years., The current federal minimum wage in the United States is $7.25 an hour.States may set their own minimum wages, which can be higher than the federal minimum. In California, for example, the minimum wage in 2016 will be $10.00 an hour.You need to check to make sure that you are paying at least your state’s minimum.


Contact your state’s Department of Labor to check to see that you are paying at least the state’s minimum wage.
As with almost all labor laws, there are exceptions to minimum wage laws. For example, workers under 20 years of age may be paid a minimum of $4.25 an hour provided that they did not displace other workers. This minimum applies only for the first 90 consecutive calendar days of employment.Visit the Department of Labor’s website for other exceptions.If you think you have employees who fit into an exception, then you should get legal advice to make sure that you are following the law.
 Generally, you must pay an employee 1.5 times their regular rate of pay for any hours worked in excess of 40. Your state law also may require overtime pay in other situations. For example, in Alaska, you must pay time and a half for any hours worked in excess of eight during a single day.For more information, see Calculate Overtime Pay.
 You must pay a final paycheck within a certain amount of time. In many states, you have to pay it quickly. For example, in Connecticut, you must give the employee a paycheck on the next business day (if the employee was fired) or on the next scheduled payday (if the employee quits). In New Mexico, the final check must be given within five days (if the employee was fired) or on the next scheduled payday (if the employee quits).You should check your applicable labor laws to see what the requirements are. If you violate them, you could be sued and end up having to pay for the employee’s attorneys’ fees.

