 If either you or your friend cannot see the other on a video call, make sure your webcam is turned on, plugged in, and unobstructed.


If you can see video but the quality is poor, see Poor Call Quality.
 If you’re using a Mac, iOS, or Android device, you may need to grant Skype permission to use your camera or show video.


Mac: In the Skype menu, select “Preferences” and click “Privacy.” Check the drop-down menu next to “Allow video and screen sharing from.” If it currently reads “Nobody,” change it to “Contacts.”
iOS: Click “Privacy” in the Settings app and select “Camera,” then flip the switch next to “Skype” to the On position.
Android: Open the Settings app and select “Apps,” then choose Skype from the list. Tap “Permissions,” then make sure the switch next to “Camera” is flipped to the On position.
 If you’re using a computer, Skype may be running into trouble finding your webcam.


Windows: Click “Tools” and then “Options,” then “Video settings.” If you see the message “Skype couldn’t find a webcam,” make sure your webcam isn’t being used by another application (like an Instant Messenger). See Troubleshooting a Webcam to troubleshoot your webcam.
Mac: Click “Preferences” in the Skype menu (at the top of the screen) and select “Audio/Video.” Make sure the correct webcam is listed next to “Camera.” If the correct camera is selected (or you only have one), the camera may be in use by another program. Close other open applications and try your video call again.
 Skype may disable the video portion of your call if the connection is bad. If you’re using a computer, this icon will appear on the call bar while you’re in a call. It is a series of lines and looks like a wireless signal indicator. The color of the icon indicates the strength of the connection.


White: Connection is good.
Yellow: Connection is medium-quality. The video portion was likely disconnected by Skype due to poor quality. Try an audio call instead.
Red: Connection is bad. Neither an audio nor video call will work.
See Poor Call Quality for tips on improving the quality of your call.

