 This is often called the “oil cleansing method” as an alternative to soap-based cleansing for dry skin. Apply the oil to a cotton swab and apply it to your skin.


Wipe off the oil and allow it to be absorbed into your skin.
You can alternate with a foaming cleanser and the oil cleansing method if it makes your skin too oily.;
, Squeeze a small amount of oil onto a cotton square and apply it to the lashes for a few seconds. Then, wipe it away.


Repeat all over your face until all makeup is removed.
Make sure you close your eyes when removing makeup.
Either wash the baby oil away or allow it to be absorbed by your skin to moisturize it.
 Dap a very small amount onto the top of your cheekbones after you have applied your makeup. This will produce an extra glow on the areas you want to highlight.
 Add three or four drops of oil to a few drops of foundation. Apply with a sponge or your fingers for natural, moisturizing coverage.
 Rake it through your eyebrows and then apply some shadow to darken them.
 Squeeze a few drops into your hand. Swirl the brush around in the oil. Then, rinse in warm water and lay flat while they dry., Rub the drops onto your palms and apply it to the roots and frizzy portions of your hair. Keep a small bottle of baby oil in your purse to apply on the go.


If you are worried about using too much oil, apply the oil to a piece of tissue paper and then rub it from root to tip on your locks.
 The oil will reduce frizz. Avoid this step if you plan to curl your hair, due to the fact that it can weigh down curls.
 Apply the baby oil to a makeup pad or tissue. Then, pull the tissue through the ends before styling., Close to the original intention of the product, the oil helps seal in moisture so that you have baby soft skin. For best results, apply with your hands at night before bed.
 Apply a few drops to the cuticle bed surrounding your nail and rub gently. Repeat daily before bed.
 It will make them glow, drawing attention to your favorite feature.
 Mix a tsp. of baby oil with a half tsp. of sugar and a several drops of lemon juice. Dip your index finger in the scrub and apply it to your lips in a circular motion.Repeat until you have scrubbed every area of your lips, and then wash away with warm water.
You can also create this on a larger scale for a good bikini area or leg exfoliator.
 Apply all over legs, wash your hands and then shave as usual.
 Use a cotton square to lightly scrub the oil to remove adhesive. You can also use this method to remove paint or temporary tattoos on your skin.
 This is best when bathing before bed.
 It will help soothe the skin. Repeat several times a day until the redness goes away.
 Soak them for five minutes in warm water and Epsom salts for an extra moisturizing effect., Ensure you apply an even coat. Let it sink in for a few minutes and buff with a dry cloth.
 The oil will allow you to undo knots by loosening them slightly.

