 One key to training puppies properly is to help them learn basic obedience commands. Sit is probably the easiest and most useful command. Reward-based training is one of the best ways to train your dog. In this system, positive reinforcement (usually in the form of a small bite of a tasty treat) is given immediately when the puppy complies with your command. The puppy then learns to associate the action (to sit) with the command (“Sit”) given.


Remember to reward the puppy as soon as he performs the action. Failure to reward immediately will confuse the puppy as to what you expect of him.
 Don’t say, “Now I want you to sit,” as the puppy won’t understand what you expect. Keep all commands short and simple. Simply say, “Sit,” for example. Use treats and praise every time when teaching a new command.


Once the puppy consistently obeys the command, you can give treats intermittently. However, make sure you always stay consistent with the praise every time regardless of treats.
Apply these same principles for other commands, including “Come” and “Stay.” The key is to reward immediately, be consistent, and use simple command words.
 Puppies love to bite and chew. Chewing is a natural behavior for a puppy. However, you must teach the puppy items that are okay to chew versus ones that aren’t okay to chew. To help teach them the correct items to chew on, keep plenty of toys on hand, such as toy ropes. You can purchase these from the dollar store.


Puppies love chewing ropes, and it’s a great way to help them get through the teething stage.
For example, if you find the puppy chewing on a shoe, take the shoe, put it out of reach, and give him a toy to chew on. As you take the shoe away, say, “No chew.” The puppy will eventually understand what he can and cannot chew., When your puppy tries to bite your fingers or hand, tap his nose lightly with your free hand and say, “No bite.” As you pull your hand from your puppy’s mouth, be sure to put a chew toy or rope in their mouth and encourage them to bite the toy instead.
 Some owners enjoy knowing their dog will bark to alert them of guests or other visitors. However, a puppy should learn the command, “Quiet,” for those times when barking is a nuisance. When the puppy begins to bark say, “Quiet.” When the puppy complies (this may take some time), immediately give him a reward in the form of a treat and praise.


This will take some time, but the puppy will eventually understand what you expect. Consistency and patience is the key in making this work for the both of you.
 Jumping on people can also be a problem with some dogs. This is a behavior that can be stopped. If your puppy or dog has a tendency to jump, keep a leash on him to be able to correct him as he starts to jump. Give him the command to sit. Reward him when he promptly responds with a tasty treat. He will soon learn that jumping is not an acceptable behavior.