 Pain and fatigue are signals indicating the need to rest and cease activity.;
, Call in sick to work, find a babysitter for your children, or postpone engagements.
 Early diagnosis and treatment can hasten recovery.
 Weakness and fatigue may require the help of others.
 Your caretaker may need to assume more household chores than usual.


Decide what is truly necessary.
Preparing meals, washing dishes and laundry may take priority.
Vacuuming can be done as needed.
Reschedule family appointments to be sure that your caretaker has time to meet your needs and the needs of the household.
Buying more than necessary while shopping will provide your caretaker more time to be at home and less time running errands.
 Don't assume that others will automatically understand what you need.


Understand your limitations and ask for assistance.
Minimize any further pain or injury by refraining from lifting, pushing or pulling on heavy items.
 Converse openly with your caretaker, so as not to cause excessive inconvenience.


Ask your caretaker to provide several small services before they leave your bedroom.
If you cannot make your own meals, discuss the way in which you'd like your meal prepared.
If you cannot leave your bedroom, have your caretaker bring your food on a tray.
If you are not strong enough to take a shower, ask your caretaker for a basin of water and supplies at the bedside. Devices are available to wash your hair while in bed.
If you are becoming a little stronger, have your caretaker set up a chair and supplies to wash at the bathroom sink.
 Pain and weakness may make it more difficult to move around.


Place frequently used items in an easy-to-reach area. Keep a few extra towels near the bedside.
Place small items in a small basket or old Kleenex box to carry throughout the room or keep close to your bedside.



Is it time to take your medicine?
Would you like to sit at the edge of the bed to brush your hair?
Do you need to brush your teeth?
Do you need to get a book?

,


Ask your caretaker to change your bed, hand and bath towels frequently.
Change your pajamas daily. It helps to feel refreshed.
Remind your caretaker of when your clothes, bedding and towels may need to be laundered.



Try to get out of bed every few hours to maintain flexibility and strength. Walking provides adequate exercise.
Spend short periods of time sitting in a chair. Sit at a window for a change of view.
While in bed, turn from side to side for better circulation. Turn on your left side for a half hour, then lay on your back for a half hour, then turn on your right side for a half hour and so on.
Ask your caretaker to gently massage areas of stagnation to improve circulation.
Get plenty of rest to rejuvenate.
 A poor appetite will contribute to further decline and weakness.


Eat small, frequent amounts or a light diet to prevent nausea.
If unable to eat a normal serving, eat the most nutritious foods.
Drink plenty of water for circulation and cleansing. These are important aspects when healing.
If you need to eat while in bed:

Lie on your side.
Place your dish upon a hand towel to prevent any spills from soiling your bed.
Ask for an extra napkin.
Sip your beverages through a straw.
 Physical decline may lead to emotional insecurity, loneliness and isolation.


Invite a friend to keep you company.
Try a mild antidepressant, such as St. John's Wort, to help bring a little cheer into your day.
Have an understanding of normal recovery time.

Be patient.
 Others will be very busy tending to everything; they may not have time to keep you company.


Listen to the radio, watch television or read a book.
Crochet or knit.
Use your laptop.
Do crossword puzzles or play solitaire with a deck of cards.
 It's a joy to be independent and in good health.


Count your blessings.
Refresh your spirit with rewarding activities.
 Choose fruits, vegetables, grains, legumes, and nuts to maintain your health.
