

You will need to go into the store you are interested in, and ask for a job application. Fill it out neatly and thoroughly.

If you are asked in for an interview, make sure that you are well prepared!
If you already have experience in the restaurant business or other management experience, consider applying for a management position straight away. If you don’t have much experience, then apply for a different position, such as delivery driver.;
,

If you are able to obtain a job at Domino’s Pizza, perhaps as a delivery driver or customer service representative., then do your best to work your way up the chain to eventually become a general manager.

Be patient! This may take some time to accomplish, but if you work hard you will get there.
Make sure you show up on time to work, are always dressed properly with good hygiene, and that you are always friendly and sincere with fellow employees and customers. This will impress your boss and help you move more quickly.
Be willing to relocate! Moving up the chain may go faster if you are willing to work in other stores. For example, if the general manager in your store seems as though he/she is planning to stay put for the foreseeable future, then it is unlikely that you will be able to become general manager at this location.


In order to be eligible to become a franchisee, you must work in this position for at least a year. During this time, learn all that you can about how to run the business efficiently. It will be good to have this experience once you become a franchisee.,

Liquid capital refers to money that you are able to access easily. For example, money you have stored in checking accounts, savings accounts, and mutual funds.Although you will need $50,000 to be able to get your franchise up and running, it is wise to have significantly more money available as unexpected costs are likely to arise.
 You must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident and have a good credit history in order to be considered for franchise ownership.


You can apply by visiting the company’s internal site. Be aware that you will need your credentials to be able to log in.

