 You might think this suggestion ridiculous, especially since you want to have fun. When you feel bored and look to the Internet, television, or music to take your mind off that feeling, it might actually prolong your boredom, or cause it to carry over into activities that might have otherwise been enjoyable.It is generally agreed that some measure of acceptance is required to beat persistent boredom., This is an important time for you to ask yourself if you are really feeling unmotivated, or whether or not something more serious is the root of your boredom.


You might be using boredom as a way of protecting yourself from a big change in your life, feelings of disappointment, a falling out with a friend, or some other concern. Respect your mind's way of protecting itself, but admit to yourself the existence of these deeper feelings., You can do so intuitively, by labeling the impressions you have as they occur to you.


Are you feeling lonely or disconnected? If this is the case, you can help yourself feel better by calling a friend. Are you feeling trapped? Ask a parent or close friend for perspective.
Another common root of boredom is fear. Are you unsure of the future or is a test looming in the not-too-distant future? In these instances, scheduling a meeting with your school counselor or talking with a teacher might help you cure the root of your boredom.
 Though you might want someone to solve this problem for you, research has shown that being involved in finding new hobbies can seriously reduce feelings of boredom.Tests on bored individuals have shown that chronically bored people have lower self-awareness, which has led some to question if boredom is really a lack of understanding what you truly want., A key element involved in boredom is control -- specifically, you not having it.If you're stuck in a waiting room, listening to a lecture, or waiting on a bus, try meditating.


Feeling trapped can make you restless, anxious, and make boredom unbearable. Exert control in the form of meditation to help banish the feeling. Allow your body to relax and your thoughts to focus on physical sensations. Breathe evenly, and allow your mind to focus itself on these simple actions.

