 Your bras should be one of the last things you pack. Clear a space for them within the top layer of clothes in your suitcase.


Measure out the total depth of your bras when stacked together. The space you clear out should be at least that deep. If you try to cram the bras into a space that is too small, you may distort the cups.;
, Place your bras together so that the cups of each one rest on top of the cups of the bra beneath it. All of the bras should lie flat, not folded.









Do not fold one cup into another when you are packing molded bras. By inverting one cup, you distort the shape of that cup. This can lead to dents, bumps, and an overall improper fit.
 Roll up your socks, tank tops, or underwear and stuff the material into the cups of your bottom bra.








Fill the cups of the bra with enough material to keep them as full as possible. Doing so will prevent the cups from caving inward even when accidental pressure is applied. As a result, you can better preserve the shape and longevity of all the bra cups in your stack.
 Keep the bras away from items in your suitcase that can snag the material or crush the cups.


Consider placing the stacked bras in a large plastic bag or covering them with a sheet of plastic or wax paper. This one extra precaution can prevent Velcro or zippers from snagging the material.
Do not place any thing heavy on top of the bras.
It is also a good idea to tuck in the straps to prevent the hooks from getting snagged on other bras or clothing. Stuff the straps beneath the cup of the bra they belong to and above the cup of the bra beneath. For the bottom bra, stuff the strap in between the cups of the bra and the stuffing material you filled them with.
 Ideally, you should unpack your bras as soon as you reach your destination. Do not leave them in your suitcase during the duration of your stay.









Keeping the bras in a stuffed suitcase for a prolonged period of time can cause the cups to become distorted even if you took plenty of precautions while packing them.
Hang your unpacked bras on a doorknob, hook, or hanger. Make sure that you do not hang them beneath bulky items like bags or coats, though, since doing so can crush the cups.

