 Bad news typically spreads faster than good news does, and gossip usually isn’t good. Rumors are often made to hurt someone and their reputation. Let your child know that the subject of the rumor will likely hear it and probably become hurt.

Repeat back to your child the gossip they’ve spread and make it about them. Ask them how they would feel if they were the subject of the rumor. Let them know that a good rule of thumb about gossip is to ask themselves if they would be hurt if that was said about them, before they speak the words to someone else.;
, Your child may not understand the damage that gossiping can do. They may think that because they are just words, they are harmless. Let them know, however, that saying bad things about others behind their back is just as bad as saying it to their face. In fact, let them know that it is even worse.

Rumors are usually lies. The person doesn’t have a chance to defend themselves when the talk is taking place behind their back. They would be able to clear up the lies if they knew about them. Instead, the rumor continues about that person, possibly changing and becoming worse. The result is damage from which the person may not recover., Repeating something you hear can cause arguments, tears, and even physical altercations. Remind your child that even if they think they are helping someone by telling them what they said, doing so may make things worse.

For example, if they tell their friend what someone said about them, it could cause the friend and the other person to get into a fight., Kids who gossip are more likely to have gossip spread about them. The kids who they gossiped about might retaliate and spread their own rumors. Additionally, kids may feel uncomfortable around yours for fear that they will gossip about them, which may create its own rumor.

Avoid telling them that they will become unpopular if they gossip. In reality, kids who gossip tend to gain popularity and seem to have closer relationships with their friends than those who don’t.