 Having tons of schoolwork to do can be very stressful, especially when you have other responsibilities and obligations. Good time management may be one of the most important parts of managing it all and feeling less stressed in school.Make sure you are starting your homework early enough each day to finish it and still get a good night’s sleep. Teenagers need between eight and ten hours of sleep each night.Use an agenda, calendar, or planner to help you schedule time to work on long-term projects and reports. Pencil in due dates for each phase of the project.
You can also put important dates like upcoming tests on your calendar and schedule in study time.
If you have study time during the school day, then use that time for actual studying and not socializing.
 Having the materials that you need to complete your schoolwork when you need them will reduce a lot of the stress of school.You won’t have to waste time looking for your supplies or assignments and can get straight to work when it’s time. Also, being organized will help reduce the distractions you have in your work space.


Put away any supplies that you don’t need for the task at hand. Use an organizing caddy, pencil box, folders, dividers, etc. to help you organize your supplies.
Organize your school papers so that everything is neat and you can find it when you need it.
Label folders and use sticky notes to remind you what you need to turn in and what you need to do.



If you can’t leave the room then close your eyes for a few seconds and try to clear your mind. Imagine yourself doing something you enjoy.
If you can, then take a quick walk to clear your head. Even if it’s just a walk to the water fountain or restroom, it can help you deal with stressful schoolwork.
Try taking a few minutes to relax before you start your homework when you get home. Also take breaks while you are completing your homework.
 Waiting until the last minute to study or write a report will only increase your stress level and possibly result in a bad grade. But if you make a plan and prepare for exams, reports, and projects before they are due, you will feel much less stressed.Break major assignments down into smaller parts and decide when you need to complete each of the smaller parts.
For example, you might break a project on the Constitution down into four parts: your research, report, poster, and speech.
Study for tests by reviewing one concept or idea at a time. Make sure you start studying far enough in advance to review all the material.
 There may be times that your schoolwork is overwhelming you. You may not understand a concept or may have fallen behind in your work because of an illness or other situation. You can handle this stressful situation by asking for help and relying on your support system.It’s better to let your parents know that you’re having problems with your schoolwork early on. They may be able to help you with it, talk to your teacher, or even get you a tutor.
You might say, “Dad, I’m having problems with my algebra. Could you help me out?”
Let your teacher know when you don’t understand something or think you won’t be able to turn in an assignment on time.
For instance, you could try, “Mrs. Castillo, Could you help me? I think I may need more time finishing my report.”
Don’t be afraid to ask a friend or classmate to help you understand a concept. You could say, “Would you explain the water cycle to me?”

