 Even for an all-day fun session, make a point of eating a solid, healthy breakfast before going into the park. For instance, eat a bowl of Greek yogurt with fruit and granola. There are plenty of healthy breakfast options - the point is to get a full meal that will provide you with sustained energy throughout the morning.Make sure whatever you eat for breakfast has healthy carbs (such as those from whole grains) as well as protein.
 You may not have the chance to plan ahead, or may simply need to get some food in the park. Don’t just follow your nose to the nearest food stand. Look around and take note of your options.For instance, does the hot dog and hamburger stand offer veggies burgers or chicken breast sandwiches? Is there anywhere that offers salads?

, You may be able to find a decent entree, such as a grilled chicken breast or a salad without anything fried in it. Don’t ruin your meal's nutritional value by getting fries to go alongside it. Always ask about getting veggies instead of chips or fries.Use less sauce. While that mayo dip may be undeniably tasty, mustard, pickles, and salsa are all healthier options.
 When eating a meal or snack, take a moment to sit down and eat. This will help cut back on the mindless eating that tends to catch people at amusement parks.While taking the time to sit down and assess your hunger level, drink water before eating anything and wait a few minutes. At times, people mistake thirst for hunger, which leads to unnecessary calorie consumption.
 Some people have an inexplicably powerful affection for elephant ears. If this or any other bajillion-calorie love affair applies to you, plan to get one at some point during the day. Make a point of eating especially healthy throughout the day, and look forward to it. Finally, plan to share whatever it is you can’t do without, and mention it to those you’re with so they can share in the anticipation., If you’re bringing kids along, they’re probably going to notice the cotton candy, funnel cakes, and bucket-sized sodas. Resist their requests - in part because they won’t be able to enjoy the day as much if their bodies are bogged down with junk food.Consider telling them at the beginning of the day that they can have one treat at some point. Make a game out of looking for the best treat in the park together.

