 If you have a desk job or are a student, you probably spend a lot of time in front of the computer screen. Give your eyes a break by taking time to do something else away from your screen. If you are watching TV, take a break and do something else.


If you can't leave, look at a spot in the distance every 20 minutes or so. Doing this helps your eye muscles relax and will make your eyes feel less tired and strained. , If you are sitting down for extended periods of time, either at work or at class, you should get up every now and then to stretch. Stretching increases blood flow and can give you a quick boost of energy. Even just stretching for thirty seconds at your desk can increase your alertness and energy level. One stretch you can do is to clasp both of your hands behind your back, and raise your arms up as far as you can with your hands still clasped together. This stretches you upper back.
To stretch your neck, tilt your head to the side so that your ear almost touches your shoulder. Alternate with the other side.
Touching your toes is another good stretch to get your blood flowing.
 If you've been inside all day, take a break when appropriate and go outside. A brisk walk gets your blood flowing and sunlight and fresh air are great natural ways to reenergize. Even just a few minutes is enough to give you a boost. , If you're just plain sleepy, consider taking a quick nap. A 20-minute nap is recommended by many to help you become more alert. A 30-60 minute nap is shown to improve memorization and recollection, but longer naps can take you into deeper sleep and leave you feeling more groggy when you wake up. Consider the amount of time you have and nap accordingly. Remember to set your alarm! If you don't you could oversleep.
Try to nap either in the morning or in the early afternoon after lunch. Napping in the late afternoon could leave you feeling more tired and could affect your sleep at night. , Breathing deeply increases blood oxygen levels, which makes you more alert. Focusing on breathing also makes you more present and aware. Sit up straight in your chair or stand. This gives your abdomen enough room to hold deep breaths.
Inhale deeply through your nose with your mouth closed. Hold the breath for a few seconds.
Breathe out with your lips pursed so the breath comes out slowly.
You can also inhale and exhale rapidly, inhaling through your nose and exhaling through your nose, keeping your mouth closed. This is a yoga technique called stimulating breath. , Taking a cold shower can give you an instant energy bolt. If you have time in your day and access to a shower, hop in the water for at least three minutes. While a warm shower is soothing, a cold shower can be a shock to the system and will bring you out of your drowsiness. If you don't want to get your hair wet, put on a shower cap.
If you can't take the time off to shower, go to the bathroom and splash some cold water on your face. It has a similar effect of making you more alert.

