 This recipe is an unusual spin on classic minestrone. It features seared shrimp and roasted corn in a BBQ-flavored broth. The flavors and textures are interesting, the ingredients are heart-healthy and low fat, and it can be put together quickly and easily.


The soup will take you a total of about 30 minutes to prepare and cook.
It will yield about 4 servings.
 Place the frozen corn on a baking sheet with a rim. Measure out about one tablespoon of extra-virgin olive oil and drizzle it over the corn. Add a pinch of salt and pepper. Place the baking sheet under your broiler for approximately 5 minutes.


It's ready when the corn has become crispy and lightly browned.
Carefully remove the roasted corn from the broiler. Set it aside.
 Sprinkle a small amount of salt and pepper on both sides of the shrimp. Add two tablespoons of extra-virgin olive oil in a large pot and heat it up over medium-high heat. Place the shrimp in the pot and cook them on that side until they’re seared, which will take about 2 minutes.


Flip them over and sear the other side, which will take 30 to 60 seconds.
You will probably need to sear the shrimp in batches.
Once they’re seared, set the shrimp aside for now.
 Dice the red onion and mince the garlic. Add one tablespoon of oil to the same pot you just cooked the shrimp in. Add the diced onion to the pot and sauté for about 5 minutes, until they starting getting tender.


Add the minced garlic to the pot.
Sauté for another 60 seconds.
 Then add the BBQ sauce, cilantro, roasted corn and dry pasta. Bring the heat down to medium-low until the soup is simmering. Simmer it for approximately 8 minutes, adjusting the heat as necessary.


You’ll know it’s ready once the pasta is tender and cooked completely.
Remove the minestrone from the heat once the pasta is done.
 You have two options for presentation of this dish. You can pour the servings into bowls, then add about 8-10 shrimp on top of each serving. Finish it off with a sprinkling of fresh cilantro. You can also simply put the shrimp directly into the soup and serve it that way.


Give the soup several minutes to cool down before serving.
Garnish with fresh cilantro (optional)

