 If your teacher allows you to pick your own seats, choose to sit next to a student you don’t know. Sitting next to a buddy of yours makes it extremely difficult to focus on staying quiet. It’s also helpful to pick a seat closer to the front of the classroom. Close proximity to the teacher will make it harder for you to chit chat as the teacher will likely remind you to quiet down.


It’s also a good idea to look for a student who you know is very quiet, and sit next to them. Chances are they won't try to start conversation in the middle of class like your best friend might.;
, Pay attention to your peers, you'll probably notice at least one student who is reserved and rarely talks during class. Think of this student as your guide, and mimic their behavior in the classroom. If they are sitting attentively with their book open, you should be doing the same., Before you open your mouth, think to yourself “Is this something that can wait?” Or “Will my teacher be upset if I interrupt to say this?” Many students talk during class because they forget to filter their thoughts before letting them escape as words. Forgetting to filter your thoughts results in blurting out whatever it is you are thinking for the whole class to hear. Take the time to really think about what you want to say during class for relevance. If it is at all disruptive, like "This subject is boring, is class almost over?" do not say that out loud.


A good trick is to raise your hand every time you think of something to say. While waiting for the teacher to call on you, think about whether or not what you have to say pertains to what the teacher is discussing. If it’s not related to the lesson, put your hand down and remain quiet.
Always raise your hand when you have a question about class. Not talking during class does not mean your questions about the lesson should go unanswered.
 If you find yourself with so many things to say that it’s almost impossible to stay quiet, write them down instead. Many students have a problem staying quiet when they think they have a funny joke or antidote to share with the class, this is a great alternative to interrupting the class with your joke. It also helps if you're constantly thinking of things you'd like to ask your friend during class.


Grab a piece of paper and jot down all the jokes you thought up and all the things you have to ask your friend, instead of speaking them. For instance, if you're sitting in class and remember that your mom said it was okay for your buddy to stay the night this weekend, instead of turning to ask them during class, take out your notebook and write "Remember to tell Jimmy that my mom said it was okay for them to stay the night this weekend."

, Although it doesn't involve talking, texting what you have to say is never a good option. You should never have your phone out during class, it distracts you from the lesson and disrupts the class when the teacher has to stop and ask you to put it away. Leave your phone tucked away in a safe place like your pocket or locker.
 Sometimes it’s not that you can’t stay quiet, but that you can’t stop responding to talkative people. Politely tell the students around you before class that you can’t talk to them until class is finished. Then ignore their comments during the lesson. They will soon figure out that you no longer talk during class and will stop trying.While out in the hallway before class, try taking your talkative classmates aside and say something like “I’m not going to talk during class anymore, so can we talk at lunch instead?”
Ignoring comments made in class can be difficult, especially if someone says something that upsets you. If this happens, write it down so you can tell the person who said it later that it upset you instead of angrily responding and disrupting the class lecture.
 There is no shame in asking someone to help you stop talking. Try asking one of your friends to give you a cue whenever you start to talk in class. Maybe they can cough or tap your shoulder. Whatever cue you decide on, make sure it doesn’t involve them talking to you at all or it defeats the purpose.
 It may seem like your teacher is always yelling at you to stop talking, but they can be a great help if you ask them. Tell your teacher you’re having a hard time not talking in class, and see if they have any suggestions for things you can try.After class, tell your teacher something like "I'm trying really hard to stop talking during your class, but I'm still struggling with it. Could you please help me?" More than likely, your teacher will be delighted to give you some pointers on staying quiet.
 Put a sticky note on your desk and write something on it to remind yourself not to talk. Every time you get the urge to speak, glance down at your sticky note.


Try writing something like “I can talk when class is over.” Or “Silence is golden.”

, Just keep trying to stay quiet during class. It may take some time for you to learn these new techniques, but don’t give up!


Set realistic goals for yourself, you might not be able to completely stop talking over night. To avoid frustration and getting discouraged, start by focusing on not talking at all through the first half of class. Once that becomes second nature, make your goal to not speak during the entire class.
 As you meet your goals, reward yourself with a piece of candy or 10 extra minutes of play time after school. Positive reinforcements like these will help you continue to keep up the good work.

