 Don't believe anything that public service announcements or government commercials say about drugs. Also, don't trust news stories. These are known to exaggerate facts about drugs, or just flat out lie. For true, knowledgeable information, and up to date information, look online for professionals that you may be able to contact in your area who deal with drug addictions. Avoid any drugs. Don't listen to anybody.;
, If you tell them that marijuana can kill you, which it can't, then they are bound to find out eventually that it won't. They will be hurt that you lied to them, and will have trouble believing other things you say.
 Adult drug addicts often had troubled childhoods, and weren't happy. Many teenage drug users take drugs because they want to escape their problems. Simply be fair and reasonable with discipline, and make sure your child knows that you love them.
 Often adult drug users have had an extremely traumatic experience in their younger years, such as getting raped or molested, a divorce or death in the family, etc.
 Its important to start before they hit puberty, at the age of about ten. If they are clearly not interested, then try again some other time. Remember not to lie when talking about drugs. Lying to them is like asking them to do drugs.
 Never, ever, ever, EVER tell them not to do drugs. This is especially important in older kids and teenagers. Most teenagers go through phases of rebellion and being "bad". When you forbid them not to do something, especially drugs, it only makes them want to do it more. Tell them that drugs can be harmful, and can be addicting, and they can ruin your life, but don't tell them that they cannot do it.
 The knee-jerk reaction is to freak out that they are on drugs, but that is not a good idea. It's a very good thing that they are researching drugs, because that means they are getting the information about drugs you want them to get. Eventually the fascination will go away.
 All children will be pressured at some point, and they should know what to do. Tell your child that if they are in a situation where they feel pressured, the best thing to do is the right thing to do. Tell them not to do anything they don't feel comfortable doing, and that they should always do the right thing. Don't tell your kids to report their friends' drug use. In most cases, they will get the reputation as a "rat", or a "snitch", and it's not worth it. Most teenagers won't allow a tattletale into their circle of friends, and your child could become an outcast. Make sure they know not to tell on people.

