 Chlorine bleach is one of the most popular solutions for brightening white clothes. Adding it to your load of white laundry is a quick and effective solution to your dingy whites problem.Be very careful not to get bleach on anything that is not white. It will quickly ruin colored fabrics.


In addition to colored fabrics, you should avoid using bleach on wool, silk, mohair, leather, and spandex. Most other white fabrics can be bleached.The correct amount of bleach will depend upon your washing machine and the size of your load. If your washing machine has a bleach dispenser, only use as much as it will hold. If it does not, follow the recommendations on the container of bleach for the proper amount.
If your washing machine has a bleach dispenser, simply add the bleach when you start your cycle. If it does not, allow your washer to fill half-way, add the bleach, and then allow it to fill the rest of the way before adding your clothes.
Use the presoak setting on your washing machine for extra whitening power. If your washing machine doesn't have this setting, simply pause the cycle after you add your clothes and let them sit for at least 20 minutes before turning the washing machine back on.
For the best results, use the setting on your washing for whites. If you don't have this setting, set it to wash with hot water.
Bleach is not the most eco-friendly option. It is extremely toxic and may cause skin irritation.;
, There are many different kinds of stain removers available in the laundry aisle of most stores. You may have to try a few different kinds to find the one that works best for you.


Some products are meant to be applied directly to stains to help them come out in the wash. These typically come in liquids or gels.
Other products are meant to be added to the laundry with your detergent. These can help brighten both whites and colors.It's a good idea to apply a small amount of stain cleaner to a hidden area of the fabric to make sure it does not discolor it before you treat the stain.
 Borax fights stains and deodorizes, and it helps increase the effectiveness of your regular laundry detergent. You can use it either during your regular laundry cycle or as a pre-treatment.Borax is very gentle. You can even use it to clean garments that need to be hand-washed.To use borax during the laundry cycle, add 1/2 cup to your washing machine at the beginning of the wash cycle.
To pre-treat with borax, add 1/2 cup and a little bit of detergent to water and soak your garments.
 Bluing liquid, also known as Prussian blue or ferric ferrocyanide actually adds a slightly blue tint to your whites, which help them look whiter if they have become dull and yellowed. You can add it to your washing machine to help reinvigorate those whites.


Bluing liquid is very gentle and can be used on any washable fabrics. You should not use it in conjunction with bleach or fabric softener.Always dilute bluing liquid with cold water before adding it to your wash. If you don't dilute it, it may stain your clothing.
Use 1/4 teaspoon if adding during the wash cycle or up to 1/8 teaspoon if adding during the rinse cycle.
 If your garments are yellowed, enzyme presoaks may be what you've been looking for. Simply add them during the wash cycle to help your detergent do a better job of cleaning.Enzyme products should never be used on wool or silk. They may break these fabrics down. Enzyme presoaks break up proteins, which make them especially effective on stains from bodily fluids or vegetables., Hydrogen peroxide is a wonderful alternative to chlorine bleach that can be used in the laundry. You can even use it on your colored clothes to keep them looking nice and bright.Hydrogen peroxide is safe for all washable fabrics.Add 1/2 cup to your next load of white laundry to brighten it up.
You can purchase liquid non-chlorine bleach, which is a mixture of hydrogen peroxide and water.