 Generally, H-1B visas are available for temporary workers who want to work in the U.S. for a short period of time but have no intent to become permanent residents.One of the most essential criteria is that you must have a valid employer-employee relationship with the person or entity that files a petition on your behalf.
If you are a business owner, you may be able to establish this relationship by proving that the employer filing your petition has the right to control your employment.
For example, you may own your own business in your home country, but be working with a larger corporation in the U.S. You are required to come into the offices at a certain time each day and be on site certain days of the week. The U.S. employer has control over your employment.
Most commonly, H-1B visa holders have at least a bachelor's degree and are working in a field related to their course of study.
 To be eligible for an H-1B visa, you must have a U.S. employer to sponsor you. That employer must complete an I-129 petition and submit it to the USCIS on your behalf.Your employer can download the I-129 form from the USCIS website. The form is six pages long and includes an additional page for explanations.
There are instructions for the form in a separate document, also available on the USCIS website.
Your employer must submit supporting documents along with the petition. These documents will vary depending on the information your employer needs to support. Generally your employer must provide documents that prove the employer-employee relationship.
The petition and supporting documents must be filed as soon as possible. Delays in receiving the petition can result in complications and problems with your application.
 To change your immigration status to one that allows you to work in the U.S., you must apply for a change in status with the USCIS. For B1 visa holders, this is accomplished using Form I-539.You'll have to provide information about you, your current visa status, and the change you are requesting.
You also must answer a series of yes/no questions. Make sure you answer these questions truthfully, and submit supporting documentation where necessary.
You may want to make a list of all supporting documentation you need so you can gather those documents together and make copies. Don't send originals to the USCIS – you won't get them back.
 Your forms and all supporting documents must be mailed to the USCIS at the appropriate lockbox along with any filing fees. Check the USCIS website to find out which lockbox you should use.Get a cashier's check or money order to cover your filing fees – $290 for a Form I-539 and supporting documents.
Your check must be drawn on a U.S. bank and payable in U.S. currency. Make your check out to "U.S. Department of Homeland Security." Do not abbreviate any part of the name of the department, or use initials.
Make a copy of the entire packet, including the check, for your records before you mail it. Mail your application using U.S. first class mail only.
 Once your application is received, you'll get a receipt notice from the USCIS in the mail. The notice includes an application number along with an estimated processing time.Keep in mind that you cannot start working for the U.S. employer who filed a petition on your behalf until your application is approved.
Once you have this number, you can register on the USCIS website to receive automatic notifications when your application status changes in any way.
Keep in mind that the issuance of H-1B visas is limited to 65,000 per year, and this limit is met quickly. Some people, such as those working at universities, are not subject to this cap.
If you're applying later in the year, you may have to wait an entire year or longer for your application to be considered. Make sure an H-1B visa number is available at the time you apply.

