 Use a large pot and fill it with water. You should fill it with enough water to cook the pound of pasta. Add a bit of salt to the water and bring it to a boil. It will heat up while you’re preparing the other ingredients., The garlic should be lightly smashed and peeled before you cook it. Put the garlic and anchovies into a skillet over medium-low heat. Add two tablespoons of oil. Cook until the garlic turns a light golden color., Drain the excess liquid from the can of tomatoes and crush them with a fork or your hands. Put the tomatoes in the skillet with a pinch of salt and pepper. Cook on medium-high for ten minutes until the mixture becomes sauce-like. Stir occasionally as it cooks.You can also choose to purée the tomatoes or use diced tomatoes.
 Add in the olives, capers, and red pepper flakes. Stir them in so that they mix with the other ingredients. Allow them to simmer until the pasta is finished., Put the pound of linguine into the boiling water. Allow it to cook until it becomes al dente. This should take about 9 minutes. Stir it occasionally as it cooks., When the pasta is finished cooking, transfer it to a pasta drainer and drain out the excess liquid. Pour the pasta into the skillet. Mix the ingredients together. Add in a tablespoon of olive oil., Serve it while it’s still warm. Pair the pasta with a bitter greens salad. Pass around your choice of bread and cheese while eating the pasta. If there are leftovers, cover pasta and store it in the refrigerator for no more than a few days.You can make bitter greens salad by combining arugula, watercress greens, and radicchio lettuce in a bowl. Squeeze the juice from one lemon over the greens. Drizzle the salad with extra virgin olive oil. Toss the salad with salt and pepper.
 Pasta puttanesca also works well with octopus. Use a two-pound (907.2 g) octopus that has been cleaned with its head and beak removed. Blanche it for five minutes and then transfer it to an ice bath until it chills. Pat the octopus dry and cut it into 1 ½ inch (3.8 cm) pieces to be added to the pasta. Wipe your cutting board dry if it becomes wet while working with the octopus.
 Use panko, which are Japanese bread crumbs. Pour 1/3 cup (113 g) of the bread crumbs onto a parchment lined tray. Cook them in the oven until they become golden brown. Sprinkle on top of the pasta when it is finished., If cheese is a must in your pasta, you can add some parmesan cheese to this dish. Use 4 ounces (113.4 g) of parmesan cheese. Crumble the parmesan cheese with a fork. Add the crumbles in when the pasta is finished cooking, along with the sauce.You can also choose to start with grated parmesan.
 Pasta Puttanesca isn’t limited to linguine. You can also use any other type of long pasta. Spaghetti, which is thinner, and fettuccine, a thicker pasta, are common alternatives.,