 You will need 2 ounces (42 grams) of un-popped corn kernels to make 8 cups (88 grams) of popped popcorn. Be sure to get the plain, un-seasoned kind.You can also pre-popped corn. If you choose to go that route, make sure that you get the plain, unflavored kind, and skip down to {{#sauce|making the caramel sauce}}. You will need 8 cups (88 grams) of popped popcorn.;
,









If your saucepan is smaller, then you will need to do this in two batches.
If you don't have vegetable oil or peanut oil, try another type of oil with a high smoking point, such as canola or coconut., This will let you know when the saucepan is hot enough for the rest of the popcorn.
 This will help them get evenly coated with oil. Make sure that the corn kernels are distributed evenly across the bottom of the saucepan.
 This will bring everything down to the same temperature. It will help all of the corn kernels to pop at the same time and reduce scorching.
 Once the corn kernels start to pop rapidly, shake the saucepan back-and-forth across the burner. This helps the corn pop evenly as well as prevents scorching. Keep the saucepan on the stove until the popping slows down to several seconds apart.









Keep the lid tilted open slightly. This will let the steam escape, and give you nice, dry, crispy popcorn., Sometimes, not off of the corn kernels pop. This will knock them to the bottom of the saucepan, and pop them.
 To get rid of any un-popped corn kernels, give the bowl a good shake, then use a cup to scoop the popcorn out and into another bowl.
 You will be using the oven to dry the popcorn later on. While it is pre-heating, you can make the caramel sauce.
 Place a medium-sized saucepan on the stove. Cut the butter into cubes, then put it into the saucepan. Let it melt over medium heat, then stir in the sugar, corn syrup, and salt using a rubber spatula.
 Stir the mixture as it comes to a boil. Once it starts to boil, stop, and set your rubber spatula aside. Let the mixture cook without stirring for 4 minutes.









If you have a candy thermometer, use it to test the temperature. The ideal temperature should be between 250 and 300°F (122 and 149°C).If you want extra crunchy popcorn, cook the popcorn until you see wisps of smoke., The caramel may start to fizz at this point, which is fine. Keep stirring until everything is evenly combined.
 If you have not already, transfer the popcorn into a large bowl. Pour the caramel over the popcorn slowly, stirring the popcorn as you do so. The corn needs to be evenly coated.
 Lightly grease the baking dishes first, then spread the popcorn across them as evenly as you can. If your baking dishes are small, then you may need to use a third one.
 Give the popcorn a stir with a rubber spatula ever 15 minutes. This will help the popcorn bake evenly, and prevents it from getting soggy.
 You can leave it like this, or you can break it apart using a spatula.
 Increase the salt to 2 teaspoons. Just after you have taken the popcorn out of the oven, sprinkle some sea salt over it., After you have popped the corn, stir in about 3 cups (375 grams) of chopped walnuts of pecans. Next, stir in your caramel sauce, and proceed with the rest of the recipe., Make the caramel corn according to the recipe, but reserve about ¼ to ½ cup (60 to 120 milliliters) of the sauce. After the popcorn has cooled, spread it out onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, and drizzle the rest of the caramel sauce over it. Toss in a handful of mini chocolate caramels, such as Rollo's, and another handful of candy-coated chocolates, such as M&Ms. Stir everything together, and serve. M&Ms come in seasonal blends and colors, such as red and green for Christmas, and orange, yellow, and brown for Halloween/Thanksgiving.
 After you have finished the sauce, stir in some of your favorite ground baking spices along with the vanilla extract. You will need at least 3 teaspoons. Great options include pumpkin pie spice, apple pie spice, and cinnamon., Make your caramel corn first, then let it cool. Melt ½ cup (90 grams) of semi-sweet chocolate chips in the microwave on medium for 2 minutes. Give it a stir, then heat it at 20-second intervals, stirring in between, until it is smooth. Drizzle it over the caramel corn. Repeat with ½ cup (90 grams) of white chocolate ships. Wait for the chocolate to harden, then serve.