 Make sure to verify what you already have and what you need to buy. Although it will vary by camp, some things you should consider bringing are:


Enough underwear. If you will not have access to laundry at camp, you should bring at least one pair of underwear for each day. Otherwise, bring at least one pair for every day you aren't doing laundry.






Toiletries. Bring a toothbrush, toothpaste, hairbrush, shampoo/conditioner, body wash, deodorant, sunscreen, and any other toiletries you may need.






A bathing suit and a towel. If your camp offers an opportunity to swim, be sure to bring a swim suit and a towel!






A jacket. Even in the summer, many places get cold at night. Bring a jacket or two to avoid getting cold.






Appropriate clothing. This will depend completely on the type of camp you're going to. If you're going to be camping in the woods, you can probably leave the fancy dresses at home. However, if you're going to a college prep camp, you may want to bring some nice business-casual attire.






Extras. Consider packing a flashlight, some books, an iPod, a journal, a stuffed animal, or anything else that you want to use as entertainment or comfort during camp.





;
,

Electronics. A laptop with a charger and a case is strongly recommended for research and word processing. A camera, USB drive and a scientific calculator are absolute musts. A small printer with cartridges is also recommended.






Study Supplies. Bring plenty of notebooks, pencils and pens, looseleaf paper, printing paper, sticky notes, highlighters, sharpies, a ruler, required textbooks, and anything else you might need.






Extras. Blank CDs, scissors, glue, a protractor, and other common items can come in handy during your session.
 Make sure that you have everything that you need.
 All your outfits together, all your your shirts together, or just fold them and put them in your trunk/bag/suitcase. Most people find it easier to put your daily outfits (including underwear and socks) in freezer bags. It helps keep your suitcase neat so you don't have to dig around looking for clothes.
 Get your trunk/bag/suitcase and first put the things that you'll take out last, or you won't use very often. Then put in all your clothes. After that, put in the things you will use a lot or you will need first, such as your flashlight, sunscreen, and toiletries. If you are going to pack your sheets and blankets, pack those last because the first thing you'll do when you get there is make your bed. It is usually easier to pack them separately.
 You might want to do this when you finish packing and on the night before you go. This step is very important. You wouldn't want to get there and realize you didn't pack any socks!

, This is so you can make sure that you have everything when you're packing up to go home again.
