 Before you can unclog your tub, you need to know what kind of stopper you have. You will have either a drop stopper, a lever stopper, or a push/lock stopper.Drop stoppers are the most common type, and have a knob on the top to allow you to open the drain.If you have a lever stopper, you likely have a mesh screen over your drain. The lever is attached to the overflow plate, and controls the stopper in the drain.A push/lock stopper seals the drain when you push down on the stopper. To release the stopper, simply push it again., Once you've determined the type of stopper you have in your tub, you need to remove it. Removing your stopper is a simple task.To remove a drop stopper, pull up the stopper and look for a screw on the side of the shaft. Use a screw driver to loosen the screw and remove the stopper from the drain.If you have a lever stopper, you may not need to remove the stopper to clean your drain. You may be able to remove the clog by unscrewing the mesh screen that covers your drain. If you do need to remove the stopper, unscrew the overflow plate and pull out the linkage. The linkage is the mechanism that controls the stopper.To remove a push/lock drain, pull the stopper up until you can see the stem. Hold the stem in one hand and unscrew the cap of the stopper to release it from the drain., With your stopper removed, you should be able to access the clog. You may find that the clog is near the top of the drain. If so, just grab the debris and toss it.If you can't see the clog, get a wire hanger and bend a small hook on one end. Feed the hanger through the drain until you feel the hook catch on the debris. Pull the debris out of the drain to release the clog., After you've cleared the drain, replace the stopper. Depending on the type of stopper you have, you may need to make some adjustments to get a good seal.If you have a drop stopper, put the stopper back in the drain, and screw it into the shaft. Run some water in the tub to make sure you have a tight seal.If you have a lever stopper and you removed the entire mechanism, take this opportunity to clean it. Reinstall the linkage by feeding it through the pipes. Screw the overflow plate back to the tub, and screw the mesh screen back on to the drain. Run some water and test the lever to make sure your drain works. If you find that your tub leaks, adjust the mechanism.If you have a push/lock stopper, place the shaft back in the drain, and screw the cap back on. Test the drain by running some water, and make any necessary adjustments.