 Consistently do your homework, do all your chores, and take your studies seriously to get the best grades you can. Do anything your parents ask of you without complaining, and have a good attitude. It may sound like a lot of work, but keep in mind what you're trying to get in return.
 Keep a mental picture of what you want in your head. Don't lose sight of the prize: it’s the thing that keeps you going.If you do something impressive, like receive good grades on your report card, then take the opportunity to ask.


Don’t ask for less important things. If you are set on getting the new Pokemon game, don’t ask for other games until you get what you want.
 For example, if you want a car, draw the car you want on a poster, or find a poster of the car and hang it up on a wall in a commonly visited area. Whenever you pass by it, draw attention to it by commenting on it. If your parents have a sense of humor, this can be very effective. You could even make the effort to put together an entertaining PowerPoint presentation that they might enjoy, or a short comic strip.


Consider if your parents are the creative types that would enjoy this type of pitch.
Even if your parents deny your request, you will have set up a lighthearted environment.
 Never beg for what you want. If you constantly ask, argue, or fight for whatever it is you want, your parents will be less than eager to help you get it. Whenever talking about the item you want, keep an ear open for what your parents have to say. Take their doubts about the item seriously.A good way to appeal to your parents is by using their language. If your dad tends to explain things with his hands, try explaining your reasoning with your hands.
 Get something for them that they have always wanted. For example, if your mom wants a special perfume, get it for her. Tell them you paid for it all by yourself. Parents love it when kids work hard for something. They will notice that you have your own money and that you can handle responsibility. When they're in a great mood, mention to them what you would like to have.


Don't bring up what you want at the same time that you give them your gift or you could come across as manipulative.
You don’t have to buy them anything. Do something around the house without them asking you. For example: mow the lawn or do the laundry without anyone asking you.

