 Being respectful is a very important skill for people to have, in order to get along well with others and succeed in this world. If you want your siblings to have an easier time in life, set a good example by being respectful to them, your parents, friends, acquaintances, strangers, and even yourself!


Don't talk back or be rude to your parents or teachers, not even people you don't like at school!;
, Responsibility is also a very important life skill. Avoid things like drugs or alcohol. Instead, do things like getting good grades in school and helping out around the house. You can even get a job to earn your own money, to show your siblings that you can get what you want if you work hard. Responsibility means being responsible for your actions, and apologizing if you are wrong or do something wrong. Don't blame other people for your choices and your actions.


However, stay humble about all of these things. Never lord it over your siblings or your parents. Let responsibility be its own reward.
 Speaking well is usually a sign of a good education and intelligence, so you want your siblings to be able to talk like reasonable adults. Do this by not teaching them lots of bad words and instead by speaking with a good vocabulary and the best grammar that you can manage.
 Kids who learn that violence is cool or a good way to solve problems will have a lot of just that in life: problems. Don't let your siblings see you being violent, either to them or to anyone else. Instead, solve your problems by talking them through.
 Teach your siblings to love and respect themselves for who they are by always setting a good example and doing the same. Take good care of yourself, never get too down on yourself, and always work to make yourself a better human being. Pursue what you love and ignore the haters.
 Always do the right thing, even when it's hard to do. Protect those who can't protect themselves and teach your siblings that it's worth it to stick up for the little guy. You should also apologize or admit when you've done something wrong. Teaching your sibling to always do the right thing by setting a good example will make both of you better human beings.
 This sets a bad example by teaching your sibling that it's okay to talk to or treat people like that. Also, if you do that, they won't respect or appreciate you, and lack of respect will inevitably lead to arguments. Treat them like equals because they are your equals.
 It doesn't matter how you go about it, but if you want to start having a better relationship with your siblings then you're going to want to spend more time with them. Find ways to play with them or just hang out. Do whatever you enjoy doing together.
 Your siblings will have a much happier life and they will love you a lot more if you help them to love themselves and feel confident. Do this by complimenting them when they've earned it and focusing on their triumphs instead of their mistakes.
 Your siblings should be able to trust you, so that they can come to you when they have problems that they might not be able to discuss with your parents. Create a space of trust by not only letting them know that they can talk to you, but also by never laughing at them when they tell you something serious, never judging them.
 Be happy that they are who they are, instead of trying to make them more like you. Appreciate the hard work they put into the things that they love and try to join them every now and again in enjoying those things.
 Arguments happen and you will get mad at each other sometimes. However, if you stop and try to see things from their point of view, you might find it easier to stop fighting. People usually do something wrong because they thought they were doing something right or they were trying. Understand that you make the same mistakes and you'll have a much better relationship with your siblings.
 If your siblings ask you for help with anything in their life (as long as they aren't hurting themselves) do whatever you can to help them. It may be something small or it could be something large: nothing's too much for you! However, if they don't want help, you should respect their wish and stand aside. Sometimes people have to do things for themselves, and it's better for you to respect them.
 You should encourage your siblings to look for more out of life: reach for the stars and pursue the things that make them happy. They will be happier people over the course of their life if they're doing things they love. This means that you shouldn't tease them for enjoying something. Instead, try to help them find time to do that thing and even join in sometimes, so they don't feel alone.
 Whether they are getting bullied or hanging out with people who lead them down the wrong path, you should help to keep your siblings away from things that get them into trouble. Stand up for them when you can and try to steer them away from bad crowds by letting them hang out with you and your friends or by finding them a new place to hang out.
 It can feel terrible to feel unwanted, especially by a sibling you really love or admire. Make sure your sibling never feels this way by finding ways to include them in your life. If you are trying to do your homework and your sibling is bothering you, first kindly ask her give you some alone time. There are times when your younger sister doesn't realize she is bothering you.
 Don't try to be a parent to your younger siblings; your parents are always there for that, or other authority figures if your parents aren't around. You should watch over your siblings, but treat them more like friends. This will create an easier, healthier relationship.
 Whether your sibling needs a hug and some advice or just a silent shoulder to cry on, you should be there for them, bringing comfort whenever they need it. Make sure they know they can come to you, and watch for their moods and notice when they're sad.
 It's fun to give your sibling a hard time but from time to time you should do really nice things for them. You'll find all sorts of little ways to help out in a given day, but you can also seek out nice things to do for them, like fixing a broken toy, doing their chores, or mowing their lawn (if you're older).


Never hold it over their head that you did something nice for them. This makes the nice act selfish, because it becomes about you rather than them.
 Make them feel good about themselves by complimenting them when they've earned it or you just feel like saying something nice to them. This can mean a lot, especially if you have a rough relationship and fight sometimes. It shows them that you do really love them and can find good things about them, even if you complain a lot.
 When it's a holiday or your sibling's birthday, don't just get them something boring that could be for anyone; get them a gift that is perfect for them, even if it doesn't cost very much money. Get them something that reminds you of a great time you had together in the past or things that you enjoy doing together. This will show them how much you care.
 Now is not the time to be selfish: you and your siblings should share whatever you can, whether it's the tasty part of dinner, a favorite computer game, or family heirlooms. Be generous with each other, because if you can't be generous with your siblings then who will you be generous with?

, If you and your siblings live far apart, either because you're in different homes or because you're older and have moved apart, you should make sure to stay in touch. They still need all of the wonderful things that you have provided for them in the past and nothing can replace as big sister who is always there for you and loves you. Call them when you can, write "letters" over facebook or email, and visit them whenever you can.

