 Then draw a line coming down from one side of the face, and a curved line connecting the bottom of the line to the bottom of the circle. This will be the chin.


This picture will show a boy looking to the left.
 You only need one guideline for profile view, because the vertical guideline is on the side of the face.
 The nose should be rounded, with a gentle slope. Notice how the forehead curves inwards at the top of the nose bridge, and then back out. The bottom of the nose, just like before, should be around 1/3 of the way down from the horizontal guideline.


Younger children tend to have larger foreheads. The boy in the above image is quite young, so his forehead will be very big.
 Some cartoonists prefer to leave this area flat, while others prefer to draw more realistic lips. If you add lips, make them pointy and thin, because children's lips tend not to be very full yet. It should look roughly like an M-shape coming from the side of their face.


White people tend to have the thinnest lips, while black people's lips are usually the fullest. This boy is Asian, so his lips are somewhere in the middle.
Little girls' lips aren't usually fuller than boys' lips yet. Children look pretty androgynous.
 Notice that eyes are not oval-shaped in profile view—they are more like a rounded triangle, with one corner pointing to the center of the head while the largest flat side is on the outside.


Since this boy is Asian, his eye has a gentle (and subtle!) upward slant at the corner.
 The jawline will be around halfway across the head. The top of the ear lines up with the eyebrows, and the bottom of the ear lines up with the bottom of the nose.
 Notice how the hair curves outwards like stripes on a beach ball, showing that the child's head is round. The back of the neck attaches near the base of the ear.
 Notice how the upper eyelid has a darker line.
 Notice how the light and shadows hint at the roundness of the cheek, and the blue-gray highlights make the hair look shiny and clean.

