 Rejecting someone is usually extremely awkward for both parties involved and it can be tempting to ignore the situation entirely. If you pretend it’s not happening it will magically go away, right? Unfortunately, allowing silence to be your answer and hoping the other person will eventually “get the hint” is both cruel and a poor strategy that often backfires., The longer you wait, the harder and more awkward the rejection will be for both of you.It can make it difficult for the other person to move on if they don’t receive a firm and clear “no” from you, so the kindest thing you can do is provide that to them.It may sting a little at first, but in the long run you’ll both be happier for it.
 Ghosting is a relatively new term to describe an age-old way of rejecting someone – by disappearing completely after an initial encounter, whether that’s one date or several.Rather than confronting the issue, the initiator permanently withdraws completely with no explanation – ever. Vanishing completely without ever addressing the issue is doing exactly what you are trying to avoid – hurting that person’s feelings.


In a 2012 study, researchers identified seven breakup strategies and then asked people to rate them from most to least ideal. “Ghosting” was overwhelmingly identified as the least ideal way to break it off with someone., Unless you’ve known this person for a long time or have already been dating them for several months, letting them down gently via text is not only acceptable but also preferable.


The blow of rejection is softened by the neutrality of a text and allows the person to nurse their momentarily bruised ego in private. There is no reason to make physical contact with someone you don’t know well just to turn them down.In some cases, such as when it comes to being approached online or by someone you work with that you rarely see and hardly know, even an email will suffice as a rejection.
 Anyone that you know personally or see every day, such as a friend or co-worker, deserves a face to face response. This will also make inevitable future encounters far less awkward.


Delivering the news in person allows the other person to see your facial expressions/body language and hear the tone of your voice.