 The frog’s enclosure should be cleaned once a week. Remove all of the furnishings, and wash them with hot water only. Do not use soap; this could irritate your frog’s skin.Remove visible debris from the substrate, such as leftover cricket parts or feces. The substrate itself only needs to be replaced every two to three months. Mist and wipe down the terrarium walls, but do not use commercial cleaning solutions or soap., Frogs are not pets that should be handled often. They may be skittish and afraid of human contact. In addition, their sensitive skin means that human skin can irritate them. Only handle your frog when necessary, such as during cleanings or if taking the frog to a vet.To pick up a frog, dampen a dip net, and gently coax the animal inside. Place your hand over the net to prevent the frog from jumping out as you lift the net.If you do have to handle your frog, wash your hands first. Keep your hands damp after washing. Frog skin burns when it is in contact with dry human skin.
 If you have multiple frogs in a terrarium, you may find that your females have laid eggs. Red-eyed tree frogs can lay up to 100 eggs at a time. The eggs will hatch after 9 days, after which you will have dozens of tadpoles in your water bowl or reservoir. Make sure that the tadpoles have at least two or three inches of water. Feed them crushed fish food until they can walk.If they are swimming on top of one another, they don’t have enough water. Add more water to give them some space.
You may not be able to accommodate so many frogs at once. Be prepared to find these frogs new homes once they grow up. You can call a local pet store or post ads on local pet forums.
 If your frog is showing signs of low energy, appetite, or other unusual behavior, you will want to take it to see a vet. You should find a herpetarium vet who specializes in caring for reptiles, amphibians, and invertebrates. These can be very difficult to find, so locate one before your frog becomes sick.To find a herp vet, you can contact local veterinary schools, or you can look through the member listings of the Association of Reptilian and Amphibian Veterinarians.