 When choosing a specific package of tortillas, always check the expiration date (or the “sell by date”) before purchasing. If the expiration date is soon—or if the tortillas have already expired—put them back and search for another package, whose expiration date is farther off.


It goes without saying that if a package of tortillas is moldy, or if the tortillas are clearly stale, you should not purchase it.
If you find that you’ve already purchased a moldy, stale, or expired bag of tortillas, you should be able to take it back to the store where you purchased it, and receive a full refund or store credit.;
, If you’re not planning to eat the entire package of tortillas in the day or two after you purchase it, you’ll need to think about how long the tortillas are likely to be sitting in your pantry. Corn tortillas generally have a great shelf life than their flour counterparts, so if the longevity of the unused tortillas matters, corn may be the more economic option.As a rule of thumb:


Corn tortillas generally last up to 10 days after the “best by” date if stored in a pantry, up to 8 weeks after the “best by” date if stored in the refrigerator, and up to 8 months after the “best by” date if stored in the freezer.
Flour tortillas can last up to seven days after the “best by” date if stored in a pantry, up to four weeks after the “best by” date if stored in the refrigerator, and up to eight months after the “best by” date if stored in the freezer.
 Local grocery stores sell many popular brands of tortillas, which will have small differences in taste, consistency, texture, and other qualities. To decide which you prefer, you could compare two or three in a single sitting, or try a variety of brands over time. Popular tortilla brands include: Mission, Don Marcos, Piñata, and Cruz.If you’re dissatisfied with the tortilla offerings at large chain grocery stores, you’ll be able to find a greater variety of tortilla brands if you look at a health food store or an organic retail store.
If you’d like to find more authentic tortillas than those sold in large chain grocery stores, look online to see if there is a farmer’s market or Mexican grocery store in your area.

