 Heat a deep nonstick skillet over medium-high heat and add 1 pound (450 g) of ground beef, pork, or veal. Cook the meat thoroughly so that it's completely browned and broken up. It will take about 5 minutes for it to reach the food safety temperature of 160 degrees F (70 C). Drain off any grease and keep the meat in the skillet.You can also use a combination of meats. Ask your butcher if they offer a ground meatloaf mixture which usually includes a variety of meats.;
, Stir in 2 cloves of minced garlic, 1/4 of a teaspoon of red pepper flakes, ground pepper to taste, and about 1/2 a teaspoon of salt. Cook the seasoned meat over medium-high heat for about 30 seconds. You should just be able to smell the garlic.Get the lasagna noodles, marinara sauce, and water ready to add to the skillet while the seasonings cook quickly. You don't want to burn the garlic.
 Break up 6 ounces (170 g) of lasagna noodles into 2-inch pieces and add them to the seasoned meat. Pour 26 ounces (737 g) of marina sauce and 2 cups (470 ml) of water over the noodles and seasoned meat. The noodles should be completely submerged by sauce and water.The water is important because it hydrates the uncooked noodles. The noodles will also become a little soft from the marina sauce.
 Cover the skillet with a lid and bring the lasagna to a simmer. Let it keep bubbling for about 20 minutes and turn the heat up or down to keep it simmering. Take the lid off and stir it frequently. This will keep the lasagna from sticking and will ensure that the noodles cook evenly.The noodles should be tender when the lasagna is finished cooking.
 Turn off the heat and carefully move the lasagna off the burner. Stir in 1/4 cup (25 g) of shredded mozzarella cheese, 1/8 cup (12 g) of grated parmesan cheese, salt, and pepper to taste. Drop 3/4 cup (30 g) of whole milk ricotta cheese over the lasagna and sprinkle the remaining 1/4 cup (25 g) of shredded mozzarella cheese and 1/8 cup (12 g) of grated parmesan cheese over the top.Let the cheeses melt for 3 to 5 minutes and sprinkle the lasagna with 1/4 cup (6 g) of freshly chopped basil before you serve it.
 You'll need 1 zucchini, 1 medium red bell pepper, 1 medium onion, 3 cloves of garlic, part-skim ricotta cheese, and mozzarella cheese. Wash the vegetables, seed the red pepper and chop them into 1/2-inch pieces. You should mince the garlic. Set these aside while you shred the cheese. You'll need to shred and set aside:1 cup (250 g) of part-skim ricotta cheese
8 ounces (226 g) of mozzarella, shredded

, Heat a large and deep 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat. Add 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Once the oil is hot, add your chopped vegetables and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Saute the vegetables for 6 minutes and stir them frequently to prevent them from sticking.The onion should become translucent while the zucchini and red pepper soften.
 Open and add one 28-ounce (800 g) can of crushed tomatoes to the skillet. Stir the tomatoes into the other vegetables until they're combined. Break up 6 ounces (170 g) of no-boil lasagna noodles into thirds and add them to the skillet. Push them into the vegetable sauce so they're covered.It's alright if some of the broken noodles are poking out from the sauce a little. You'll stir the lasagna as it cooks, so those noodles will become covered and soft.
 Cover the skillet with a lid and cook it over low heat for 15 minutes. Take the lid off and stir it a few times. Once the noodles are almost soft, scatter 1 cup (250 g) of the part-skim ricotta cheese and 8 ounces (226 g) of the shredded mozzarella over the lasagna. Cover the lasagna and finish cooking it for another 10 minutes.To garnish the lasagna, you can sprinkle it with ground black pepper and 1 cup (25 g) of torn fresh basil.

