 Most public schools offer therapeutic services. This can be with a guidance counselor or with a school psychologist.Seeking services within the school can be effective on many fronts. For one, counseling offered by the school is free and occurs during school time. You don’t need to find time to drop off and pick up your child before or after work.


A school counselor can also direct you to community services and outside resources as necessary.Even if you homeschool your child, you can still receive counseling services through the school.;
, After meeting with a school counselor, your child may begin individual counseling.The school counselor may want to meet with you first to discuss how the child is doing, what specific problems are present, and what goals you have for treatment. Then, the counselor will likely meet with your child once each week for counseling during class time.


Therapy may include ways to cope with difficult feelings, how to control anger, or other areas that are relevant for the child’s treatment.
 School counselors and school psychologists often run groups for children. These groups meet during school time and consist of other children from within the school, and the counselor runs the group. Some common themes of groups are social skills, anger management, divorce, grief, and self-esteem.Contact your child’s school or school counselor and see what groups are available. Choose which group may be best for your child.
 Your child may need multiple services at school to succeed. Work with your child’s teacher, school counselor, and principal to gain the best understanding and treatment for your child. Your child’s teacher may enact a behavior plan or academic support plan.Having the support of multiple people and sources at school can surround your child with support and encourage him or her to do well at school.


Ask if there are people your child can go to for support during the day.This can include the school counselor as well as the teacher, principal, or teacher’s aid. It’s important for the child to know he or she is supported at school.
 A community therapist may be a good option, since you may find one that specializes in difficult family situations or specifically with children dealing with incarcerated parents. Individual counseling at a clinic can help your child work through difficult emotions and find coping strategies.A therapist at a clinic may work with both you and the child during sessions, although most of the time will be spent with the child.


To find a therapist, call your insurer and find a therapist who is covered in your network. You can also ask if there are services specifically for families affected by incarceration.
The therapist will involve you in the initial meeting to ask you what goals you have for treatment, what behaviors you’d like to see improved, and how to improve life for the child.
The goal of therapy may be helping the child cope and understand the situation.
 Family therapy can benefit both your child and your whole family. Dealing with incarceration can be difficult for the family with changes in roles, dealing with loss, and the many changes that occur suddenly. Because the incarceration affects the whole family, you may want to seek treatment as a unit. Family therapy can help your family go through this hard time together and find comfort and support together.Reach out to your insurer to find a family therapist. You can also check any services provided by your insurance or in the community to serve those affected by incarceration.
 Many clinics offer group therapy for children. There may even be a group for children of incarcerated parents or for children dealing with difficult family situations. Groups are run by one or two therapists and generally involve small groups of children (or children and their caretakers) that meet weekly to work on specific issues. Group therapy can be a great way for the child to meet other children with similar stories and recognize that he or she is not alone.Call a local clinic and ask about opportunities for group therapy for children.
 You can find many websites offering help for those dealing with incarceration, whether it be for loved ones, partners, or children. Some major cities have specific resources geared toward individuals and families dealing with incarceration in the family. Do a web search to see what resources are available to you in your state, and ask what resources are available specifically to children.


This government website links out to state and local resources: https://www.childwelfare.gov/topics/supporting/support-services/prisoners/

This website also has resources for children and family of an incarcerated loved one: https://nrccfi.camden.rutgers.edu/resources/directory/


, An important part of helping a child cope with the incarceration of one parent is to provide stability as the caretaker. Many parenting resources are available to caretakers, such as Pathfinders and Parenting Inside Out. These programs serve to help children and families cope with the loss of a loved one due to incarceration and help lead to better outcomes for these children.In addition to finding counseling and therapeutic resources, find resources to help you be a caretaker to the child.
 Caregivers face specific challenges related to having a loved one incarcerated and also looking after children. You may experience sudden role changes, financial instability, and the emotional impact of seeing a loved one be incarcerated. It can be difficult to tell children about their parent and deal with the child’s understanding and emotions around missing the parent. For this reason, support groups exist to support caregivers.


You can find an online community or find a local support group, such as through the Children of Incarcerated Parents Partnership, located in Maryland.