 Choose the diaper only based on your weight alone. Don't choose them by the company or any of the additional features that certain bedwetting diapers may or may not have. While some bedwetting diapers max out at a certain weight limit that is lower than others, other brands may max out even higher and should fit the best. Don't look to buy for the specific diaper's features or by brand. While the GoodNites (Huggies GoodNites) branded diapers have bedwetting pants that range in sizes between people who weigh 38 to 125 lb (20 to 60 kg), these bedwetting diapers are by far the bedwetting diapers with the largest weight range and therefore the best possible diapers for most bedwetting cases. Most other bedwetting diapers (such as the Pampers UnderJams and the many store brand diapers) tend to only include sizes up to a smaller weight (focusing on the two to three year old crowd) who weigh anywhere from 38 to 85 lb (20 to 40 kg)) limit than most of the sizes that GoodNites are designed to be utilized in.;
, Although it's best if you open the package up with a pair of scissors, it is possible to rip into the package without a pair of scissors. Find the two little holes up the top of the package on opposite sides of the perforation and pull each side out, or if you want, tear open the bottom for a better way to grab ahold of only one diaper at a time.


If you accidentally tear into a diaper with your fingernails as you pull open the sides on top, you might have ripped too far into the diaper pant and it may need to get thrown out instead of being used later that night, so have your parents help you check to ensure you haven't accidentally ripped too far into it. (It'll be okay to trial run for size, but not okay for use during that night.)

, However, if the fit doesn't fit well enough on you, don't even try to test for absorption and leak rates - as you could, without using them, try to bring them back to the store for a refund in a short time following (in most stores) the trial run.
 There are some ground rules you'll need to hear in preparation for changing into this diaper every night (especially at first), but these rules aren't too complex to not understand them well enough at first. These may include preparing an extra few minutes (estimate about 15 minutes extra) before bed every night to change yourself out of your day-clothes and into your nightclothes and fresh, clean, new diaper, as well as having you help with diaper changes during the night should you need them (should a bedwetting accident occur). However, take the easy way out and have your parents help you during the night, so you become less startled. Either way, let your body relax to the fullest extent possible to ensure that you can't be overworked and stressed out, as stress can sometimes signal a possibility of a nighttime bedwetting accident.
 Double-check to ensure your bladder is empty and the potential for a bedwetting accident is low. Even though the diaper can help protect the bed-wash on-top of the fitted sheet from getting wet, if there's no urine in the person's body that is ready to come out that night, there should be no reason that the diaper would even need to hold any urine during the night until the next morning when you awaken.
 Recognize where new diapers are before you crawl into bed and have yourself become changed into your bedwetting diaper for the night within the estimated time frame permitted by your parents before bed. If you can't change your own diaper yourself or aren't mobile enough to climb out of bed on your own, cry and wail to alert your parents to have them help you change it (much like you did when you were a baby in diapers alone), but prepare yourself for your parents' cuddling embrace if you choose not to get up from bed or can't get up from bed without help.


Most children can and will be carried by their parents if they are of a length and weight that is permissible by parents to hold and carry without bumping into too much stuff along the walking route.
 Keep your mind only on falling asleep, which could take a little while to get comfortable with wearing one again. You'll probably twist and turn several hundred times for the first few nights and it could take awhile to try and get your mind off the diaper and back into pure-sleeping with a diaper on - you will come to the conclusion that it can help with prevention of wet beds during the night, eventually.
 Awakening yourself might not be easy to do for the case of a chronic bedwetter, but after a routine is set of waking up by your parents, this trick can be done after awhile.
 Identify diapers that were involved in a bedwetting accident that night as part of your routine if you shall awaken. If you can tell by the sagging feeling of the diaper when you walk to the bathroom (or your parents help walk you to it), it can help you mind learn that uncomfortable feeling means something your mind doesn't want to happen and you need to fight around and try and prevent it if possible before it happens.)


If you are awake enough to try and look on your diaper (if the following is present), try and look for a differently colored strip. This differently colored stripe indicates where wetness has happened in the diaper. And while some genders are easier to read than others due to the genital positions, this is an estimate of whether or not it was used during an accident.
 Getting any wet wash off the wearer will help the wearer feel more comfortable for the remainder of the night. Place this diaper to the side of the bed or in a nearby trashcan until it can be more properly wrapped and thrown away elsewhere the next morning.
 Don't drink any liquid, and try to make things serene again in the room before trying to get back to sleep. Play soft and subtle music/tones and create an "airy" atmosphere for the wearer to get back into their normal sleep pattern.
 Place any unused or gently used (sweat-only) diapers to the side so they can be used the following night. Place each unused diaper

, They weren't your fault; you did nothing wrong for having these accidents in them. Look towards the future of having an accident-free world; you will eventually have a time when you won't have accidents in your bed. Try your hardest to make it to the bathroom before the accident, but in the mere case that you wet one, realize it's your body's natural reaction and your body is strange and can't process correctly when your body's full of urine/can't process urine the proper way to help you get to the bathroom when needed during the night.
,, Whether the doctor is a pediatrician or a general physician in a group or not, take the opportunity to willingly talk to this doctor to discuss treatment options that you can follow that can work alongside the diaper routine you began in the nights leading up to the day you go in for the appointment. Your parents should be willing to take you to a doctor to try and discuss a course of prevention that you can follow that can work alongside the diaper routine these nights. Although it may be your first time that you've bedwet, they've heard from others how others start and what methods can and will work to make you diaper-free once more.
 Retire all the disposable bedwetting diapers from your ensemble of nighttime clothes once you've found you've outgrown them or your accidents have stopped occurring.
 If you or your children are super-young or are resistant to giving up their diapers in fear that their accidents may renew themselves over again, the parents can help them compile a chart to help them understand their accidents better and help them manage just how diaper-changes and when the time should come to stop the diaper-use stage. Children who are similar to you can outgrow bedwetting altogether within a few months and might not even need their diapers anymore.


Estimate how much liquid the diapers seem to absorb through each day of each week of each month; if the diaper is soggy-wet one month and barely sweaty-wet a few months later, the child might be coming close to outgrowing their bedwetting or have fully outgrown their bedwetting and may need to have the diapers confiscated for lack of use. If the child's wetting is not getting any better after a period of a month or so, take them to their pediatrician or doctor who should be able to treat them as they will have other treatment options (such as medicine and psychological therapy) that can help prevent their bedwetting from occurring in the future.
If you or your parents own an iPhone, there are several baby-like charting apps that can help organize how and when your diapers were changed during the night and can even help you track your progress. There might be some apps on Android that are similar but you'll have to find one yourself.
If you don't own a smartphone, track these on a calendar or write each change down on its own separate line of a lined piece of paper and watch these with a keen eye.
 Have them help you understand and be willing to talk to them about any other stressful problems you might be having.

