 An aerobic workout is one that speeds up your heart rate and breathing. Think of swimming, running, or biking. Even going for a walk is a great way to get your legs into shape and cut fat around your thighs. Try leg-specific exercises, such as


Riding a bike
Swimming
Stair climbing
Elliptical

, Toning your muscles requires periods of intensity to mold muscle fibers. Jogging is not going to do this for us, but interval running will. To interval train, run at top speed for 30 seconds and then jog for 1 minute to relax. After the minute is up, start sprinting again for 30 seconds. Repeat this pattern 10-15 times.


Remember to warm up and cool down before and after your workout.
 Deep lunges tone the thighs and the butt. To do one, step forward as far as you can with your right foot. Slowly lower your left knee and your waist down towards the floor, “sinking” into the lunge. Stand up and alternate sides, repeating each side 10 times, 3 sets in a row.
 These tone your inner thigh, or “thigh gap.” Lay on your right side and lift your left diagonally into the air, as if you were trying to fit a ball in between your thighs. Repeat 20 times, then switch sides. Work out each side 3-5 times.
 These are easily done anywhere you have a small ledge. Stand on a step or any raised surface on the balls of your feet, leaving your heels off the edge. Slowly stand up on your tip-toes and then lower your heels back down below the edge. Repeat 20 times, 3 times in a row for killer calf muscles.
 One of the most effective ways to build killer, perfect legs is to grow and tone your muscles. The rumors that lifting makes women look “bulky” are largely lies—weightlifting is a simple way to get better results, faster, and you will be in control of how big you get.While there are a lot of different exercise machines, these few exercises are a good way to start toning your calves, thighs, and butt:



Deadlift.
Squats
Leg Curls

, Proper technique is the most important thing to master when trying to tone muscles. Being sloppy leads to injuries and prevents your muscles from growing as quickly as they could otherwise. Some basic principles to remember include:


“No pain, no gain” is a myth. Exercises should be challenging but not painful, otherwise you are risking injury.
Aim for 3-5 sets of 10-15 reps with every exercise for the best results.

Keep your posture strong – back straight, joints never fully extended, and feet firmly planted on the ground.

