 The better you are at the game, the faster you will be able to attain experience, so that you have the option of entering Prestige Mode. Paying attention to all of the game’s indicators is extremely important.


Learn to use your UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) radar effectively. UAV radar is a visual aid that will assist you in both finding enemies on the map as well as knowing the position of your allies, which is equally important. It’s located at the top right of your game interface.
The most popular game mode in Call of Duty is Team Deathmatch. In this mode players are constantly respawning after being killed. The game always tries to spawn players as far away from enemies as possible. Paying close attention to the UAV radar will help you to deduce where your enemies are spawning.
In other game modes such as “Search and Destroy,” players only spawn once per round, rendering the UAV radar less effective.;
, By studying players who have mastered the game, you will be able to better understand how you can improve your own skills.


You can watch live streams on Twitch TV or videos that have been uploaded to YouTube.
 In Call of Duty, there are both static and daily challenges that you can complete for extra experience. Doing these challenges will allow you to level up faster. Some such challenges include:


Obtaining and using killstreaks/pointstreaks. You obtain these special abilities by getting several kills in a row without being killed yourself.
Using specific equipment and getting kills with them. There are many different choices for personal equipment ranging from mines, to claymores, to a throwing knife.
Maintain a good kill/death ratio. If you end the game having a kill/death ratio of 5:1+ or 3:1+, you will gain extra experience.
You can peruse a challenge list in-game from within the Barracks menu, which is located right under the Create a Class/Find a Game menus.
 The old adage holds true - practice really does make perfect. If you want to be able to Prestige and Prestige often, you’re going to have to put a lot of effort into the game.


Play with friends. Time will really fly by if you team up with buddies.
Play all of the different game modes available to you until you find which one you enjoy the most.
Make sure not to overdo it. Sometimes you will get into a rut and won’t be able to get many kills or you’ll make silly mistakes. Take a break and then return fresh. That downtime might actually lead to a faster leveling process overall.
 To be able to Prestige you must always finish leveling. After you’ve hit the maximum level, you will have the choice if you want to Prestige or not. If you choose not to Prestige immediately, you can always do so at any time in the future.


In Modern Warfare 3, you will need to reach Level 80, which amounts to 1,746,200 XP (experience points).
In Black Ops II, you will need to reach Level 55, which amounts to 1,249,100 XP.
In Ghosts, you will need to reach Level 60 plus an additional 60,000 XP, which amounts to 1,229,500 XP.
In Advanced Warfare, you will need to reach Level 50, which amounts to 1,002,100 XP.
 Choosing to enter Prestige Mode has both its benefits and its disadvantages, so it is important to understand what you’re committing to before you Prestige. You cannot undo Prestiging.


Each time you Prestige, you will lose all of your weapons and unlocks, which will make the game more difficult for you in the short-term.
You will gain a “Create a Class” slot which allows you to customize an extra equipment loadout.
You will gain the ability to unlock extra goodies such as titles and emblems. These are cosmetic benefits, but do show other players that you aren’t to be messed with.
 You can enter Prestige Mode easily by accessing the “Barracks” in game. It is a menu just below Create a Class / Find a Game.


You will be issued a final warning telling you what you will lose when you Prestige and that your decision is final.
Once you confirm your Prestige, your player icon will change immediately to represent your newfound awesomeness and you will be lowered to Level 1.
 In Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, upon reaching max level on your 15th Prestige, you will have the ability to enter “Master Prestige” mode. In this mode, each level will grant you a new weapon that was previously not unlockable.


Level 1 Master Prestige: Unlocks the BAL-27 Assault Rifle
Level 2 Master Prestige: Unlocks the MP-11 Submachine Gun
Level 3 Master Prestige: Unlocks the MORS Bolt-Action Sniper Rifle
Level 4 Master Prestige: Unlocks the TAC-19 Pump Action Shotgun
Level 5 Master Prestige: Unlocks the EM1 Energy Weapon
Level 6 Master Prestige: Unlocks the ARX-160 Assault Rifle
Level 7 Master Prestige: Unlocks the AMR-9 Submachine Gun
Level 8 Master Prestige: Unlocks the Ameli Light Machine Gun
Level 9 Master Prestige: Unlocks the AE4 Energy Weapon
Level 10 Master Prestige: Unlocks the IMR Assault Rifle
Level 11 Master Prestige: Unlocks the SN-6 Submachine Gun
Level 12 Master Prestige: Unlocks the ASM-1 Speakeasy Submachine Gun
Level 13 Master Prestige: Unlocks the Pytaek Light Machine Gun
Level 14 Master Prestige: Unlocks the HBRa3 Assault Rifle
Level 15 Master Prestige: Unlocks the ASM1 Strider Submachine Gun
Upon completing the additional 15 Master Prestige ranks, you will be anointed “Grand Master Prestige” and granted the Purple Royalty Armor.