 There is a line designating (on one side of the box) where you must tear/pull apart the box. Rip only at these seems/lines. (They are slightly perforated on these lines.);
,, Use either a very large unclutter table or Cool Whip containers to temporarily store the unused pieces. Technic pieces are styled into several types of pieces which include


Bricks are just like any other Lego-piece. Bricks don't play too big of a role in Lego Technic models however.






Pins help join and make the piece rotate to make the model move and connect one piece to another.






Beams are mainly decorative pieces, however, they do play a key role in making the model "come alive".






Bushes and joints also help secure axles to their associated pieces.






Power and transmission systems vary by model, however, just like on an automobile, they provide the necessary "get up and go" "juice" to perform the models' movement (if they need to be powered)






Chains and pulley's are also a necessary item and connect the motor to the transmission.






Levers and links vary by puzzle type. So have them, and some don't. Some are colored differently. They all work the same, but their length may differ.
 Each Technic model has two ways to create two different and distinct models, be sure to take the correct book or books for that specific style. Also, be sure to retrieve all the books that go with the model from the product box.
 This can include any sticker sheets or what-not. In the mere chance you would want to reassemble the model the opposite way, you'll need the other pieces.
 Although the "What you'll need list" at the front of the book helps, sometimes this info can get redundant when you've put together many models, since you'll know exactly what each piece will be able to conform to.
 You'll see a listing of parts by their part number (if necessary), quantity, color and shape. Bring out only these pieces you'll need from the bin or pile.
 Attaching the right pieces in the right order in the correct orientation is the key to correctly assembling a Lego Technic model.


For some often-times confused pieces, there are numbers in a circle on the back side of the piece that correspond to the number in the book.
 Be sure to match the stickers to the correct piece (by the piece number, if necessary)

, But you will have used up quite a grand majority of the pieces.Keep the remaining pieces to the model nearby (until you've decided to reassemble the puzzle the opposite way.


Try to keep all the booklets together with these pieces.
 Show off your "little piece of perfection" to people.

