 If you want to be successful in the film industry, no matter what position you want, you need to know exactly where your job ends and where someone else’s begins. Learn what the roles of a cinematographer are. There are many different job functions behind the camera. As a cinematographer, your job is to be in charge of the actual shooting of the film. Shot by shot.
The cinematographer is also often referred to as the director of photography (DP). You’re in charge of how the camera moves. How the lighting is set up. What angles are used, and more.
Your job is not to direct actors, get in the way of camera operators who are not you, tell the sound department how to set up sound, etc.
If you want to be successful as a cinematographer, you’ll need to learn the ins and outs of filming and where you belong.;
, In the film business, a fancy diploma isn’t always needed. But learning from professionals is the best way to get your foot in the door and learn invaluable skills.


Getting a proper education in film and cinematography will give you the tools and training to become successful. You will get to watch amazing films and shots and learn the techniques and terminology behind each move and element.
Taking classes will also give you the knowledge on what your job is and what the different tools you will need are. You will learn how to identify what different cameras and lenses to use. How to get difficult shots. When to use a steady cam versus a camera on a dolly.
Going to school for film is also rewarding. You will not only get to learn from professionals, but you will get to be graded on your work. You will learn when you aren’t doing something right and how to improve.
Schools also often have nice equipment that you otherwise wouldn’t have access to. You will get to make projects, build a portfolio, and network. You never when your professor might want to use you. Or your classmate who is now in Hollywood working on big budget films.
 In addition to going to school for film and working within an academic structure, you will also need to branch out on your own. School is invaluable. You will learn proper techniques and methods there. But practicing on your own will let you discover your own style.


Get a camera and start filming on your own. Take what you’ve learned from school and apply it to your outside work. Take what you like and what resonated with you. Learn to ignore what you don’t like.
The reason that filming outside of an institution will help you is because at school you will often be told there is a best way to shoot something. And in an academic sense, there is. But you should remember that you are an individual, and a storyteller. Your voice is through the lens of your camera and you should learn to speak it.
 Even if you’ve gone to film school for cinematography. A large part of your job is to always continue your education. The film industry is rapidly evolving and you need to not only keep up but stay ahead of it.


There are so many aspects to filming, and as the cinematographer, you’ll need to know most of those aspects better than anyone else on set.
Read forums, books, and articles on the subject. Stay up to date with new technology and filming techniques. Learn what cameras and lenses are good for certain lighting and shots and moods. New cameras are constantly coming out and changing how we think about film. Or, rather digital film.
You will be valued by your work. But also by your knowledge of your craft. If you’re the person who people come to with a camera or lighting question, you’re in a good place. You want to be the person that people know to come to with any questions. Whether it’s “What’s the newest camera out right now?” or “In that movie we just watched, how did the director get that awesome shot?”
Learn as much as you can. Magazines like the American Cinematographer Magazine and the American Society of Cinematographers are a great resource. You can stay up to date on news. Read and learn about iconic shots. And learn how J.J. Abrams and his cinematographer were able to do so many live actions in the latest Star Wars movie. , It almost sounds like an excuse to relax and watch your favorite movie. Except that to become a great cinematographer, you’ll have to watch movies differently than your average viewer.


Learn to look at films through the eye of the lens, not the eye of a viewer. Take notes whether on paper or mental. Watch for different shots, what makes these shots special or needed?
Your job is to be able to see a blank space and envision how you can tell a compelling story within a frame. Take notes on how the camera moves. How the lighting casts shadows to convey mood. How close the shot is to an actor and where on the actor the lens is. When and why the camera moves.
Watching movies with this kind of critical eye will help you to adjust your way of thinking about, and seeing film. You’ll be able to understand why a camera moves when it does and why it shows what it shows.

