 Each state has an agency that investigates and responds to complaints of elder abuse.The scope and power of APS agencies vary greatly from state to state, so once you locate the agency you may want to call and find out what the process is and what the agency can do.
Since nursing homes also must be licensed, your state's licensing board also may have a grievance procedure that you want to use.If the facility accepts Medicare or Medicaid, it is required by federal law to post the name, address, and phone numbers of state licensing and elder care groups. You can find your state's board and its requirements by searching online for "nursing home licensing board" and the name of your state.
 The agency typically will have a form you can fill out to report elder abuse. You may be able to download the form from the agency's website, or you may have to get a paper copy at the agency's local office.Although it's not necessary to have hard evidence, you should provide as many details as you have and include specific incidents that led you to suspect nursing home abuse.
The report typically will require the name and location of the nursing home, as well as the name and information about the person you suspect is being abused.
You should include any pertinent medical information about the person, especially if he or she has dementia, confusion, or memory loss.
 Once your report is received, the case will be assigned to a caseworker who will investigate the facility.Your report will be screened to determine how serious the threat is, so it may take some time to meet with a caseworker depending on the priority assigned to your case.
If something happens in the meantime or you acquire more information about the abuse, contact APS to find out how you can update your report.
Once you meet your caseworker, he or she will go over the agency's process and how your report will be investigated. You also will receive a general outline of the case plan with estimated time frames when you can expect to hear back.
 You may have to provide further information or assist the caseworker as he or she investigates the allegations of abuse.The APS caseworker typically will conduct an initial investigation, and may also complete follow-ups or unannounced visits.
Keep in mind that the caseworker cannot proceed without permission from the nursing home patient, so make sure you are talking to him or her throughout the process and that he or she is willing to allow the investigation to go forward.
After the initial investigation and report, the agency may continue to monitor the situation as necessary to ensure the abuse has ended and the nursing home remains in compliance with any orders.

