 One way to limit the effects of asthma is to make regular visits to your doctor. Going to see your doctor helps you get the proper medical care needed to treat and manage your asthma. Getting the proper treatment helps reduce the negative effects of asthma that may lead to damage.Regular visits with your doctor help you stay current with medications and treatments, and helps your doctor detect any developing problems early.
This also limits asthma-related emergencies.;
, Taking the medicine prescribed by your doctor helps you control your asthma. This helps you reduce any negative effects and improve your all around health. The kind of asthma that you have influences the type of medicine that you take.There are two types of medicines. Quick relief helps when you have an asthma attack. Long term medications aim to reduce the frequency and severity of your asthma attacks.
Taking your long term medication is important. Some people only take quick relief medication when they have an attack, but if you are not taking your prescribed long term medication, your lungs or airways may still be inflamed. This means you may be contributing to long term damage to your lungs and air passages.
 Another way to protect yourself and limit the long-term effects of asthma is to develop an asthma action plan. An asthma action plan helps develop management techniques to control your asthma. They also help you know what to do if you face an asthma attack or other complications due to asthma.Asthma action plans identify triggers and outline management techniques to deal with triggers, like avoiding places with smoke or using certain types of pillows and bedding. The plan also outlines your long term and quick relief medication.
An asthma action plan helps you learn to recognize the early symptoms of asthma, which can help you prevent an asthma attack from occurring. This can limit or prevent any damage to your lungs or airways.
 Some children live with asthma for years and don’t realize anything is wrong. It is important to diagnose the condition as early as possible to avoid any long lasting damage to the lungs. Even if someone isn’t having an asthma attack or problems breathing, their lungs or airways may still be inflamed, which left untreated can cause permanent damage, such as permanently changing the shape of airways, causing irreversible scarring, and permanently reduced lung function.If you are concerned that your child might have asthma, ask your doctor about running a lung function test on your child. It is non-invasive and can help distinguish asthma from other conditions that can present with similar symptoms.
Having annual physical examinations and paying attention to any respiratory symptoms can help you alert your doctor to any problems.
 You can use a peak flow meter at home to track any changes in your asthma symptoms. Peak flow meters are most helpful if you have moderate to severe asthma. Using a peak flow meter can help you detect early any worsening of asthma symptoms before they get too bad or irreversible.You and your health care provider can discuss when you should use a peak flow meter and how often. Your health care provider can use your peak flow readings to adjust your medication or action plan if needed.

