 A hornet, like a wasp, has a thin waist between the thorax and the abdomen. This physical trait is known as being "wasp-waisted." It distinguishes them from the bee family, which have thick waists between the thorax and abdomen.
 Unlike bees, which have a brownish-yellow and black coloring, and some other members of the wasp family, such as the yellow jacket and mud dauber, which have a bright yellow and black coloring, most hornets are black and white.Some species, however, such as the yellow hornet and the European hornet, are colored differently so it’s important to also look at the insect’s “waist.”

, One main difference between a hornet and a wasp, one that is easily recognizable either up close or at a distance, is size. For example, the only true hornet in the USA and Canada is the European hornet, which grows to be approximately 1-1.5 inches long. The maximum size for a paper wasp or yellow-jacket is 1-inch and usually they are smaller than that.Hornets, like wasps, have six legs and two pairs of wings., Unlike other members of the wasp family, the section of the abdomen closest to the thorax, called the gasters, is more rounded in a hornet than in other wasps. This makes it the first area to look when needing further clarification as to whether you are looking at a wasp or a hornet.
 Called the vertex, this section is wider, in terms of the overall body size, in hornets than in other members of the wasp family.
 While some other members of the wasp family fold their wings down the length of their bodies when resting, it is another indicator to help you narrow down whether you are looking at a hornet or a wasp.
 Bee stingers are barbed, causing them to tear out of the bee's abdomen when the target is stung, which also takes the bee's life. In contrast, hornets, like other members of the wasp family, have barbless stingers, allowing them to sting repeatedly without losing their stingers.While this helps differentiate between a hornet or wasp and a bee, if you’re this close you may want to walk quietly away.

