 This is an investment, so you'll want to spend your money wisely. The good news is that quality instruments appreciate in value: you can usually resell the instrument for at least the amount of the original purchase.;
, Remember that as a beginner a plastic clarinet (and resin and resonite) as it is more durable than wood and is much cheaper. Remember when it comes to clarinets, plastic is good, not bad. Do not think that plastic in clarinets is the cheap plastic, it is meant for the clarinet, and are practically indistinguishable to most listeners. For new or used clarinets, try Buffet-Crampon, Yamaha, Selmer Paris, or Leblanc for top notch clarinets. Selmer USA, Vito, and Jupiter make decent quality clarinets also. The best Student clarinets include the Buffet B12, Leblanc LB320, Yamaha YCL-255. As for intermediate clarinets the Buffet E11, Yamaha YCL450N, Leblanc LB210N, and Selmer USA CL211. Do not get tricked into buying any of these brands as they are extremely cheap and will hold you back as a student: Mendini, Cecilio, Merano, Conductor, Legacy, and Lazarro and brands on eBay that are from China with no name; some of those instruments are ok but ask an expert. You can also check out Orsi and Ripamonti, and Lark, which are lesser-known foreign brands that are mainly active in the lower price range. As for older brands, a great one to look into is Bundy - many music stores have fairly cheap secondhand Bundy clarinets. These companies make reputably sound clarinets for a decent price.


Look around at the different music stores that sell instruments in your area. Different stores have different prices and specials, so shop around.






Search the internet. There are no major tuning or tonal problems with the mainstream student clarinets, and you can pick up a used Bundy 577 or Vito Reso-Tone, as well as the Buffet B10 and B12, and Yamaha YcL-255 (or YCL-250 as its discontinued) for a good price on the internet. As long as there is a good exchange policy for those rare cases that there are missing pads or such, internet should be no problem with student models. You might start by searching the instrument brands' websites, but sites like eBay and Craigslist may also be an option.
 If you quit, then you won't have wasted too much money.
 Most large music stores, that sell mostly instruments will welcome having you test them.

