 Starting a friendship by pretending is a waste of both your time and efforts. Making a friend simply for the sake of having a friend is unfair to the other person and to yourself. Ensure that you are putting your true self forward in your interactions with others, and not presenting a different self to impress or fake an interest.When you are genuine, a friendship has the chance to develop naturally because each person acknowledges and accepts the experiences and opinions of the other.
 A central aspect of being a friend is feeling comfortable enough with the other person to disclose parts of yourself that are not known by the general public. When two close acquaintances engage in self-disclosure, the bond between them strengthens because you have transitioned beyond small talk to something more intimate and real.


Intimacy in a friendship is marked by self-disclosure on both sides. This means that you must be willing to share your thoughts, feelings, and dreams with the other person and vice versa.You must also be willing to keep this information confidential and not share it with others.
Self-disclosure does not necessarily mean that you must divulge your deepest, darkest secrets and desires. In fact, doing so would probably alarm the other person if the relationship has previously been casual. The best route to go is to start small and gauge the other person’s reaction. If they reciprocate and do not seem affronted by your self-disclosure, then your connection has moved into more intimate territory.
 Another important attribute about being a friend is dependability. A good friend is not necessarily perfect, but he or she is consistent in words and actions. You show up when you say you will and you make an effort to maintain the bond. Friendships formed in high school or college or through work can sometimes be much easier to maintain because you are pretty much forced to see and interact with the other person.In midlife, it takes much more effort.


Of course, you may not always be available to a new friend, but being consistent shows your commitment to the friendship. Call your friend regularly to check in. Try to make time to see the person whenever possible. And, most of all, make sure they can depend on you during trying times.

