 One of the biggest issues that prevents people from falling asleep in timely manner is the fact that they don’t unwind before bedtime. Generally, you want to avoid any activities that stimulate your senses before trying to sleep — take some time to identify which activities energize you and which relax you. Some general guidelines include: don’t watch T.V., read something exciting (like a thriller you can't put down), use your smartphone or tablet, or play video games before bedtime.

If you choose to listen to music before bedtime, make sure it is rhythmically slower and utilizes soothing tones. Listening to high-energy music, like metal or rap, could prevent you from falling asleep when you want to.;
, If you need to clean up during the evening or nighttime, you are much better off taking a warm, soothing bath. Showers don’t really help people relax or unwind the same way a bath does and showering late at night may be the reason you have trouble falling asleep., Another factor that may be preventing you from falling asleep is the climate in your bedroom. Make sure your bedroom is cool and comfortable with plenty of airflow when trying to fall asleep.It is recommended you keep your room around 65°F (18.3°C) when sleeping.If you find that this is too warm or too cold for you, however, it's okay to try decreasing or increasing the temperature.
If you don't have a thermostat, try using a fan to cool down your room. The fan can also provide white noise, which helps some people sleep.
 Resting or relaxing in a dark place helps to prepare the body and mind for sleep. Make sure your room is free of light. T.V.s, D.V.D. players, computers and alarm clocks with lights could all contribute to your problems with sleep, so make sure to deal with these sources. Also, make sure you have thick, effective blinds or drapes to eliminate any outside sources of light from slipping into your bedroom.Exposure to light interferes with your body's ability to produce melatonin, which helps you feel sleepy and fall asleep.
Light emitted by the screens of smartphones, tablets, and other devices is stimulating and can make it difficult to fall asleep. Limit use of these items before bed.
 Evidence suggests that it may be easier to sleep in a fresh, clean, or nice smelling space. Try using a diffuser with essential oils, a plug in deodorizer, or spraying the room with a mild room spray to lighten up your mood and the ambience in your bedroom.


Avoid burning candles around bedtime, as this is a serious safety hazard if you doze off before extinguishing the candle.

