 You don’t necessarily need to add anything to a sauce to thicken it. Instead, simply simmer a sauce until the flavor intensifies and the texture becomes thick. If you are cooking meat or fish, you can take out the protein while you thicken the sauce and then add it back in at the end.By avoiding the addition of flour and other common thickening agents, you can make your sauce lower in carbohydrates.


You can reduce and thicken sauces quicker by using a pot with a larger surface area.If you are in a hurry, you can divide the sauce into two pots and reduce them both at once., Many people use roux with flour and chicken stock to make enchilada sauce, which results in a high carbohydrate sauce. Instead of roux with flour, you can use tomato paste:Use a large and deep frying pan on a medium heat setting. In your frying pan, add three cups of chicken broth, three tablespoons of tomato paste, one bay leaf, a quarter cup of pure chile powder, two teaspoons of ground cumin, a teaspoon of dried oregano, half a teaspoon of salt, half a teaspoon of granulated garlic, half a teaspoon of onion powder, half a teaspoon of erythritol, a quarter teaspoon of chipotle chile powder, a sixteenth teaspoon of ground clove, a sixteenth teaspoon of ground cinnamon, and two tablespoons of butter, olive oil, or ghee. , Melt two tablespoons of coconut oil, which has plenty of healthy fats that are easily turned into energy.Next, add two tablespoons of coconut flour and stir it into the coconut oil until the two are thoroughly mixed. Finally, add one cup of almond milk which is low in carbohydrates and has lots of vitamin E, magnesium, calcium, and potassium.Add the sauce to whatever recipe you desire.
 Melt seven ounces of coconut butter in the microwave or in a small saucepan on the stove. Next, gradually add the coconut butter to the egg yolks in the food processor. Finally, add a tablespoon of lemon juice. By omitting any flour and using coconut butter instead of regular butter, your sauce will be low in carbohydrates and full of beneficial fats to carry you through the day.


You can make it even more low-carbohydrate by serving your eggs benedict with hollandaise sauce on iceberg lettuce or thin crackers instead of English muffins.
 Roux is a mother sauce in a lot of French and European recipes.Traditionally, roux is made with half flour and half fat, which is usually butter. To make a low carbohydrate roux, simply replace the flour with a low carbohydrate option such as coconut flour or chick pea flour.Coconut flour has very few carbohydrates and chick pea flour is especially great if you want to lower the gluten in your diet.Melt a cup of butter in a saucepan over a medium heat burner. Once the butter gets hot, you can whisk in three quarters to one cup of coconut flour or chickpea flour. You can cook the roux for twenty minutes to get a nice blond colour or for forty-five minutes to get a darker color roux. After cooking, place it in the refrigerator and break off pieces whenever you need some roux for a recipe.