 When you find out that you’re pregnant, you should talk to your doctor about products that you should begin to avoid. Your doctor may even provide you with a printed list of products that are known to have negative side effects. When a woman finds out that she is pregnant, she should consult with her doctor about personal care products and ingredients that she should avoid during her pregnancy. Sometimes, the doctor will provide a printed list of ingredients that should be avoided.


If you have any questions concerning certain products that you are or have been using, you should mention the brand names because the doctor might recognize them as containing potentially harmful ingredients.
The doctor might also suggest testing for certain chemicals that might have already accumulated in your body from using these products before you were pregnant.
 You should not make any assumptions that a brand that has a non-toxic personal care product will make only non-toxic personal care products because different products require different types of ingredients.Labels on all personal care products should be read and compared to the list of known toxic ingredients that need to be avoided. This includes labels on sunscreen, lip balm, hand lotion, make-up, and feminine wipes, among other products.
It might seem annoying or very time consuming for you to read the label on every personal care product, but it is important for the proper growth and development of your unborn baby, as well as your own health.
 If you have a lot of products and are feeling overwhelmed, ask friends or family members to help you go through your products to make sure that they are safe. The products that are deemed unsafe should be stored away until after your pregnancy, or thrown away entirely.


You should replace the products that you get rid of with products that you know to be safe.
 Products with artificial fragrances may contain phthalate, a chemical that can affect your child’s health.


Instead, look for products that are scented by essential oils and other natural fragrances.
 Lead is a toxic heavy metal, and if you drink or eat with lead-containing lipstick on, there is a chance that lead can reach your baby.


Lead can also be found in face powder, nail polish, and whitening toothpastes.
If you really love lipstick, get one with all-natural ingredients, essential herbal oils and natural waxes like a beeswax, candelilla wax, and castor wax.
 Nail polishes can contain chemical substances like Toluene, Formaldehyde, and Dibutyl Phthalate, all of which are harmful and may cause problems with your nerves, hormones or even cancer.


Read the label and find water-based nail polish without these three chemicals. These nail polishes are non-toxic and easily removable with alcohol.
 Shampoos often contain chemicals such as DMSM and hydantoin which, when they come into contact with water, emit chemicals that may be potentially carcinogenic, such as Formaldehyde, Diethanolamine, Triethanolamine.


Find a shampoo with organic natural ingredients. Try to wash your hair with baking soda. Add a tablespoon of baking soda to your wet hair, rub and rinse.
 You should be especially mindful of antiperspirants that claim they are long lasting. These products can be rich in aluminium.


Instead, look for natural antiperspirants that are scented with essential oils and natural ingredients.
 Antibacterial products may contain triclosan, which can cause damage to the baby's nervous system , low birth weight, and problems with the thyroid gland. Sometimes soap and water is sufficient for a good hygiene.
 They may contain chemicals that can cause breast cancer, bladder cancer or even leukemia . If you want to change your hair color, do not change it drastically and try to use natural products.


Blonds can brighten their hair by rinsing it with chamomile or lemon juice.
Brunettes can refresh their color with henna.
You can dye dark hair with a rinse made from sage leaves boiled in water or with color made ​​from walnut shells.
 Talcum powder (or talc) is a fine powder that can be found on condoms and surgical gloves, and in baby powder. Use products without talc and avoid products with this ingredient.
 In some locations, it might be hard to find certain types of personal care products that contain do not contain these damaging ingredients. If this is the case, try to go without using products for awhile.


Check in with your doctor every once in a while. Some products become safe to use as your baby develops and grows.

