 Coconut oil is naturally antiviral, antibacterial, and antifungal.Coconut oil should be your first ingredient, comprising about half of your oil base (about ½ cup). But coconut oil can also be stiff and difficult to work with, so you should think about using ½ cup of another oil as well. Excellent choices include olive oil, jojoba oil, or almond oil., Choose the dry herbs to use in your recipe. You will need 1/2 to 2/3 cup in total. These can be any combination of chamomile, calendula, comfrey, lavender, and/or plantain leaves. These can be purchased at many health food stores, specialty herb stores, or online.


Chamomile has anti-inflammatory properties, making it soothing and healing for skin.Calendula (or marigold) is anti-inflammatory and antiseptic. It increases blood flow to the affected area and promotes healing.Comfrey is anti-inflammatory. It aids in the repair of wounds and accelerates skin healing.Lavender is a natural antiseptic with soothing anti-inflammatory properties.Plantain leaves are antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, and analgesic., In addition to your dried herbs, you may want to add 10 – 15 drops of tea tree oil, lavender oil, or both. Essential oils are highly potent plant essences that have been extracted, and they contain powerful healing properties. Both tea tree and lavender essential oils are powerful natural antiseptics, and both contain anti-inflammatory properties.Essential oils can be purchased at many health food stores, specialty herb stores, or online.
 The last crucial ingredient for homemade antibacterial ointment is beeswax (either grated or in the form of pellets). Two other optional ingredients include raw honey and witch hazel. All of these ingredients can be purchased at health food stores, specialty herb or holistic health shops, or online.


Beeswax is a skin protectant. It keeps irritants off the skin and allows air circulation into the injured area.It also helps your ointment maintain the proper consistency.
Witch hazel is a natural antiseptic. It cleans the area and helps speed up the healing process.Raw honey also offers antibacterial activity. It also helps to maintain a moist wound condition, and provides a protective barrier that prevents infection., This first recipe allows you to choose from whatever dried herbs you enjoy, or what you happen to have on hand.This recipe calls for witch hazel and beeswax, but essential oils are optional. To follow this recipe, gather and measure out the following ingredients:


1/2 cup coconut oil
1/2 cup olive, jojoba, or almond oil
1/2 cup dried herbs of your choice
4 tbsp beeswax
2 tsp witch hazel
15 drops of lavender or tea tree essential oils (optional)

, This recipe calls for dried lavender, dried calendula, raw honey and essential oils.To follow this recipe, gather and measure out the following ingredients:


1/2 cup coconut oil
1/2 cup olive oil
1/3 cup dried lavender
1/3 cup dried calendula
1 tbsp raw honey
10 drops tea tree essential oil
5 drops lavender essential oil
4 tbsp beeswax

, No matter which recipe you choose, you will follow the same procedure, and will need the same tools. To prepare these recipes, you will need cheesecloth (or a coffee filter), a double boiler (or a glass/metal bowl set over a pot of hot water), and a glass jar with a tight-fitting lid. Gather these items and get ready to begin., In a double boiler (or a glass/metal jar in a pot of hot water) combine your base oils and dried herbs. Simmer for 30 minutes., After 30 minutes have passed, prepare a small bowl with a cheesecloth (or a coffee filter). Pour your oil and herb mixture through the cheesecloth to filter out the herbs.
 Return your infused oil to your double boiler (or glass/metal bowl). Now add the beeswax, and stir until melted. If you are using raw honey, add the honey at this time as well., Once the beeswax and honey (if using) are fully melted, remove from heat and allow your mixture to cool. When it has cooled down, add your essential oils and witch hazel (if using) and stir., Allow ointment to cool completely and transfer into an airtight glass jar. Store this in a cool, dry place. This ointment will keep for up to one year.