 After an act of betrayal such as cheating, you may feel torn about whether to continue a relationship with your husband or anyone else. Be confident that you can be stronger, happier, and more fulfilled in your relationships. You will feel more self-confident when you realize that you can have control about the future of your relationships. Ask yourself: Do you feel like your distrust of your husband is getting in the way of moving forward?
Even if your husband may not be motivated to change, do you feel ready to move on, with or without him? Understand what may be hindering you from change.
 Cheating isn't simply about sex. It is often about a loss of love and emotional connection. Whether you trying to rebuild your marriage or find someone new, the emotional connection is key to a healthy and lasting relationship. It will make you more confident about yourself and your partner.If you have felt distant with your husband, address this feeling with him openly. Learn to air out your emotions in a clear and concise way. Be willing to listen to his perspective without assuming you're to blame for his actions. Talk with him one-on-one in a neutral setting, possibly away from the kids, work, or family.
Do you feel able to rebuild an emotional connection? While you may not feel ready now, believe that you can be happier when you communicate effectively with your partner.
 Figure out what you need to feel loved and attractive. Your husband may have one view, and you may have another. Identify what things make you feel sexy and appreciated, and communicate that in a clear way. See how your husband responds. See if both sides are willing to work to make each other feel loved.


If you don't see the beauty within yourself, then now is the time to find that. You don't need a man to find that. It comes from within you.
 As you consider what the future holds for you, your self-confidence, and your love life. Think about how your self-confidence may be tied to feelings of validation, understanding, and satisfaction. When your relationship needs are met, you feel those things. So, ask yourself these questions:Do you feel appreciated?
Do you feel safe?
Do you feel understood?

, Rebuilding trust can be easier if you have some certainty that your husband is not continuing to communicate with the person or persons he had an affair with. If you have not already agreed to an open policy on emails, text messages, social media accounts, and any other forms of communication that he might use to communicate with people, then bring it up.Try saying something like, “Apparently, it will be easier to rebuild trust after infidelity if I can have access to your emails, phone, and social media accounts for at least a few weeks. Is this something you are willing to try?”
Keep in mind that if he is unwilling to share these things with you, rebuilding trust could take longer and you may deal with some suspicion during this time.
 If you are having difficulty with trust, love, and respect, find a third-party that can help to provide some perspective. Therapists and counselors provide an empathetic look on what is troubling you, your self-esteem, and your relationship.If you are trying to make the marriage work, ask your husband to join you for couples counseling. See if he is willing to participate in the process. Be wary if he rejects this idea, or thinks he "doesn't need counseling."
Consider going to counseling to focus on your needs and feelings. Counselors can help to provide healthy coping strategies and greater insight into your emotions.
Find providers that are covered under your health insurance. There may also be low or no-cost options in your community or through your place of worship.

