 Drinking brandy “neat” means that you are drinking it by itself with no ice or mixer. You taste only the brandy and nothing else, allowing you to fully experience the flavor.


Ice will melt and water down the brandy, ruining the flavor.
 The best brandies should be savored on their own. This will help you enjoy the flavor fully, heightening your experience and allowing you to truly get a taste of the best brandy experience., A brandy snifter or brandy balloon is a short glass with a wide base whose sides taper in at the top. It will have a short stem and come in many sizes, although no more than 2 ounces (60 ml) will usually be served at a time. These glasses are perfect for drinking brandy because they concentrate the subtle aromas at the top of the glass when nosing or smelling them.


A thoroughly clean snifter that has been air-dried prevents other tastes from interfering with that of the brandy.
 Brandies do not need to breathe like wine does. If you let it sit for too long then some of the volatile alcohols will evaporate. This will lose some of the character of the brandy.
 Many connoisseurs prefer to warm up the brandy because gentle heat enhances the flavor and aroma. The best way to do this is to simply hold the glass in your hand to gently warm it up. The wide base of the glass makes it easy to warm in your hand.


You also can warm the glass by pouring warm water in it and then pouring out before filling with your brandy.
Another way to warm the brandy is to carefully heat the glass over an open flame.
Be careful not to overheat! Overheating can cause the alcohol to evaporate and ruin the bouquet and flavor.
Do not swill the glass because you can lose some of the subtle aromas in the brandy.
 Nosing (smelling through your nose) the brandy at this distance will allow you to smell the floral notes and introduces the delicate aromas to your nose. This prevents your senses from being overwhelmed when tasting., Raise the snifter to chin height and take a deep breath through your nose. Nosing at this height will let you smell the dried fruit aromas in the brandy.
 When you bring the snifter up to your nose you can smell the spice aromas in the brandy. This nosing will be much more complex than the previous two.
 Your first sip should simply wet your lips so that it does not overpower you. The first sip should be the smallest possible sip and will bring the flavor into your mouth. If you become overpowered it may put you off tasting the brandy again.
 These are meant to acclimatize your mouth to the flavor. Only once your taste buds are acclimatized can you fully appreciate the taste of the brandy.


Drinking brandy is as much about the aroma as it is about the taste so make sure you continue to appreciate the aroma as you sip the brandy.
 If you are tasting a number of brandies then you should start with the youngest first. Always leave a small amount of each to come back to later- you will be surprised how much the first taste can change after your nose and palate have warmed up to the brandies.
 Both type and price can influence the way you taste a brandy so it is best to cover this information when tasting to really discover the flavors that you like. This can help you learn more about yourself as well.


You can mark the glasses on the bottom somehow before pouring them. Then mix the glasses up before drinking so that you do not know which is which.

