 Your classmates are ideal sources for helping you understand your homework, especially those who already completed the assignment or excel in the subject. You can ask your classmates for clarification on the instructions or for help in understanding the material itself.


Nowadays, it shouldn’t be too difficult to contact a few classmates through social media or texting. If you’re too young for social media accounts or your own phone, you can ask a parent to call one of your friends’ houses, instead.For help with the instructions, you’ll usually need to ask someone in your class. For help with the material, however, you might also be able to ask friends in another class who are covering the same information at the same time; in fact, their teacher may have presented the information from a different perspective, allowing them to introduce that fresh perspective to you, too.
For bigger assignments, you might even try organizing a study group for the homework assignment., If you aren’t able to get help from your classmates, older siblings and cousins can be your next best option, especially if they’re only older by a year or two. The information should still be somewhat fresh in their minds--they may even use the same principles in their current grade level assignments--so they might be able to answer any questions you have about the material.


You might also consider asking relatives who are the same age as you. It’s possible that they’re covering the same material now, or that they’ve covered it a few weeks sooner than your class has.
 While the information may not be as fresh in their minds as it would be for a sibling or cousin, your parents will still know a lot, especially if you’re learning information they use regularly or learning about a subject they enjoy.


You can ask other members of your extended family, too, such as aunts, uncles, and grandparents. Some individuals are better than others at certain subjects, and might be able to explain your homework and the subjects you’re studying in a way that helps you understand them better. For example, if you’re struggling with English, ask family members who love to read if they can help you understand your assignment.
 This option won’t be available to everyone, but if you have access to a private tutor or if your school has a tutoring center, you should definitely consider asking them for clarification on the homework material. They should be willing and able to help; after all, a tutor gets paid to help students.


Send an email or call your tutor if you have a question but aren’t scheduled to meet with them the evening you have it.
You can also ask your tutor if they have any advice on an assignment that isn’t related to the topic they tutor you for--e.g., you might ask your chemistry tutor for help on a math problem.
The worst that can happen in either scenario is that your tutor will say they are unable to help you.
 If your instructor has provided your class with an email address, and you’ve exhausted your other options, consider sending them an email asking for clarification. Try to be as specific as possible when explaining what part you don't understand, whether it deals with the instructions or the material itself, and ask direct questions that can clarify your confusion.For instance, you might type, "I'm confused about which problem set I need to do. I thought you said the problems were on page 86 of the textbook, but there aren't any problems on that page."
Understand that your teacher may not be able to respond right away. Even if they don't, you've at least communicated your desire to understand to your teacher, which may encourage them to spend more time on the material in future class sessions.

