 If they've requested you to sing a specific one, do that one. If you get to choose here are some guidelines for picking an audition song:


Choose a song with a similar style to the show you're auditioning for, but the song shouldn't be from that show.
Choose a song that shows off your vocal range (how high or low you can sing), but make sure it doesn't go so high or so low that you can't sing it well.
Avoid a song that's too commonly used for auditions. You want to stand out! Avoid Amazing Grace, as it is very overused for auditions.
Determine the best type of song for you. If you're a younger kid, you might be better off singing a faster, upbeat song. If you're an older kid or a teenager, you'll want to sing a slower song.
 Once you've chosen your song, you need to get to know it really well. Once you really know it, you can start having fun with it!


Listen to different versions of the song for ideas, but don't try to mimic exactly another version. Make it your own!
Learn the notes! It may seem obvious, but the director wants to hear that you are a strong confident singer, which you can't be if you don't know every note.
Read the lyrics a few times. Think about what the character is saying, feeling, and what their motivation is. You might want to consider highlighting lyrics where the feelings are really intense or when the character's emotions seem to change.
 During your song, the directors aren't just looking for how well you can sing. They're also looking to see how well you move onstage and if you have good stage presence. Think of the singing part of your audition as an addition to the acting part of your audition, but with notes and rhythm.


Add movement! Remember, movement doesn't mean dancing. The directors don't want a full-on dance number, but feel free to walk around onstage and to use gestures. Make sure any movements you do make sense with the lyrics and the character's emotions. Try not to illustrate every word, though - just do what you think the character would do while singing their song.
Act with your voice! Sing loud if the character is angry, soft if the character is sad, and so on. Sometimes you might even want to speak a word or phrase if you think it adds to your performance.
Use facial expressions. During your song use your eyes and eyebrows to convey your message. Use your mouth too, for smiling and such, but make sure that your facial expressions don't interfere with your sound.
 During your song, make sure you are always facing out, so the directors can see and hear you. Also, you need to project so they can hear you, because they're usually at the back of the theater. Projecting means to be loud. You can do this by taking big breaths and keeping your throat and mouth really open. Just make sure you don't belt. Belting is basically screaming and singing at the same time and it's not good for young voices.
 That will seem unprofessional and juvenile. Don't sing a song that is way above the appropriate age for you. If you aren't into musicals, research. Find something that you want to do or you can relate to.

