 YouTube, as you know, is powered by Google, which means Google’s Advanced Video Search engine will help you a lot in your quest for new videos.


Go to the Google’s Advanced Video Search engine page at https://www.google.com/advanced_video_search. There you will find a few more options to customize your search result.
There are two boxes there: “Find videos with” and “Narrow your results by,” which you can use to modify both your search keywords and time-indicator parameters.
Type the most relevant keywords in the “All these words” field. If you are very certain about your keywords, put that word or phrase in the “This exact word or phrase” field under “All these words.” The other fields should be blank.
Click on the “Anytime” tab next to “Posting date” in the second customization box, “Narrow your results by.” Choose your preferred parameter from the drop-down menu. You can select “Past hour,” “Past 24 hours,” “Past week,” and so on from the drop-down list. Leave other fields blank.
Hit the “Advance search” button at the bottom of the page to start the search using your preferred parameter and keywords.
 Trends Dashboard lets you find new content on YouTube using a more modified searching tool. With it, you can search for any recent uploaded content instead of using search keywords.






Click on the “Most Shared” or the “Most Viewed” link at the top right corner of the "Trends Dashboard." By clicking on the “Most Shared” link, you will see the list of the most shared videos on Facebook and Twitter in last 24 hours. Similarly, the link “Most Viewed” will show you the list of the most viewed videos on YouTube uploaded in last 28 days. This is the fastest way of finding out the latest video content on YouTube, which leverages the “Popularity” feature.
You can modify the new search results by selecting a location, gender, or age. Click on “Browse” tab at the top left corner, and select your preferred parameters from the drop-down menu.
 Go to https://www.youtube.com/charts. There you will find a list of videos will fall under “Popular Right Now,” “Just-Released Music Videos,” “Hot New Trailers,” “Learn Something New,” “Brand-New Tech,” and so on.


Scroll down the page to see all the titles. To find more videos under a particular title, click on the “Title” link on left side. You can also open it in a new tab in your browser by right-clicking and selecting the option “Open in new tab” from the drop-down menu.
 This will lead you to to the latest video content recommended by YouTube itself. With no need for keywords, just click on the “What to Watch” tab at the top left corner of your YouTube home page. You will see lists of videos both from YouTube trends and from your subscribed channels. It can be regarded as the newsfeed of your YouTube channels.


Scroll down the page, and choose one of the titles under this chart. You will see “Popular Right Now,” “Recent Sports Videos,” and your subscribed channels. This way, you find all the new content uploaded by your subscribed channels without having to browse or search through the channels one by one.

