 When writing a relative clause using a relative pronoun, the relative pronoun sometimes acts as the subject of the clause. Begin by writing a simple sentence. Choose a subject for the sentence.


Let’s say your subject is “George.”

, Now choose a verb and a direct object (which could be a noun or pronoun) in order to complete the sentence.


To find the verb, ask yourself what George is doing. Let’s say he is grilling: “George grills.”
To find the direct object, ask yourself what George is grilling. Let's say he is grilling meat “George grills meat.”

, Now, because a relative clause modifies (i.e. describes) a noun, you have two choices in this sentence for using a relative clause - "George" and "meat".


Let’s modify “George.” What could you say about George that is relevant to the sentence? What if George is a vegetarian? That would be relevant information for the reader to have.
Add the relative clause after George because you are describing him, for example: “George, who is actually a vegetarian, grills meat.”
This clause describes George—it is giving the reader extra information about him. Therefore, it is functioning as an adjective, as adjectives describe nouns. It is set off by commas because the information isn't essential to the sentence.
 However, the sentence given above is not your only option for adding a relative clause to the sentence. “Meat” can also be modified. However, because “meat” is a thing, you’ll use “that” or “which” instead of who.


For example: “George, who is actually a vegetarian, grills meat that will be eaten by his friends.” In this case, you do not use a comma after the word "Meat" because the clause changes the meaning of the sentence, so the information is considered essential.
If the sentence was “George, who is actually a vegetarian, grills meat, which isn’t vegetarian,” a comma is used before the word “which”. This is due to the fact that the information given in the relative clause is obvious and doesn't change the meaning of the sentence.
 If you want to use a different relative pronoun, try “whose.” “Whose” is actually a possessive pronoun; it shows possession. Let’s look at the basic sentence again, “George grills meat.” Think of it the same way you would use “his” or hers”; those words show possession, as well. Consider this addition:


“George, whose favorite pastime is cooking, grills meat.” This sentence could be divided up this way: “George grills meat; his favorite pastime is cooking.” However, when you add it as a relative clause, you use “whose” instead of “his.”
In this case, “whose” is actually acting as an adjective describing the subject of the clause, “favorite pastime.” It’s possessive because it’s George’s pastime; it “belongs” to him in a sense.
 “Whom” acts a bit differently than other relative pronouns. It is an object instead of a subject. Consider this sentence: “George, whom everyone loves, grills meat.” Without the relative clause, the same information could be expressed like this: “George grills meat. Everyone loves him.”


In the first sentence, look at the dependent clause, and rearrange it this way in your head: “Everyone loves whom.” While it sounds a bit silly, it makes sense if you replace “whom” with “George” (as that is what a pronoun does—it stands in for a noun, like “George”).
“Everyone” is the subject, doing the action; “whom” is the object. Because “whom” is the object in the clause—who the action is being done to—you use “whom” instead of “who.”

