 Before you start looking for adapters, determine exactly which devices you’ll be bringing along on your trip. You’ll need to refer to each one later on for additional information, but for now, simply check the electrical plug to each device. Expect them to have either two or three prongs.Two-pronged plugs are known as “unearthed” or “ungrounded” (depending on where you live), while the extra prong in a three-pronged plug means that it’s “earthed” or “grounded.”
The extra prong in an earthed or grounded plug is known as an “earth pin” or “grounding pin.” This is a safety feature, typically for devices made of metal or other conductive material, to reduce the chances of electrical shock.;
, Expect the designs of electrical outlets to vary country by country, or even region by region. Compose a list of each country that you will be visiting. For each one, search online for which type(s) of designs are used in that country so you can find adapters shaped to match.Designs for outlets and plugs are typically expressed in letters. For example, an American device with two prongs to its plug is type A, while an American device with three prongs is type B.
 If there are only two listed, one is most likely for grounded electronics, and the other for ungrounded. For each plug type you find for that country, count the number of prongs. If one has two prongs and the other has three, this means one is for ungrounded electronics and the other for grounded.


If any of the devices that you’re bringing have three prongs, you will need a corresponding grounding adapter for those items.If all of your devices have only two prongs, however, simply go with an ungrounded adapter, since these are typically cheaper.
 Expect many countries to stick to only one or two plug types. However, if your search turns up multiple types used in one country, contact the hotel where you will be staying and/or wherever else you expect to need your electronics the most (like an office if you’re traveling for business). Ask them which type of electrical outlets they have.


Maldives, for instance, uses six different types: C, D, G, J, K, and L.
 There are lots and lots of adapters on the market, either available direct from manufacturers or retailers, so do some comparative shopping first. Factor in which devices you’ll be bringing, how many you’ll need to plug in at one time, which countries you will be visiting, and which plug types they use. Check customer reviews and online forums to help you select an adapter or adapters that will fit your specific needs. For example:You can buy kits that include multiple adapters for different countries, or an all-in-one adapter featuring multiple plug types. However, some may work with grounded devices, while others are intended solely for ungrounded ones.
If you plan on using multiple devices at once, you could buy an adapter that accepts more than one at a time. But you may find that customer reviews for one such product indicate that it’s too heavy to stay plugged in with certain countries’ outlets.

