 If you find an incorrect amount on your bill, take note of the date on the bill and look for any information regarding the company's dispute procedure.


If you don't send the company notice of your dispute within a certain period after the date on the bill, you lose many of the protections available to you under state or federal law. For example, to use certain protections available under federal law for credit card disputes, you must notify the company of your dispute in writing within 60 days of the date on the bill.The bill may include a phone number or address you should use if you have a dispute about the bill. If the company has its own particular dispute process, this may be explained as well.;
, If you see an unfamiliar amount or an entry you believe is in error, your own receipts or other documents may clarify the situation.


If you end up filing a formal dispute with the billing company, you also will need to provide copies of any documents you have that support your claim.
 Before you start a formal dispute, talk to a representative to make sure it isn't a simple clerical error.


In some cases, an obvious error can be corrected over the phone in a few minutes without needing to go to the effort of sending a written dispute letter.
If any action is taken on your account to correct the error, ask for written confirmation of that action. You may need proof later if the account is reviewed by someone else.
 If the bill actually is incorrect, you'll need copies of whatever evidence you have to prove the correct amount (if any) you should have been charged – don't send the originals, as you may never get them back.


In some situations it may be difficult to find evidence to support your position, especially if you're trying to prove a negative. For example, if there's a charge on your credit card bill for dinner at a restaurant where you've never eaten, there's no way to document that you didn't eat that meal. However, you may have other receipts that prove you were somewhere else at the time.
 Many government departments and consumer protection agencies have sample letters available on their websites which you can use as guides.The type of bill you're disputing may dictate the information your letter must contain. For example, if you're disputing a credit card bill, you must include your account number, the specific bill, a statement that you dispute that bill, and the reasons for that dispute., Typically whatever word processing application you use will have a template available for a traditional business letter.


Generally, your letter should be printed on white or ivory letter-size paper with standard margins and font size. Lines should be single-spaced with a double-space between paragraphs., At the top of the letter, you should include your name and address as well as the name and address of the company to which you're sending the letter.You also should date your letter. If you want to use a subject line, include your account number and the reference number or date of the bill you wish to dispute.Since you typically won't have the name of the person to whom you're writing, use a standard salutation such as "To Whom It May Concern," or "Dear Sir or Madam.", Include your account number, if any, along with the date on the bill so the company can retrieve it from its records.If the transaction itself that you're disputing has a reference number, you should include that as well. Otherwise, simply include details about the date and description of the transaction.
You also might consider attaching a copy of the bill with the incorrect entry or amount circled.
 The company will need to know the reason for your dispute.Keep your explanation brief and stick to the facts. For example, if a transaction for $300 appears on your bill, but the purchase itself only totaled $30, you could state "The entry on your bill indicates I owe $300 for items purchased, but I only purchased $30 worth of items at that store on that date. I have attached a copy of my original receipt for the purchase."

, Your closing paragraph should reference the copies you've attached and thank the reader for their attention to the matter.


For example, to reference your attachments, you might write "Attached please find a copy of the disputed bill with the incorrect items circled, as well as a copy of the original receipt indicating the correct purchase amount."
If there's a specific resolution you desire, such as having the amount corrected or having the charge removed from your account, state this clearly.Try to keep your tone respectful and professional, yet cordial. Don't express anger or threaten complaints or legal action.
Leave space for your signature, then type your name along with any contact information.You may want to include your phone number or email address if you'd prefer the company contact you that way rather than mailing you a letter. However, don't forget to request formal written confirmation of any such communication you have regarding your dispute.
 If you have any documents indicating the correct amount of the bill, sharing those with the company will enable a quicker resolution to your dispute.For example, if you have a receipt that shows a different total amount for the transaction in question than the amount listed on your bill, a copy of that receipt supports your claim that the bill is in error and should be corrected.
You may wish to list titles of these documents at the bottom of your letter as enclosures.This way the company can keep track of all the documents that should be kept with your letter after it's received.
When you've completed and signed your letter, make at least one copy of your letter and all the documents you attached so you have it for your records., Using certified mail or a private carrier that provides tracking so you'll know when the company has received notice of your dispute.


Make sure you're using the correct address for billing inquiries or disputes. The company may have several different addresses for different departments, such as customer service and sales. You may not be able to invoke legal protection if you send your notice to the wrong department.For certain types of bills, you gain certain protections under state or federal law if you dispute the bill promptly. For example, if you're disputing a credit card transaction, the company cannot legally close your account for nonpayment or seek collection of the disputed amount until the dispute is resolved., If you had the ability to track your letter's delivery, you'll get proof of the date when the company received it; however, the company also may be required by law to notify you of receipt.


For example, if your billing dispute is with a credit card company, federal law requires the company to acknowledge your dispute within 30 days of the date it receives your written notice., Once the company receives your letter, it may take a few weeks to hear back regarding the outcome.


If your dispute is with a credit card company, they have two billing cycles (or 90 days maximum) to either correct your account or explain why your dispute has been rejected.Typically, you don't have to pay the disputed amount while the company is investigating your claim. However, you remain responsible for any undisputed amounts, so if the bill includes both disputed and undisputed amounts, you should go ahead and pay the undisputed portion to avoid any fees or penalties., If the billing company determines the bill was incorrect, you won't be responsible for the disputed amount.


Although you may receive a phone call, typically the billing company is required by law to respond to your dispute in writing. The company may correct the error in whole or in part.If the company investigates and doesn't find enough evidence to justify changing the amount you disputed, it must send you a written explanation as to why your dispute is being rejected., You may need to appeal the decision to a higher authority within the company or take additional steps to get the result you want.


You typically can request information or documentation from the company if it investigated your dispute and determined that your bill was correct.If the company investigates and determines that you owe all or part of the charge you disputed, you generally must pay that amount promptly to avoid additional fees or penalties.
In the meantime, you may choose to escalate your dispute to higher levels of the company itself or to a third party or the courts. Keep in mind that although you may choose to continue fighting your dispute, not paying the disputed charges after the company has rejected it may result in fees or increased interest on your account. If you ultimately win your dispute, these charges would be removed from your account., Even if you're able to resolve your dispute over the phone, a written confirmation of the agreement provides proof it was made.


In some cases, state or federal law may require the company to send you confirmation of the resolution of your dispute in writing. For example, federal law requires a credit card company to send you written notice of its decision regarding your dispute and the action to be taken on your account within 90 days., If you're unable to resolve the dispute to your satisfaction, you might be able to get a better result from a consumer protection agency.


For example, if you have a billing dispute regarding a credit card, vehicle loan or lease, mortgage, or other financial service, you can file a complaint with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.This federal agency was created to assist consumers and help ensure fairness in financial transactions.In the case of a bill you received from a merchant or other private business, you also might want to file a complaint with the Better Business Bureau or with your local chamber of commerce describing your dispute.

