 People love talking about themselves. If you can find something the other person is interested in, a simple question could have them talking for quite a while. Never underestimate a person's willingness to talk about themselves.


This is where the listening part really comes into play. If you don't take mental note of what the other person said, it's going to be hard to use those conversational nuggets as reference points when you're asking questions.
 A yes/no question is a conversation killer, because it allows people to take the easy way out and give only the bare minimum when answering a question. Ask more from your conversationalist when posing a question.


Instead of asking the question "So, you studied a year abroad in 2006, is that right?" try asking "What was it like studying abroad in 2006?" The second question will give the person you're talking to more to answer with.
But if you automatically ask "Did you study abroad in 2006?" and they say "Yeah, I did," you can smile and say, "Really? What was that like?" Again, road bumps happen to the best of us, but thankfully recovery's not too difficult. This doesn't mean that you can never ask a yes/no question (some things really are that simple) but if you do then you should have a way to build on it and keep the conversation going.
 Just as important as knowing that asking a simple yes/no question is not the greatest way to keep a conversation going, know that answering with a simple "yes" or "maybe" will kill the conversation immediately. Instead, give the person the benefit of elaborating if they ever ask you a simple question.
 It's not so much faking enthusiasm as psyching yourself up when asking a question. It's not exactly hard to do, and it makes the other person feel appreciated.
 Maybe the conversation was died down a bit and silence has taken over. Comment on it in a joking manner. This brings the awkwardness out front and center, making it suddenly something neither of you are afraid of.


Say something like: "I don't really mind talking about the weather, but we exhausted that pretty quickly. I'd much rather talk about you." Then ask them a question, such as "What's the most impulsive thing you've done in the last couple of years?"

, Although it's difficult to do well, many people enjoy bringing their conversation to a deeper level because it's satisfying and makes them happier. If you get the sense that the person you're talking with enjoys more than superficial talk, don't be afraid to go there with a pointed question.


Go deep after you've gotten the formalities out of the way. Starting off deep isn't recommended. A conversation is like a meal: you want to get your appetizers out of the way first before you dig into the main course and the dessert.

