 You need plenty of sleep to have a lot of energy in the morning. Also, if you get a lot of sleep you won't feel crabby in the morning.;
, Wash your hair every other day. To shower, First apply shampoo and wash thoroughly. Then add conditioner to your hair ends. Shave your legs and underarms. Wash your body and after that wash the conditioner of your hair ends. Don't forget to wash your teeth three times a day.
 You should do this so your skin isn't red.
 It moisturizes your skin and keeps it happy and healthy.
 This means wearing only three bracelets per arm and two necklaces max.
 Try to do something different everyday.
 Now this doesn't mean no more you time, it means helping others more often.
 Do not go over the top!

, Don't change for anyone.
 This means no bad language or profanity.
 Make your voice isn't too loud or too soft. Try to speak in a gentle tone.
 People are going to make fun of you in life and you need to learn to deal with it.
 Also, get good grades to get accepted into a good college. Do your best in school. Don't give up right away when you don't know any answers to the math worksheet, try harder. Ask a teacher or friend for help.
 Write in it 4-5 times a week. It is worth the time. If you think it's nerdy or uncool, don't worry. It can be private and no one needs to know you keep it. Just label it "SCIENCE JOURNAL" and problem solved. No one will think its your diary.
 Exercise about each day for 30 minutes and make it make you sweat - yes sweat. Take a dance class, go jogging, biking, join a hiking club, play tennis, racket ball, soccer, basketball. Do aerobics. Do something. It will improve your fitness, but more importantly it will improve your outlook on life and the world. Exercise is a secret potion to happiness and well being and being happy always makes you more attractive. Being fit is always more attractive than not being fit. And don't think you have to be like a skinny model to be fit. Fit means you can run and enjoy it.
 Don't dye it or bleach it.
 Wear lip gloss and a light pink blush.
 It will make their day.
,, Instead of dreading going to school/work, you can put on a smile and say "I am going to have a great day!"

,, If not who would think you are perfect. Be sure to be honest.
