;
,,,, In other words, do not join the last stitch of each row to the beginning stitch; just continue around over the top of the first stitch.
 Chain 9, 3 sc in the first st, sc in the next 6 stitches, 3 sc in the last st. Continue around the back side of these previous stitches, sc in the next 6 stitches. An oval shape will have formed. Continue to increase 2 sc at each end of the oval until you have increased to the desired width of the foot.
, In example: continue with 28 sc around the sock, forming a cylinder, until the piece measures 7.75 inches (19.7 cm) for the length of the sock. Be sure that the number of rows on the front of the sock is equivalent to those on the back of the sock.
, The heel is made on the back half of the sock. Divide the number of sc around the sock by 2, such as 28 divided by 2 equals 14. Working only on these 14 sc, decrease one sc at the beginning and one sc at the end of "every other" row until the desired length of the heel. There should be about 10 sc remaining in the final decrease row. Then begin to increase one sc at the beginning and one sc at the end of "every other" row until 14 sc remain in the final increase row. Decrease rows should be equivalent to increase rows. The heel will resemble an hourglass, wide at the top and bottom and narrow in the center.
,, With right sides together, fold the heel in half at the narrowest part of the hourglass. Stitch the sides together using a yarn needle and the same color yarn. Make a very solid stitch where each strand of yarn is directly next to the other. Turn the heel right side out. The base of the sock is now complete with an opening for the foot. It should resemble a slipper.
 Sc around the top of the opening until the desired length of the calf.
, The cuff is made to stretch. Sc in the back loop of the next sc. Sc in the front loop of the next sc. Continue to alternate back loop sc and front loop sc. Align each back loop sc on top of another back loop sc and each front loop sc on top of another front loop sc until the desired length of the cuff.
,