 The easiest way to know whether or not the plants you buy from a specific vendor are organic is to shop with a vendor that only deals in organic goods. Odds are, an organic nursery, garden center, or shop will do the work of checking out the conditions the plant was raised in before selling it. Moreover, as it sits there, the plant will receive organic care and will probably not be treated with any chemicals. This is especially true if the store has some type of official certification from a nationally approved or third-party organic organization.;
, Neighborhood garden centers tend to have a more personal connection to the sources they buy from and to their customers, and this personal touch extends to the quality of merchandise sold there.


Simply put, a local source is more apt to pay attention to who they buy from and how the plants they purchase are cared for prior to purchasing them. Since these stores have limited resources and need to maintain a high level of care in order to avoid wasting stock, they are also more likely to take greater precautions when caring for plants. Many of these precautions will include using organic measures, especially on fruit and vegetable plants.
 Typically, a farmer’s market will only sell products of organic farming rather than organic plants, but a large enough market will likely carry a few organic plants, as well. Aside from the fact that farmer’s markets are a good source of organic goods, one advantage of buying an organic plant from a farmer’s market is that you know the plant likely came from a seed or cutting of a healthy plant in the grower’s garden or field.
 It is true that big box stores tend to have fewer organic plants to choose from and tend to be less dedicated in their methods of care, but they can be a good source for perennials and hardy shrubs as long as you buy during the correct time of season and examine the quality before making a purchase. Moreover, these stores generally do maintain organic methods of care for plants marketed as organic, if for no other reason than the fact that selling non-organic plants as organic could cause a business scandal.
 Using the Internet for any organic good can be both tricky and convenient. On the one hand, scammers abound, and you have no way of checking the quality of plants before you buy them. On the other hand, you can find a greater selection online and can comparison shop with greater ease. If you decide to buy online, make sure that the merchant is a certified organic seller and that the vast majority of reviews about the merchant are positive.

