 You may think scheduling time for sex is not romantic, or that sex is better when it’s spontaneous, but give it a chance. If you are always "too busy," this is one way to nail down your priorities.Plan one day each week that you commit to having sex with your partner. Throughout the day, build up the excitement and build the tension. Make it something you and your partner look forward to doing.
 Even a short weekend away can alleviate the burden of daily life. Sometimes work, school, or kids present too many distractions that interfere with your sex drive.Break away from routine by eliminating distractions and allow your focus to be on your partner and your relationship.


If need be, find a babysitter (or pet sitter) and take a mini-vacation. It can be as simple as camping in the woods or going to a little motel down the road.
Your budget won't allow for travel? Take a vacation at home by shutting off the computer and cell phones, turning off the TV, and making a point to connect with your partner.
 Light some candles, invest in some silky sheets, and make your bedroom a sanctuary for the two of you. Create positive associations in the bedroom and get rid of anything that doesn’t appear inviting: piles of laundry, work papers, or children’s toys., If you've been passive leading up to your intimate sessions, take the lead for a change. If you feel like you're always the one to initiate sex, talk to your partner about it and tell them that you don't want to feel like the sex hound in the relationship. Make sure everything is out on the table and that you're both satisfied with the way things progress., Your sex life is about more than what happens between the sheets. If you're not close emotionally, if you're not spending time together and understanding each other, the sex will suffer and so will your relationship.You have to talk and you have to spend time with each other, taking care of every aspect of your relationship.


Feel comfortable enough with your partner to share your hopes, fears, dreams, and desires. Experience vulnerability by opening up and being accepted by your partner.
 If your fears of intimacy or anxiety greatly impact your relationship, consider seeing a therapist. A therapist can help you explore ways to experience intimacy with your partner, work through anxiety, and communicate more effectively. You can see a counselor as a couple or individually, or both.A therapist can help work through problems that may interfere with intimacy, such as past sexual abuse, emotional problems, and can help foster safe and positive attitudes toward sex.
For more information, check out How to Find a Sex Therapist.

