 For a casual chic look, wear some skinny jeans with a tight tee and matching shoes. Throw in a matching jacket. Very comfortable! Make sure you add accessories, like hoop earrings in crazy colors, to take some of the lazy look out.
 Wear a pair of dark-wash jeans with a light shirt. Wear fun flip-flops, flats or wedges with that. Wear chunky jewelry, and play around with what looks good with what!

, Wear black skinny jeans with a white shirt and a black jacket. Pair it with black flats or shoes and an adorable necklace, bow and earrings.
 Wear a pastel polo shirt and dark wash shorts. Put on a basic V neck shirt and a cardigan. Add fun charm bracelets, pearl earrings, and a pretty necklace to your outfit to make it stand out.
 Wear a pair of battered up boot-cut jeans. Put on a spotted shirt. Wear thick rimmed glasses, cowboy boots, a polka dot purse and cute feather earrings. You will definitely stand out.
 Wear some battered up combat boots, skinny jeans, and a rainbow belt. Put on a black shirt and some bright and colorful statement jewelry. Toughen up your look with a messy hairstyle and a skull tank top underneath.
 Wear colorful skinny jeans, a white shirt, and Hello Kitty shoes. Put on a cupcake necklace and Hello Kitty earrings. Wear a black studded belt and tease up the hair. Put on huge sunglasses.
 Wear a pink shirt and light wash shorts. Add a pink bow to your hair, pink earrings, a Hello Kitty necklace, a pink chunky bracelet, and canvas shoes. Make sure the shorts are on the shorter side of your school dress code.
 Wear a tight tee with a zip sweatshirt that says Hollister or another brand name on front. Wear jeans and sneakers. Try the ' glam messy bun ' with 2 skinny sport headbands in with it for a cute, glamorous look; while keeping it sporty.
 Have a game? Wanna look cute? Put your hair up into a messy bun. Put one headband in about an inch behind your hairline. Put another skinny hold headband in behind the first. Spritz with hairspray. You can also do a very high, preppy ponytail. Simple, but elegant. Try a pouf ponytail. Keep your shoes clean and your uniform tight. If you do sports, do glamorous ones, like volleyball, dance, cheerleading, swimming, or softball, not basketball or soccer.

