 Being a parent can be very challenging, especially when it comes to raising a child accompanied by the excessive demands of work. While you may have a lot of stressors on your life, try to pause a take a few breaths when your child does something bad. This will help to keep you from losing your temper and yelling.


Collect yourself by removing yourself from the situation. You need to calm down so you can think and act better.;
, It is your responsibility as a parent to begin with managing your own emotions rather than solely your child’s behavior alone. Evaluate yourself and determine if you need a timeout to control how you are feeling.


Step out of the room and practice some breathing exercises. You can also try meditating to take your mind off of your frustration.
 Perhaps you feel like your child will hear you better (and understand your message more clearly) if you raise your voice. However, this is not the case; your child may be more upset when you yell, and may not understand why you are doing so.


Yelling can lead to feeling guilty and feeling like you could have handled the situation better.
 Understand the power of words. There is a great impact on how the words are spoken with what you are really trying to say. Even if you are simply instructing him/her not to do something, yelling your thoughts can make the words seem more hurtful than you mean them to.
 If you feel like you need a little extra support to keep yourself from yelling, talk to friends or family about how they deal with frustrating situations.


If you don’t feel like you have anyone you want to talk to, consider talking to a therapist or joining a support group where parents can talk to one another about their experiences.
 If you find yourself yelling, stop yelling and take a couple of breaths. Apologize for raising your voice, and then calmly explain to your child why his or her actions frustrated you. Put the emphasis on the action, rather than on your child., Make sure that your child knows what you expect of her, and that you will be upset if she does not act or do what you would like her to. Explain to her in detail how you expect her to behave, and why you expect these things from her. For instance, you expect her to keep from calling another child names because it is important to treat people the way you want to be treated.
 Set an agreement with your child; you could even put an agreement into writing outlining how you expect your child to behave.


One such consequence could be sitting in the ‘timeout’ chair for a certain length of time. Another could be having something taken away, such as a favorite toy or a device of some kind.
 Remind him/her of your agreement and remind her that you expect him/her to behave well. You can also remind him/her of the consequences of his/her actions, should he/she choose to continue behaving poorly.


A warning could be saying that your child has to the count of three to stop doing whatever bad behavior he/she is doing. If you make it to three and she doesn’t stop, enact the consequence.
 Because you have already decided what the consequence should be, and your child is well aware of the consequence, simply move right into reprimanding your child in this way when he/she behaves badly. If you have given him/her a warning, but do not follow through with the consequences, your child will think that she can get away with acting badly.


Remind your child of your agreement. Be firm, yet fair and do not make the consequence harsher than you have already agreed on.
 You can make your child listen to you even without having to yell. First, make eye-contact with your child, as this is a way to let her know that what you are going to say is important. Then calmly discuss with him/her what you want her to do.


Squat down so that you are at eye level with your child.
If you are reprimanding a teenager, sit your child down and sit across from him/her so that you can look him/her in the eye.
 If your child repeats the same bad behavior, talk to your child about why he/she is acting this way. Maybe there is an underlying cause making him/her feel like he/she has to hit his/her brother or sister, or steal cookies.


Often, kids will behave badly to simply get your attention. If this is the case, make sure to give her plenty of attention when she is behaving well.
 While consequences are necessary for bad behavior, positive reinforcement is necessary for when your child behaves well. Give her hugs and kisses when he/she does something good, and tell him/her about how proud of her you are. This positive reinforcement will make him/her much more likely to stick to the good behavior.


Decide whether to give rewards for good behavior. Sometimes, giving rewards can make children think that they should only act nicely in order to get rewards. Instead, praise your child rather than giving him/her actual toys or candy.
 Children often mimic their parents or guardians. Because of this, it is important to act like how you want your child to act. If you continue to yell, chances are that your child will think that yelling is an ok thing to do.


Demonstrate the behaviors you expect of your child, like sharing and being nice.
 Listening to your child, and spending family time can help to build trust and respect between you and your child.


Do activities together than you both enjoy, like going to the zoo or spending time drawing or playing make believe together.

