 It's important to warm up before any exercise to loosen up your muscles. Jumping on the elliptical for 10 minutes is a great way to get your heart rate up and the blood circulating through your body. Then grab something much lighter than the dumbbells you plan to use for the row. Some smaller free weights or even two water bottles could do the trick.Stand with the lighter objects at your sides. Then lift the objects to shoulder height while flaring your elbows out to your sides until they're parallel with the floor and just below chin level. Repeat this motion with the light weights 10-15 times to prepare your muscles for the dumbbell upright row.;
, Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart, your back should be straight and your knees slightly bent.Keep your chest high and eyes forward. Good posture is important whenever you’re weight lifting., Sit with your feet on either side of the bench. Be sure to keep good posture with your shoulders back and head straight while you straddle the bench. Never slouch or slump, as this could cause injury or discomfort and renders your workout less effective.
 Grip one dumbbell in each hand with your thumbs curled around the handles and your palms facing the front of your thighs. Your hands should be slightly less than shoulder width apart. Rest the dumbbells atop your thighs while keeping your arms extended, and slightly bent at the elbows. This will be your starting position.The weight of the dumbbell depends on your arm strength. Choose a dumbbell that will challenge you. If you are straining just to pick up a dumbbell it is too heavy for you at this time, select a lighter weight to begin as using one too heavy can strain your back., Keeping your core muscles contracted helps align your spine and keeps the correct posture necessary for this exercise. To do this, crunch your abdominal muscles to form a stiff core of muscle support. Some people try to engage their core by simply sucking in, do not do this! Focus on using your midsection muscles and flex as if bracing for a punch to the stomach., Knowing when to inhale and exhale helps you gain stability throughout your workout. Take a deep breath in the starting position and exhale as your pull the weights up to shoulder height.An easy way to remember how to breathe while weight lifting is to always be exhaling as you push or pull the weights. Think of it as using the force of the air leaving your lungs to help you move the weight.
 Slowly pull the weights up to the front of your shoulders with your elbows leading out to your sides. Your elbows should be slightly higher than your wrists and not pointing forward at all.Squeeze your shoulder blades together as you're raising your elbows outward, and flex your wrists as you’re pulling the weights up.Make sure to do this slowly and controlled for best results.Do not use your body’s momentum to help move the weights, this makes the exercise easier and less effective.
Keep proper form as you raise the dumbbell. This ensures you will be using the correct muscles to reduce the chance of injury.The weights should remain close to your body as you lift.
 Check your form in a mirror while holding this position.Arms should almost be parallel with the floor. Elbows will be a bit higher than your forearms and wrists, but only slightly.
Remember your back should remain straight throughout the entire exercise.
 After holding the dumbbells at shoulder height for a few seconds take a deep breath as you begin to slowly lower the dumbbells., Do not simply let your arms fall back to your thighs. Keep your body controlled and slowly lower the dumbbell to the starting position, remembering to keep your arms slightly bent at the elbows.
 Continue through your desired number of repetitions (reps).For beginners with a goal of building strength and endurance, perform 3 to 4 sets of 8 to 12 reps. Don't strain yourself.
For more advanced lifters or body builders with the goal of increasing muscle mass in the shoulders and trapezius, use a heavier weight and perform more sets with fewer reps per set.
 It's always a good idea to do a quick stretch after your workout to help reduce soreness and aid in recovery time.Clasp your hands together and reach forward stretching the back of your shoulders. This will stretch the muscle group that was activated in this exercise.
Stretch your shoulder muscles by placing one hand on a wall and twisting your body to stretch your arm backwards, then switch arms.
You can also try clasping your hands behind your head and pushing your elbows back as far as you can.
 Doing an upright dumbbell lift while squatting is an awesome full body workout as it also engages your glutes and inner thighs.


Start with your feet about as far apart as your hips with your toes pointing forward. Hold your dumbbells with your arms extended downwards, and your palms facing your thighs.
Sink into a squat by bending your knees and lowering your body until your thighs are parallel to the ground. As you’re lowering your body, bend your elbows to pull the dumbbells up to your chest as before. Remember to keep your weight over your heels as you squat.Straighten your legs back to the starting position while lowering the dumbbells back to your sides in a slow and controlled fashion, and continue into your next squat., Set the weight to your comfort level then grasp the bar with your hands slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Stand a few feet away, facing the cable pull machineLean back slightly, brace the torso and lift the handle on the cable pull up towards the chest.
Repeat for desired amount of reps.



Stand with feet shoulder width apart and a slight bend in the knees.
Exhale and slowly pull the dumbbells up along your sides. When your elbows are parallel to your shoulders, rotate your hands so they are facing up.
Continue by pushing the weights up over your head until your arms are straightened. Hold this position for a slow count of 2.
Inhale and lower the weights back to your sides, rotating your hands back downwards as your elbows come to shoulder level again.

