 If you have reason to believe that your partner has been cheating, try to catch them red-handed or uncover some evidence to confirm your suspicions. Pay particular attention to any odd or unusual behavior they exhibit, and keep an eye on the people they’ve been corresponding with. You’ll have undeniable proof of their wrongdoing, and there will be no way for them to lie or weasel their way out of the situation.Trust your gut. If you sense that something is off about the way your significant other has been acting, it very well could mean something.
Resist the urge to go through your partner’s phone or email, or snoop into their private life in general, unless you’re fairly certain they’re carrying on an affair.;
, As soon as you find out that you’ve been two-timed, go straight to the other person. The infidelity has already occurred, so there’s no use inciting a confrontation, but it may give you the chance to expose your cheating partner to their other, unwitting lover. Chances are, the guy or girl they’ve been keeping on the side is none the wiser about their dishonest ways, and finding out from you will let them make a clean break before they waste any more of their time.Don’t assume that the other person helped your partner cheat with malicious intent. It may be that they’ve been deceived, too.
If the other person does know about the cheating, you can always blow off some steam by giving them a piece of your mind.
 Once someone gains a reputation as a cheater, it can be hard to regain the trust and respect of the people in their lives. Spread the word that you’ve been betrayed and watch the cheater’s social circle dry up. Your friends can also function as an excellent support group. They can lend emotional consolation, offer a diversion to take your mind off the scandal and act as your better judgment if you’re thinking about giving the slimy homewrecker another chance.Letting your friends know that your boyfriend or girlfriend has been running around will motivate them to cut ties.
 Go public with the news on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Not only will this let your mutual friends and acquaintances know exactly what your partner has done wrong, it will also be extremely embarrassing for them to see their deceitful deeds dragged out in the open when they’ve been trying to keep them secret. No one who hears about what they’ve done will be willing to date them, which will keep them from hurting other people in the future.Be sure to tag your cheating partner in your post(s) so that they’ll know that you’ve found out what they’ve done and you’re not going to tolerate it. They’ll be horrified to discover that they’ve been outed to hundreds of people that know them.

