 For many, this will mean a bathroom. It is possible to insert a contact lens without all of three of these aspects, but it is best not to try until you are more experienced.;
, Review the materials you need—contacts, contacts solution, mirror, soap, towel—and make sure they are all within reach. If something goes wrong or you need an item, you will not want to search around your bathroom with only one contact lens in.
 Having sterile, clean surfaces is key to avoiding pain and ensuring good eye health.In addition, having dry hands will make your contact lens move more easily from your finger into your eye., Do not rush this step. Be careful opening any new packaging so that the contact lens does not accidentally fly out.
 You should be able to see the contact lens in the pool of liquid. You may want to consider an extra clean or rinse at this stage., You can use your thumb to help guide the lens onto your index finger if needed. The round part of the contact lens should be touching on the pad of your finger. It should look like a small bowl sitting on your finger.It is good to have your index finger fairly dry when putting your contact on it. Contacts like to stick to wet things, so a dry finger will make it easier for the lens to stick to your eye.
 This is the best way to check for problems with your contact lens before you put it in, as you can see better with lighting from behind. It's easy to realize something is wrong once it's inserted—it will hurt!

, If the contact is inside out, the edges will flare out. If it is not, the it will resemble a bowl.Some contacts lenses have small laser-printed characters to help you figure out if it is inside out. If you look for the laser printed characters, they will be backwards if you're looking through the bowl of the contact but should look readable from the outer surface. The more you use these lenses, the easier it will become to recognize whether or not the lens is inside out.
 It will not be difficult to find debris on a lens. It could be a speck of debris, a fiber from a piece of clothing or towel, or a small bit of hair. If you find debris or fiber, put the contact lens back in your hand and rinse it with contact solution. Once you have rinsed it, bring the contact lens up to the light again to make sure it is clean.
 It should be apparent if a soft contact lens is torn—it will have a chunk missing from it or be folded into itself. You should not wear a torn contact lens—if your contact lens is torn, throw it away and open a new contact package., You should be only a few inches away from the mirror, maybe closer. It is probably most comfortable to use a mirror at eye level so you don't have to bend over in an uncomfortable position.
 Place your middle finger just below your bottom eyelid and gently pull down. Your finger can be as far up as your lower lid or just above your cheek., It doesn’t matter which finger you use. You can place it on your actual eyelid or right below your eyebrow. Gently pull up., If you are new to inserting contact lenses, your eye's first instinct is to close when a foreign object approaches. Holding your eye open will prevent your eye from doing so. You can also rolling your eye up or to the side to help with this or blur your vision.


The white part of the eye is less sensitive, so you are less likely to flinch if you look off to the side and put the lens on the conjunctiva (white part).
 Come in at an angle, with the bottom of the lens making contact first, then easing the rest on your eyeball.It should stick. If it does not stick, try again by moving your eye once the contact lens makes contact. Your finger should never directly touch your eyeball.
 Occasionally a newly placed contact my pop out when you blink. This step will ensure that it stays put., Does it feel uncomfortable? Can you see clearly out of that eye? Try blinking a few times to center the lens. If it doesn’t help, take out the contact, rinse it with contact solution, and try again.
