 You can identify potential grant funding opportunities by searching the federal government’s grant website located at: http://www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-grants.html.


The website allows you to search by keyword, funding opportunity number or CFDA (Catalog for Federal Domestic Assistance) Number, which is the five-digit number assigned to the grant by the federal government.
If you are searching for new grant opportunities, perform a keyword search that best reflects your business products, research areas or business needs.
Quickly review the search results by clicking on the Funding Opportunity Number, which is a hyperlink that will redirect you to additional information about the grant. There will be four hyperlink tabs (Synopsis, Version History, Related Documents and Package), read through the description of the grant to determine whether it meets your needs.
Once you have preliminarily identified a list of potential grants, closely read the grant’s eligibility section and the full announcement to determine whether you meet the requirements, scope of work or research parameters of the grant. You can review the full announcement and other supporting documents by selection the Related Documents Tab and then clicking on the relevant documents.
 Once you have determined that you meet the eligibility and scope of work requirements, download the grant application.


You can download the grant application by selecting the Application tab and then by selection the “select package” hyperlink listed under “Actions.” You will be prompted to provide your email address to receive grant updates and then given the option to download the materials.
You can also download grant application packages by entering the grant’s Funding Opportunity Number or CFDA Number here: https://apply07.grants.gov/apply/forms_apps_idx.html.
The benefit of downloading a grant application package is that it allows you to complete and review your materials offline before submitting the finished application., In order to submit a grant application, you must register with grants.gov as either an individual or business applicant. You can register online at:http://www.grants.gov/web/grants/register.html. Generally, you will need to provide the following information:


As an individual registrant, you must know funding number of the grant for which you are applying. You can enter the funding number at this website: https://apply07.grants.gov/apply/IndCPRegister and then click the “register” button. You will be redirected to a registration form which you will fill out and that will prompt you to create a username and password.Organizations registering with the grant website must first obtain a DUNS number, which is a nine-digit business identifying number. You can register online at: https://fedgov.dnb.com/webform/pages/CCRSearch.jsp or call 1-866-705-5711.You will need the following information to get your DUNS number: your legal name; the name and address of your business headquarters; any other organization names used by your business; the mailing address if different from the physical or business address; and a business telephone number, contact name and title. You may also need to provide the number of employees at your organization.Organizations must also register with the System Award Management (SAM). You can register at https://www.sam.gov by providing the name of your organization’s authorizing official of your organization and an Employer Identification Number (EIN).
Organizations can complete their Authorized Organization Representative (AOR) profile and create a username and password by using their DUNS number to register here: https://apply07.grants.gov/apply/OrcRegister

You must then use your username and password to log into grants.gov in order to request access and approval. Once you complete these steps and you are approved, your organization will be registered with Grants.gov and able to submit grant applications., Each grant will provide you with instructions in addition to the grant application materials. You must closely review the instructions when preparing your grant proposal.


Instructions on how to open and use the forms in the package are on the application package cover sheet. #*Agency specific instructions can be downloaded with your application and will include information required for your submission.
 Most grants require that you submit a grant proposal that clearly shows how you meet all of the grant’s requirements, a budget and what you intend to accomplish with the grant money. You can review sample documents provided above. Generally, your proposal should include:


Information that meets all of the requirements of the grant.
A typo-free and grammatically correct document that persuasively sets forth your project aims.
Check for formatting requirements, such as font and page limits, and be sure to follow those requirements exactly.
Any documents that were required or that support your grant application such as tax documents or business documents.
 Once you have finalized your materials, you are ready to submit your grant.


Open the finalized grant application and click the “save” button located on the grant application cover page.
Next, click “save” button on the cover page.
You will have the opportunity to click a “Check Package for Errors” button. You should use this option as the system will let you know if you have included all of the required information. Correct any errors that the system finds.
Click the “Save & Submit” button and save the application. You will only have this option once all errors have been rectified. You must save the application in order to begin the submission process.
Once you select “Save & Submit,” you will be prompted to enter your username and password. You will be provided instructions on how to finalize your submission.
Once your submission is complete, the system will provide you with confirmation information and a tracking number for your submission. Be sure to save this information., You can track the status of your application by entering the tracking number at the following website: http://www.grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/track-my-application.html. The system will tell you if your application was received but will not tell you whether you were awarded the grant. This information will come directly from the agency awarding the grant money.