 Stripping has been known to be a place for girls who are desperate to make money, so future consequences will not be thought of. If you are going to do it make sure of the main future effects, 1) Your family and friends can and may find out 2) Your future employers may find out 3) it may affect relationships with a partner;
, Girls who make money, know it takes time to learn techniques, confidence and skills required to make money. If you are thinking of walking into a club and making thousands, that is very unlikely. Smile and remember these guys will not approach you very often. Walk by them, mess with their hair or run your hands across their back. If they are reluctant massage them, touch their neck and chest. Let them open up to you, and don't be afraid to build their ego.
 This will make you more prepared, and allow you to learn how to make money and do it well. Stripping is like any other job, if you do it well you will get paid. If you take away the stripping part which makes it not seem like a normal job, the underlying principles are EXACTLY the same as other jobs. You will require dedication, self motivation and a good moral ethic.
 Ask yourself, Do these girls look like they feel safe? are the customers treating the girls with respect? This will tell you if management are enforcing rules for customers so that the girls are being treated well.
 You will get a really good idea if a lot of girls have been working there for a long time and rave about it.
 Do not be the life of the club or start trying to be every girls' friend. This will make the girls suspicious of you and will make them doubt your motives. Just watch the flow of the way the club works, so you can blend in and learn your trade.You will make friends, but due to the nature of the work, it takes time. If you think about it, you are competing for money with every single girl in the club.
 Although most of the girls in a club are absolutely great and probably like you, there are some shady characters which you would not normally bump into in your real life. So although you shouldn't lie to these girls, just be vague with details you give about your life until you know them a little better.
 It does not matter how close you feel to these people, remember, you do not know them and they see you as the hot stripper girl, even though it feels like they are your friends. Be careful with giving your personal information. Many girls have made the fatal error of revealing real details that has come to haunt them later.
 Many girls have had customers following them to find out where they live. Be careful about the taxi you take or who you get a ride with. always carry a phone with you and keep a personal alarm.

