 You can usually find the parking brake either on the center console of your car (between the driver and front passenger seats) or next to the gas and brake pedals (especially on trucks). Leave the parking brake engaged until you pull back out of the spot.
 Let the car roll slowly backward until the rear part of your curbside front wheel rests against the curb. This way, if the brake disengages, your car will not roll backward—the edge of the street will block the wheels from moving any further.If you park your car facing downhill, turn your front wheels toward the curb. This way, if your car begins to roll down the hill, the front wheels will hit the curb and stop the car before it can descend any further.
 If the parking brake fails, the engine should stop the wheels from turning. This means that if you parked in 1st gear, you should not shift to neutral—you should leave it in 1st.
 Ensure that the handbrake is on, depress the clutch, and shift into 1st gear. Set the gas at around 1500 RPM, and bring the clutch up to the "biting point": the hood should lift, slightly, and the RPM should drop off a bit. Once you have set the gas and the bite point, hold your feet steady. Check to make sure that the road is clear of other cars, and use your turn signal if you are on a busy street. Raise the handbrake, press the release button, and disengage the brake very slowly.If the car grumbles or strains, depress the clutch about half an inch. Depressing the clutch all the way can make you miss the biting point.
If the car starts to roll backward: reapply the handbrake and the foot brake, and engage the clutch. Practice these motions until you have full control and can keep the car from rolling backward.
As you gradually release the handbrake, the car should either remain still or slowly move forward. In either case: continue to release the handbrake. Gently apply more gas as you slowly release the clutch.
 The steeper the incline, the more power you will need to get the car rolling forward. If you're driving a manual transmission, release the clutch more slowly on steep hills.
 Start the car with your parking brake engaged so that you don't roll backwards. This is especially important if there is another car parked behind you. Make sure that your wheels are turned away from the curb and into the street. Key the ignition, shift into 1st gear (2nd or Drive will also suffice), and carefully depress the gas to pull out into the street. Straighten your wheels, merge into a lane, and keep your car in a low gear as long as you're on the hill.


If you are on a busy street, make sure that there aren't any cars coming up the hill. If so, make sure to put on your turn signal to show that you intend to pull into the street. Wait for all cars to pass, check your mirrors, and pull out slowly.
Keep your foot brake depressed until you accelerate out of the parking spot. Keep friction on the wheels, then step on the gas quickly so that you don't roll backward into the car behind you.
 Hone your hill skills on a variety of grades—steep hills, gradual hills, everything in between—so that you will be prepared if you unexpectedly need to park on an unfamiliar hill. Try to practice on hills that are relatively free of parked cars and traffic. It may be less stressful to learn the mechanics of hill driving if you don't have to worry about being struck by oncoming traffic.

