 Choose the shape according to what you'd prefer to see placed on the table.


Before carving, wash the watermelon to reduce the chance of salmonella contamination. Be sure to use clean knives and a clean cutting surface.
Ensure the whole watermelon is at room temperature when you carve. Making the cuts will be easier when the watermelon is not cold.
Chill the watermelon in the refrigerator after cutting and before serving, if necessary.;
, This will stabilize the melon and prevent it from toppling over. When you've finished carving, place the swan basket onto a serving plate to protect surfaces the swan is placed on.


Also choose a flat working surface on a solid base before you work on the watermelon.
 Draw the design on the watermelon rind using a fine to medium point waterproof marker or a sharp pencil.


After you have drawn the design on the rind, insert toothpicks in key places to use as guides for your cuts.
Here you can see the pattern image close up. If you need to transfer this, see How to transfer a photograph and How to transfer and resize images using a grid.
 Cut all the way through the rind when cutting the top portion of the swan design. The melon above this line will be cut away once the design is done.


For better grip and to help protect your hands, use a fresh, new thick pair of gardening gloves with gripper palms.
 This is essential for the stability of the design.
 This is best done before removing the top flesh because it's a delicate cut and the weight of all the melon still in place will help you to get it right.
 Cut it into quarters, then gently pulling the pieces apart one by one. Keep an eye out for any attached parts that need a bit more cutting to release the melon rind and flesh. Cut smoothly instead of tugging to avoid the design to tear.
 Trim the features so they're are not too thick or uneven.



Use a melon baller to remove the remaining melon. These balls will be added back into the swan basket on completion of the hollowing.
 The exact amount will depend on the size of the melon – you may be able to fit more or less than one cup. Serve any remaining fruit, including melon balls, in another bowl or make another carved watermelon to balance as a pair.



Tea sandwiches, coffee and assorted cheeses would complement the centerpiece.
