 You can send and receive money using the Messenger app by adding your debit card to your Messenger account. To begin the process of adding your card, open the Profile or Settings tab in the Messenger app.


Adding a card allows Messenger to deposit and withdraw money to and from your checking account. Transfers may take up to five business days to process.
Sending and receiving money is a free service in Messenger, and Facebook does not collect any fees.
Messenger payments are currently only supported in the US.;
, You'll be able to add a debit card from this menu, as well as review your payment history.
 Only bank-issued MasterCard and Visa debit cards are currently supported. You cannot use a credit card, pre-paid debit card, or PayPal card., Enter your debit card number, expiration date, security code, and billing zip code. Tap "Save" once you're finished.


Messenger does not currently support cards from all banks. If your card is not accepted, try again in a week or two to see if support has been added for your bank or credit union.
 In the Payments menu, you can set a PIN for the card you added. This PIN will be required whenever money is sent from the device. Don't use the same PIN as your ATM or use your device's lockscreen passcode.
 You can start the process from any conversation, including group conversations, as long as the person you want to send money to is in it.
 It may just be a "$" button, depending on your device.


If there are multiple people in the conversation, you'll be prompted to select the person you want to send money to.
 There is no real limit to the amount you can send, though the federal limit for these transfers is $10,000 a day., You can include a quick note with the payments explaining what it's for (e.g. "rent" or "tickets"). This is optional.
 The payment notification will be sent to the conversation, and the recipient can receive the money.


The recipient will only be able to receive money if they add a debit card to Messenger as well.
 If you have a debit card added to your account, you can request money from your Messenger contacts. Open a conversation with the person you want to request money from.


Facebook does not allow you to use Messenger Payments for business transactions. If you use Payments to send or receive money for your business, you will lose access to the Payments feature. This is to avoid potential tax fraud, and because Messenger Payments don't include protections like a retail payment would.
 It may just be a "$" button, depending on your device.


If you're in a conversation with multiple people, you'll be asked to select the person you want to request money from.
 This will allow you to send a request for money from the other person.
 You can request virtually any amount of money from the person, for any personal reason.
 This can be used to help explain what you're requesting money for, such as "rent."

, The request will appear in the conversation, and the recipient will be able to approve it. The recipient will need to have a debit card added to their Messenger account to send the money, and you'll need one to receive it.
 If the other person approves your request and sends the money, you will be notified in the conversation. If Messenger notifications are enabled, your device will notify you.


It may take up to five business days after the request is approved for the money to appear in your bank account.

