 Many showers installed are prefabricated units, making the installation a much easier do-it-yourself project for homeowners with basic carpentry and plumbing skills. Shower stall kits come in two basic types: single-unit stalls and multi-panel stalls.


Single unit stalls: The advantage of a single-unit stall is that the project is seamless and very fast. Essentially, you'll buy one ready-set unit that you'll secure to the walls and pipes, seal the seams, and you'll be ready to go.
Multi-panel units: Multi-panel units consist of a separate shower pan and two or more individual panels that are glued into place and require each seam or joint to be individually sealed. The advantage of this type of shower stall is that it is easier to handle one piece at a time if you are doing the installation alone.;
, When you've purchased a shower stall of the appropriate size for your space, you need to mark where the pipe will stub out through the shower stall to attach to the appropriate elements on your kit, regardless of whether you're installing a multi-panel or single-panel shower. Measure from the floor and from the corner of the walls in order to get accurate measurements.


Draw a rough sketch of the wall with the plumbing and properly indicate those measurements on the sketch. For example: from the corner of the wall to the center of the water control valve might be 18 inches (45.7 cm). From the floor to the center of the valve is 36 inches (91.4 cm). Repeat this for all fixtures that will poke through the stall surface. Whatever your measurements are, mark them on your drawing.
With a marking pen or pencil, transfer those measurements to the back of the unit where it will be mounted over those plumbing fixtures.
 Follow the instructions included with whatever shower kit you end up using for your project. Wall screws and other fasteners may be provided, or you may need to get them yourself. For most projects, you'll need the following tools and supplies:


2 or 4 feet (0.6 or 1.2 m). level
Tub and tile caulking
2 inch (5.1 cm) hole saw
Electric drill and 1/8th inch drill bit
Flat head and Phillips screwdrivers
Cedar shims
Your multi-panel or single-panel shower kit

, Use a broom or a vacuum to clear construction debris and dust from the area before moving forward with installation. Use a paint scraper or a putty knife to peel off old caulking and adhesive, and make sure that you thoroughly dry out the area before installing the pan on the subfloor.


If your subfloor is wet before you install the panels or the shower pan, you'll risk wood rot and other serious problems in the future. You need to make sure the area is completely dry before you begin installing the shower components, whatever type of kit you have.
 Install waterproof wallboard to the walls that will be covered by the shower stall. If it is a corner unit, it will usually be the two walls that form the corner. Waterproof wallboard is a fiber or cement-based product, usually either gray, green or blue in color. Shower board can be attached to the wall studs with nails or screws. Seal the seams with silicone caulking.


Never install a shower over regular drywall, as any moisture will eventually disintegrate the drywall.

