 The safest way to prevent your diary from being found is to not keep it in physical form. There are plenty of options for online journaling websites available on the internet. A few of those options are LiveJournal, OhLife, Penzu, and Tumblr. Look through the websites and choose one that you feel most comfortable using.If you can’t sign up for a website, consider using a Word document. You can password-protect the document, or hide it in a folder.
If you have phone of your own, you can also use a journaling app. Diaro and Flavo are a couple of apps you can download on your smartphone.
Some websites have a minimum age for signing up. You may have to consult with your parents if you are under thirteen years old.
 Don’t make up a password that can be easily figured out. For example, don’t create a password that contains your name, birthdate, favorite band, or your pet’s name. Think of a password that no one would guess. Choose a random assortment of letters and numbers to be extra cryptic.Make sure your password isn’t automatically saved on the log in page of whatever website you’ve chosen.
Write down the password on a small sheet of paper if necessary. Keep it with you, or hide it in a book or drawer. Don’t write down what it is used for.
 Usernames can often be looked up on journaling websites. To prevent being found, choose a username that has nothing to do with your name, age, or favorite interests. Think of something that no one would suspect. It shouldn’t be vulgar or inappropriate, but it shouldn’t be something your parents would think to type in.


Use random numbers if your username has to include numbers.
 It will be easy to find your journaling website if it shows up in your browser history. If you’re using a shared computer, don’t delete the entire history. Instead, delete only the journaling website. Get rid of your browser history even if you are using your personal computer.To delete browser history, you typically go to whatever browser your using. For example, it might say Firefox, Chrome, or Safari. Then, click on it, go to history, and hit “Clear browsing data, or “Delete browsing history.”
It’s also an option to use a private browsing window. A private browsing window does not save any of your history. The option for a private browsing session will usually be near your browsing on the menu where your history is located.
If it’s not against your parents’ rules, set up a password to get into your computer.

