 Many people do not realize that there are many different qualities of Cubic Zirconia jewelry. Low grade, mid grades, and very high grade of Cubic Zirconia jewelry exist. There is a look for all needs and budgets.

Low and mid grades of CZ jewelry are available from mass merchants, re-sellers, and television shopping channels and are typically set in jewelry made of metals like brass or sterling silver. High grade CZ jewelry is typically available from specialty manufacturers that are capable of making any design in Cubic Zirconia jewelry that you can think of, mainly in precious metals like 14k and 18k gold or platinum.



 

;
, Although Cubic Zirconia jewelry is an affordable option to real diamond jewelry, setting a budget will help you to quickly focus on jewelry in a specific price range to narrow down your choices. High quality Cubic Zirconia jewelry is offered in a plethora of choices like engagement rings, wedding bands, earrings, bracelets, necklaces and pendants and are typically hand cut and polished to diamond specification.

Another recommendation to keep in mind when purchasing Cubic Zirconia jewelry is if your intent is that you would like it to look as authentic as possible, buy within your lifestyle. For example, if the item you are considering were purchased with a real diamond, you would want to make sure that friends and family would not second guess you being able to afford the setting and stone size you choose.
 A variety of Cubic Zirconia shapes include round, princess cut, oval, marquis, heart, pear, trillion cut, emerald radiant cut, emerald step cut, ascher cut and cushion cut. Cubic Zirconia sizes are measured in millimeter dimensions ie. length, width and depth. Carat refers to the weight of the stone. Another option to consider is the color of Cubic Zirconia. Cubic Zirconia are available in canary yellow, emerald green, sapphire blue, pink, cognac, black and the most popular - diamond look.
 When purchasing a Cubic Zirconia engagement ring or wedding set, is recommended that you try on a variety of settings to find the style that best suits you. Although the style of setting you choose is a matter of personal choice, you want to be confident in the setting you choose because you will be wearing it for a very long time!

, Make sure that the Cubic Zirconia is hand cut and hand polished to diamond specifications and that a high quality mounting in 14k gold, 18k gold or platinum is used. Also, look for a company that offers a lifetime warranty on their stones and a significant warranty on the mounting. Make sure the company will stand by their products and craftsmanship.

