 This is for personal hygiene, it cleans off dirt and removes dry skin and bacteria. Make sure to wash with soap your entire body, especially places where acne can appear (back and chest) and personal area like genitalia, armpits and feet.;
, Washing hair everyday is not healthy for your hair's natural oils, because it dries them up. When you wash every other day, or just a few items a week, your hair looks healthier and much more natural. When you wash your hair, shampoo well, rinse and repeat before conditioning. Leave in condition once a month and leave the conditioner in for at least ten minutes before rinsing thoroughly. Make sure no conditioner stays left on your head when you leave the shower.
 Don't forget to floss every night and mouthwash once a day for very white clean teeth that don't smell.
 It helps digest food better, it helps you grow and be generally healthier and look and feel better.
 A little bit is never bad, it's actually good. Try mascara and eyeliner and lip gloss, and maybe some eyeshadow. Try a shimmery, shiny and/or sheer lip gloss for a sweet chic look. When in doubt, wear sheer makeup.
 Don't wear too tight clothes, pick clothes that flatter your form and are in style. Usually too tight clothes make you look fatter because you can see every little bump of fat in your body, and you can be a very healthy skinny person.
 But definitely don't overdo it. Try to not eat snacks so much, and only three meals a day, try including vegetables. Meat is very fattening, which is why it's sometimes healthier to be a vegetarian. This isn't for everyone, so just stick to low-fat foods and healthy eating habits.
,, If you have serious acne issues, use an acne cream or go to a dermatologist.
 It burns your hair and makes it look like a dead weed. Same thing goes for hair dye, especially when you dye it blond. The more bleach, the more harm to your hair. Condition it regularly and try using an iron no more than once or twice a week.
 Smoking at a young age makes you age faster, which isn't a good look.
 For teens, you shouldn't need more than arm pits/legs/mustache and for summers bikini line. If you need forearms and back too, then go for it.
 If in doubt, it is better to be safe than sorry!

