 Your gifts and talents will help you succeed, but they can only do so if you know what they are. You need to be self-aware enough to use and hone the gifts you already have.Start by thinking about the areas in which you excel. What comes easiest to you? In which subjects did you always do well in school? What do you breeze through at work?
Ask your friends, family, and co-workers for feedback. Often, they can see talents that you're blind to. For instance, maybe you have a natural ability to talk anyone into anything. You may not even notice that ability, yet it's a skill that comes in handy in many fields.
You could ask your friends, "I'm trying to become more self-aware. Can you tell me what you think my strengths and weaknesses are?";
, It's also equally important to know your challenges, so you can work on those areas. Listen when you do receive feedback from others, either solicited or unsolicited, as that will help you learn where you can grow. For example, if a friend says, "You're starting another new project? What happened to the last one?" you may realize that you aren't following through on your projects., Studies have shown that kids who are praised for their effort rather than for the result are more likely to develop a growth mindset. That's because they become focused on the process rather than the the end result. You can use that to your own benefit by rewarding yourself for your hard work, rather than just the end result.For every designated length of time that you work on something, reward yourself with a fun break or treat. This can help keep your focus on the effort.
Or if you tried a new recipe at home, something you find difficult, you probably would normally tell yourself, "That's so delicious!" While that's not bad necessarily, you should also think about the process, telling yourself, "I'm proud of myself for trying out a new recipe and working so hard on it."

, To help you be more aware, ask for feedback on the work you do at the office and at home. While it may be painful at times, feedback can help you learn, improve, and grow, which will challenge you to do better next time.For instance, if you're new to the office, you could ask a co-worker to look over a report you're working on to see if you have the right idea. You could say, "Since I'm new here, would you mind looking at this report to see if the right idea?" Once you turn it in, you could ask your boss, "How'd I do on that report? What could I improve on in the future?"
In your personal life, ask for feedback when others seem upset with you. For instance, if your spouse seems frustrated with you, ask them why: "You seem to be upset with my behavior lately. What can I do better?"

, A qualified counselor or therapist can help you identify negative thinking patterns and other roadblocks toward developing a growth mindset. A therapist can make an assessment of your personal relationships, your professional development, and personal experiences. They can also give you "tools" to combat negative thoughts, improve your self esteem, and offer support when you experience setbacks.