 You can find lists of upcoming craft fairs online or in your local newspaper. You may also see advertisements for craft fairs around town. Keep your eyes peeled and try to find a craft fair that meets your needs.Oftentimes, organizations plan craft fairs to raise money. If you want your money to go to a worthwhile cause, see if local charities, churches, and schools are planning any craft fairs.
You should also look online and in the newspaper. Try to find craft fairs catered specifically to your needs. Some craft fairs may, for example, be selling items specifically for young children. This can be great if you have kids.;
, As with any other shopping trip, a list is important. This will keep you focused and prevent overspending. If you have some idea what you want to get for various family members, jot down a list and take it with you to the craft fair.You may not know exactly what you're getting someone, and you won't always what precise items will be offered at a craft fair. However, you can write down a general idea. For example, if your mom loves decorative soaps, you can write down "soap/bathroom items" near her name.
If you want to let the craft fair inspire you, simply write down the name of everyone who needs a gift. You can then try to find a gift that suits everyone on your list when you get to the fair.
 This can be a great way to prevent overspending. You don't want to go into a craft fair spending too much money, so have a sense of how much you can reasonably spend.Write down your income for the month. Add up any necessary expenses, like bills, rent, and groceries, and then subtract this from your total income. This is your spending money for the month.
Think about how much of your spending money you can reasonably put towards the craft fair. Maybe you can put around $200 towards Christmas presents this year.
Try to break down your budget from there. If you're buying gifts for five people, for example, a $200 budget would allow you to spend roughly $40 per person.
 Most vendors at craft fairs will not be able to accept credit and debit cards. In addition to this, cash can prevent you from overspending. If you take out exactly how much money you budgeted to spend, you can easily keep track of your spending. This will prevent you from overspending at a holiday craft fair.Make sure to store your cash safely in your wallet or purse. You do not want your money to get lost or stolen at the fair.
 The fact is, some people are simply easier to shop for than others. Casual acquaintances like co-workers, for example, will require less thoughtful gifts than close friends and family members. In order to streamline your shopping experience, get the easier, cheaper gifts done first.Oftentimes, the easiest gifts are things like stocking stuffers. You may, for example, be picking up a few ornaments to send to your distant cousins. You can quickly grab these at a booth and then focus on the more complicated gifts.
Easy gifts are not always for people you are not close to, however. You may have a friend or family member who's simply easier to buy for. If you know your dad will love some homemade mustard and salsa, for example, stop by a food booth and pick this up first. This gets one item off your list right away.
 If you're unsure what to get someone, be creative. Think about an item that person would reasonably use. People often end up with an assortment of knick-knacks and things they will not use after the holiday season. Many people would greatly appreciate a practical item.If you're struggling to figure out a gift for someone, think about something they're doing or planning. For example, maybe your brother and his wife take a skiing trip every year for New Years.
Get your brother and his wife items they can use on their trip. You can, for example, get your brother and his wife a set of matching hand-knit scarves.
 Oftentimes, people sell homemade food at craft fairs. Many people appreciate a tasty treat for the holiday season. See if the holiday craft fair has any booths selling food.Make sure to watch the expiration date on food-based items. Go for items that will last a few weeks so they won't go bad before the holiday season.
 Many craft fairs sell supplies for crafting itself. You may find a booth selling fabric, knitting supplies, or other craft supplies. If you're creative yourself, or know someone who is, buy some crafting supplies.You can buy someone who does crafts supplies for a project. An avid knitter, for example, may love some new yarn.
You can also buy supplies to make something yourself. You can ask the person behind the booth for advice, as anyone selling items at a craft fair knows a lot about crafting themselves.
 Craft fairs tend to sell food and drinks in addition to crafts. If you're shopping for a long time, you're likely to get hungry. However, spending money on food is likely to eat into your shopping budget. Eat ahead of time at home instead of buying food at a craft fair., Craft fairs can often get crowded. If it works in your schedule, opt to arrive early. You will be able to get items before other shoppers and won't have to deal with navigating a crowd., The longer you shop, the more likely you are to overspend. If you give yourself a full day at a craft fair, you're more vulnerable to impulsive purchasing decisions. Give yourself a strict time limit before leaving for the fair.For example, you can plan on staying at the fair for 2 hours. Set a timer on your phone and keep an eye on the time as you're shopping.
If you're the type to linger while shopping, make plans that will force you to leave the fair. For example, plan to get dinner with a friend a couple of hours after you arrive at the fair.
 Clothing can be a great gift, but clothing sizes are often difficult to determine. Also, even if something fits, someone may dislike the way it looks on them. In general, unless you're sure of someone's size and style, it's best to avoid clothing as a present.