 Every kind of radish can be pickled, however, some of them have different tastes based on variety and season. For example, if you are choosing a radish in the winter or spring, they are likely to have a sweeter taste. On the other hand, in the dry summer months, many radishes can be bitter and peppery. While Cherry Belle radishes are the most common, you can also choose a milder radish like the French Breakfast radish, which has an extra crunch. Or, you may prefer a juicier radish like the Early Scarlet Gold. It’s up to you!Radishes can keep up to five days after purchasing.;
, Before you start the fermentation process, it’s important to properly clean your radishes. Remove any leaves or stems, and trim off the root ends. Then wash and scrub each radish with cold water. You can also cut out any soft portions where the radish is bruised. However, make sure to keep the skin intact., Using a paring knife or the slicing blade of a food processor, cut your radishes into thin slices. These should be about 1/4th inch rounds and yield two cups. Once you’ve cut your radishes, take your small onion and cut it into thin wedges. Then separate the pieces with your fingers.Place both these items into a small bowl and set them aside.
 Take a ½ cup of vinegar, a ½ cup of sugar, and 1 ½ teaspoon of salt and mix them together in a small bowl. Then take a whisk or spoon and stir the mixture until the sugar has completely dissolved. This should take one to two minutes. Once the sugar has dissolved, set this bowl aside along with the radishes and onion.
 Take a glass jar, like an old jam/jelly pot or Mason jar, and place the sliced radishes and onion wedges into the bottom of it. Once everything is inside, take the vinegar, sugar, and salt mixture and pour it over the radishes. Make sure that there is a little bit of space between the liquid marinade and the lip of the jar. Also, when putting the lid on, make sure not to secure it tightly as you want to leave room for carbonation to escape.You can also add 6 heads of fresh dill weed or a tablespoon of pink/black peppercorn for extra flavor.
You may have to place a weight or other item into the jar to keep the radishes submerged. For example, you can take a smaller jar full of water and put it into the jar to weigh the radishes down.
 After you’ve put everything together, you need to let the radishes ferment. Allow the jar to sit at room temperature for anywhere between six days to two weeks. While the radishes ferment, they may lose their vibrant color. However, the flavor should deepen and they should remain crunchy.Keep in mind that fermented radishes have a pungent odor that may increase the longer they are jarred.
 Try adding pickled radishes to your everyday salad for an extra crunch and kick of flavor. You can use them as a replacement for cucumbers, or simply put them in as an addition. For example, you can create a healthy, Asian-inspired salad using only pickled radishes, cucumbers, and spring onions. Simply toss together a little bit of rice vinegar and toasted sesame oil as dressing., Try trading out pickles for pickled radishes for a different flavor note in some of your classic favorites. For example, you can use your pickled radish for a Korean burger with red onion and Miso mayonnaise. Or you could change out the relish on your hot dogs or bratwurst with your homemade radishes instead.
 For an easy at-home snack or party dish, throw some pickled radish onto a cracker with cheese. Try placing them on a whole wheat cracker and add some cream cheese and chives. You can also try pairing them with goat cheese, blue cheese, or crème fraîche.

