 Keep the area clean so you don’t lose any tools. Similarly, find a quiet area so you can tune your guitar without having to listen to any background noise., You will need a tuning machine, new strings, wire cutters, and a string winder. Depending on whether you’re a beginner or expert, you may not need a tuning machine if you are a seasoned musician able to tune instruments by ear.


Choose your guitar strings based on your personal taste., Find something to secure the neck of your guitar like a special piece of equipment you can buy at a guitar store. If you are a beginner, you can also just use something soft and curved like a piece of polystyrene., Turn the tuning key and feel the tension loosen for each string. Once loose, unwind the string off of the tuning post and remove., Use the built-in notch of the string-winder to remove each pin. Once the pin is out you can also remove the string from the bridge of the guitar.Secure the ball end of the string against the underside of the bridge to sustain tone. Do not let the ball end sit on the tip of the pin or it will work itself loose., Face the groove of a bridge pin toward the sound hole of the guitar and slide the pin into the hole together with the string. Simultaneously pull on the string with your other hand and as you push the pin through the hole and into place., Tighten the string as you push it about 3 inches through the tuning post. The string should be pulled towards the bridge.About 2 inches from the corresponding machine head, cut the string so that you can poke it through the machine head shaft., Tighten the string by using the string winder on the appropriate tuning key but don’t look to tune at this time. Just tighten the string to ensure you have set it correctly., Usually, it is best to tighten the strings in the order of: 5A, 4D, 3G, 2B, 1E.Stretch your strings to ensure that they are correctly set., Most beginners will need to tune their strings several times with a tuning machine. Consult your local music shop if you are having difficulty using a tuning machine., Loose wire can be dangerous and make it difficult to play your guitar. Cut any excess wire to ensure easy hand movement.
 Use a guitar support for the neck of your guitar as you lay it on a flat and solid surface. If you don’t have a guitar support, place the neck securely against your torso as you unwind the strings.
 Create some slack and cut the strings either by the midpoint of the body of your guitar or by the neck pickup. Once cut, remove the string.


Make sure you do not drop the guitar.
 In a Gibson style guitar, take the new string through the tailpiece that is underneath the body. For a non-locking Fender-style, thread the new string into the tremolo cavity.
 Using the tuning key, turn the hole in the post perpendicular to the neck of your guitar.
 As you pull the string, measure approximately 3 inches of slack to allow for winding. Keeping your thumb on the other side of the hole, stop threading the string through the post once it hits your thumb.
 Use one hand above the post and the other below it to twist an S around the post. Smoothly twist the string in a clockwise motion.


Twist in the opposite direction for high strings on 3 + 3 headstocks.
 Wrap the part of the string that’s already through the post, around the post and between the excess string between the nut and the post. In other words, take the top part of the S and turn it into a P and place it through the bottom part of the S.
 Loop the two ends of the string, crimp, and tighten toward the top of the headstock. Tighten and lock the string into place with this technique.
 Take a string winder and place it on the tuning key. Turn clockwise and, just below the post, use your thumb to feel the string get taught.
 Repeat this process as needed. Use the 5th fret to start this process. Pull the string up with one hand and move up the fretboard with the other. Retune the other frets.


The string will give as you stretch. Repeat the process until the string no longer slips.
Remove excess string with wire cutters once you’re satisfied with the stretching.
