 Try out of few of the places in your area. Be honest about your desire to have your own tanning salon and ask the owner or manager about the tanning industry. Find out about business risks, job satisfaction, and first steps in opening a tanning salon. Spend some time at the salon as part of your research. Use their tanning beds, check out the restrooms, and observe their reception area.;
, Decide whether you will use a franchise or open independently. Add to your business plan:


location information and description of the tanning salon business space.
financial analysis to include 5-year growth projection, start up budget and operating budget.
statement of capital needed and money available for start-up.
equipment list.
staffing requirements and position descriptions.
build-out plans of location to include city-and-state regulated areas such as handicapped access.
 Research cost involved with starting a tanning salon. Be sure to consider less obvious things like voltage boosters for tanning beds, special cleaning products, insurance, business sign wiring, and any special licensing required. Budget for at least 10 to 20 percent more than you think you will need for hidden costs that you may not foresee, so you are not caught short after making your initial investment.
 Be sure that your tanning salon is in a highly visible location with good signage opportunities. Keep in mind that many people go to tanning salons that are within a few miles of their home or work place. Check to be sure there is market potential in close proximity to your tanning salon business.
 Tanning beds can cost as much as $10,000 brand new. Used tanning beds can be much less expensive, but may also need maintenance. If buying used beds, you may need to replace all of the bulbs before the bed is ready for commercial use. Consider if you will have tanning beds and spray tanning booths. Make an equipment list and prices for each unit. Many distributors will supply equipment start up list for you and may give you a discount on tanning salon start-up packages. Buy safety placards and other required signage to be used in your salon.
 A tanning salon needs at least 2 people on duty at all times -- one person for reception and another attendant to show people to tanning rooms and perform cleaning after each client.
 Build your website as soon as possible and list your opening date. Put up your sign as soon as you secure your location and put an "opening soon" banner underneath or near it. Write a press release to the local newspaper's business news editor, and start print advertising about 15 - 30 days prior to opening.
 Make sure your tanning salon is spotless and functioning properly before you open to the public. Consider having an opening for friends and family about a week before you open to the public. The run-through will help ensure that things go well when you are open for business.

