 You can always buy food to eat, but if you are trying to save money, make sure that you can find free sources of food. You can forage for food in both urban and wild environments.Research your local region to find out what types of edible greens, nuts, flowers, berries, mushrooms, and fruits grow there. Dandelions, watercress, cattails, strawberries, blackberries, morel mushrooms, and acorns are common wild foods in the US.
If you are in a town, you might ask a grocery store or restaurant about taking foods that they would otherwise throw out. Usually these foods are too old to sell, but they are still good to eat.
You can always visit a food bank, soup kitchen, or a welfare agency for assistance.
 Carry a bottle or two of fresh water everywhere. You can get water from rivers, lakes, or streams. You can also collect rainwater in jugs or buckets. If you are near populated areas, you can get water from a water fountain, public restroom, or restaurant.Reuse plastic water or soda bottles. These are a much cheaper option than buying a fancy bottle.
Make sure to purify any water if it came from a natural source. The easiest way to do this is to boil the water first. You can also use a water pump or treat it with iodine.
 Good hygiene is important, even if you are living outside. A bath or shower can help keep you clean and healthy. It will also reduce the risk of infection.You can buy a one-day gym pass to use the bathrooms at a gym. You might also be able to pay for a shower at a truck stop.
Homeless shelters and public pools often have showers that you can use for free.
Natural sources of water, such as rivers, streams, and lakes, can be used for baths. Just make sure that you are not in a populated area where nudity is not allowed.
If you want to clean your clothes, go to the closest laundromat. You can also wash them in a clean lake or stream.
 If you are living outdoors, you may still want access to technology, electricity, and other aspects of modern life. You can always rely on public spaces to get these without having to live indoors.


If you need to charge your phone, you may be able to find a café, library, or bus stop that will let you use their outlets.
If you want to use a computer, go to a public library. If you own a laptop, cafes, bookstores, malls, and libraries often have free public wifi.
Homeless shelters can give you a roof over your head during storms or if you just need a break from the outdoors.

