 September and October are the peak seasons for planning a trip to San Diego as one can enjoy a pleasant weather with clear days.;
, Getting tickets at the eleventh hour during the peak season might be difficult.
 It is always better to choose an affordable or budget hotel in San Diego from where commuting to most of the tourist spots is easy and fast.
 Would you like to enjoy the beaches, or visit the prime tourist attractions or tour the historical sights or a mixture of everything? Once you know what you want to do, planning the itinerary becomes easier.
 This way you won’t have to waste time on public transport and you can make the most of your limited time.
 Dress in layers and carry a sweatshirt along with you as mornings here are usually cool and it gets chilly after sundown.
 The atmosphere at the Old Town Marketplace is always festive and buzzing and it takes you back in time. Here you can enjoy mouth-watering local delicacies, pleasing sounds of Mexican music by mariachi players, colorful shops selling unique items. There are more than 15 historic sites out of which the Heritage Park, Old Town State Historic Park, Whaley House, Old Town State Historic Park are worth including in your itinerary.
 Read up on the Zoo beforehand so that you know exactly what you want to see. It's practically impossible to tour the Zoo fully in one day and you just got a few hours to spare.
 Have some light lunch at some popular picnic spot at Mission beach. Enjoy the glorious sunny beaches with some coffee, a fresh scone or muffin or some sandwiches made of homemade bread from the nearby food joints. Relax here for some time and recharge yourself before moving towards your next stop, Balboa Park.
 Again you will have to make some hard decisions on what to see here. If you have read about the park and what all it has in store, you can shortlist the ones you want to see. After touring the Balboa Park, drive across the 2-mile-long, curved San Diego-Coronado Bay Bridge. The scenic beauty that can be enjoyed from the bridge with the salty wind whistling in your ears is an experience in itself. Stop at the bridge for some and enjoy the city from here.
 The beach is fabulous spots to watch the orange sun going down across the horizon. With its widest expanse of sand, Coronado Beach offers plenty of space to enjoy a match of volleyball or kite flying. If you want you can simply stroll or run around on the sand. And whenever you are hungry, indulge yourself in a variety of delicious foods available at the nearby shops.
 This place features nearly 40 nightspots, fabulous restaurants, art galleries, live theaters, world-class shopping and rooftop lounges. Select a restaurant for dinner and if possible choose one that has live music or a dance floor.

