 Open a word processing document and set the font size and type to something readable. Most people can read Times New Roman 12 point, but you can select anything legible.


If you obtain security interests as a regular part of your business, then you can create your security agreement in the form of a template. Include blank lines for information that will change with each security agreement.;
, At the top of the page insert “Security Agreement” in all caps and in bold type. You might also want to make the font somewhat larger than the rest of the text so that the title stands out., In the first paragraph, you should identify who is the debtor and who is the lender, i.e., the secured party. The debtor is the person who owns the collateral that will serve as security for the loan.


You could type, “This Security Agreement is between (‘Secured Party’) and (‘Debtor’).”, You should include an explicit provision where the debtor grants you a security interest in the property. You should also identify the property as the “collateral” for the loan.


You could write, “For value received, the Debtor grants to the Secured Party a security interest in the property described below (the ‘Collateral’).”, You will take a security interest to secure a particular loan. In this paragraph, you should identify the loan by date and by the names of the parties to the loan. Also include the amount of the loan.Sample language could read: “This Agreement secures the payment and performance of all obligations under a Promissory Note dated , made by , made payable to , in the amount of (‘Promissory Note’).”

, You need to include sufficient information about the property that serves as collateral so that you can identify it. If the collateral is a titled motor vehicle, then get information about the make, model, and serial number.All kinds of property can serve as collateral, including:


chattel paper
equipment
fixtures on property
business inventory
accounts
financial instruments
deposit accounts
investment property

, Once you take a security interest in property, you don’t want the debtor to sell that property. If he or she does, then the property won’t be around if the debtor defaults. Accordingly, you should include a clause prohibiting the debtor from selling or in any way transferring ownership of the collateral.


A sample clause might read: “Debtor will not lease, license, sell or otherwise transfer (including granting other security interests, liens, or encumbrances in) any part of the Collateral or Debtor’s interest in the Collateral without the Secured Party’s written approval. However, Debtor may sell inventory in the ordinary course of business on customary terms.”, Just as you don’t want the debtor to transfer the collateral, you don’t want the debtor to let the collateral decline in value. For this reason, you should try to include a clause that requires the debtor to maintain the collateral in good condition. You also will want to get the right to inspect the collateral.


Sample language could read: “Debtor must promptly notify Secured Party of any change in location of the Collateral and identify the new location. Debtor grants to Secured Party the right to inspect the Collateral at any reasonable time upon reasonable notice. Debtor also agrees to maintain the collateral in good condition, pay promptly any kind of levy or assessment on the property, and keep current all rent or mortgage payments due, if any.”, As further protection, you can require the debtor to maintain insurance on the collateral. In the case of an accident or disaster, you will be able to get the proceeds from the insurance policy.


A sample clause could read: “Debtor agrees to maintain hazard insurance on the collateral, in an amount approved by Secured Party (but in no event less than the replacement cost of the Collateral). Debtor further assigns to Secured Party any proceeds from such policies and all unearned premiums and authorizes and empowers Secured Party to collect such sums and to execute and endorse in debtor’s name all proof of loss, drafts, checks, and any other documents necessary for Secured Party to obtain such payments.”, A warranty is a legal promise. If the warranty turns out to be wrong, then the lender can sue. You should think about including the following warranties in your security agreement:All collateral is owned or titled in the Debtor’s name and not in the name of another individual or organization.
The debtor has the legal authority to grant the security interest in the collateral.
The debtor’s ownership in the collateral is free of any liens, claims, or other security interests.
None of the collateral has been or will be used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
The debtor has read and understands the terms of the security agreement.
 You should explain every situation which will qualify as a default. Once the borrower defaults, you can take possession of the collateral. The following could qualify as default:Debtor fails to pay or comply with any provision in the agreement.
Debtor makes a materially false representation in connection with the security agreement, the promissory note, or any other related agreement.
Another secured party or judgment credit exercises its rights against the collateral.
 If the debtor defaults, then you should have a provision in the security agreement requiring that they make the collateral immediately available.


Sample language could read, “In the event of default and at the request of Secured Party, Debtor must make available all Collateral at a place and time designated by Secured Party.”

, You should explain what law governs the security agreement. For example, you can pick the law of the state where the debtor is located. Each state has adopted a version of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) as it relates to security agreements, so you should mention the UCC specifically.Sample language could read: “Debtor and Secured Party agree that this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the jurisdiction where the Debtor is located, including the UCC as in effect in such jurisdiction and without reference to its conflicts of laws principles.”, If you end up going to court, then a judge might find that some provision in the security agreement is unenforceable. You should include a provision in case this happens. You can state that the remainder of the security agreement are enforceable.


For example, you could write: “If any provision of this Agreement is unenforceable, all other provisions remain in effect.”, You can prevent the debtor from claiming that you had a prior agreement that is not reflected in the security agreement. By including a merger clause, you state that the written security agreement represents the entirety of your agreements.


Sample language could read, “This is the entire agreement between the parties, which replaces and supersedes all agreements, written or oral, between the parties.”, Include lines for you and the debtor, as well as for the date.If there is more than one debtor, then include the following language above the signature line:


“By signing or otherwise authenticating below, each Debtor becomes jointly and severally liable as a Debtor under this Agreement.”

, This article describes a basic security agreement. You might need to make revisions depending on your situation. You should show your draft to an attorney, who can recommend changes.


To find a qualified attorney, contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.Once you have the name, call up the lawyer and ask to schedule a meeting. Ask how much the lawyer charges.

