 A margarita can be frozen or classic. If you really want to savor the flavor of the tequila, go for a classic margarita, as the frozen margaritas are laden with sugar and water. To make a great margarita, follow this recipe:


Pour the following ingredients into a cocktail shaker half-full with ice:

2 oz. blanco, oro, or reposado tequila
1/2 oz. orange liqueur, such as Grand Marnier or Triple-Sec
1 oz. freshly-squeezed lime juice
1/2 oz. agave nectar sweetener


Shake vigorously for 15-20 seconds and strain into cocktail glass with a salted rim.
 A tequini takes all the sophistication and class of a martini and squeezes a little bit of fun into the mix. Imbiber beware, however, because this brother is boozy! Turn the tequini into a sweeter tequini by using a reposado tequila and sweet vermouth.


Into a cocktail shaker filled with ice, mix:

2 1/2 oz blanco tequila
1/2 oz dry vermouth
Dash of Angostura bitters


Shake vigorously for 15-20 seconds and strain into a martini glass.
Garnish with an olive, lemon twist, or jalapeno pepper.
 Called "tequila sunrise" because of the layering of red and orange, this recipe is another reminder that tequila and citrus make a really nice pairing.


In a highball glass with ice, pour in:

2 oz. blanco, oro, or reposado tequila
Enough orange juice to fill the glass almost to the top.


Stir ingredients, and then dip two dashes of grenadine syrup into the drink by tilting the glass slightly and funneling the syrup quickly down the side. The grenadine should sink to the bottom and slowly rise through the drink.
Garnish with stirrer, straw, and cherry-orange.
 This is also sometimes called a "Bloody Maria." The vampira cocktail is a Mexican twist on the classic bloody Mary recipe. It's light and spicy, and manages to be original without betraying the essence of the prototype.


Fill a 10-ounce glass with ice. Into the glass, pour:

pinch of salt
1 1/2 oz. blanco tequila
1 teaspoon Mexican hot sauce, e.g. Cholula
1 oz. Clamato
1 oz. freshly squeezed lemon juice


Top up the drink with Mexican Squirt or another grapefruit soda, and garnish with a lemon wheel.

