 When you meet someone for the first time, try saying it back to them, such as "Hello, Joe, good to meet you." Also, try using it again in the first conversation. You shouldn't force it, but people do like to hear the sound of their own name. Therefore, you saying it makes you more likable., Everyone likes to hear nice things about themselves. However, they must be genuine compliments. That means that you pick something that you actually do appreciate about the person and make sure to say it with intention, not in an offhand way.You don't have to just praise someone's outfits or looks. Try for other compliments, such as, "I always love how sunny you are!" or "You seem to be glowing with happiness today."

, Yes, you've got problems in your life but so does everybody else. When conversing with other people, focus on what's going well in your life. You'll be happier, and more people will want to be around you., You probably think you can't be yourself because you have too many weird idiosyncrasies. However, most people appreciate when a person is being honest, right down to the quirks. So don't be afraid to just be yourself.People can tell when you're being genuine and often find that quality likable., If you're always dominating the conversation, people aren't going to be around you. People like to talk about themselves, so give them a chance to do so. Ask questions, and try to let the other person talk more than you do.For instance, try asking open questions instead of closed questions. A closed question is one that can be answered with a "yes" or "no." On the other hand, an open question encourages discussion. For instance, instead of asking "Do you like your job?" you could ask, "What do you like about your job?"
One way to get people talking about themselves is to ask them about their lives. Ask about their jobs, kids, and pets. Those three things will usually get people talking.
 When you give people a chance to talk, actually pay attention to what they are saying. Don't just be formulating what you are going to say next. You can show you are listening by nodding along, repeating back a synopsis of what the person said, and asking questions related to what the person said., Nobody likes to hear about all the millions of awards you've won. They'd rather get to know you as a person, so skip the bragging.It doesn't hurt to praise other people, though. In fact, it makes you look humble and giving.However, you shouldn't brush off compliments completely. When someone offers you a compliment, just say "Thank you." or "I appreciate that." Brushing off compliments can make you seem like you are trying to be too humble, which can turn people off as well.

