 Different settings might be governed by slightly different guidelines, even though the overall process will usually be fairly similar.


Ethical issues involving minors often happen at school, but they can also occur within churches, community centers, or even just in the neighborhood.
The role played by the minor may also determine how the ethical issue must be handled within the setting it occurs in.
 Figure out what the problem is and what ethical issues it brings up. Try to define it on both an intellectual and emotional level.


Ethical violations that also break laws or institutional regulations are usually easy to identify, but for issues that don't strictly violate such guidelines, you may need to think a little more deeply.
If your only response is an emotional one, you might not be able to get the issue resolved. You need to be able to clearly and intellectually define why the issue violates some ethical principle (honesty, responsibility, respect, etc.).
 Gather as much data about the circumstances and applicable regulations as possible. Issues involving minors can be particularly sensitive, so you need to be remarkably thorough.


Identify all parties involved. Try to find out exactly what happened, gathering as much evidence as you can in the process.
Also gather data about applicable regulations from various governing sources, including professional organizations and government at the federal, state, and local level.
 You'll need to determine how accountable the involved minors and adults are in this situation.Regarding minors, accountability needs to be assessed at both legal and personal levels. Involved minors might not be legally responsible for certain actions even though they are responsible for others. When no laws were violated, some minors may not be accountable for various aspects of the situation based on their age or level of development.
Parents, guardians, teachers, and other adults in the minor's life may also be held accountable for some ethical violation committed by that child, especially if the adult in question had the ability to prevent or control the issue before it became a problem.
 You may not have the power to solve the issue alone, but someone does. Figure out who has power in these circumstances to help guide your next move.You'll need to keep in mind the minors' rights and the parents' rights. Even though their power may not be able to solve the issue, it is still a power that must be addressed and worked with.
Typically, the power to solve the issue rests with multiple people, including some type of authority. Issues taking place at school might require the involvement of school officials. On the other hand, issues taking place in the neighborhood or in a minor's home might require help from police or social workers.
 Resources can include institutional hierarchies, other people, books, and more.


You might turn to a supervisor or colleague and ask for advice on how to proceed based on his or her past experiences. That individual may also be able to provide you with additional information or clarification.
Similarly, you can read articles or books that address the issue according to setting and severity. Doing so will give you greater access to information that is more useful to your specific set of circumstances.
 Make a list of all possible actions you can take, keeping in mind that inaction is also considered an action for these purposes. Write out the positive and negative consequences of each option.


When reviewing your options and choosing the best one, make sure that the ethical issue is being actively addressed in the best way possible. You need to be able to defend your final decision on an ethical and legal basis.
 After deciding on a plan, carry it forward. Notify any authorities you need to notify and commit to any personal involvement you may need to accept.


Even if the actual power to solve the issue rests outside of your hands, you should still follow up with the process as much as you are legally allowed to do. Make sure that things are being handled properly, and if they aren't, be prepared to elevate the issue to the next level.

