 You should drink 8-oz (250 ml) of fluid every one to two hours.


Staying hydrated helps to loosen congestion and maintain proper bodily functions.If your doctor has restricted your fluid intake due to other medical complications, you should follow his or her instructions concerning hydration.
Much of this fluid should be water or other low-calorie drinks to prevent yourself from taking in too many calories.
Clear broth, diluted sports drinks, and warm lemon water with honey are other good options. Warm drinks have the additional benefit of soothing throats that are sore from excessive coughing.
Do not consume drinks with caffeine or alcohol. These drinks are diuretics and cause dehydration.;
, Strive to get as much sleep as possible. You should aim to get at least seven hours of sleep per night, but if your illness prevents you from sleeping through the night, you should at least rest by lying with your head down or propped up.


Sleep is a vital part of maintaining strong immune function.Without enough rest, your body will be unable to fight the virus.
 Basic tasks are usually fine, but you should avoid moderate or active exercise. This degree of activity can trigger coughing fits and wear away at your body's immune system.
 Breathing in warm, moist air will loosen mucus in the airways, making it easier to breathe and reducing the severity of your coughs.


Clean the humidifier based on the manufacturer's instructions. If you fail to clean the humidifier, bacteria and fungi can grow inside the water container and distribute itself in the air. Bacteria or fungi in the air can complicate the bronchitis.
You could also sit in a closed bathroom with hot water running out of the shower for 30 minutes. The steam produced by the water will work in the same way as the vapor produced by the humidifier.
 Pollution and cold air can make the condition worse. While you probably can't eliminate exposure to all pollutants, there are some you can easily avoid.



Stop smoking and do not place yourself around others who do smoke. Smoke is a major lung irritant, and smokers are the most likely to develop chronic bronchitis.
Wear a mask when you anticipate being exposed to paint, household cleansers, perfume, or other strong, potent fumes.
Wear a face mask outside. Cold air can restrict your airways, worsening your cough and making it difficult to breath. Wearing an outdoor face mask will warm the air before it reaches your airways.
 Under ordinary circumstances, you want your cough to be as productive as possible to prevent excess mucus from sitting in your lungs and causing further infection. For that reason, cough syrups and similar suppressants should not be used consistently throughout the length of the illness.


Cough syrups are usually suppressants. They suppress or restrict coughs, and as a result, you will cough less and produce less phlegm.
If you cannot sleep due to a cough or if you are coughing so much that it becomes painful, you can alternate a cough suppressant with other medication to provide temporary relief.
It is recommended that you consult with your doctor before taking a cough syrup, but these medicines can be obtained without a prescription.
 An over-the-counter expectorant will cause you to cough up more mucus. The risk of developing pneumonia or other severe infections is increased in patients with bronchitis due to the amount of excess mucus produced. Use of an expectorant is often recommended in order to expel this excess mucus, especially if you have non-productive coughs.
 Be sure to talk to your doctor prior to taking any. there is no scientific evidence that herbal remedies are effective treatments for acute bronchitis, but they have been shown to not be harmful; however, some preliminary studies have shown that South African geranium (Pelargonium sidoides) demonstrated positive results. One study has shown that people recover faster when taking this remedy as opposed to taking a placebo.Common colds can lead to bronchitis, so taking herbal remedies that help prevent colds can also help prevent bronchitis. Some herbals remedies that have been studied that have shown some promising results include; echinacea (300 mg three times daily), garlic, and ginseng (400 mg/day).