 Start by checking all the electrical outlets in your home or on your job site. Make sure they are tight and fitted to the wall, as loose-fitted plugs can be a shock or fire hazard. If you notice any of the wall plates are broken or missing, put new wall plate over the outlets so there are no exposed electrical wiring.You should also cover any unused outlets with protective covers, especially if you have young children who will be moving around in the space. This will prevent electrocution and other electrical injuries.;
, You should never remove the third prong on a plug to try to make it fit into a two-conductor outlet. You should also never bend or twist the prongs on the plug, as this can lead to an electrical hazard.Make sure you never force plugs into an outlet. Instead, hold the covered top section of the plug firmly to slide it into and out of the electrical plug. Pulling on the cord itself can wear it out and increase the risk of an electrical fire., Overloading an outlet with too many plugs can cause an electrical fire. Instead, buy several surge protectors, or power bars and place them in the electrical outlets in your home. You should then plug no more than one to three cords at a time into the power bar.Make sure you get power bars with internal overload protection. The internal overload protection will cause the power bar to shut down if it gets overloaded, preventing an electrical fire from occurring., You should also check the electrical cords in your home to ensure they are not frayed or cracked. If they are, replace them with new electrical cords. You may need to contact the manufacturer of an appliance for a replacement cord.You should also make sure the electrical plug is securely attached to the electrical cord. You do not want any exposed wiring or components on the plug or the cord.
 Though it may be tempting to use extension cords to extend the cords on your appliances or electronics, they should only be a temporary solution. You should not use extension cords as permanent electrical wiring for your home or office. They can be a major electrical hazard.If you do use extension cords, make sure they have safety closures on them. This will protect young children from getting shocked by the cords.
 Try not to place electrical cords under carpets, rugs, and furniture where they are hidden. They could end up causing a fire if they become frayed and come into contact with carpet or furniture. You should also place electrical cords in low traffic areas so they are not stepped on often or tampered with in any way.You should also keep water away from any electrical cords, as water can cause the cords to spark and could lead to an electrical fire. Do not use a hair dryer, for example, by a sink or bathtub.
Do not nail or staple electrical cords to walls, floors, or other objects, as this can interfere with the electrical current and lead to an electrical hazard.

