 Even if you’re planning on telling a scary story that you’ve made up, you can benefit from reading other scary stories. You can find great collections of scary stories at your local library or even online.

Forums like Reddit No Sleep or Reddit Ghost Stories are great sources for frightening tales.One way to create your own scary story is to use another story as a template and then change the details to fit your location — for example, instead of “at a scary house somewhere” you can name a spooky-looking house in your city and say that you heard about something that happened there.
 Tailor it to where you’ll be and what you’ll be doing. If you’re having a sleepover at your house, an effective scary story would be one that takes place in a house late at night.

The more things your scary story has in common with where you are and who you’re with, the scarier it will be.
 Don’t just write a story down and then hope you can remember it well enough to tell it — and definitely don’t read from a book or piece of paper. Telling the story from memory will engage your listeners and have the strongest effect.

You might even want to record yourself telling the story so that you can get a sense of how you sound and (if you have a video camera/smart phone with video function) look while telling the story.
 You don’t want to just start telling a spooky story in the middle of a busy cafeteria at lunchtime; scary stories are best told late at night amongst small groups of people., Before telling your story, you can build it up by acting a bit nervous and afraid before you start telling it. You can say that you want to tell your listeners something, but you’re nervous to because it scares you.

You can say that you don’t like to think about it because when you do, you get bad dreams and feel uneasy in the days following it, but it’s a good story so you’ll try to share it.
You can even look behind you uneasily, or glance from side to side nervously.
 Don’t be too obvious in your attempts to build intrigue, or it’ll come off as fake and funny instead of making your listeners nervous., As you tell the story, speak slowly and clearly, and most importantly, speak quietly. Don’t speak so quietly that people can’t hear you, but speak quietly enough that it sounds like you're sharing a secret with your listeners.

You don’t want to be overdramatic, but you can definitely pause for dramatic effect during the story, and you can adjust the volume of your voice, too.
 Depending on the nature of the story, it might end with you clapping or shouting loudly, or you lunging towards your listeners. It might also end with you intensely looking at your listeners as you quietly deliver the punchline.

Making a loud noise such as clapping, stomping, or shouting is a fun way to finish a scary story — if done right, this is sure to get a scream from your audience.

