 If you are a citizen of the United States, go to a branch of a bank that is incorporated either in the United States, a U.S. territory or possession or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. This bank may be able to redeem your bonds using the methods described above. Contact the bank ahead of time to make sure they are willing to redeem paper bonds. Bring all of the appropriate identification documentation with you. You will need you Social Security number. In addition, have photo ID with you, such as your passport and your driver’s license.If you are a U.S. citizen but you can’t find a bank that is authorized or willing to cash the bond, follow the procedures outlined below for non-U.S. citizens.
 If you are a not a citizen or if you are a citizen but can’t find a bank that is authorized or willing to redeem your bonds, you must follow different procedures. You will have to sign a request for payment of the bonds. Then you will fill out paperwork and mail your request to the Treasury Retail Securities Site.Sign the request for payment for your bonds in the presence of an appropriate official. That official must certify your signature. Appropriate officials are: a U.S. diplomatic or consular representative; an officer of a foreign branch of a bank that is incorporated in the U.S., a U.S. territory or possession, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; a notary or other official authorized to administer oaths.
If you are a U.S. citizen, provide their Social Security number and include a statement over your signature that you are a U.S. citizen.
Non-U.S. citizens must fill out and include IRS Form W-8BEN.
Send the signed and certified bonds to the Treasury Retail Securities Site, P.O. Box 214, Minneapolis, MN 55480

, You can redeem a child’s bond if the child is too young to sign the request for payment, the child lives with you, and you are either the child’s parent or have been given legal custody of the child. If the child has an electronic bond, it will be in his or her name and linked to your TreasuryDirect account. You can log in to your account, go to your child’s linked account and follow the directions there to redeem the bond. To redeem a paper bond, you must take the bond to a bank.Write the following on the back of the bond: “I certify that I am the parent of . resides with me / I have been granted legal custody of . is ___ years old and is not of sufficient understanding to make this request.”
Sign the request for payment with your name “on behalf of .”

, If the person had electronic savings bonds, contact the Bureau of Fiscal Service directly. They will give you directions about what to do. To send them a message, use their online communication form at www.treasurydirect.gov/WF/WebFeedback?site=td01&subject=eeori. To cash a paper bond, you must follow specific steps to determine who owns the bond and who pays taxes and when.If a survivor is named on the bond, the survivor can take the paper bond to a financial institution to cash it. Appropriate documentation is necessary to verify identity.
If no survivor is named on the bond and no court is involved, download and fill out FS Form 5336 from www.treasurydirect.gov/forms/sav5336.pdf. Sign the form in the presence of a certifying official, such as a notary public. Send the form paper bond, the signed and certified FS Form 5336 and a death certificate to Treasury Retail Securities Site, PO Box 214, Minneapolis, MN 55480-0214.
If the deceased had savings bonds that total more than $100,000, then the court must be involved to settle the estate and distribute the funds.
Consult your tax advisor to learn about the tax implications.

