 Stretches that incorporate a bit more movement can help to develop the strength of your core. This will help prevent lower back pain by stabilizing and otherwise protecting your spine. Further, strengthening your body generally will help keep your hips, knees, and torso in better alignment.Stop doing any exercise immediately if you experience localized pain or tingling of any sort.
While you will certainly feel your muscles working during strengthening exercises, stop if you feel any sudden or sharp discomfort.
 Lie on your stomach and tighten the muscles in one of your legs. Raise the leg one or two inches from the floor and hold it there for a four count. Return the leg to floor and allow the muscles to relax. Raise the other leg in the same manner. Raise each leg 20 times, and repeat the exercise two to three times per day.Once you are easily able to do 20 legs lifts, incorporate more movement by extending your arms straight in front of you as though you are pretending to be a superhero.
Each time you lift one of your legs, simultaneously lift the arm on the opposite side of your body a few inches off of the ground as well.
Instead of pausing, maintain the motions fluidly, as though you are swimming. “Swim” for 60 seconds, rest for 10 seconds, and repeat the swim for as many sets as you can muster.
 Lie on your back. Bring your knees while keeping them together, so you’re your feet at side by side and flat on the floor. Tighten the muscles in your stomach and bottom and raise your hips from the floor until your neck, torso, and thighs make a straight line. Hold this position for 60 seconds, pause for 10 seconds, and repeat the hold two more times.If you are unable to hold the bridge position for a minute, simple hold it for a count of four and lower your hips back to the floor. Repeat the lift 20 times.
Do bridge exercises multiple times throughout the course of the day.
 Kneel on your hands and knees, with your palms directly beneath your shoulders and your knees hip-width apart. Raise one of your arms until it extends straight outward, running parallel to the floor. Contract your abdominal muscles to help you maintain your balance. Keep the palm of your other arm planted firmly on the ground. Raise the leg on the opposite side of your raised arm, holding it parallel to the ground behind you.Hold the position for 30 seconds, relax, and repeat the process with the other opposing limbs.
Start with three reps on each side, progressing as you are able to do so.
Progress the length of time you hold the position as well. Increase by 15-second increments.

