 There are a number of factors that can put you at risk of stomach cancer. Some are not within your control, while others you can avoid. The risk factors that you have no control over include:


A family history of stomach cancer.
A genetic predisposition to stomach cancer.
Inherited genetic conditions, such as hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC), familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), Lynch syndrome, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, or BRCA gene mutations.
Having type A blood, though the exact reason for this risk is unknown.;
, There are certain situations where you may have been exposed to ionized radiation. This can increase your risk of stomach cancer, especially if the exposure was prolonged or happened numerous times. If you can control your exposure to any radiation, do so. Situations where you may have been exposed to radiation include:


Radioisotope radiation for thyroid cancer.
External beam radiation for Hodgkin disease.
Being in locations where an atomic bomb has gone off., There are certain jobs that can increase your risk for stomach cancer. Cancer can be caused by working with many different harmful chemicals, such as asbestos, cadmium, radon, benzene, arsenic, vinyl chloride, beryllium, chromium, and nickel compounds.The amount of risk depends on the level of exposure, the amount of time exposed, and the strength of the carcinogen you are exposed to. These jobs include:


The rubber industry.
Construction.
Woodworking.
Mining.
Painting.
Pesticide work.
The chemical industry.
The dye industry., There are certain conditions, situations, and viruses that may make you more susceptible to stomach cancer. If you have a history of these, you may want to talk to your doctor about the likelihood of stomach cancer. These conditions include:


Previous bacterial infection from the Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) bacteria, which causes inflammation, ulcers, and pre-cancerous changes in the stomach.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), which is also a risk factor for cancer of the esophagus.
Pernicious anemia, a decrease in the number of red blood cells that occurs when Vitamin B12 cannot be absorbed.
Chronic atrophic gastritis, which is when the lining of your stomach becomes inflamed.
Other stomach conditions, including intestinal metaplasia and gastric epithelial dysplasia. Metaplasia is the change in cell morphology to a more dysplastic (abnormal) form, which is potentially reversible. Dysplasia is the spread of an abnormal cell type and it is usually due to the cancerous properties of a cell.
History of stomach surgeries such as a partial gastrectomy, which of the removal of part of the stomach.
Epstein-Barr virus infection.
Cystic fibrosis.