 This is just like rock-paper-scissors; mage destroys melee, melee crushes ranged, and ranged pierces mage. Melee fighters usually have metal armor on, which conducts magic very well, and a melee weapon, such as a sword, dagger, or battleaxe, that can easily hack through a ranged fighter's armor. Ranged fighters usually have leather or dragonhide armor on, which is very protective against magic, and used a ranged weapon such as a bow or crossbow, and have arrows to shoot at you, which are good at piercing mage robes. Mages tend to wear mage robes, which boost their magical ability, and fire magic blasts at you, which are conducted by metal armor, and therefore do more damage to characters with metal armor on.;
, Sometime or later, you funds will run out. Do you have an adequate source of income that you can rely on? If not, get on. Rune Essence is a good choice, as it provides a constant thread of money, and people also want to buy it. You can also make fair money by picking up ashes, which is fairly easy. Ashes sell for 43gp each, as of 8/26/2010. Save up. Do you really need that gold-trimmed black armor? How practical is it to buy some regular logs when you can just chop some trees down?

, Meaning, don't fight a player 20 levels above you. It is also not a good idea to fight a player equal to your level when you are carrying a rubber chicken, or have less than 10 health.
 Most players don't train defense, because they think "What the heck? If I train attack and strength enough, I'll be invincible!" That is not correct. While a player with high attack may still be able to hit you, if you have a high defence, you may be able to "block" most of their hits. Blocking their hit means that they don't hit you, or they hit you with as "0".
 If you are a F2P, then you only have access to the strength potion, which temporarily raises your strength. Food is a must! How else would you heal in level 41 Wilderness? Bring foods that restore a lot of health. Training your cooking skill is a good way to get high-energy foods for a "discount" price. You will only have to buy the ingredients.
 Prayer is one way that gives you an edge in RuneScape. When you get to higher level Prayers, you will have a huge edge over many players your level that have level 1 Prayer, or some other low level in Prayer. One example of this is if you can use the "Protect From Magic" Prayer, you have one less side of the combat triangle to worry about.

