 If you can mow your own lawn, and all the lawns the surround your parents' house, you're in good shape. You can do all the lawns at once, rake all the leaves, and take care of the yards at the same time. It's like one long day of work in which you an get paid several times.


If you don't live somewhere with many yards, you can still do this. Just get a ride to a neighborhood where you can get as many yards as possible in the same neighborhood. The closer together the yards, the easier your job is.
Elderly neighbors will be the most willing to hire young kids to do this.
 One great way to make money in the summer months is to ask as many of your neighbors as you can if you can mow their lawn for them. Lawn-mowing can be a serious hassle, and you can make some serious money doing it in your spare time.


Ask your parents to stake you to equipment costs, if you don't have access to the mower yourself. Ask for an old mower for your birthday.In some cases, people might want you to use their equipment, if it's available. If you can use their lawn mower, all the better.
Set aside some money for materials. You'll need to pay to have the gas tank filled and ready to go, if you're mowing lawns. Or, see if your parents won't help you pay for gas.
 In late summer and early fall, you'll start mowing less and less, but your clients will need other things done around the yard. Get ready to rake leaves, bag them, and clean up the yard of other debris, like acorns, twigs, and pinecones.


For this job, all you need is a sturdy rake and some leaf bags. In some cases, you might not even need the bags. Cheap, light, and easy.
 Once the fall turns to winter, business can dry up for the lawnmower. But, snow needs to be taken care of in lots of regions. Don't stop working when it gets cold. Get yourself a good snow shovel and offer to shovel out the driveways and walks of your neighbors.
 After a long winter, gutters tend to get clogged up and need a good cleaning. Mostly, this just involves removing the gunky leaves and twigs from the gutters and disposing of them in bags.


Even if you live in a place with really great weather, gutters need to be cleaned out regularly to avoid sticks, leaves, and other debris getting caught up in them.
Since this involves getting up on a ladder, or on the roof, it's maybe the most dangerous of all these jobs. You might want to double-check with your parents.
 In rural areas, lots of farmers and fruit growers will hire younger kids to help harvest the fruit during the ripe season. If you live somewhere with a lot of agriculture, keep an eye out at local feed stores, and rural outfitters for signs that local farmers are hiring hands. It can be tough work, but it can also be short-term (a few weeks at most) and good money.The following jobs are all possible in different regions for teens:


Picking fruit, like peaches, apples, cherries, and berries
Pruning grapevine
Helping process wheat, or other grains
Digging potatoes
Detassling corn
Gathering chicken eggs

