 This method doesn't last quite as long as the glue method, but since you aren't actually adhering the feathers to your hair, there's a little less potential for hair damage. The beading method requires a different array of supplies, all of which can be found at craft stores, beauty stores and online. Gather the following:A fun array of feathers, such as saddle hackle or chinchilla hackle in a variety of colors and lengths.
Silicone hair extension beads that match the color of your hair. They come in brown, black, blonde, and other colors.
A hair extension hook or a small crochet hook tiny enough that you can slip one of the beads over it.
A pair of pliers.
 Part your hair the way you normally do and pick out a small section of hair that's thin enough to fit through your silicone bead in the area where you want the feathers. Don't choose the lock from the very top layer of your hair; pick it up from underneath the top layer, so that the top layer of your hair will hide the bead and the tip of the feather from view.


You can apply the feathers toward your scalp or lower in your hair. You can also choose to apply two or more sets of feathers to the same lock of hair.
If you want the world to see your feather extensions every day, choose a lock toward the front and top of your head. This is a popular style for younger girls.
For a subtler, more mature look, pick a lock toward the bottom and back or side of your head. This way it will peek out when you move or turn your head, but you can pull it back if you need to for more formal settings.
 It should fit easily over the hook. You just need one bead for each feather extension.
 Take your lock of hair and wrap it around the crochet hook toward the hook part at the very tip. Just wrap it around one time.
 Slide the bead up over your hair and pull your hair through the bead using the hook. If the whole lock doesn't fit, just pull through as much hair as you can. Make sure there's enough hair in the bead to hold the weight of the feathers with ease, since over time heavy feathers can pull out the hair. Situate the bead about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) from your scalp, so it doesn't hurt while you sleep at night.
 The feather should lay flat against your scalp and point toward your tips. This method is best for using just one feather at a time. If you have two small feathers that fit, you could try attaching them both at once., Use your needle nose pliers to grasp the bead and clamp the feather tight against your hair. Use your strength to make sure it's tightly in place. Let your hair fall into place and style it as normal.
 To remove the feather, just use your pliers to crimp the bead in the opposite direction, so that it opens back up and slips easily out of your hair. Do not attempt to pull the feather and bead out, since you could pull out your hair and cause damage.

