 Sometimes, the easiest way to style curly hair is to let it sit naturally. A simple leave-in conditioner, and a spritz of hairspray, can leave your locks looking beautiful and natural.Wash your hair as you normally would. Allow it to dry so it's damp, but not dripping wet. Then, apply some leave-in conditioner. For best results, choose a lightweight conditioner.
Use a wide-toothed comb and comb through your hair. Then, simply leave it alone. As it dries naturally, the conditioner will allow it take a fun, natural shape. If you want to keep your hair from getting messy throughout the day, spritz a light amount of hairspray after your hair is fully dry.
 Another low-key, quick look would involve simply parting your hair. As curly hair can be unruly, it's a good idea to try to add hair serum and mousse to make your hair easier to work with prior to parting.


Wash your hair as you normally would and then wait until it's damp. From there, apply a small amount of your choice of mousse. You should also add a smoothing serum.
Usually, you do not need to use a lot of either product. In fact, using more than a small dab could leave your hair looking greasy. However, if you're unsure what a good amount for your hair is, you may be able to find some information on the instructions label on your style products.
Part your hair as you wish. You can do a side part or part it down the middle, depending on what you feel is flattering for your facial features. If you have time to dry your hair, do so with a hair dryer or diffuser.
Set your style with a light spritzing of hairspray or finishing spray.
 On some days, you may want to show off your natural curly hair. To do so, you can tease your curls with a backcombing or regular brush and then use hairspray to set the style for the day.


It's a good idea to wash your hair with volumizing shampoo and conditioner before attempting this look.
Starting at the roots, backcomb your hair. To backcomb, use one fluid motion to push your hair back towards your scalp. Work through each section of your hair, backcombing until your curls are as big as you like. It's a good idea to work in 2 to 3 inch (5.1 to 7.6 cm) sections at a time.You can simply backcomb near your scalp, but if you want a bigger look try backcombing near the ends of your hair. Once you're satisfied, spritz your hair with conditioner to set the style.
Keep in mind this style works best for shorter hair. Longer hair may not respond well to big curls.

