 Heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding can disrupt your life more than normal menstruation does. If your periods make it difficult to perform standard daily tasks, remedies that help stop or slow heavy bleeding can be a good option for you.


Most women won't actually experience bleeding heavy enough to be classified as "menorrhagia." If you have this condition, the amount of blood loss and the severity of any associated cramping will completely prevent you from performing basic, everyday activities.If your bleeding is only moderately heavy, but not severe, consider relieving your symptoms using common, medically verified treatments instead of unverified herbal options. Relieve pain with NSAIDs and heating pads. Consume nutrients that help your body, and avoid foods or substances that may make cramping worse.
 Pregnancy concerns shouldn't be an issue if you’re currently experiencing heavy menstrual bleeding. Since many of these herbal solutions impact hormonal balances, however, they can negatively impact a pregnancy or harm a nursing infant. Taking these herbal supplements before menstruation occurs can be risky if you might be pregnant; similarly, taking these herbs while still breastfeeding may also put your baby at risk.


In particular, you should especially avoid use of black cohosh, alchemilla, chasteberry, and raspberry leaf during pregnancy or breastfeeding.Talk to your doctor before taking iron and magnesium supplements, as well.You may also wish to avoid chasteberry and other hormone-sensitive herbal remedies if you are taking birth control pills or undergoing hormone replacement therapy., "Natural" does not necessarily mean "safe." While the herbal and supplemental treatments recommended for ending heavy menstrual bleeding are typically safe for most women, it's a good idea to do your own research before ingesting any herb since some may aggravate certain medical conditions.


Keep in mind that many herbal solutions only have limited research backing them. While some women may benefit from using these remedies, there's typically little scientific evidence supporting claims of effectiveness, and little research about possible side effects and risks involved.
If you're at a high risk for certain hormone-sensitive conditions, including breast cancer, uterine cancer, or endometriosis, herbal remedies that impact your hormonal balance may further increase your risk. This includes, but is not limited to, black cohosh, chasteberry, and raspberry leaf.
Additionally, black cohosh may present a risk to those with known liver disease or seizure disorders.Alchemilla and chasteberry may also result in possible liver damage,and chasteberry may affect your levels of dopamine.It is possible to overdose on iron, so you should avoid taking iron supplements in large doses for more than six months. Consult your doctor if you intend to continue use after that time., Most natural remedies will be safe for most women who suffer with heavy menstrual bleeding, but your doctor will be able to advise you on which could work best for your specific health needs and which could result in further problems.


Additionally, your doctor should be able to help diagnose the cause of heavy menstrual bleeding. Most causes aren't too serious and will typically respond to natural remedies. In some cases, however, excessive bleeding can be caused by thyroid disease, uterine cancer, fibroids and other serious conditions that require medical intervention.A diagnosis from your doctor should be able to rule out these serious conditions and ease your concerns. In addition to a physical exam, your doctor may perform blood tests, pap tests, ultrasound scans, and other tests to rule out various disorders and conditions., Natural remedies can help many women who suffer from heavy menstrual bleeding. If taking natural remedies does not put your health at risk, and if these remedies prove effective for you, you can typically continue taking them; though, occasional consultation with your doctor is still advised.


If natural remedies are not effective for you, consider asking your doctor about medical alternatives. These options may include drug therapy (e.g., oral contraceptives and oral progesterone) or surgery for more serious cases (e.g., uterine artery embolization and hysterectomy).