 Binders offer great opportunities to express yourself artistically, especially if you've covered your binder in paper or fabric that's easy to draw on. Consider simply using your binder as a doodling surface — whenever you get bored, simply add a new sketch or design to it. This way, your binder will gradually get more detailed and unique over time.


Sharpie markers will draw on nearly any surface (even the slick plastic of a binder) and come in a variety of colors.If drawing on paper, nearly any pen or marker will work.
If you covered your binder in fabric, try fabric pens or markers., If you're not content with the simple, messy look of a doodled binder cover, spend a little more time making a deliberate, detailed drawing or sketch. This will take a little more skill and effort, but the results can be quite impressive. You can pick anything for your drawing, from a simple still-life scene (like a single object) to a detailed landscape — it just depends how much time you'd like to spend on your project!


If you choose a neutral colored paper in a mid-range grey or brown, you may be able to create more nuanced shading and shadow-effects. Use graphite and/or charcoal pencils for mid to dark lines, and you can use a white colored pencil for highlights.Once you're done with your sketch, you may want to protect it by carefully covering it with see-through tape. You can also use a protective spray (which are usually available at art supply stores and sold as "workable matte" or "workable fixatif")., Painting takes a little more deliberate effort than drawing or doodling, but the colorful results can be amazing (especially if you're willing to take your time.) However, if you want to avoid the paint leaking through your cover to your binder, strongly consider taking the cover off first and painting it over a protective surface, like newspaper.


Most basic acrylic and watercolor paints should work well on paper covers.
Fabric, on the other hand, may require special fabric paints or even puff paints. Check your paint's label before using it to make sure it's suitable for use on fabric.
For best results, your fabric should be a tight weave, so that the paint doesn't bleed through. Cotton is an excellent choice, though you can experiment with other tight-weave fabrics like rayon or silk., Don't have the time to make your own drawing or painting freehand? Just use a stencil! Stencils make it easy to add good-looking designs to your binder cover in just a few seconds. You can trace the outlines of stencils or fill them in — it's up to you.


If you're using paint, tape your stencil down so that it's tight against your binder cover before you start. Apply your paint sparingly. If your stencil isn't tight or you use too much paint, paint can leak under the edges and leave you with a messy design.You can make your own stencils, too — just print pictures and carefully cut around the edges with a pair of scissors or craft knife.
 Are you using your binder for school or work? If so, you may want to label it so that you remember what's supposed to go in it, but you of course want the label to look awesome.


For example, draw “Chemistry” in bold, fun lettering across the front of your binder cover, but consider adding a beaker with colorful chemicals in it as well. Be as creative as you wish here — as long as you can keep your binders straight, there's no such thing as a "wrong" label!

