 The colors you choose for color block eye makeup should not be too similar. The idea is to create a contrast, as this is a bold look. Go for colors that are either primary or secondary colors over fainter, earthier tones. Pick two to three shades. One goes on the top lid and another goes on the bottom. If you want, a third shade can be used on the socket line. Some examples of good combinations include:Emerald green and royal blue
Purple and peach
Red and pink
Green and purple;
, A third color can be added to your socket line after applying the first two colors. If you want some extra flare, choose a third color. Choose something a little darker and more played down, like deep purple, to apply to your socket line., To start, use your regular eyeshadow brush. Add a single layer of white eye shadow to your eyelid. This will serve as a base, making your colors stand out more.
 Use an eye shadow brush to fill in the area above your upper lash line. Take your first color and use gentle, dabbing motions to fill in the block you made above your lash line. The line should stretch to about halfway up your eyelid.








Do several layers to create a very bold, noticeable shade.
If you made a cat eye, you may want to use an angled brush to get into the corners.
 Add a thin line of your second color running along your lower lash line. Use an angled eye shadow brush to dab a line of color running as close to the lower lash line as possible. Dab the color on in a line, running from one corner of the lower lash line to the other.








Use a few layers to get a dramatic shade.
 If you want three colors, use a third color to fill in your socket line. This is optional and works best if you want a very dramatic look. Use a larger, fluffier eye shadow brush to dab the third color into your eye socket line. It should overlap slightly with the first color you added. Make a line running from one corner of your eye socket line to the other.Do not make this line as dramatic. Only use one layer as you just want a small hint of color here.
Pick a shade that's a little darker and more played down than you other two shades for this part of the process.
 Let your eyeshadow dry for a few minutes. Then, add a light layer of mascara. Dramatic mascara or fake eyelashes are not recommended, as they can distract from the color block look.
 Your eyeshadow creates an outline of your eye when you use block eyeshadow.Eyeliner is not necessary and it may smudge the look or distract from your dramatic eyeshadow.
 When wearing block eye makeup, go for a bolder lip color to match. Choose a bright shade, like a bright orange or red, to give your lips a complimentary bold effect.








If you want, you can match your lips with one of the colors you used for your eyeshadow.
 If you're uncomfortable going too bold, go for a neutral lip color. Something like peach or scarlet may work better with block eye makeup if you don't want bold lips as well.
 Eye block makeup works best if your skin is smooth and even. Dab on some foundation that matches your skin tone and use it to cover up any discoloration or imperfections on your face.







