 "Jeopardy!" has its regular game, as well as several tournaments and special weeks throughout the year. To compete as a contestant, you must meet these requirements.


For the regular "Jeopardy!" game, you must be at least 18 years of age and not have appeared on any other game show or reality show (including dating and relationship shows) in the past year, 2 such shows in the past 5 years, or 3 such shows within the last 10 years.
For the "Jeopardy!" Kids' Week, you must be between 10 and 12 years of age.
For the "Jeopardy!" Teen Tournament, you must be between 13 and 17 years of age.
For the "Jeopardy!" College Tournament, you must be a full-time undergraduate student who has yet to earn your first bachelor's degree.
You cannot be a Canadian citizen.;
, You may not be eligible to appear on Jeopardy! if you work for or have worked for one of the following companies:


Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc. or Sony Pictures Television Inc.
Quadra Productions Inc.
CBS Television Distribution
Any of the prize suppliers for Jeopardy or Wheel of Fortune., There are two different tests you can take to determine your eligibility for Jeopardy! One is the traditional adult test most contestants have to take, the other is a college student only test offered during the sporadic college challenges for the show.


You may only take the test designed for college students once per season and only if you are currently a student.
If you meet all the eligibility requirements for both the student and adult test you may take each one within a 12-month period., The adult test is usually given every year. If you took the test last year, you are still allowed to take this year’s test unless you meet any of the following exceptions:


If you took a special Jeopardy! test given in your local market within the past 12 months. These tests are not given at any regular frequency but the show reserves the right to conduct testing at specific locations to increase their contestant pool when needed.
If you attended an “in-person” audition within the last 18 months.
Taking the online test while you are ineligible could lead to disqualification., In order to register to take the online test, you will need an official profile on Jeopardy!’s website. Most of your communication throughout testing will be conducted through this portal.


You will only need to provide a username, e-mail address, zip code and date of birth to register.
Make sure to use an active e-mail account as they will contact you via e-mail regarding testing dates., The online test is only given once per year and the dates are not flexible. You must take the test at the prescribed times or you will be disqualified.


Check your MyJeopardy account regularly for updates in the testing schedule.
If you missed the test date for this year, you will need to wait until they announce a new test date and time.
 In order to take the online test, you will need to be on a computer that meets the technical requirements.


The test is compatible with mobile or tablet devices, but it is not recommended that you use them.
You will need a high speed internet connection.
You will need a screen resolution that meets or exceeds 1024x768.
You will need the latest version of Explorer, Firefox or Safari. AOL browsers are not compatible with the test., Once you are registered to take the test and have reached the date and time, it’s time to show them how smart you are.


It is recommended that you take the test in your own time zone, however you are permitted to take it during the testing period for an alternate timezone if that better suits your schedule.
The test will take only about ten minutes and cannot be restarted., If you are selected for an audition, a contestant coordinator will call you to set up a time.


They have extremely limited audition availability, so contestants that performed well in the online test are placed in a pool and chosen randomly.
People who do well on the online test are kept in the audition pool for 18 months., If you passed the online and are selected from the contestant pool for an audition, you will need to conduct an screen test that approximates what it might be like to appear on the actual show. This audition involves taking a new test and playing a mock version of the game itself.


The new test will have 50 clues that are different from those you saw in the online test.
You will play a mock version of Jeopardy to assess your ability to play the game.
You must perform well on the second test and the mock game in order to be considered for the contestant pool.
 After you play the game at your audition, you will be interviewed to see how well you can conduct yourself on camera. When you receive your notification of the audition, you will be provided a card to complete and return that provides subjects for them to interview you about.


Refine your stories so you can recite them quickly and easily. Focus on the material you suggested in the form you returned to Jeopardy prior to the audition.
Think of some fun facts about yourself and be prepared to say them confidently when asked.
You don’t have to have a spectacular novelty to be selected, but you will need to be able to present your story well., If you pass your audition, there is still no guarantee that you will be chosen to appear on Jeopardy! All of that hard work has put you in position to be chosen next, but you still may never get the call. There is still a bit more luck involved in being chosen.


You will be placed in a contestant pool for 18 months, during which time you may be contacted to come on to the show.
If you are not contacted to appear on the show by the time the next testing period begins, you are eligible to start the process over again.