 You will know you are being sued when you receive a copy of the complaint. The complaint will identify the person suing you (the “plaintiff”) and explain the reasons for the lawsuit. You should read the complaint carefully.


The complaint will also come with a summons. This document should tell you how much time you have to file a response to the lawsuit.Make careful note of the date.
If you miss the deadline for responding, then the plaintiff could get a “default judgment” against you. After getting this judgment, the plaintiff can turn around and garnish your wages or put liens on your property. For this reason, you need to commit to responding to the lawsuit in a timely manner.;
, The complaint should state what law the plaintiff alleges you violated. For example, publishers are most commonly sued for:


Defamation. If you are being sued for defamation, then the plaintiff believes that you published a false statement that injured the plaintiff and that you had no privilege to make the statement.Invasion of privacy. You can invade someone’s privacy in a variety of ways. For example, you may publicly disclose private facts about the person, or you could present them in a false light.
Copyright infringement. You can be sued for publishing someone else’s work without their permission. The fact that you didn’t know an article or book was plagiarized is no defense., This clause essentially states that the writer agrees to reimburse you for any loss caused by the book or article published. As a result, you can get the author to pay your legal fees and any money judgment a court enters against you.A sample clause might read: “Author will, at his or her expense, defend any claim against Publisher based upon a lawsuit alleging the breach of any representation or warranty in the preceding paragraph. Publisher will promptly notify the Author of the filing of any such suit and provide all information required to assist the Author in defending against the suit. The Author shall control the defense, appeal, negotiation, and settlement of such claims; however, the Author must receive Publisher’s prior written permission before settlement. Furthermore, Author shall compensate Publisher for any judgment entered against Publisher as a result of the lawsuit.”

, As soon as possible, you should begin gathering relevant evidence for your defense. You will want to show this evidence to your lawyer. What evidence is relevant will depend on what you are being sued for:


If you are sued for defamation, then you will want to look through your fact-checking on the article. Did you call people up and ask them to confirm certain facts in the story? If so, gather your fact-checking log and show it to your lawyer.If you are sued for invasion of privacy, then find any consent forms signed by the plaintiff. Also look to see if any private information you are accused of publishing is already in the public domain.
If you are sued for copyright infringement, then get a copy of the plaintiff’s original work. You will want to check how much was copied.
 After gathering as much evidence as you can, you should meet with an attorney. If you work for a newspaper or book publisher, you should either have a lawyer on staff or a private attorney “on retainer.” When a lawyer is on retainer, you pay them a small fee every month. In exchange, the lawyer is always available to help you.Find your company’s lawyer and schedule a meeting. Take the complaint and any relevant evidence with you to the meeting.
If you need to hire a lawyer, then ask other publishers if they would recommend their lawyer. If they would, then take down the name and number and call for a consultation.
You can also find a qualified attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.
 At the consultation with the lawyer, you should discuss potential defenses that you have to the lawsuit. Accordingly, you should discuss with your lawyer whether you can raise the following defenses in a defamation lawsuit:The statement was true. Truth is a defense to defamation claims. You should talk with your lawyer about what evidence you will need to help prove that the statement is true.
The plaintiff consented to the publication of the information. Ideally, you would have a signed consent form.
The alleged defamatory statement was actually an opinion.
The publication was a book review or other review and is fair criticism of the work.
You made a statement about a public official or celebrity. You have more freedom to make false statements about public officials and celebrities, such as your mayor or a movie star. If you make a false statement about these people, you can defend by claiming that you didn’t publish the statement with “actual malice.” Actual malice means you actually knew the statement was false or you suspected it was false but were reckless in not checking its accuracy. You can’t raise this defense if the plaintiff isn’t well-known.
 Possible defenses will depend on how you invaded the plaintiff’s privacy. For example, the plaintiff might claim you published private information which was embarrassing. However, if the information was already published (such as on a Facebook page), then you can defend your own publication.


Read the article Defend Yourself in an Invasion of Privacy Lawsuit before meeting with your lawyer.
 Copyright law allows you to use some portion of a copyright work in some situations, such as to create a parody or to write a critical review.To determine whether a “fair use” defense applies, a court must weigh four factors:The purpose and character of your use. You will have a stronger fair use argument if you transformed the work you copied. For example, an original novel may be transformed if you create a parody. The purpose of your work is important, too. A book review or piece of scholarship also transforms the work by making it the object of commentary.
The nature of the work you copied. If the work copied was a published factual work, such as a biography, then you have a stronger fair use defense. You will have a weaker argument if the copied work was unpublished or not factual, such as a novel or poem.
How much of the work you copied. The less you copy, the better. However, even copying a small portion could be prohibited if that portion was the “heart” of the work.
The effect of your use on the market for the original work. If your copying deprives the original creator of income, then you have a weaker fair use argument. However, if the creator didn’t suffer any financial loss, then you have a strong fair use defense.
 SLAPP stands for “strategic lawsuits against public participation.” Anti-SLAPP laws were passed to protect your First Amendment right to discuss issues of public importance. You can file a “motion to strike” with the court. The plaintiff then has to prove to the judge that they probably will win the lawsuit. If they can’t, the judge dismisses the case.


An anti-SLAPP motion to strike is a powerful shield against liability. If you win, the case is dismissed and you can get attorney’s fees.You can’t defend every lawsuit using an anti-SLAPP motion to strike. For example, you have no First Amendment right to commit copyright infringement. Accordingly, you should talk with your lawyer about whether filing a motion to strike is appropriate in your case.
You can find whether your state has adopted an anti-SLAPP law by visiting the Public Participation Project website., If an anti-SLAPP motion is not appropriate, then you will have to file an “answer” with the court. In this document, you must respond to each allegation in the plaintiff’s complaint. You must admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation.Your lawyer should draft the answer for you. Ask to see a copy before the lawyer files. Any allegation you admit to will be treated as an admission, even if the lawyer made a mistake. For this reason, you need to read the answer closely and promptly raise any issues with your attorney.
 You must always give the plaintiff a copy of every document that you file in the lawsuit. If the plaintiff has a lawyer, then serve a copy on the lawyer.You must make service of an anti-SLAPP motion to strike or your answer to the lawsuit. Your lawyer will make several copies and file the original with the court.
Your lawyer will also arrange service on the plaintiff. Your state’s law will determine what qualifies as acceptable methods of service.
Generally, your lawyer can hire a private process server to make hand delivery. In some courts, you can mail the plaintiff’s attorney a copy of the document.
 After you answer the lawsuit, the case enters the fact-finding phase called “discovery.” In discovery, you can request information from the plaintiff, who can also request information from you. The purpose of discovery is to allow you to properly prepare for trial so that there are no surprises.Your lawyer should handle the discovery aspects, though you may be called on to give a “deposition.”


In a deposition, you answer questions under oath in front of a court reporter. The plaintiff’s lawyer will ask you questions face-to-face. Your answers can be brought up later at trial, so you should work closely with your lawyer to prepare for the deposition.
You can also request documents from each other as part of discovery. For example, the plaintiff might want copies of your fact-checking log.
Finally, you might answer written questions, called “interrogatories.” These questions usually ask basic, background information about the case. Your lawyer will take charge of answering these for you.
 In many lawsuits involving publishers, the facts are not in dispute. For example, everyone will agree that certain words were published on a certain date. Instead, the lawsuit will turn on whether you are accountable under the law. When no meaningful fact is in dispute, then your lawyer can file a motion for summary judgment if you are entitled to judgment as a matter of law.For example, you might raise a fair use defense to a copyright infringement claim. If you copied only a few sentences from a novel, and if the plaintiff produces no evidence of suffering financial harm, then you might win the summary judgment motion and avoid trial.
If you win your motion, then the case is dismissed and the plaintiff cannot file again. If you lose, then you proceed onto trial.
 Your lawyer should handle the preparations for trial by lining up witnesses and preparing documents to serve as exhibits. The trial will probably follow this sequence:Jury selection. If either you or the plaintiff asked to have a jury, then you will need to pick the jury before the trial.
Opening statements. Your lawyer provides an overview of what evidence will be presented. The plaintiff’s lawyer will go first.
Cross-examination. The plaintiff presents witnesses first. Your lawyer can ask the witnesses questions on cross-examination.
Present your own evidence. You can have witnesses testify. You can also testify on your own behalf.
Make a closing argument. In the closing argument, the lawyers summarize the evidence and argue that the evidence supports their position.
 You probably have useful information that you will need to testify about during trial. For example, if you have been sued for defamation by a government official, then you will want to testify about the fact-checking you did to make sure that the statements were accurate. To prepare for testifying, your lawyer might do a trial run. On the day of trial, remember the following tips:Always tell the truth. Truth is the best defense. Also, you will commit perjury if you lie, which is a crime.
Sit up straight and look at the lawyer asking you questions. When you answer, turn to the jury and make eye contact.
Don’t guess. If you don’t know the answer, then say, “I don’t know.”
Always stay calm. It is upsetting being sued. However, the calmer you appear, the more credible the jury will find you.
 You can appeal if you think the judge made a legal error. For example, the judge might not have granted you summary judgment when it was appropriate.


You have to file your Notice of Appeal quickly. Generally, you must file within 30 days of the date final judgment is entered. In some states, you have even less time.Talk with your attorney about whether and when to file.

