 Hold a pencil point up and vertical against your nose to see where your eyebrow should begin. The edge of the pencil that is closer to your nose marks the line where your brow should start. If it goes beyond that point, you should use tweezers to remove the excess hair. If it falls short, you will probably want to extend it to that point.Use a white makeup pencil or a very light stroke from your brow pencil to mark this spot if you don't want to lose its precise location when you move the pencil.;
, Ideally, your eyebrow should end at a 45-degree angle from the outer corner of your eye. Still holding the pencil against the side of your nostril, pivot the point of the pencil away from your nose and to the outer corner of your eye. That is where the tail of your eyebrow should be.You can mark this spot with a light dot from your brow pencil, using that as a guide for tweezing or penciling in your brow later., Look straight forward and line up the outer edge of the pencil with the outer edge of your iris to find where your arch should begin.Mark this spot with your white pencil so that you can find it easily for tweezing or penciling.
 Hold the pencil horizontally across the tops of your brows to check that they are about the same height.If they are not, don't immediately try to pluck them to the same size. You'll use the pencil later to build them up to a similar height.
 Use the shape of your face to help you determine the best eyebrow shape for your features.


If you have a round face, a sharp, high angle will open your eyes and elongate and balance the face.You can get away with most shapes if you have an oval face. If your face is very long, try extending the length of your brows and don't fill them too much or too dark.A heart-shaped face can be a challenge--too shaped or angled can be harsh and accentuate your forehead. Try a lower, straighter arch that follows your brow bone.If you have a square face, full, even dark, brows will balance out your angular jaw., You can enhance your eyes by grooming your brows in a way that best accentuates the spacing of your eyes.









If you have wide-set eyes, keep brows fairly natural. Focus more on grooming than on shaping and plucking.If your eyes are close together, leave the hair closest to your nose alone. Instead of making your eyes look wider, it will highlight their closeness. Extend your brows with a long, wide arch and don't go too thin or sharp., If the tail of your eyebrow is longer than the point you marked, remove those hairs. Clean up the hairs that are outside your natural arch. Just don't get crazy and over-pluck. The lines of your brow don't have to be totally precise--this can look dated and severe. A feathered appearance is more natural.
 If you are having trouble shaping your brows, a professional can help. Visit a brow bar or a salon and, once they have revealed your groomed eyebrows, you can easily do upkeep with tweezers.

