 If you’re making a serious switch to a vegan diet, it’s a good idea to get advice from a professional. He or she will be able to tell you how to best meet your unique needs as well as giving you resources to help you choose the right foods.


Kids, women who are pregnant, and elderly people all have slightly different nutritional needs than the average adult, so it’s especially important for people in these groups to talk to a nutritionist.
 Meat-eaters have it a little easier: they choose a meat, a vegetable and a starch, and that’s that. As a vegan it’s important to make sure your meals are balanced according to the new food pyramid issued by the US Department of Agriculture. Aim to get the following each day:6 oz. grains (half of these should be whole grains, like brown rice, quinoa, or whole wheat)
2.5 cups vegetables (eat a variety, not just one or two types)
2 cups fruit (choose whole, fresh fruit instead of juice whenever possible)
5.5 oz. beans and other protein sources
Healthy fats (olive oil, grapeseed oil, nut oils etc)

, Some Vegans feel hungry after eating the same amount of food as meat-eaters. Meat and dairy are very filling, and vegans need to eat larger portions of vegetables, legumes, and fats to feel satisfied. As long as you’re filling up on healthy food, it’s fine to eat more than one helping and stop your stomach from rumbling. Pears are very filling. Try a pear if you are a hungry Vegan.


To make vegetables more filling, add olive oil, nuts, dried fruit, seeds, and other goodies. Eating just plain vegetables won’t feel as satisfying.
Use plenty of spices to make your food taste just as rich and nuanced as any meat-eater’s meal.
 Did you know oreos are vegan? Hundreds of snack foods and candies you might normally pass up will look extra tasty when you’re feeling hungry, but try to resist the urge to eat loads of sugar and processed carbohydrates. These foods are devoid of nutrition; they might fill you up temporarily, but they won’t give you the nutrients you need to stay healthy.


Processed soy products aren’t necessarily healthy for you, even if they’re made with tofu. It’s fine to have “tofurkey,” seitan, and other soy products every once in a while, but these should not be staples in your diet. The same goes for faux dairy products like soy cheese and ice cream.
 Some Vegans like to graze, since they tend to get hungry more often than meat-eaters. Have plenty of healthy snacks and smaller meals on hand so you don’t get to the point where you’re ravenous (which will make you more likely to wolf down a whole bag of gummy worms or three bowls of cereal with almond milk). Here are some great vegan snacks that you can gobble down without guilt:


Nuts of any kind. Try roasting your favorite nuts in the oven with olive oil and spices. If you have a sweet tooth, use maple syrup and cinnamon.
Whole grain crackers topped with hummus.
Carrot sticks and other cut vegetables with hummus.
Bean and rice cakes with salsa.
Baked sweet potatoes topped with coconut oil and sea salt.
Dark chocolate and peanut butter.
Banana ice cream (blend a banana and run it through your ice cream machine; you will be amazed by how delicious it turns out).
 As a vegan, you’re going to have to fend for yourself more often than not. Unless you live in a town with lots of great options for vegans (lucky you!) you’ll probably have to do a lot of your own cooking to ensure your meals are balanced and healthy. There are loads of vegan cookbooks available, so pick one up and start bookmarking dishes to try out.


Look for vegan blogs, too. You’ll find recipes as well as hosts of commenters who will offer more suggestions.
Health food stores and vegan/vegetarian restaurants are also great spots for inspiration.

