 For example, help mom and dad with preparation chores around the house, play ball outside, walk the dog or visit a friend and go running, sledding or cycling in the park.
 Try a quiet and calm activity that draws you right in, such as coloring in, drawing, painting miniatures or weaving a bracelet., Wrap any presents you haven't done yet. This can help you to see that the spirit of Christmas is also about ensuring other people deserve joy and excitement too, not just you.

Ask mom and dad if there is any present you can open up before they get up. This might be a good way to stave off the excitement until they wake up. And, you can always check Santa's goodies.
 This can help you to find fun things to do until it's present opening time.
 Your mom and dad might not like you waking them up at 4AM. A time around 7:30 is reasonable to wake your parents up, but let the rest of your family sleep until they wake up naturally.
 Follow all of your nighttime routines. Wearing your most comfortable pair of pajamas helps too!, This will help you fall asleep and make you tired. It will also give your mind a topic to think about while you drift off to sleep.

You can read Christmas stories but this will make it harder for you to clear your mind!

, There is nothing worse than being tired on Christmas! Also, sleeping can help you to pass the time the fastest, without feeling too excited or anxious.

If you cannot sleep, try reading some more for a while. Read an exciting book that takes your mind off the next day. Have a glass of warm milk or a turkey sandwich to help induce sleep.
Try using traditional sleep methods, such as counting sheep or counting backwards from one hundred. Only allow yourself to think about going to sleep, for example just repeat in your head, "I am going to go to sleep now" over and over.
 You are only letting your body succeed over your excitement. Just go back to sleep., If you are the type of person who regularly enjoys sleeping in, why not snooze for an extra hour today? Those presents will still be underneath that tree whether you wake up at 4:00 AM or 10:00 AM. If you're the type of person that gets up early, try to go back to sleep until you think it is an appropriate time to get up.

If you wake up very early, see what the big guy brought you.
 Distracting yourself with fun things will help to pass the time and will stop you from poking the presents to try and guess them. Here are some things you could try:

Listen to music. Any kind of music you want but use headphones.






Draw. Make a pretty picture for Santa Claus or your Aunt who is visiting from Ohio. They will love it.






If you are allowed, watch television. It will have to be quiet though. Cartoons that are normally very loud should be down very low.






Read a book. You could get lost in a good book and forget all about yearning for that special time.






Write in your journal. It may seem very boring but, writing about your excitement may get it out. If it isn't fun then maybe you could fall asleep!







, By this time you should be ready to go and wake up your parents!

