 If you are using whale ivory, make sure it was harvested before 1972, when the Marine Protection Act outlawed whaling in America. You can also use old ivory piano keys, bone or white acrylic., Insert a pin into the front and secure the pinhead inside the knife.
, If possible, attach a disk to a Dremel tool and apply the beeswax to the disc. Then, apply the beeswax evenly to the surface of the ivory, coating it completely.


Why seal the ivory? Ivory is very porous. Sealing keeps the ink that’s tattooed into the ivory from spilling over into unwanted sections, leaving an inky cloud. When properly sealed, the ivory will absorb ink only into the grooves that you etch into it.
 Rub the wax cloth over and over against the ivory until it has a uniform surface.
 The ivory should look shiny but not feel very waxy. Set the beeswax cloth aside, since you will need it later.
 You will want a small detailed drawing to use as your scrimshaw design.
 Remember to leave one-half inch of space on all sides. A sketch-like image with good outlines and some shadowing is best for scrimshaw.
, Cut it out, so that you can align it with the edges easily.
 Wet a cloth with acetone nail remover. Rub it lightly over the top of the paper with the cloth and then with a bone folder.


Make sure the paper is completely wet.
 You don’t want to move it around on the surface, or it will smudge your outline. Discard the paper.


If the outline didn’t come off onto the bone clearly, you can sand it, wax it and start again., Begin applying pressure while holding the pin as vertical as possible. Etch the lines into the surface of the bone., Then, apply some ink to the surface with a cotton swab. Apply a generous amount, and then wipe it off the remaining surface with a lint-free rag.
 You can also stipple, by etching dots. The closer the dots are together, the darker the shading will be.
 If you want a line to be darker, etch it deeper and apply more ink.
, If you make a mistake, you can draw larger lines or you can sand the area, re-wax it and sketch it again.
, Wax the surface of the scrimshaw when you are done by spreading an even layer over the artwork. It should appear shiny and preserve your ink.

