 Use a paper plate or thick paper that is sturdy enough to support the materials you will be adding. A paper plate works best because they are designed to hold food and be supportive, like a hand! , Place the paper plate on a flat surface, facing up as if you were about to put some food on it. Put your hand in the center of the plate, palm facing down and fingers spread out. Trace your whole hand with a pencil.


Make sure you hold your hand steady. Stand up and put pressure on your hand so it is less likely to scoot around on the table. Tape your plate to the table to keep it in place.
Make sure your fingers are spaced out 1/2 an inch to 1 inch so you have space to trace them and so they can wiggle once you cut out your hand.
Use a pencil so you can erase mistakes and any visible lines that are left once you cut the hand from your plate.
 Follow your outline the best you can. Start at the bottom of your fake hand and work your way up towards the thumb, over the fingers, and then back down along the pinkie side of your hand.
 For each hand, cut 19 pieces at a length of 1-2 inches. These will help your hand bend and come to life.Cut the ends at a slight angle or straight across, according to your preference.
 Hold the straw between your thumb and index finger. Use your scissors to cut a tiny "v" halfway through the middle so they can bend., Use a pencil to mark on each finger of the plate where a joint should be. Study your own hand to judge where to mark. Also mark a line extending about an inch above where your the bottom of your thumb connects with your palm to roughly an inch below where your pinkie connects.
 Place three straw pieces on each finger: two between each joint and one between the last joint and your fingertip. Place two on the thumb: one between the two joints and another between the last joint and the thumb's tip. Place five more along the line across the palm.


Keep the straw pieces separated from each other in the fingers and thumb. If you don't have enough room to do the same with the straw pieces in the palm, allow them to touch end to end.
 Allow the glue to dry. Let it sit for about thirty minutes.
 Secure the string at the tip of each finger with a piece of tape. Thread it through the straws to the wrist. Go about four inches past the wrist before cutting the string to make sure you have enough., Pull gently on each one to make sure each finger works. If they do, pull them all at the same time for full effect!Put a latex glove on it and stuff it with tissues to make a more life-like hand.

