 You can use Messenger to make free voice calls. The recipient will need to be using either the Messenger app or the Facebook app, and will need to have their device connected to the internet. They can also receive calls using the Facebook website.


Calls are currently only available with one recipient at a time. Group-calls or conference calls are not currently possible.;
, The recipient will be notified that they are receiving a call, and will be able to pick up.


If the button is grayed-out, the other person cannot currently receive phone calls. This may be because they are offline or are running an older version of the app., Once the call starts ringing, you can put your device up to your ear and talk just like you would a regular phone call.
 This will play the call audio loud so that you don't have to hold the phone to your ear.
 This will prevent the other person from hearing you until you turn mute off.
 The other person will be notified that you want to turn on video, and can either accept or deny the request. If the other person accepts, you'll be able to see each other using the cameras on your devices.
 When you receive a call on Messenger, your phone will ring with the special Messenger ringtone and you can answer it like you would a standard phone call.
 Facebook doesn't charge for video calls, but if you're on a cellular data connection they will count against your data plan. Using Messenger while connected to a wireless network will mean you can place and receive all the calls you want without worrying about data usage., You can only chat with a single person at a time, so the video button will not be available in group chats. Start a conversation with a single recipient to see the video button.
 Video calls are placed just like phone calls. You'll see a small window displaying how you appear, and the recipient's video will take up the main screen.If the video button is grayed-out, the other person cannot receive video calls. They may be offline or may not have Messenger updated to the latest version.
 The other person will be able to see you a lot easier if you are in a well-lit room or outside. Direct sunlight may not work well with your device's camera. Hold your phone out and away so that the other person can get a good look at your whole face.
 This will switch between your device's front and rear-facing cameras. Use this to show the other person something through the video chat.
 This will stop your phone from transferring audio in the call. Tap it again to unmute your audio.
 This will continue the call as an audio call for the other person until you turn your camera back on by tapping the button again.
 This will allow you to access your phone while the chat is ongoing. Your camera will stop recording while the conversation is minimized, and you can tap the bar to return to the conversation.

