 Google Hangouts is the safest, most reliable, and cheapest way to call a cell phone from your computer, especially if you're within the US or Canada (it's free there). All you'll need is a free Google account. There are three different ways that you can access Google Hangouts on your computer:



Gmail - Log into the Gmail website. You will need to enable Google Chat by clicking the Gear button, selecting Settings, clicking the "Chat" tab, and then enabling Chat. The Chat interface will appear in the lower-left corner of the Gmail window. You can use this method with most major browsers.

Chrome extension - Click the Chrome Menu button and select "More tools" → "Extensions". Click the "Get more extensions" link at the bottom of the list. Search for "Hangouts" and select it from the "Extensions" results. You can then access the extension by clicking the Hangouts button next to the address bar.

Chrome app - Click the Chrome Menu button and select "More tools" → "Extensions". Click the "Get more extensions" link at the bottom of the list. Search for "Hangouts" and select it from the "Apps" results. You can then access the app by clicking the Hangouts button in your Chrome Apps list.;
, You may have to click the "New Hangout" box for it to appear if you're using the extension or app.
 When using the dialer in Gmail, you may see a message prompting you to install the Voice plugin. Click the link and follow the prompts to download it.


The Hangouts extension and app have this built-in, so you won't need to install anything extra.
 Click the flag icon to open a drop-down menu of different countries. Select the country that your recipient is located in.
 If you are calling within the United States or Canada, most calls will be free. International calls have varying rates, which you can check at the Google Voice website.


Note: If your recipient also has Hangouts installed on their mobile phone, you can call them for free regardless of their location. This won't be a traditional "call", but instead it will be a voice chat. Select the person's contact from your list instead of entering the phone number.
You cannot place emergency calls using Google Hangouts. If you are in an emergency, use a landline or cell phone.
 Once you've entered the phone number you want to reach, you can place the call. If you have a Google Voice account, the recipient will see your Google Voice number on the caller ID. If you don't have a Google Voice account, the recipient will see "Unknown", and will not be able to return the call.

