 Whether you are playing a football game, have a gymnastics competition, a dance performance, or a poker game, you will perform best if you look the part. Make sure to take care of your hygiene. Wash and dry your uniform (or outfit) before the game. If you show up to the game unshowered and in a dirty uniform, it can affect your mentality before the game. If you look the part of a great player you will be more confident that you are a great player.
 The night before and the day of the game you want to make sure you eat healthy. Have a healthy breakfast before the game, such as oatmeal or a fruit smoothie. If you are playing a sports game try to eat food with carbs to help you gain energy (such as bread, crackers, cereal, and pasta). Be careful when you eat. Make sure to give yourself two to three hours to digest before an athletic game and don’t overeat., Getting a good night sleep before the game is very important. It will be hard to be motivated to play if you are half asleep. Getting enough sleep is important for your brain mentality and athletic performance. The few days leading up to the game try to get even more sleep than usual to really make sure you are going to be well rested. This way even if you are having trouble sleeping the night before because of nerves it won’t be as big of a problem., Drinking water before sports game can get your body ready and drinking water before any competition can help with your mindset. Before a sports game you should drink around 12-16 ounces of water. Throughout the game keep drinking water when you can.


Alternatively you can drink a sports drink to replace your electrolytes.Be careful not to drink too much water before a sports game, otherwise you might get cramps.
 Many people believe that stretching before a sports game can help prevent injuries and make you perform better. However, other people don’t necessarily agree. Know your body and what helps you get in the zone before a game. If you like to stretch before a game then take some time to stretch.Even if the game you are playing is not athletic, stretching can still help relax you and get you in a good mindset.

