 Hook up with all the buildings and units. Begin to repair anything damaged and begin collecting resources. #*Build lots of marines and have them defend the entire north and east edge of your base. Back at Norad 2 begin minor repairs on Norad 2.;
, Use the location where the bunker east of Norad 2 is to build a Barracks. Re-inforce your troops.
,


Begin building an army of Goliaths.
 Also, once your base is defended build lots of marines and make a rally point northeast of your base,do this with your factories too.



Lift it off and have it move on top of Norad 2. At this point you should restore Norad 2 to full health. construct a star port with observation tower where the barracks used to be (it will fit).
Lift off buildings and land them according to which buildings you need to produce units. Build a few drop ships and about 7 or so wraiths. Once done get the wraiths to attack the sunken colony ahead of the ramp.
 It will be defenseless.
 The Zerg will attack once in a while so reinforce your troops. send your scv team near the really point.


Send your Goliaths and marines to attack the Zergs northeast of your home base. Send back badly damaged Goliaths. Your troops will most likely die. repair any Goliaths you have left (the marines will probably be all dead) and begin making another army and attack.
 Repeat this process. directly north of your Norad base should be a whole lot of sunkens and 2 spores. Send in wave after wave of wraiths until they are destroyed.
 East of your Norad base will be a lot of spore colonies and a few sunkens. Send in about 7 Goliaths and one scv and destroy everything and continue destroying until everything in the general area is dead.
 Go a little bit farther. Bring some wraiths and keep heading north. You should see a mutalisk ,kill it.
 Send in marines, Goliaths, and some wraiths (if you haven't already, you should research cloaking field and Apollo reactor for wraith). #*Send in a lot as there will be many attacks on your new base.
 Wait until the attacks stop (they will make a final large attack with blue Zergs coming from the base of blue Zergs you were attacking with you main base) and with the orange Zergs to the east of your newest base where the mutalisk was (we will call this base 3).


Then, leave a few troops in your base just in case and build an army of marines and Goliaths, and at your Norad base.
 send in wave after wave of reinforcements and the Zerg will eventually fall.
 Keep up your attacks on the blue Zerg and send in a cloaked wraith north of home base.


You know how the map has an edge? Well get as close to the edge as possible and head along it to until you get to the Northwest corner of the map slowly move east (while still cloaked and heading along the edge) until you see a sunken colony.
Attack it but be careful to avoid the spore colony underneath.
Send in a few scvs some marines and 2 or so Goliaths ( do not send in any air units at this point).
Head up the ramp and kill anything you see until you reach the spore colony. There should be a hydrasilisk which will unburrow kill it and then destroy the sunken colony.



The Zerg may send in a few mutalisks once in a while so keep your troops there READY to defend. You now have 4 bases and lots of dead Zerg.
 #*Put Raynor in a drop ship, and ship him off to the Terran beacon near Norad 2.


At the star port near Norad 2 , build a drop ship and have it move to the beacon. once both are there, Duke will start yapping, Raynor won't shut up and mengsk will do random things.
