 The best place is a small animal carrier. In fact, a cat carrier will work fine if the wire is close enough together on the door. You can also use a hamster ball, but make sure you have someone to supervise the hamster.


Consider wearing throwaway gloves for this process so you don't spread germs.;
, Take all the toys, bowls, and shelters out of the cage. Shake the bedding out into a garbage bag. Make sure to not shake the bedding out in a food area, as small animals can carry bacteria such as Salmonella.Everything in the cage can carry smells. Therefore, it's important to clean all parts of the cage, including the toys and accessories.
 Before deodorizing, clean the cage with a cleanser specifically made for hamster cages or a mild soap. You can use dishwashing soap, for instance, and hot water. Wash everything thoroughly, including the food and water bowls and the accessories.Just be sure not to clean the cage in the kitchen because of the possibility of spreading bacteria. Outside or in the bathtub works best.
Use a dedicated sponge and soap to clean the cage, even if you're using dishwashing soap.
Using a basic soap gets out most of the feces and urine, helping to deodorize the cage.
 Pick a cleaner that will help deodorize. You can use an all-in-one cleaner to clean and deodorize or clean and then use a deodorizer. For instance, cleaning products with enzymes will help the cage smell better.Simpler options include baking soda or vinegar after you've cleaned the cage with soap and water. To use baking soda, sprinkle some in the cage and wipe it clean with a wet sponge. For vinegar, wet the sponge with vinegar and use it to wipe down the cage., Once you are done, make sure you rinse the cage an accessories thoroughly. You don't want any residue left on the cage that could bother your hamster.Rinsing gets rid of any smells that may bother your hamsters. While you don't want it to smell like hamster, you also don't want it to smell like cleaner to your hamster.
Let the cage dry before putting your animals back in.
 When choosing bedding, stick to aspen if you want to use wood chips. Other types of wood can be harmful to hamsters.You can also use shredded paper with the wood shavings or bedding made from recycled paper.You also can use a couple of other plant-based beddings available at your pet store. These beddings are absorbent. Just be sure to pick one that is plant-based, not ones that are artificial.If you use shredded paper, make sure to use paper without ink. However, paper won't absorb odors as well as other plant-based beddings. Aspen is better at hiding odors than paper, but it's not as good as the more absorbent plant-based beddings. The more absorbent the bedding is, the more it tends to hide odors.To make sure your bedding is ready for your hamster, you can put it in a zip-top bag and let it sit in the freezer for 2 days. That way, any mites that might be living in it will die off., When you're done, be sure to wash your hands thoroughly. Washing your hands helps prevent the spread of bacteria.