 Every long-distance relationship has its own optimal level of communication, but daily communication is a must for couples separated for more than a few weeks. Whether you prefer text, email, online chat, telephone calls or video chatting, make sure you're sharing your life with your boyfriend. For a romantic option, write an old-fashioned letter and put it in the mail!Don't share information that might make him jealous or feel left out.
You might need to schedule daily conversations, or you might decide to keep them spontaneous.;
, Being in a long-distance relationship will make every slight or twinge of envy seem larger than it would if you were closer together. If you find yourself obsessively checking his online status updates, or worrying because he doesn't reply to your text right away, it's a good idea to take a step back.If you're worried he's having a flirtation, the best thing to do is ask him directly. Talk about your concerns, and reassure him of your own fidelity.
Remember that the way to get around fear in a relationship is to practice honesty.
 Sometimes one of you is bound to get physically lonely for the other person. You miss being around each other. You might feel irritable, restless, or disagreeable. When this happens, usually the main relationship problem is that you're too far away from each other.Try to express the frustration you're feeling clearly, without bring up past history. Stick to the topic at hand.
Explain what is bothering you without blaming your boyfriend.
 With any relationship, it's a good idea to check in with him and see how things are going in his daily life. Be quick to offer encouragement for what he's going through and praise for his accomplishments.It's fine to ask for his support too. Including him in your life will remind him that he's important to you.
You can continue to work through problems together. Sometimes spending some time apart can help strengthen this aspect of your relationship.
 If you're miserable, you'll likely sabotage your relationship with your boyfriend. Relationships are easier to maintain when you're feeling happy and confident. It's easier to be patient when you're busy doing things you enjoy - like spending time with girlfriends, joining a club, or taking a new class at the gym.Share your new activities with your boyfriend when you talk. Make sure he knows you're happy, not moving away from him.
If you're spending time in new places he's never been, send him plenty of photos so that he knows where you are.

