 Start by practicing the body motion without a ball. This will help you understand the basic body motion of the move, which looks extremely complicated at high speed. It’s not. It’s fairly simple when done slowly. Slow it down and imagine the ball on the ground at first.


Practice each component of the Maradona as described above in individual steps.
Work on getting your body used to the technique before you move on to incorporating the ball.
At first, go nice and slow, placing your foot on “top” of the imaginary ball, and the other positions where you manipulate the ball as you go through each motion.
 Now that you’ve gotten the body motion down, practice the actual footwork on the ball. As with the motion work, go slow at first. Treat each component of the move as an individual step. Repeat the approach, the stopping of the ball, the switching of feet on the ball, the spinning of your body, and the movement of the ball into the space behind you as individual moves, then put them all together.
 When you have the basic ball maneuver down at a slow speed, increase your pace. Take great care as you increase your speed to retain control throughout. The Maradona isn’t meant to be executed at high speed. It’s a move of finesse- rushing it will only result in you losing possession of the ball or tripping over it, possibly twisting an ankle.


As you go faster, keep in mind the specific movements-each movement is its own step.
If it starts to get sloppy, slow it back down and continue practicing each motion slowly.
 Once you are able to do the Maradona with some regularity and speed, start dribbling, and practice the Maradona technique in the midst of dribbling. Once you execute the maneuver, dribble away in the new direction.
 When you feel comfortable doing the Maradona with a dribble, use cones to get the feel for using it in a specific place in relation to a defender. Using cones to represent sedentary people or positions on the field will help you ability to execute moves where they matter most- right in the spot they’re called for. It won’t so you any good if you can do the Maradona Turn, but not at the correct moment. Get three cones.
Place two of the cones approximately five yards apart.
Place the third cone another five yards out, at an approximately 45 degree angle from the middle cone.
Starting at the first cone, dribble toward the second, and execute the Maradona as if the second cone were a defender. Spin past the “defender” and continue dribbling on to the third cone.
Repeat numerous times for practice. 