 Unlike a classroom setting, the chances that you will have to work closely with a girl you ask out, regardless of whether or not she agrees to date you, is much higher in the workplace. You can't just request another partner or wait for the semester to end, and neither can she. As long as you understand the risks to your comfort level (and hers) if things don't go as planned, you can take steps to minimize those risks and ensure that your work life will continue to be bearable no matter what happens.
 This old adage (in any of its many colorful variations) is considered timeless for a good reason. The closer you are to someone outside of your dating life, the more likely it is that dating or otherwise pursuing that person will eventually lead to drama and misery. At work, this means you're better off trying to pick up a girl you don't work with very closely or very often, if you can help it at all.


If you work at a large business like a department store or a major business office, try to focus on picking up girls who work in other departments than your own. That way, no matter how things pan out, both of you will be able to come to work with minimal awkwardness afterward.
 Obviously, respect is an important component of any (realistic) dating strategy, but in the workplace, you must be especially conscious of it. Think about it from the girl's perspective: She's there because she needs a job, not because she thought there were a lot of cute boys behind the counter when she was job hunting. Anything that makes her job more stressful is going to ripple throughout her life, because she can't afford to just stop showing up on account of one uncomfortable exchange with a coworker. Never put a girl in the position of dreading work more than she already would have before you asked her out.


Be brief, be polite, and if you are rejected, don't press the issue or otherwise bother her afterward. Even if you think you're being friendly, chances are she's not going to appreciate you continuing to step into her sphere after she already said no. Give her plenty of space.
 A lot of employers frown on workplace romance, because it is often accompanied by lost productivity and conduct violations (ranging from overlong cigarette breaks to inappropriate breakup arguments and more). If you're going to pursue a woman at work, don't spread your intentions around.


As long as work continues more or less the same as it did yesterday, your bosses won't personally mind one bit if you try to pick up a girl on the job, or even end up regularly dating her. Just remember: the workplace is for work first; everything else is a secondary concern, no matter how interesting or important it might seem to you.

