 Dry firing your gun is a good practice technique that saves money on purchasing training ammunition. Before practicing with dry ammunition, make sure you pick a safe location and double check that your gun is unloaded. Practice aiming and firing into a spot on the wall. Take into account your grip and your stance. Standing in a mirror may help you.


Dry firing is also beneficial because it takes away other distractions like the sound of your gun or the recoil that occurs when firing live rounds.
You can also use dummy rounds when dry firing, which are plastic rounds that allow the gun's slide to move forward., Like many other skills, repeating the action of firing your gun will help you build muscle memory and will make shooting your gun feel more instinctual than procedural.Go to the range as often as you can and practice dry firing on your off time or if you don't have the money for live ammunition.


Having muscle memory will also help you in self-defense or live fire situations.
 Keeping safe means keeping your gun unloaded and finger off the trigger until you're ready to fire it. Check that there are no bullets in the magazine or the chamber. Never point your gun towards something that you don't want to shoot. When your gun is idle, make sure that it's pointed down range. Wear protective headphones and eyewear as well.


All ranges have different rules. Ask a staff person for a copy of the rules.Remove the magazine from the gun until you're ready to fire.
If you're using a revolver, make sure that the cylinder is bullet free.
Never go past the firing line unless a staff member ceases all fire on the range.
 An instructor will be able to assist you with your form. If you're not sure why your shots are missing your target, ask them to evaluate your shooting and they can help you adjust. Always listen to the instructor and pay close attention to the steps that they provide.


Look online for firing ranges in your area.
Ask the front desk at the range for an instructor who can help you improve.
 The natural point of aim is the natural position of the gun and your body, while you are behind it. To find your natural point of aim, center yourself on a target that you want to shoot. Draw your gun, and set the gun sights on the center of the target. Close your eyes and swing your gun 45 degrees back and forth by rotating your hips three times. Come back to the center of the target and open your eyes. This is your natural point of aim. If you are left or right of your target, make sure to adjust your feet so that you are centered on the target.The tip of the front sight post will designate the natural point of aim.Always make sure that your gun is unloaded when testing your natural point of aim.

