 Smoking cessation is the single most important intervention especially in early stage of disease. Your lung function will improve, and the decline of your lung capacity will be slowed as soon as you stop smoking.
 Yearly preventative vaccination against influenza is recommended. Seek medical care as soon as you know you have been exposed to someone with influenza.
 If you live in industrialized cities where there is a lot of pollution, limit or avoid outdoor activities when the air quality is poor. Your local weather report may make note of days when air quality is especially poor, or you can check online on a site like AirNow in the US.
 Antihistamines, cough suppressants, sedatives, tranquilizers, beta-blockers and narcotics may have a negative effect on your breathing and ability of clearing airways. This may worsen your COPD symptoms. Talk to your doctor about which medications to avoid and if there are any alternative medications or treatments you can try.
 Since COPD is a progressive disease, it's important to talk to and visit your doctor regularly. They will be able to help you manage your condition and give you guidance on staying active.


COPD is usually treated with one or more medications. Talk to your doctor about your medications and how to use them correctly.
In addition, talk to your doctor about what medications to take and how to take them if you get tight or have trouble breathing.
If you want to stay active or become more active, ask your doctor for guidance. Ask what types of activities are safe for you, what intensity is appropriate and how long you can be active for.
 When you have a chronic disease like COPD, it's essential that you not only take your medications, but that you are consistent with them day-to-day. It is important to use your inhaler before exercise as a preventative measure.


COPD patients may require both oral medications and inhalers. They help decrease inflammation in the lungs, which helps you be able to breathe more easily.Many COPD medications are only active in the short-term (like four to eight hours). This means that you need to take them at least once, but even up to two to three times per day.
On days that you're feeling well, with no wheezing or difficulty breathing, it's still important that you take your medications. They are there to help prevent the onset of symptoms and keep inflammation down.
 Many physicians recommend that COPD patients have an action plan in place. Work with your doctor to help create your own personalized plan.


A COPD action plan is designed by you and your doctor and will give you instructions on what to do or what not do if you feel any symptoms.Your action plan should review day-to-day medications and scheduling.
In addition, it should list out your symptoms and what medications to take and how often.
For example, if you begin wheezing and coughing, what medication should you take?
Also take into account the severity of your symptoms. When should you call 911? Should you call with moderate symptoms or only severe symptoms?

, If you live with COPD, having quality nutrition is essential for managing symptoms and for prevention of exacerbations caused by infections. Eat in an upright position and eat slowly. If you get short of breath, use pursed-lip breathing. Include high protein and high fiber foods. Avoid simple carbohydrates and empty calorie foods (potato chips, candy, sodas) which often cause gas and bloating that leads to shortness of breath.Eat small, frequent meals instead of large ones. It is recommended to eat five to six small meals instead of three large ones. Making your stomach too full will make breathing work more difficult.
Avoid drinking before or with meals because it can make you feel bloated. Limit caffeine and salt intake, which may also make you feel bloated.
Choose foods that are easy to chew.
 Maintain healthy body weight. Consult with your healthcare practitioner about what should be your ideal weight and how many calories you should consume a day. If you need to lose weight, reduce your daily intake by about 500 calories, which can result in a 1 – 2 lb loss per week.


However, one in three of COPD sufferers are underweight and gaining weight can be a challenge., COPD doesn't only affect your lungs. Many COPD patients deal with depression and anxiety as well. The fear of getting too out of breath, having uncontrollable symptoms and not being able to be as active or social can affect your emotional health.If you're noticing that you're feeling more down or depressed since being diagnosed with COPD, consider seeking help from a support group.
Talking about your issues and how COPD is affecting your life is helpful. This is especially true if others have been in your shoes.
In addition, other patients can provide you with tips, tricks and ideas for how to cope better.
 If you're struggling continually with depression or anxiety related to your COPD, you might benefit from seeing a therapist on a more regular basis.


Work with your physician and get in touch with a behavioral therapist. They can help build your confidence in yourself, work on your action plan and help you learn to cope through this disease.
If you're feeling overly anxious about the possibility of a flare up, talk to your doctor about the best ways to manage your symptoms.
Having your action plan in place, your emergency medications readily available and support a system can help relieve some of this anxiety.
 When you're first diagnosed with COPD, it can be overwhelming and confusing. Educating yourself as much as you can will help you stay safe, manage your disease and may ease your anxiety.When you are prescribed medication, ask your doctor questions. Ask how the medication works, about potential side effects, how long it takes to work, and any other questions you may have.
Spend additional time learning about COPD, how it affects your body, different triggers and how to manage your COPD through lifestyle changes.

