 There are a wide variety of virtual pianos online. Browse the internet and find a few. Make sure to spend some time messing around with a few of them so you can find one that you like and are comfortable with.


The advantage of online virtual instrument applications is that there is no need to download or install any additional software programs.
To find virtual piano applications, search the Internet for "virtual piano keyboard" or "play piano online.";
, The first thing you need to do is experiment a little with the virtual piano you’ve chosen. Feel free to play it a little, hit random keys, or otherwise just mess around. Remember that:


The virtual piano keys on the screen usually correspond to the keys on your computer keyboard. See if the app has a guide to your keyboard so you can find out which of your keyboard keys trigger the piano keys.
If you have a touch screen, you’ll be able to just touch the screen to play.
If you want, use your mouse to touch the piano and to play some notes., After experimenting a little, you should take the time to really get to know your keyboard and the specific online piano application. By doing this, you’ll be able to discover features and gain more familiarity with the app.


Notice that the keyboard is broken up into two colors, black and white.
Identifying and using the black and white keys will form the basis of playing an online piano., Identifying the groups of keys will help you learn how to play the piano and eventually play whole songs. Remember that:


Black keys in groups of two are C sharp and D sharp (or D flat and E flat).
The three white keys around groups of two black keys are C, D, and E.
Black keys in groups of three are F sharp, G sharp, and A sharp (or G flat, A flat, and B flat).
White keys around groups of three black keys are F, G, A, B, and C., Different keys are associated with different notes and make different sounds. Knowing which keys make which sounds will help you play and compose music.


Touch the white keys. The white keys represent different notes in an octave.
Use the black keys. The black keys represent half steps between the notes played by white keys., After you’ve familiarized yourself with your black and white keys, you should begin playing them together. By playing them together, you’ll get a hang of the sounds the online piano creates. You’ll begin to grow more comfortable with the online piano over time.


Experiment with different combinations of notes.
Use or create chords with hot keys or macros. Many online pianos have the option to use pre-programmed chords or to design your own with hot keys. Check to see if the application you’ve chosen has this feature., Your goal in learning to play the piano online should be to play a song on your own. Make sure to use all of the information you’ve gathered to slowly learn a song of your choice.


Pick a song that is simple, like “Twinkle Twinkle Little Star.”
Print off sheet music, if that will help. Use what you learned about the black and white keys and the notes they represent.
Spend an hour a day or so practicing it until you’ve got it perfected.
 Many online piano applications allow users to adjust the sound of the virtual instrument to mimic a variety of different instruments or other sounds. By experimenting with these features, you’ll see that an online piano has a lot to offer in terms of creating innovative new sounds and music.


Add an accompaniment or a drum track or other instrument.
Some online piano websites include pre-programmed accompaniments that you can play along with., Changing the octave of the piano keyboard will alter the sounds of the music it produces. By changing the octave, you’ll take your piano playing to the next level and take advantage of the full abilities of an online piano.


The virtual piano keyboard usually consists of only 8 keys, or a single octave. However, many online piano playing sites provide the option of changing to a higher or lower octave.
Change the octave settings on the virtual piano keyboard to access the full range of notes found on a real piano keyboard., Many online piano apps have a feature that will teach you to play a particular song. Use this feature to learn a pre-programmed song.


Some virtual piano web applications can teach users how to play a specific song.
Typically, the keys on the virtual keyboard will light up to signal when a note should be played.
Press the key that corresponds with each highlighted key as it appears on the virtual piano keyboard.