 If your garage is going to be directly joined to your house, then it might be a good idea to match it up, as best as possible, with the exterior finish and material of the home. In some cases this won’t always be possible, or there might be a slight difference between the worn effect on your house, from older brickwork, and the brand new finish in place on your new garage. Depending on the look you are going for, you might want to think about using the same finish so that there isn’t a dramatic contrast.;
, If the garage will be built away from the house, then you might want to use a completely different exterior finish. Autumn red brickwork, Cotswold stone, or a textured style such as magnolia are just some of the options available to you.
 If you are getting your garage built by a supplier, then ask them if they have a brochure which details all of the personalised features. Alternatively, if your garage is going to be built by a team of people, then ensure you find a recommendation for a supplier who can provide the brick or stonework before the work takes place.
 Your garage doesn’t have to conform to traditional design as there is a range of choice available in the market. Do your research first and find a suitable design style for the exterior of your garage.
 You might be tempted to obtain a finish such as Cotswold stone, but if this goes over your budget allocation when planning for your new garage then it might be wise to reconsider and choose another design. Going over budget isn’t necessarily a bad thing, as long as this won’t cause a big dent to your finances. If for example you have a strict limit, whereby choosing one design would take you over by £1,000, then it’s probably going to involve a little readjusting in terms of planning and choosing a suitable design. If it fits in with your budget, looks good aesthetically, either from a standalone point of view or because it matches your home, then you have probably come to a reasonable decision.
 Remember, it’s all down to personal taste, as well as practicality, so take care to ensure the finish is something that you will enjoy now and for many years to come.

