 Before you begin to style your hair, you'll want to wash it so that it is in it's natural state. If you try to style your hair wavy after you have already styled it another way, it may be more difficult. Use a shampoo and conditioner that enhances wavy hair.


When you visit your local cosmetics or grocery store, look for a shampoo and conditioner that is suited for wavy or curly hair. The bottles will usually have something on them that explains what hair type they are for. Using a shampoo specifically designed for your hair will help you enhance your natural wave.
If you can, refrain from washing your hair every day. Waiting two or three days to wash your hair will allow the natural oils in your hair to be restored, resulting in less dry, frizzy hair. You can condition your hair more frequently, as your hair could always use extra moisturizing.;
, After you get out of the shower you can squeeze out your hair, but refrain from towel drying it. It will be easier to style your hair if it is mostly wet, and towel drying your hair can add frizziness. Use a wide tooth comb and start at the ends of your hair, working out any tangles you may have.It's important to use a wide tooth comb here as other tools can cause your hair to snag or pull, which will damage your hair. Using a brush will most likely do this, so avoid brushing your hair when it is wet. A regular comb (not wide tooth) is less likely to pull your hair, so you can use that if it is what you have. However, a wide tooth comb is the best choice.
 After you have combed through your hair, you can now apply a product to enhance waves. Try to choose a product with little or no alcohol (as this can create that crunchy feeling in your hair). You can use a mousse, paste, or spray (whichever you prefer). Squirt the mousse or paste into your hand and apply it to your hair by scrunching from the ends of your hair towards your roots.


You can also put the product directly in your hair. Squirt it into your hand and finger comb it through your hair. Then scrunch your hair as previously described. If you have spray, spritz it evenly throughout your hair and proceed to scrunch your hair.
Look for a product that is described as curl enhancing or wave enhancing. Avoid using hairspray as this can create a crunchy, frizzy look.
Try not to add product to your roots as this will create build up and can make your hair look too stiff. You will achieve the most natural wave if you apply product closer to the ends of your hair, as waves generally tend to be looser at the top and tighter at the end.
 After you have applied your product, take some time to scrunch your hair, gathering your hair at the ends in your hands and scrunching upwards to your roots. Once all the product is in your hair, scrunch with a microfiber cloth. Do this until you've scrunched all of your hair, and you have your desired waviness.Avoid scrunching your hair with a towel as this can create frizziness. If you don't have a microfiber cloth, you can use an old cotton t-shirt. You want to avoid using your hands too much as they can also create frizziness in your hair.
 Now that you've finished scrunching your hair, use your fingers to comb through any messy waves you may have created. You don't want to use a comb or brush while your hair is styled like this as it can brush out the waves you created, making your hair look bushy. Fix any fly aways or tangles you created by finger combing your hair.
 You can dry your hair naturally or with a blow dryer. Drying your hair naturally will take longer, but it will prevent your hair from damage caused by heat and may help avoid frizziness. If you are going to blow dry your hair, make sure you use a diffuser. Turn the temperature on a lower heat and gently blow your hair dry with your diffuser attachment, setting the ends of your hair in the diffuser and pushing the diffuser upwards to your roots.