 National passports are essential for those traveling out of their country. You will need to gather evidence of citizenship to qualify for a passport, (including your birth certificate, certificate of citizenship, driver's license, or previous passport). Once you have gathered the required documents, apply by mail or at a passport agency.

Some countries require passports to have at least six months of validity remaining. If your passport is close to expiring, renew it at least one to two months before you travel.;
, To enter a foreign country legally, you will need a travel visa issued by the consulate or embassy of the country where you're traveling to. Depending on why you're entering the country, you will need either a work visa, student visa, or fixed-term visit visa.Depending on the country, you can submit your application via mail or online. After the information has been reviewed, you may need to attend an interview with a consular officer.
Plan ahead. A visa application can take anywhere from several weeks to a month to fill out.
If your visa is rejected, ask for an appeal. Check the consular website of your intended country for information on appeals.
 Ask your health insurance company what injuries or health expenses would be covered internationally. If your insurance company does not provide adequate travel insurance, apply for supplementary insurance from another company for the duration of your trip., Many bank services have fraud-monitoring systems that freeze accounts displaying suspicious activity, like usage in a new location. Traveling to another country may alert these systems if you try to use your credit card. Send a travel notice to your bank via phone or online before you go., When travelling internationally, order foreign currency in advance so you have cash while traveling. You'll want to be prepared in case something goes wrong with your credit or debit card. Many banks offer currency exchange options for their clients. Call or email yours before you go to use their services.You can also withdraw currency at ATMs all around the world, but this often comes at a high fee., Immunizations are often necessary to fly internationally, and you'll need proof of immunization copies. Research what vaccinations are required to visit your specific country. Schedule a visit with your doctor to discuss your travel plans.Some immunizations require multiple shots and may need to be started weeks in advance.
Remember to fill your prescriptions before you pack so you have the medication you need while traveling.
 Most countries encourage travelers to register with their home country before travelling internationally. The embassy will then have a record of your details and be able to offer assistance in unforeseen crises, such as natural disasters or a family emergency while you're overseas. Registration is voluntary but in your best interest., Bring all necessary documents, medications, electronics, and snacks in your carry-on. Pack a change of clothes and entertainment for the flight as well, especially if your flight is long.Put all your valuables in your carry-on to avoid them being damaged or stolen.
Some passengers like to bring a a first aid kit, just in case any emergencies happen on the plane. Painkillers, anti-nausea medicines, earplugs, and tissues are all great items to bring.
 Your luggage will need to meet weight requirements to avoid extra fees. If you pack lightly, you will have less that could get lost on your trip and plenty of room for souvenirs to bring home.


Roll your clothes to avoid awkward wrinkling and have more space.
If you can wear it on the flight, do so instead of wasting luggage space. Dress in layers so you can bring more. Wear your jacket or sweatshirt onto the plane to avoid getting charged for the extra weight.
 Liquids from outside of the airport and most sharp objects will not be allowed on the plane. Contact the airport your flight's scheduled with to ask which objects are banned. Researching beforehand will help you have a stress-free security experience.Different airlines have different allowances or restrictions. Even if you've traveled before, you'll want to contact the specific airline for up-to-date policies.
 To avoid packing in a rush, finish packing several days in advance. During the last two days, you can double-check to make sure you have everything. Ask yourself preparatory questions: do you have all necessary documents? Did you refill and bring your medications? Is there any necessity you might be forgetting, like credit/debit cards or electronics?, While you may feel like flying is a special occasion, don't dress up to your international flight. Flights overseas are long, and you'll want to wear loose, comfortable clothes.If your flight is especially long, consider packing a pair of sweats for your flight in your carry-on. Change back into your original clothes for the landing.
 Some airports offer long-term parking rates for your car while you're away. Call or email about the long-term car storage options and the costs of each choice.

If car storage isn't an affordable option for you, use a shuttle service, hire a taxi, or ask a friend/family member to drive you there.
 Check in for your flight as early as possible to go through security and board on time. You'll also have time to use the bathroom or grab something to eat before you depart. While you're waiting for your flight, bring something to relieve boredom: keep a book, journal, or game in your carry-on to entertain you while waiting., Dehydration is a common problem on long flights, which can lead to exhaustion or irritability. Buy a large water bottle to fill up before you board the flight so you can take it in your carry-on.Avoid drinking alcohol or caffeine before and during your flight, as both can lead to dehydration.
 Most nations require you to mark on an official form what goods you bring with you to their country. Which items you must declare depends on the country. You will likely receive your customs form at the airport and during the flight. Fill it out while on the plane so you are prepared for landing.

Some countries require a customs form for each person traveling while others require one per family. Check beforehand to know which forms you must fill out.
Most countries require declaration of: alcoholic drinks, tobacco, animals, seeds, soils, medication, and animal products.
 International flights involve crossing time zones and long, uncomfortable plane rides. Both can disrupt your sleep schedule. Bring a sleeping mask and earplugs with you, and consider taking an over-the-counter sleep aid to help you adjust to the new time zone.