 Chanting the mantra gives you peace and connects you with Lord Krishna. Say the following words, “Hare Krishna Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare, Hare Rama Hare Rama, Rama Rama Hare Hare.”The three forms of meditation are japa, kirtan, and sankirtan.


In japa, you meditate quietly alone with your beads.
In kirtan, you meditate by singing the mantra and with musical instruments.
If you perform kirtan in a group, it is called sankirtan.
 Japa beads are similar to a rosary beads. When you chant alone, the japa beads can help you focus and count the number of times that you have chanted the mantra. A strand of japa beads has 108 small beads and head bead. As you chant the full mantra, roll one of the small beads between your thumb and middle finger. Begin the mantra again as you roll the next bead. Repeat this process 108 times until you reach the head bead again. You will have completed one round of japa once you reach the head bead again.Work your way up to chanting 16 rounds per day.
It is important that you chant every single day. Even if you can only complete one round of chants, try to commit to one round a day.
Your beads are sacred and should never be placed on the ground on anything that is dirty. If you want to carry them with you, place them in a special bag.
 An altar is not required, but it can enhance your japa and kirtana. An altar is a special place that you set aside for meditation. Imagine where you would seat a guest that you really loved and adored. This is what your altar should look like. Some items that you might use to decorate your altar include:A picture of Srila Prabhupada (the spiritual master/guru)
A picture of Lord Chaitanya (the incarnation of God for tis age) nad his four associates
A picture of Lord Krishna
Any items that you find beautiful
Comfortable chairs and pillows

, Going to temple allows you to participate in congregational worship and sankirtan. Worship service is usually on a Sunday night. Visit the ISKCON website to find a temple near you.There are some devotees that live in the temple. However, you can still live outside of the temple, yet live out Krishna’s teaching in your everyday life.

