 No matter where you are, it is important to be engaging and interactive. No one finds a robot sexy; put your own flair onto these steps.


Don’t be afraid to lean in and touch their arm. This shows that you’re engaged in a conversation and will turn their attention onto you.;
, A big smile showing off your pearly whites is one of the most attractive things to almost anyone because it shows confidence.Even if you don't have the "perfect smile," act as though you do. It's your smile, so own it.
Laugh during the conversation—this shows that you’re paying attention and they’ll do the same. However, don’t force yourself to laugh if the conversation doesn’t call for it.
 Running your hands through your hair brings attention to your face. People are more likely to be engaged with what you’re saying if they’re looking at your face.


Girls—occasionally flipping your hair or simply moving it to frame your face will draw attention.
Guys—if someone is looking at you, running your fingers through your hair will lead them to look at your face.
 Demand eye contact from the people you are talking to. Show that you care about their opinion. Laugh at their jokes, and listen to what they are saying and they will do the same in return.


Don’t let yourself get bored in a conversation. Keep it upbeat and exciting so that you can portray confidence.
 Your walk can either be ignored by all or demand attention. Make it the latter to appear sexy and irresistible.


Walk in a straight line with your head up and your balance centered. This will help you flaunt your assets as you walk and will make heads turn.
Having good posture will immediately create a better perception of you. Make sure to walk confidently with your shoulders back and back straight.
 Whether running errands alone or meeting someone for lunch, be sure to dress in a way that highlights your assets.


Dress in ways that accentuate your body. Everyone has certain parts of their body that they are proud of and parts that they aren’t. Dress to show off the things you’re proud of, not to hide the other parts.
 Acknowledge the fact that you aren't 18 anymore and show off the fact that you take care of yourself.


Dressing too young for yourself is trashy, not sexy. Although the low cut shirts and short skirts may have been sexy when you were in college, it’s time to throw them out.
Don’t go to the other extreme and cover every inch of your body. You’re still young and sexy, but project the kind of person you want to become. Take care of your body. “Eat good, feel good.” It’s tough to be portray yourself as sexy when you’ve just eaten a massive burrito and feel as bloated as a blowfish. It’s ok to treat yourself to a cookie here or there, but the healthier you eat, the more energy you have. This energy will support you to exude a confident sexiness when speaking to someone.
 Try something new, show spontaneity, and do so with a smile on your face. Even if it’s something entirely new, be confident in who you are while doing it. For example, join a new class—trying something new is a great way to show off your confidence.


Try something totally new. Vulnerability can be scary, but approach it with confidence and you’ll turn heads just as much as you would if you were an expert.
 When you’re having fun, it is very easy to appear confident. Plus, if you know your stuff, you can share it with someone new. When doing so, smile and remain engaging to look sexy.


The more you put yourself out there, the more confident you’ll become. Start off by doing things that you know. The more people you meet, the easier it becomes to talk to people confidently.

