 When pain hits, your body naturally changes its breathing pace to an agitated level. Instead of giving in to this reaction, modify your breathing patterns and keep them controlled. Breathe in slowly and mentally repeat the word, “In.” Then, exhale slowly until your lungs are completed cleared and mentally say, “Out.”, Standing or sitting in one place for too long can worsen pain, so take a 1-minute break every 15 minutes just to stand up, stretch out, or walk around.If you’re worried about looking unproductive, give your breaks a “purpose.” Walk to the water cooler, check the fax machine, or find a reason to consult a colleague. Tell anyone who asks that taking short breaks even improves productivity!

, Stand up in your cubicle and reach toward the sky. Then, bend down slowly and touch your toes, if you can. Or, in the morning in bed, spend a few minutes stretching out your legs and back. Stretching helps to loosen up muscles and joints, relieving pain in the process. If you are unsure about how to do it, you can even find videos online showing short stretching sessions., Take a walk outside for 10 or 15 minutes. Even sitting outside on a bench and reading a book can lower your stress levels and help you to reduce your pain. Find an activity that works for you and stick with it., This is a technique where you flex and then relax each muscle group in your body. A therapist can show you how to activate these muscles in sequence quickly and effectively. The goal of this exercise is to flush the pain out and retake control over your body., Download a few instructional videos or audio guides onto your phone and listen to these as you work your way through a quick routine during lunch or a break. Both Qigong and Tai Chi are practiced at a slow pace and require bodily control and close concentration.

They also don’t need a great deal of room, so you could even sit or stand at your desk for a few moments and complete a couple of moves to reduce pain.When combined with meditation, both qigong and tai chi have been shown to be as effective at pain relief as prescription medication., With chronic pain sometimes comes limited grip strength and motion. To keep pain at a minimum, try to use only 30% of your strength when gripping objects at work. That means use only about one-third of the strength you have in your hands, wrists, elbows, and shoulders.The same rule applies to your range of motion, i.e. how far you can move certain joints. For instance, try to bend your spine only 30% of its maximum possible bend – be careful when picking up items from the floor, or carrying objects.

