 Since not all states recognize a false light claim, you should check to see what options are available for you before you begin your complaint.


The Digital Media Law Project has a summary of false light laws in many states, available at http://www.dmlp.org/legal-guide/state-law-false-light.
If your state doesn't recognize false light claims, you might want to talk to an attorney to find out what other claims might be available to you in your situation.
Where false light claims are recognized, typically you must prove that the individual or business publicized information concerning you or related to you that placed you in a false light that the average person would find highly offensive. You also must prove that the person knew or acted in reckless disregard to the falsity of the publicized matter or the false light in which you were placed.Publicizing something means communicating it to the public at large, not just one other individual.So if someone posted comments about you on their social media account, you could potentially sue them for false light depending on the number of friends or followers on their account and whether it was a public or private post.
The degree of fault required may depend on your stature in the community.For example, if you are a public figure you may have to prove the person publicized the information knowing it was false and with the intention of harming you in some way. However, if you are a private person you may only have to prove that the person was reckless and didn't bother to verify the statements before he or she shared them with the masses.;
, In particular, you will need information about the person or business you want to sue, including where they are located and how the false statements about you were published.


You'll need information about the person or business you want to sue so you can figure out which court has jurisdiction over your lawsuit. You'll also need documents to prove the statements that placed you in a false light.
A prime example of a false light claim is a newspaper or website publishing a headline or caption next to a picture of a person that insinuates false things about the person – even though the text and the photo may be unrelated.For example, suppose your local newspaper published a picture of you below a headline announcing that a heinous pedophile had been arrested. You aren't the pedophile in question – however, you do work with children as an elementary school teacher. When parents protest the principal suspends you pending an investigation. Although the investigation clears you of any wrongdoing and reveals the paper's error, you still may have a false light claim against the newspaper.
This example also illustrates the confusion that may occur between false light and defamation. As the school teacher in the previous example, you might also have a defamation claim, since the association of your picture with pedophilia damaged your reputation as a school teacher. However, damage to your reputation isn't a requirement for a false light claim – although it is for a defamation claim., You must file your lawsuit in a court that has jurisdiction over your claim and the person or business you want to sue.


Civil courts have general jurisdiction over all invasion of privacy claims, including false light claims. However, in some instances you also may need or want to sue in federal court.
Federal court jurisdiction generally will apply if the person you want to sue lives or conducts business in a different state than the one where you live.Jurisdiction over the type of case you've filed is subject matter jurisdiction. Courts also must have personal jurisdiction, which refers to the power to order the person you're suing to do something. Personal jurisdiction only exists if the person or business lives or operates in that court's district, or if the incident that gave rise to your claim occurred there., False light claims can be difficult to prove, but an attorney can help you evaluate your options and make sure your interests are protected.


Generally, look for an attorney who is experienced in representing plaintiffs in invasion of privacy lawsuits. You can begin with an internet search, or check your local bar association's website to find an attorney near you.If possible, find an attorney who has successfully represented a plaintiff specifically in a false light lawsuit. Keep in mind that there may be other claims available to you aside from just false light.
If you're concerned about your ability to pay attorney's fees, be up front about this concern with the attorneys you interview. They may be willing to help you reduce costs, such as only representing you for distinct portions of the proceeding, or working under a contingency fee agreement in which they're only paid if you accept a settlement or win your case at trial., You can get the court's local rules or find complaints filed in other cases in the same court to use as formatting templates.


Your local law library, typically located in the courthouse, has examples of complaints filed on various topics so you can find good ones to use.If you're using other complaints as examples or templates, be careful not to copy all of it verbatim. Some of the information contained in the complaint for another case may be irrelevant or unnecessary for yours, so look up any words or phrases you don't understand.Some courts, including many federal courts, require you to use a special type of paper known as "pleading paper," in which the margins are pre-set and all the lines are numbered down the side. Pleading paper templates are available online for a variety of different word processing applications.Typically courts require you to format and print your complaint on standard 8.5 x 11 white paper. Set one-inch margins all the way around and use a basic font such as Arial or Times New Roman in 12- or 14-point size.Some courts also may require sub-headings for each section of your complaint. Review complaints filed in other cases in the same court to see if you need to follow this format., The caption identifies your case and will be the same for all documents filed with the court.Expect the caption as a whole to take up roughly the top third of the first page of your complaint. The top of the left-hand portion of the caption identifies the court in which you've filed your lawsuit. Some courts prefer this information to be centered over the entire caption.Typically, the left-hand portion of the caption is the title of the case – your name "vs." the defendant's name, with each party name taking a separate line above and below the "vs."On the right-hand side of the caption, leave a blank for the case or reference number of the lawsuit, which will be assigned by the clerk when you file your complaint.Some courts require you to type the title of your document (here, "Complaint") under the space for the case number., Begin your complaint by stating your name and address, the name and address of the person or business you are suing, and why you are filing the lawsuit.


Above your first paragraph, you must title your document ("Complaint") if the title was not included in the caption. Local rules determine how your title must be styled. Often the word will be typed in all-caps, and may be bolded, underlined, or both.
The introductory portion of your complaint takes up the first few numbered paragraphs of your complaint. Your complaint begins with a single sentence such as "Comes now the Plaintiff, , and respectfully alleges as follows:" and then proceeds with numbered paragraphs.Each numbered paragraph should include only a single fact. For example, the first paragraph should include your name, the state where you are a resident, and your address. The second paragraph relates the same information about the person or business you are suing.Paragraphs themselves should be single-spaced, with a double space between each numbered paragraph.Following the paragraphs that identify you and the person you're suing, you should include a paragraph explaining how the court has jurisdiction over your case., Using the information you gathered, lay out the elements of a false light claim as they were described in your state's law.


Continue with the same format as the introduction, providing each allegation in a separate numbered paragraph. Don't start your numbers over – if you already have three numbered paragraphs, start your facts with paragraph 4.List the relevant facts, typically in chronological order, that make up the incident that gave rise to your claim. Then set forth your claim – in other words, why those facts give you a reason to sue the person under the law.Make sure you've included all elements your state law requires for a false light claim. If you don't include facts for each element, the defendant will have a reason to file a motion asking the court to dismiss your case.
 Close your complaint by asking the court to remedy the damages you've suffered as a result of the defendant's actions.


Court documents use the word "relief" to mean the solutions or remedies the court can provide.For a false light claim, this relief may include monetary damages, but also may include an order for the defendant to stop making similar statements or to issue a public retraction or apology for the statements that portrayed you in a false light.
The prayer for relief typically ends with a statement requesting "any further relief which the court deems appropriate.", Provide a line to sign your complaint and type your name and contact information below it.


Make sure you leave enough room for your signature – four lines should be enough. Directly beneath the line, type your name. Then type your address on the next line and your phone number below that.You might want to include your email address if you're open to communication from the court or the defendant using that method.
 In some jurisdictions you must sign your complaint in the presence of a notary public. The clerk of court will be able to tell you if this is a requirement in the court where you're filing your lawsuit.


If your signature must be notarized, you'll need to bring a valid government-issued photo ID along with your documents. The notary will check your ID and verify your signature.
You can find a notary public at the courthouse. Banks also often offer notary services free of charge to their customers.
 You probably will need a summons or certificate of service to accompany your complaint.


A summons tells the defendant he or she must appear in court and respond to your lawsuit, while a certificate of service tells the court how and when you served the defendant with a copy of the lawsuit.
If you've referenced any documents in your complaint, you should attach them as exhibits. You do this by labeling them, assigning each document a letter of the alphabet beginning with "A" and continuing in sequence.When you've gathered all the documents you need to file with the court, make at least two copies of everything. You'll be filing the originals with the clerk, but you'll need one copy of everything for the defendant and you'll want at least one additional copy for your records., Once you've completed all your paperwork, you must file it with the clerk to initiate your lawsuit.


When you file your complaint, you'll have to pay a filing fee – typically several hundred dollars. If you're concerned about your ability to pay the filing fee, ask the clerk for an application for a waiver. You'll have to provide information about your income and assets so the court can determine if you're eligible to have your fees waived., The person or business you want to sue must have sufficient legal notice that a lawsuit has been filed against them.


Typically a complaint must be hand-delivered to the defendant. While technically any person over the age of 18 who is uninvolved in your case can do this, usually you'll want to pay a sheriff's deputy or private process serving company to serve the defendant.After the defendant has been served, make sure whoever delivered the documents filled out and filed a proof of service document with the court. The clerk has forms available for this purpose., The defendant has a specific period of time to answer your lawsuit or you may be eligible to win by default.


When the defendant responds to your lawsuit, he or she has the opportunity to raise any and all defenses to your claim. However, keep in mind that just because a defense is listed in an answer doesn't necessarily mean the defendant will use that defense at trial.
 Through discovery, you and the defendant exchange information related to the lawsuit.


The process may include written discovery, such as written questions or documents related to the claim, or depositions. Depositions are interviews conducted under oath for which a written transcript is created by a court reporter.Typically you and the defendant must make available to each other any documents you intend to use as evidence, as well as the names and contact information for witnesses you plan to call at trial., You will need documentation of the publication, as well as testimony of the emotional distress that publication caused you.


If the publication occurred online, you should take screen-caps as soon as possible after you have knowledge of the post or article. Online publications can be deleted or changed easily after you make your claim known to the defendant, destroying any evidence of the offending material.
Continue to monitor the page or website and make note of how long the post is available and when or if it is deleted.
Since damages in false light claims depend heavily on emotional injuries such as embarrassment or hurt feelings, witness testimony can be crucial to your case.You'll want to have friends and family members available to testify regarding the pain the publication caused you and how it disrupted your life.
It also may be helpful to visit a therapist or psychologist regarding the situation. He or she can not only help you deal with the incident and the feelings you developed as a result, but can testify as to the emotional damage the publication caused you.
 A mediator can help you and the defendant reach a settlement on your claim without the time, stress, and expense of going to court.


A mediator is a neutral third party who facilitates a discussion between you and the defendant, helping you to come to a mutually agreeable settlement. The proceedings are confidential, non-adversarial, and less formal than trials.Court clerks typically have a list of approved mediators in your area. In some jurisdictions these mediators offer services free of charge, while in others you'll have to pay a fee. However, the cost of mediation can be substantially less than what you'd pay to take a case to trial.Aside from mediation, some courts require you to attend a settlement conference, which has similar goals but is presided over by the judge who will try your case., If you don't show up at the scheduled date and time of your hearing, the judge may dismiss your claim.


In preparation for your hearing, you may want to attend a different trial before the same judge. This will help you can gain some familiarity with how the judge runs his or her courtroom and the basic procedures that are followed.Re-read all the law that applies to your case, and all the court documents that have been filed by you and the defendant. You'll also want to review any discovery, including documents and deposition transcripts.Prepare questions and take time to rehearse with your witnesses so you know what their responses will be. Never ask a witness a question on the stand if you don't know how he or she will answer.If you're bringing documents to present as evidence, make sure you have enough copies to give one to the judge and one to the defendant.Bring an outline of your case with supplementary notes so you don't miss anything important.If you're nervous, practice your opening and closing statements in front of a mirror or for friends or family members until you're comfortable with what you plan to say.
 Since you initiated the lawsuit, you typically have the chance to tell your side of the story first.


When the judge calls your name, you'll be asked to present your opening statement. This is when you provide the judge with a summary of your case and what you will prove through the evidence you present and the witnesses you call.Speak clearly and loudly so the judge can hear you, and don't rush – you want the judge to be able to follow your words. If the judge asks you a question, stop speaking immediately and answer the judge's question before moving on.Make sure you address only the judge (or a witness, if you're questioning someone) – don't speak to the defendant directly., Once you've finished your presentation, the person or business you've sued has the opportunity to defend their actions.


Pay attention and refrain from interrupting. Keep in mind that if the defendant calls any witnesses, you will have the opportunity to cross-examine them. Make a note of anything you want to bring up on cross-examination or about which you have further questions.After the defendant presents his or her arguments, you both will have the opportunity to speak again by giving a closing statement. Just as in your opening statement you told the judge what you were going to prove, in your closing statement you tell the judge what you've proven.
 After he or she has heard both sides of the case the judge will issue a ruling.


Although the judge may issue a ruling from the bench, it may take a few days or even a few weeks to receive a written order.
If you disagree with the judge's order or believe the judge has made a legal mistake, you have a limited period of time to file a notice with the court indicating you plan to appeal – typically about 30 days after the judge's order is entered.