 When you have a ton of cash, spending it means nothing. Rich, expensive people spend money like the rest of us breathe air -- all day, every day. So go out and be a baller at the next party, rack up some credit card debt, and be confident that you'll find a way to pay for it. Thinking about money and financial responsibility is antithetical to looking expensive.Unfortunately, looking expensive usually requires actually being wealthy. You can only convince people you have money for so long if you don't have any money.
 Everyone loves the benevolent rich person, so spread some of your love with those less fortunate when you can. Remember, however, that this is for show -- you are giving away money because you can, not because feel obligated to.


Create the biggest contrast you can between you and your server. While a $200 tip is a lot for a hardworking, kind waiter, it should feel like pennies to you.
 Getting the most expensive meal or picking up the groups tab shows that, to you, money isn't very important. Even more importantly, it develops something of an entourage around you, as new "friends" will flock to you hoping to get in on the action.
 Walk like you know everything, talk like you know everything. Rich people (those who manage to maintain their wealth for a longer time) are avid learners and listeners. They tend to listen more and talk less, but when required, they are the only ones talking and nobody interrupts. Try to be the same and talk sense. This leaves an impression that one has leadership qualities and good communication skills, both of which are prevalent in rich people.


If someone interrupts you, let them speak, but use your eyes to let them know their mistake.
 Dirt is the province of those less fortunate, so make sure you distinguish yourself as someone who can afford a shower. Keep yourself clean, brush your teeth frequently, and always wear deodorant.
 When you're an expensive person you have expensive tastes, and people don't pay for failure. If you soup is cold, demand a new dish. Make sure your car is spotless after going through the car wash, and let a store assistant know that you can handle it yourself, thank you. This slight air of superiority equates with someone who needs a lot of maintenance, which is a synonym for expensive.


Act like you deserve the treatment you've paid for -- because you do, you are expensive.
 At the end of the day, there are very few times that judging someone based on the price-tag of their clothes is helpful, productive, or kind. Pretending to be rich is, in many ways, the ultimate exercise in vanity -- you are lying to impress people who have no real interest in being your friend. Your time is better spent developing your own style, working on becoming a better person, or trying to earn money instead of looking like you have it.

