 You do not have to do all of the facials listed in this section; in fact, it would not be recommended that you do all of them, especially in one day. Instead, choose one that appeals the most to you, or that you already have the ingredients for. The recipes in this section are suitable for all skin types.;
, Wash your face with warm water first, then apply some honey, taking care to avoid the area around the eyes. Wait 15 minutes, then rinse the honey off with warm water. If you need to, use a washcloth to get any excess honey off.


Honey is great for all skin types. It is moisturizing, making it ideal for dry skin. It is also antimicrobial, making it perfect for those with acne.If you have long hair, keep it tied back so that it doesn't get sticky.
 Wash your face first, then spread some plain yogurt all over it, taking care to avoid the areas around the eyes. Wait 15 to 20 minutes, then wash the yogurt off with warm water.Pat your face dry, and apply some toner and moisturizer, if needed.


Yogurt is great for all skin types. It's full of protein and enzymes, making it a great, natural moisturizer. The lactic acid in it also makes it naturally (but gently) exfoliating.
Yogurt may also help brighten up your skin and clear up blemishes. This usually takes a few treatments, however.
Fat-free and 2% yogurt may still work, but they won't be as effective as full-fat yogurt.
 Place two bags of chamomile tea into a mug, and fill the mug with hot water. Wait for the water to cool, then take the bags out, and squeeze the excess water out of them. Lay down, close your eyes, and place the tea bags over your eyelids. Cover your eyes with a washcloth and relax for 15 minutes before taking the tea bags off.Alternatively, you can also use fresh cucumber slices instead. Simply lay down, and place a cold cucumber slice over each eyelid, and relax for 15 minutes. You don't have to heat them or use a washcloth.
 Mash 5 strawberries with a fork in a small bowl, then stir in 2 teaspoons of honey and ½ tablespoon of plain yogurt or heavy cream. Spread the mask over a clean face, taking care to avoid the area around the eyes. Wait 10 to 15 minutes, then wash the mask off. Follow up with some toner and moisturizer, if desired.Use plain yogurt (preferably full-fat) if you have oily skin.
Use heavy cream if you have dry skin.
Strawberries naturally exfoliating, making them ideal for those who have dry, dull, or even acne-prone skin., Mush together 8 to 9 strawberries with a fork in a small bowl. Stir in 2 to 3 tablespoons (29.6 to 44.4 ml) of honey. For something more moisturizing, stir in 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of oil. For something to combat oiliness, stir in up to 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of freshly-squeezed lemon juice. Apply the mask to a clean face, taking care to avoid the eye area. Leave the mask on for 10 to 15 minutes, then wash it off with warm water. Pat your face dry, then follow up with some toner and moisturizer, if desired.You can use just about any type of food-grade oil, such as: grapeseed, jojoba, olive, or sweet almond.
If you have dry skin and acne, you can add up to 8 drops of lemon juice. It will be enough to help manage those pimples but not so much as to dry out your skin.
 Tumeric is not only tasty in food, but it is also great on your skin! In a small bowl, mix together 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of milk (or yogurt if you have acne) and 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of flour (or ground oats if you have dry skin). Stir in 1 teaspoon of ground tumeric and a few drops of honey. Spread the mask over your face, avoiding the eye area, and wait 20 minutes. Wash the mask off using a washcloth and small, circular motions. Finish off with some toner and moisturizer.Tumeric great for slowing down aging and reducing wrinkles.
Tumeric is gently exfoliating and may help even out skin tone and reduce blemishes.
Tumeric helps with various skin conditions, such as: acne: dryness, eczema, and psoriasis.
Tumeric may stain the skin, especially if you use too much, but it should come off in the shower. If you need to, use some face wash.
 Cut open 2 green tea bags, and dump the tea into a small bowl. Next, stir in ⅓ cup (75 grams) of coconut oil, ¼ cup (55 grams) of sugar, and 1 tablespoon of aloe vera gel.Gently massage the scrub onto your face, avoiding the area around the eyes, then rinse it off with lukewarm water. Splash your face afterwards with cool water the seal your pores, then pat your face dry with a clean towel. Store any leftover scrub in a glass jar in the fridge.


For extra moisture, add 3 to 4 drops of vitamin E oil.
If you have bad acne, add 5 to 6 drops of tea tree oil.
If you have sensitive skin, use brown sugar. The grains are smaller, and thus gentler.
This scrub is great for all skin types. It is moisturizing, which makes it suitable for dry skin, and packed full of antioxidants, which makes it suitable for acne. Although aloe vera is good for sunburns, do not use this scrub on sunburned skin; the sugar will irritate it.

