 You will feel better and there is less of a chance of getting caught if you share part of the truth. For example, if you say that you're going to eat with one of your friends, actually do it. Then, since you’re already out, you can do the other secretive activity on the way to or from the restaurant.To avoid getting caught, try to make sure that your secret destination isn't more than 15 or so minutes away from where you're supposed to be. It would be very stressful to get stranded somewhere hours away and then have to explain to your parents why you were there.;
, If you and your parents have an app like Find my Friends, your parents will be able to see where you are. Be sure that, if you and your parents have this app, you disable your location settings before going on a secret mission., If you are in a place with noise that will give away your whereabouts, let your parents’ call go to voicemail. Then, immediately text them and explain why you couldn’t answer. That way, they won’t worry because they are hearing from you, and you won’t have to lie directly about where you are.


In your text, you could say something like, “Sorry I couldn’t answer! Jessie was telling me an important story, and I didn’t want to cut her off. I love you! I’ll call back soon!” This will give you time to relocate to a quieter area to call them back, or to head home.
If your parents know this trick or get suspicious when you don’t answer calls, try to duck into a bathroom or quiet hallway to answer the call.
 If you call your parents to tell them you are, for example, back at your friend’s house getting ready for bed, make sure that you are inside when you call them. If you are standing on a street or driving in a car, the background noise could give you away. You don’t have to be at the friend’s house who you claim to be with, but just be sure you are inside somewhere quiet.


If you must call them from a car while saying you are safe at a house, be sure to roll up the windows, turn off the music, and pull over if possible. That will reduce the possibility that they will hear a car honking or the sound of the moving car.
 Having extra clothes, a toothbrush, a hairbrush, and perhaps some makeup in your car will allow you to freshen up and look presentable before seeing your parents again.


For example, if you want to go dancing in an outfit that your parents wouldn’t approve of, keep a pair of jeans and a sweatshirt in your car to change into. You can stuff the “inappropriate” clothes into your purse or backpack before you go back into your house.
 Even if you do everything right, one thoughtless Facebook post from a friend could blow your cover. Ask your friends not to tag you in any photos or “check-ins,” and be sure not to post anything about your whereabouts that you don’t want your family to know. Even if they aren’t friends with you, other family members or family friends may see the posts and inform your parents.If you want to be able to post about things you do without your family knowing, consider making a private friends list with family members only. Then, when you post, you can choose to hide the post from those in that group.

