 Twitter is available for free for virtually any smartphone. You can find it in your device's app store. Some devices may come with the Twitter app pre-installed.
 When you start Twitter for the first time, you will be given the option to create a new account or sign in with an existing account. If you are using a Google device, you will be asked if you would like to create a new account with your Google address.


If you have your Twitter account registered with your mobile number, you can sign in via SMS on an iPhone. You will receive a text with a code that you can enter into the app to sign in.
 This button is located at the bottom right corner of the login page. You will be able to enter your Twitter username or email address and password. Enter in your information and tap "Sign In" again.


Twitter can upload your contacts from your mobile phone to try to find people you may know. The box to do this is checked by default.
 After signing in, Twitter will attempt to match you with people you might know, even if you didn't check the box to allow uploading contact information. You can review the list and uncheck anyone you don't want to follow, or scroll to the bottom of the list and tap the "Skip" button.
 After choosing friends to add, you will be asked if you want to follow any of Twitter's recommended users. Click the "+" button next to people you want to follow and click "Next" when you're done.
 After selecting friends and people to follow, you will be given the option to edit your profile. This will only happen the first time that you log in to the mobile app. Review your profile information and ensure that it still looks good on a mobile device. Tap the "Finish" button when you are done.


Long bios can be tedious to read on mobile devices, so consider paring it down if yours is on the wordy side.
You can change the profile picture to an existing photo on your mobile device or you can use your device's camera to take a new picture.
 After finalizing your profile, you will be prompted to allow Twitter to see your current location. This enables Twitter to show you tweets from your area. Enable or disable this to your personal preference.

