 Simple yet effective wood curers can deter termites by simply increasing the strength of the wood. A small investment here can save you thousands in removal down the road. But be aware that over time as wood ages it will become softer and more vulnerable to termites.;
, You can spray termiticide directly onto the surface of wood to deter subterranean termites from chewing through it. But keep in mind that spot treating wood will only protect against attacks in those specific areas and shouldn’t be considered a complete treatment., By creating a chemical barrier around the outer perimeter of your home you can do a lot to stop subterranean termites from gaining access to your house. This can be achieved by the use liquid insecticide. You have to spray the soil beneath the foundation with the insecticide. This should be done pre-construction and is a requirement in much of the USA.


It is possible to perform a post-construction treatment. To do this requires holes to be drilled through slabs and insecticide to be injected beneath the foundation.There are a wide-range of products available for this, and in most states home owners can legally purchase these products if it's for personal use only.
Online vendors have videos that you can watch so you can understand how to do this project effectively before you buy anything.
If you are uncertain about how to do this, you should seek advice from a professional rather than risk causing damage.
 When you are using chemical insecticides, it is important to know which to use. The two main types of chemicals are liquid repellents, and liquid non-repellents. Each of these have their advantages and disadvantages, so be sure to have a good understanding of how each of these work so you and try to evaluate what will work best for your treatment.
 As the name suggests this is used before the termites strike, as it discourages termites from attacking the foundation of your home. It will create a barrier to stop them from entering your home, and will last for several years. While the termites won’t cross the barrier, they will avoid it, and will move around it. It is extremely difficult to create a prefect barrier with no gaps under a fully constructed house, and termites may discover these spaces and gain access to the building. If some foraging subterranean termites find a gap in the repellent they will return with more termites.
 There are a few non-repellent termiticide treatments available to buy. These don’t stop the termites from attacking, but the chemical is lethal. If termites tunnel into the treatment they will be exposed to the termiticide and they will die.


Foraging termites which have been exposed to the chemicals might pass it on in the colony through grooming and feeding which would kill more of the termites.