 There is far more acting work out in the world than you think. Most of it, however, won't see a movie theater or TV screen anytime soon. However, as a beginner, this is fine. You can grow experience and your resume and still get paid. Some good places to find gigs include:

Craigslist
Backstage.com
College film departments

, Headshots are your calling card. They are simple photos taken from your shoulder up showcasing your "look," which casting directors use to make audition lists. If you're willing to drop the money, have them done professionally. Otherwise, you can call up a friend and shoot your own, remembering a few key tips:

Use a plain background and simple, flattering clothes.
Showcase your entire head and shoulders. Don't turn away or crop the shot to be "artful."
Bring in extra lamps and lights to make sure you are evenly lit.
Take a few smiling, a few serious, and a few in between. You never know your best look.
 More often not, all you have to do is send in some headshots, and you'll get called for an audition if they're looking for your look. You'll show up and read a short monologue, after which they'll decide if you are a good fit for their agency. Agents are essential if you want to be a professional actor -- they are the middlemen between filmmakers and you, and most opportunities are sent to agencies, not the general public.
 A reel is just a collection of scenes and shots from other acting gigs, edited together on the computer to show off your acting in 2-3 minutes. Not all gigs require a reel, but having one will greatly increase your chance of getting gigs. When picking clips, use the ones that show off you the most in various roles -- monologues, dialogue, and action. Some other tips include:

Use the most high-quality footage you have, especially up front. Homemade footage, unless it has high quality, is generally not a good idea.
Keep it short -- no more than 4-5 minutes. Even shorter is better.
Update this video as you get more roles, keeping it current.
Put your contact information and name at the beginning and end., Cold reads are when you're handed the script and expected to act it out immediately after. Sometimes you get a few minutes to read over it, sometimes you just have to get started. To practice, grab the old a book of monologues, pick up a book, or snag a newspaper story and start reading out loud. Practice both reading from scratch and taking 1-2 minutes to prepare., To really make it as an actor, you need to be in a location with lots of acting gigs. While there will be more competition in hubs like LA or NY, almost all major productions cast in these locations. Once you're comfortable with your skills, acting in local commercials, plays, or videos, you'll have to decide if you want to be a