 Upholstery can be made of many different materials or blends, and these have different cleaning requirements. Whether you can spot clean or deep clean will depend on the material. Every upholstery tag should have a letter code on it that indicates how to clean the material, and they mean:W for water: use water-based cleaning solutions, such as soap and water. Fabrics with this tag are often made from materials like polyester, nylon, acetate, and olefin.S for solvent: clean your upholstery with a solvent-based solution that doesn’t contain water, such as dry cleaning solution. Most upholstery with this code is made from natural fibers like cotton and denim, rayon, linen, silk and wool, velour, and damask.SW: use solvent- and/or water-based cleaning solutions.

X: use neither solvent- nor water-based cleaning solutions; only clean it with vacuuming and light brushing to remove dirt and soil.;
, Check to see if the cushions have removable and washable covers. If the covers are removable, wash them according to the type of material. Otherwise, clean the cushions following the same steps as the rest of the upholstery.
 With a spoon or spatula, pick up large food particles, solid spills, rocks or dirt, and any other large debris that has accumulated on your furniture.
 Use the upholstery attachment or soft brush to remove dirt and dust from the upholstery and both sides of the cushions. Work from left to right, and top to bottom in short, overlapping strokes.Use a long, thin attachment to vacuum dirt and debris from corners and crevices.Remove stubborn pet hair with a clothing brush or pet hair remover if necessary.
 For fabric with a W or SW code, you can use regular water-based upholstery or fabric cleaners to remove small stains from your furniture. There are many commercial products available, so follow the manufacturer’s instructions regarding product application and removal. Apply the product with a clean cloth, gently rub or blot the stain, and clean the area with water or a dry cloth as instructed.


Hardware stores, general stores, and department stores all carry upholstery and fabric cleaners.
Always do small test patches of new cleaning products on your upholstery in a hidden spot to ensure it won’t cause shrinkage, color bleaching, or other changes to the fabric., Make your own spot cleaner by mixing a quarter cup of dishwashing liquid with one cup of water. Beat it with an electric mixer until it’s thick and foamy. Then:Apply the foam to stains on the upholstery with a microfiber cloth or soft brush.
Gently rub the stain with the suds, and then remove the excess foam with a spatula or spoon.
Wipe away the leftover suds with a clean, damp cloth.
 Steam cleaners can be rented from most grocery stores if you don't have one of your own. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions on your particular machine for the best results. Fill the reservoir with water and add the indicated amount of cleaning solution (if applicable). Start with the cushions and set them aside to dry when you move on to the main piece of furniture. Work in small sections, overlapping your strokes until you have cleaned all the material.To clean the entire piece of furniture with your homemade soap and water solution, start at the top and work your way down, applying suds to small sections of upholstery. Brush the area gently, remove the excess foam, and gently wipe the area with a clean, damp cloth. Move on to the next small section, and continue the process until the entire piece is clean.Deep cleaning should be performed every one to two years.
 Before returning cushions or sitting on the furniture again, make sure it has completely dried. To accelerate drying time, clean your upholstery on a warm, sunny day, and consider setting up an oscillating fan in the room to keep air moving over the upholstery as it dries., For fabrics with an S or SW code, use a water-free solvent to clean your upholstery. With a clean cloth or towel, blot the solvent onto the upholstery in areas that are dirty or soiled. You can also use a soft brush to gently work in the solvent and remove dirt.Popular products include solvents and dry cleaning solutions from Chemspec and KleenRite.
Only spot clean areas that are soiled.
Always use solvent-based cleaners in a well-ventilated area, never smoke nearby, and stay away from open flames.
 If areas on cushions require spot cleaning, it’s best to clean the entire surface to ensure a uniform appearance.Apply the solvent with a clean towel and blot or brush the surface of the cushion.
 Set up an oscillating fan so that it continuously blows fresh air over the upholstered surface.
 To remove additional solvent and dirt, vacuum the furniture and cushions once the areas have dried fully.
 Combine equal parts water and vinegar in a bowl. Dip a microfiber cloth into the solution. Wring out the cloth to remove as much moisture as possible. Wipe down parts of the upholstery that need some minor cleaning. Use as little liquid as possible, as water can stain leather., For areas that are more soiled and require a more vigorous cleaning, apply a small amount of leather cleaning product to a towel or cloth and gently rub the soiled area. Wipe away any excess cleaner and allow the spots to dry.Alternatively, you can also make your own leather cleaner by combining equal parts lemon juice and cream of tartar. Work it into a paste, and apply small amounts of the paste to a clean cloth. Gently rub soiled areas with the paste. Wipe down any excess and allow the areas to dry., Conditioning products help keep leather soft and moist, and prevent it from cracking. Apply small amounts of conditioner with a cloth and wipe away any excess., The most common cause of fabric fading is exposure to UV rays. You can help prevent this by positioning your furniture so it’s not in the path of the sun, covering your furniture with a protective material, or using UV-protective blinds and drapes to keep the sun out., In case of spills, it’s good to have cleaning products nearby to prevent staining. Be sure to use white or undyed towels or napkins to prevent dyes from leaching onto your furniture. Blot stains instead of rubbing them,and spot clean stains as necessary.
 Dirt and dust can make your furniture look grimy, but regular vacuuming will help prevent this. Every two weeks, use a soft brush to brush dirt and oil loose around head and arm rests. Vacuum all upholstery surfaces, including cushions and crevices.To deal with smells, sprinkle the upholstery with baking soda one night before bed and let it sit overnight. Vacuum it up in the morning., For messy, busy houses where furniture is prone to frequent staining, consider spraying your upholstery with a fabric protector that repels liquids and stains. Make sure the product is suitable for use with your upholstery code.

