 Taking on the responsibility to care for an adult with a mental illness is extremely difficult to do alone. Instead of suffering in silence, ask your friends and family members for help. Doing so can ease some of the burden on you, which can help you to take better care of your spouse.


Ask your friends when you need help with even the simplest of tasks. For instance, you can ask them to pick up groceries for you, shuttle the kids to school or practice, take your spouse to the doctor, or even make dinner for you. Don’t feel bad about asking — they will likely be more than happy to help., You aren’t the only person who is taking care of a mentally ill spouse. Sharing your experience with others can help you feel like you’re not alone when it seems like you’ve got the weight of the world on your shoulders. You may be able to make new friends, or learn coping methods from those who are in the thick of it, just like you.


Ask your spouse’s doctor for names of support groups, or look on the Internet to find a group near you., You may only associate the process of grief with death, but you can actually experience grief at other times, such as when there is a major change in your life. You may need time to grieve your "old" life, as well as any future plans or expectations that have been impacted by your spouse's illness and your new role. Allow yourself time to acclimate to your new life.

A therapist may be helpful in guiding you through this process.
 Your spouse’s mental illness and the pressure it has put on you could create a strain in the relationship. If you are committed to making your marriage work, you owe it to yourself to seek help from a counselor. You can use this space as an opportunity to discuss your feelings and the issues that have occurred because of the situation.


You may find that attending therapy alone is more beneficial. Going to a therapist by yourself may make you feel more comfortable talking about the struggles you endure because of your spouse’s sickness.