 In the wild, horses will generally spend their days steadily grazing in fields. This kind of gentle but steady movement will be the best kind of physical exercise your horse can get. Allowing your horses to graze in the pasture will help them feel comfortable, stay healthy, and keep them happy.Movement helps maintain healthy circulation in horses.
Horses naturally move between 30km and 80km a day.
 Horses need to interact with other horses in order to feel their best. If your horse is turned out alone, it may lose interest quickly and simply stand in one place. It's always best to let your horse out with other horses to keep him moving, engaged, and happy., Horses can really enjoy their playtime. Providing toys for your horses can be a good way to let them really enjoy their time outdoors. There are many different toys available for horses that are designed to keep your horse entertained and having fun. Take a look at some examples of horse toys that are available:


Large inflatable balls.
Plastic balls that have a handle on them, allowing your horse to pick them up and toss them.
Hanging salt licks or play balls.
 Although horses enjoy activity, play, and exercise, they also need some quiet rest. Giving your horse time a to relax and rest is just as important as giving him enough activity. Keep some of these tips in mind when considering when your horse might like a break:


Don't always bring your horse out to ride him. Try grooming him or giving him a treat sometimes instead.
Always let your horse rest after any heavy exercise or work.
If your horse has been out playing or grazing, give him a nice break in the stable afterwards.
 Riding your horse can be a lot of fun for the both of you. However, you may inadvertently make your horse uncomfortable during the ride. Keep some of these basic tips in mind to keep your horse happy while riding:Don't pull on the reins too tightly as this can hurt your horse's mouth.
Before riding a new horse, allow it to smell your hand as an introduction.
Knowing the signs of fatigue can tell you when your horse has had enough riding. If your horse slows, won't speed up, or becomes uncoordinated, you may want to stop.
 The ways in which your horse moves, plays, or acts can indicate their overall level of health and well being. It's a good idea to give your horse a brief check-up everyday to make sure they are in good health and to catch any issues early. Here are some common signs that your horse may be injured or ill:Mood changes, such as becoming depressed or aggressive can indicate an illness or injury.
Changes to the horse's appetite can indicate a health issue.
Acting nervous or scared when the horse is normally calm, may be a sign of an illness.
While grooming your horse, look for any obvious signs of injury such as cuts, scratches, or other wounds.

