 Newborn diapers probably won't have any removable waste, since breast milk stools are water soluble and formula stools are too fluid to shake off. Older babies and toddlers on solid foods will have more solid stools, however. Shake these stools off into the toilet before washing and stripping.;
, Stripping your diapers before you wash them could result in permanent stains.


Run your diapers through a cold rinse cycle.
After the rinse cycle, run the diapers through a hot wash cycle with a high water level. Use a mild, "sensitive formula" detergent that contains minimal dyes and fragrances. Only use a quarter to a half of the manufacturer recommended amount.
Put the washed diapers through a warm rinse cycle.
Follow the initial rinse cycle with an additional cool rinse cycle.
 A heavy-duty stock pot or aluminum boiling pot works best, but if neither of these pots is available to you, simply use the largest pot you have. Fill it 1/2 to 3/4 full with water and boil the water using high heat.
 Old-fashioned cloth diapers that have no waterproof lining can be immersed whole. If you have newer cloth diapers with a waterproof PUL (polyurethane laminated fabric) exterior, you must not immerse the whole diaper. Even though PUL is a type of cloth, the waterproof, plastic-like elements in the cloth will melt in boiling water. Instead, remove the soft cloth inserts and dunk them into the water, setting aside the PUL exterior.


Only boil one to three diapers or inserts at a time, depending on the size of your pot. Each diaper must have plenty of exposure to the boiling water, or else the stripping process many not be as effective.
Do not let plastic snaps come into contact with the side of the pot. The snaps should withstand the high temperature of the hot water, but they may melt if they come into contact with hot metal.
 Use tongs to swirl them around for the first 1 or 2 minutes, ensuring that the entire diaper gets exposed to the water. After that, keep the diapers submerged under water as much as you can. Stir them occasionally to make sure that the stripping is thorough and reaches every crevice of the cloth.


Some instructions only require submerging the diapers for 30 seconds, but the longer you keep them in the water, the more ammonia you can strip. If you strip your diapers and inserts frequently, however, you may only need to keep them in the boiling water for a couple of minutes each time.
 After you strip the first batch of diapers and inserts, dump the water, refill the pot, and bring the fresh water up to a boil before dunking the next batch. The ammonia, detergent, and grime you strip from the diapers ends up in the water once it gets stripped from the diaper. Dirty water is less effective for stripping than clean water is, and if you continue to use the same water for multiple batches, you may actually end up contaminating the final few batches instead of stripping them clean.
 Lay the PUL shells in the bowl with the waterproof lining facing down. Large glass bowls are especially suitable.
 Do not allow it to reach a rolling boil, since water this hot will scald and melt the PUL exteriors. Instead, only bring the water up to a low simmer. To be extra cautious, remove the water once it starts to steam.
 Allow the PUL shells to soak for 5 minutes before you remove them.
 Put them through a standard hot water cycle with a high water level, and rinse them in warm to cool water.
 Hang them to dry in direct sunlight to naturally bleach the diapers.


Alternatively, you can tumble dry them in your dryer on a low heat. Using a dryer may also help with sterilization.

