


This is your first line of offense. Having a bad picture and then expecting new friends, is like trying to pick up a girl with your hair a mess and just a tiny stream of diarrhea running out of your shorts and down your leg. It's not going to happen!
As a Myspace musician you will be judged over and over again. Leave them with a good first impression by having a good default pic. Here is what makes a good default pic:

Have a professional photo of you or your band taken at least once in your life.
Make sure the photo is a true reflection of you.
Edit the photo at a place like Picnik.com to make it stand out from the rest.
Use colors that stand out and catch the eye
Make sure at least one face is in the photo. People will make more of a connection with you if they can see you.

;
,


Okay so you've convinced someone to click on your profile picture and take a look at your page. Your goal is to make another great first impression. Having a good picture but a bad profile is like looking great and trying to pic up a girl. You flash your smile, say hello and THEN a little stream of diarrhea runs down your leg! She is walking away now! So as you can see, a good-looking Myspace page is very necessary. Here's how to get one:

Keep it neat, organized, and clean. Do not post 1000 pictures on your page and 500 videos. Not only is this very unattractive but it also creates extremely slow loading times. Make the rule of 2 pictures and 1 video on your page and no more. This doesn't include photos in your actually pictures section though. I am talking specifically about your main page.
Make the content worth reading. This is where you will inject a lot of life in your profile. Don't just list a bunch of facts about your band. Let your creativity shine through here.
It is strongly recommend that you hire a professional Myspace creator to make your page. They are not that expensive and are very much worth the money. If you can't afford one or are too cheap to spend the cash, learn as much HTML as you can to make your page look interesting and clean.



Lets go back to the picking up a girl analogy. You flashed your smile (default pic) you've charmed her (profile content) and with any luck you've gotten her number (acceptance of friend request). So far no diarrhea and the two of you are both happy about it. You've connected with her but that one time won't be enough. You are going to need to connect with her over and over again to make the relationship strong. Effectively connecting with your fans is going to be the deciding factor of whether they become lifetime fans or just lunch time fans. Here are some ways to keep them thinking of you:

Leave lots of comments. Yes, this is where you will need to make the time commitment. I've heard of some bands spending up to 4 hours a day connecting with their fans in this way. I'm not saying you need to spend that much time, but if you're not willing to make a time sacrifice for your fans, then you're in the wrong business. I recommend that all of my clients leave a comment on every new friends profile and then a follow up comment the next day. So if you get 100 new friends in one day, that's a total of 200 comments you will be leaving.
Make an AIM account so you can chat with your friends. Post your screen name on your profile and invite them to talk to you on aim. This is a very effective way of connecting with your fans and you will build some long lasting friendships using this method.
Shoot weekly video blogs. The more people see your face the more likely they are to remember you and visit you often. A video blog can be an update about your band or it can be just a funny video about nothing. I always prefer the funny videos about nothing though.
Post bulletins. Do not be an obsessive bulletin poster though. I have deleted bands just for the fact that they post too many bulletins. Once or twice a week is more than enough. Also, make the bulletins worth reading. Don't only post new ones to promote a show or a new song. Post a new bulletin just for the sake of entertaining your fans with no strings attached.



Myspace isn't the only way to get your name out there. Websites like the ones listed above will enable you to reach new people who do not have a Myspace. It will also create more connections with people who already have a Myspace. Make a profile on each of these pages and any other page you possible can. Post the link on your Myspace in a neat and clean way.

