 Add 18” to determine the length of the doghouse. Measure your dog's height, and then add 9” to determine the front of the doghouse and add 3” to determine the height of the back of the doghouse.;
, You will need to cut two joists for the length of the doghouse and three for the width. Butt the length parts up to the width parts making a rectangle. Screw ends together using 3” exterior screws. Center the third width part in the rectangle and screw to secure it. Now you have the frame of the floor of the doghouse.
 Screw down to floor frame using 1 ¼ exterior screws. Flip floor over to expose floor framing. Cut 1” foam insulation board to fit between floor joists. Use liquid nails to secure foam insulation board.
 Cut ¾ plywood to the width of the doghouse. Measure along the left side, using the measurement determined in step 1 for the front of the doghouse and add 3 ½” to allow coverage of the floor 2x4. Make a mark on the measurement. Then, measure the left side using the measurement determined in step 1 for the back of the doghouse. Be sure to add 3 ½” for coverage of floor 2x4. Mark on the measurement. Next, take a straight edge, line it up to the two marks, and draw a line. Cut along line. This determined the angle of the sidewall. Trace the sidewall on the ¾" plywood and cut to make the other sidewall. This making both sidewalls the same.
 Cut a 2x2 for each corner, the same angle as sidewall. Attach 2x2's to each corner. Cut front and back panels using the ¾” plywood. Attach only the back panels using 1 ¼" exterior screws. Now cut 2x2 for the top and bottom of the front and back panels. Attach to the back only, this will give you a place to screw the interior plywood to the walls.
 Screw front panel on doghouse and install dog door.
 Now cut ¾" plywood to fit all four of the interior walls. Screw the plywood to the 2x2's using 1 ¼" screws.
 Cut roof out of ¾ “plywood. Be sure to leave an overhang to keep rain away from walls. You will need to cut two the same size to insulate it. Cut 2x2 for edge, this will give a place to put the foam insulation and screw the two peaces together. A piano hinge can be installed on the back and roof to make the doghouse easier to clean.
 Apply water-resistant felt paper and drip edge. Now, nail asphalt shingles on making sure the shingles do not line up.
 This hole needs to be just big enough for the end of the cord to the heated mat to go through. Lay the mat down on the floor and put the cord through the wall. Be sure the cord is all the way outside to prevent dog from chewing it. There you have an insulated and heated doghouse.

