 Have a specific bank account for the things that are necessities like rent, utilities, and groceries. Create a budget for what you need each month, and what you can spend more freely. By being more aware of what are non-negotiable expenses, you can feel more in control.Leave debit cards and check books at home for the bank account that's only for essentials. Consider giving the cards or check book to a trusted family member until those payments are due.
Understand what is "free" spending money and what is "necessity" money. Talk with a trusted friend or family member about how to create a monthly budget if necessary.;
, Resisting the urge to overspend can be simplified when you don't have easy access to credit or debit cards. If you have already created a budget for yourself each month, you likely know what your "free" spending limit is for the month. Consider giving yourself an allowance that's broken up by week for personal spending.Using cash can help to keep things clear about what you actually have left each week or month to spending on non-essentials. It's easier to know that you only have $20 left for the week when you see it in your wallet.
Consider setting up limits with your bank so that you can't overdraft money that you don't have when using an ATM.
Avoid carrying credit cards in your wallet or purse.
 Consult with a third party outside of your friends, family, and social circle about money management and credit counseling. If you know that you are struggling financially and have difficulty with managing money, a professional can act as a support that is less encumbered by personal or family ties.Find a financial coach that can help you focus and work towards certain financial goals. Make sure that the financial coach does not have a stake in your money such as a banking or wealth management firm.Seek advice and ask questions. Do you know your monthly budget? Have you factored into your budget unexpected expenses? What is your personal spending budget? What steps do you need to take now, in three months, in a year, and in five years to reach your financial goals?
If you are already facing high credit debts and phone calls from collection agencies, reach out to a non-profit credit or debt counseling service. Make sure to avoid debt counseling scams. Find certified credit counselors in your area via the National Foundation for Credit Counseling: https://www.nfcc.org/


, If you know that you have difficulties with monitoring your spending, discuss with a trusted partner, family member, or third party, about help. Legally, there are ways to give a person financial authority over your spending as a durable power of attorney or guardian. While this may not be needed, it's important to have a financially responsible person involved in your money if you are continuing to struggle with this task.Ask the person to restrict or monitor your internet use while you are in the manic phase. They should also check your email and regular mail for offers from credit card companies.
You may be able to set up a system in which you only have access to a certain amount of funds each month, while the conservator or guardian will make sure the rest of your income goes toward paying your bills and necessary expenses.
Avoid relying on a spouse, partner, or family member who also has difficulty with spending or financial responsibility for assistance. Notice signs such as high credit card debt, spending money that they don't have, and enabling you to spend money on them for non-essentials.
Identify someone who can work jointly with you, and help you to understand financial planning. This could be a friend, mentor, family member, or financial counselor.
Consider if guardianship or assigning a person to legally monitor your finances is an appropriate option to handle misuse of funds. Discuss with your local legal aid services in your area or a local attorney that is specializes in the guardianship or conservator process., Seeing a counselor regularly can help you cope with your symptoms and stressors more effectively. Avoid isolating yourself from others, and seek professional guidance instead when risky habits like reckless overspending emerge.Reach out to a private practice therapist or counseling center that specializes in treating bipolar disorder. Identify counselors with expertise in cognitive and behavioral therapies such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) or Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT).Find options that are available via your health insurance. Find a list of mental health providers that are in your health insurance network. You may have low cost options through your insurance. If not, ask about sliding scale fee options through counseling centers.
 Look for support groups in your area that can help you with your overspending or more specifically with your bipolar symptoms. Support groups provide a safe space where you can reflect on your actions and find encouragement from others who are facing similar challenges.Find support groups by reaching out to therapists or counseling centers for information and referrals.
Connect with Debtors Anonymous for support groups via places of worship and community centers: http://debtorsanonymous.org/

Find local or online support groups for bipolar disorder via the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance: http://www.dbsalliance.org/


, Often the most effective treatment for bipolar disorder is a combination of medication and therapy. If you are not currently taking medications to help with your symptoms, discuss with your doctor about options or obtain a referral to talk with a specialist such as a psychiatrist or neurologist.People with bipolar disorder often take a combination of mood stabilizers to help with manic episodes and antidepressants to help with depressive episodes. Talk with your doctor about generic versions of medications or patient assistance programs if you are low-income or underinsured.
Understand that bipolar disorder is a chronic condition. Most likely, you will need to take medication consistently in order to see its lasting effects. Going off medications when your symptoms improve is not recommend.
Talk with your doctor about any side effects that may inhibit you from taking medications. Identify if alternatives are available.
 If you are struggling with bipolar disorder, you are likely experiencing manic highs as well as depressive lows. Pay attention to how your symptoms and risky behavior could lead to thoughts of suicide or self-harm. Seek crisis support when you're feeling this way.Contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline if you have thoughts of suicide or self-harm. Call 1-800-273-8255 or http://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/

Find local hotlines and resources for crisis assistance by going to Suicide.org. Here is a listing of hotlines by state: http://www.suicide.org/suicide-hotlines.html


, Be aware that, when you are experiencing a manic episode, may not worry or feel guilty about your actions. You are blinded by some or all of the following symptoms that can lead to risky behaviors such as substance abuse, reckless overspending, sexual indiscretions, or rash financial decisions:An inflated sense of self confidence or exaggerated optimism
Increased physical or mental activity or energy
Decreased need for sleep or insomnia
Racing thoughts or pressured speech
Impulsiveness and distractedness
Heightened irritability or aggression
Delusions of grandiosity, that could in severe cases appear as psychotic delusions or hallucinations

, Feel more in control of your mood and actions by increasing your self-awareness in changes in your behavior. Writing about your thoughts and feelings consistently over time can help you to pay attention to your mood swings.By looking back over a few months of journal writing, this may offer clues about symptoms of manic episodes that lead to reckless behavior.
Consider discussing with a therapist about your findings in your journal. This can help to provide you with a professional's opinion on your behaviors and ways to effectively cope.
 Identify activities that you enjoy that can help to redirect your energy to more constructive and less reckless behaviors such as overspending. Get your friends or family involved to help redirect your behaviors, if possible. When you find yourself wanting to shop or spend money, consider these alternatives to keep your mind away from spending:


Get crafty and make art. Draw. Paint. Sculpt. Do woodworking. Build things.
Play games such as video games, board games, puzzles, crosswords, or brain games.
Read books, magazines, journals, and newspapers. Learn about the world around you.
Make food. Bake treats. Make things that can help to focus and sustain your energy.
Avoid activities that involve online shopping, gambling, or spending money.
 Stressful situations may trigger you to become more anxious, irritable, or manic. By preventing or reducing your stress, you may be able to better handle your bipolar symptoms. This can help to prevent you from engaging in reckless spending sprees or other behaviors with negative consequences. Consider these ways to reduce stress:Practice yoga, meditation, deep breathing, or other forms of mindfulness.
Exercise. Join a gym or take a fitness class. Go for a walk or ride a bike.
Eat healthy and drink plenty of water.
Get a massage or take a hot bath or shower to relax.

