 Setting huge goals for yourself can be a recipe for disaster. If your goals are not realistic, then you may struggle to accomplish them and eventually give up. Instead, try setting small, realistic goals that you are confident you can accomplish and then break your goal into even smaller objectives that you can work on.For example, instead of setting a goal to lose 50 pounds, set a goal to lose 5 pounds to start. Then, identify what you will need to do to lose those 5 pounds, such as getting 30 minutes of exercise five days per week and reducing your caloric intake by 500 calories per day. Use these objectives to help you work towards your goals.
Be sure to celebrate when you accomplish a goal, no matter how small it might seem. Acknowledge your success and reward yourself, such as with a small item you buy yourself or a treat like going for a pedicure.;
, It is hard to lose weight if you are surrounded by unhealthy foods. To set yourself up for success and make losing weight as easy as possible, buy lots of healthy foods to stock up your kitchen. Some good items to stock your cupboard with include:


Fresh, frozen, or canned fruits and vegetables
Lean proteins like skinless chicken breast, ground turkey, lean cuts of beef, and tuna packed in water
Whole grains like brown rice, whole wheat pasta, and whole wheat bread
Low calorie condiments such as mustard, sugar free jam, and dill relish
Low or no calorie beverages, such as sparkling water, herbal teas, and coffee

, Eating from a small plate or bowl can help to reduce your overall caloric intake. If your cupboard is filled with large plates and bowls, then replace them with some smaller plates and bowls.By using a smaller plate or bowl, you will be less likely to take more food that you should eat.
 A cluttered kitchen has been found to be connected with being overweight. Take some time to organize your kitchen, and you may be able to lose some weight in the process.Keep the counters clear so that you will always have room to prep your healthy meals. For example, make sure that all of your food is hidden away in a cupboard and not sitting on the counters.
Find a place for your kitchen tools so you will always know where to find them. For example, you could keep your spatulas, ladles, and other cooking tools in a specific drawer or in a tool holder.
 Making a daily or even weekly meal plan is a great way to simplify weight loss. It will eliminate the chance that you will make an impulse decision about a meal or snack, and it will also make choosing what to eat much less stressful.


Try sitting down and writing out all of your meals for the following day so you will have a game plan. Then, you can simply follow this menu to take the guesswork out of eating healthy.
You can also make a list of all of the healthy meals that you have ingredients to prepare for the week. Then, choose items off this list as you go through the week to ensure that you are eating healthy.
 Having someone to exercise with you can help to keep you motivated, and it can also help to make exercising more fun. Ask a friend or coworker to be your walking buddy or join a gym with your significant other and go on gym dates. Try to keep a regular schedule with your workout buddy and encourage each other.


You can share your weight loss goals with your gym buddy and ask them to help keep you accountable, such as by texting you if they have not seen you at the gym in a few days. Make sure to return the favor as well.
 Exercise is a lot more fun if you like the activity. Therefore, it is very important to choose a form of exercise that you will enjoy. Try out some different things until you find what you like.


For example, you might enjoy taking a dance class, swimming, cycling, playing a team sport, or running. Try out lots of different options to find what appeals to you.
Keep in mind that you don’t have to choose just one activity. You can include a variety of different types of exercise in your routine to keep things interesting.
 Eating less is the key to weight loss, so make sure that your portions are properly sized. Fill your small plate with half vegetables, a quarter lean protein, and no more than a quarter carbohydrates if you choose to eat them.

Try eating off of a smaller plate to make yourself feel like you're eating more food.
Minimize distractions so that you can savor your food.
Slow down your meal so that it takes you longer to eat the smaller portions.

