 If you are late, it will go on your attendance record. If you are late/absent often, you might have to attend summer school, or be held back if it is severe. This will also lessen your chances to get friends, because they might not want to involve with who seems to be bad influence.;
, Try to keep your supplies, binders, and even your locker well-kept and up to date. This will make it easier to find the things you will need for the day and will reduce the time you spend trying to figure out what you need to bring home. Also, it makes you get to your classes faster, and your friends won't need to wait for you.
 You want everything to be as easy as possible, so have your own schedule on how you operate.
 Tests/exams/quizzes will make up a huge part of your grade, and it's important that you get good grades. You will feel good about yourself, you will be seen as a smart, good person to hang with, and your parents will be very pleased, and might reward you. Also, in the future, you will have to spend a lot of time studying, so it's a good idea to train and get used to it right away.
 Don't be afraid to ask your teacher for help. They don't want you to fail in school. If you don't want to ask in front of your class, ask privately after class.
 You don't absolutely need to fit in. While it might be fun, it could make you more stressed trying to constantly conform to expected standards. By accepting that what you have to offer as being as worthy as what others do, you can feel less needy about having to fit in. By all means be open to learning how you can improve things about yourself that make you feel better and more capable but don't feel that you have to become something you're uncomfortable with.
 Gravitate to the people who have similar interests and hobbies. This will make your school time much easier.


Seek out friendships with people who do not expect you to change the essence of who you are.
If your friends accept you, they will try to understand you without asking more of you. However, they will also be supportive of you as you go through the changes so typical of your age group. After all, you don't want to be stuck back in time when you're ready to move onto the next phase of life. In turn, be supportive of their personal growth too.
If you end up hanging out with kids who have a bad influence over you, check yourself. Do not participate in bad behavior or activities and seek to extract yourself from such situations. Find friends who are not going to bring you down.
 Most schools offer after-school clubs and activities to join. These are useful ways to meet new people, and find others who enjoy the same things you do, and it will make you enjoy school more. This also is a chance to improve your knowledge and skills in a certain area, which is always good.
 If you help someone else you might get a new friend or they might help you back in return.

