 Ideally, you’ve found an allergy-friendly camp and made them aware of your child’s specific needs. But before you see off your camper, whether for a week or several months, give him all of the medical basics to be as safe as possible on his own.Does your child have a medical alert bracelet, for example? This is a good idea and, in case of an emergency, can carry vital information.
Medical alert bracelets can give EMTs or other medical professionals information about the child’s allergies. There are also newer brands of medical alert bracelets with embedded chips or scannable patches – these can contain digital copies of medical documents.
Your child might be old enough to carry his or her own epinephrine injection device. Check the camp’s regulations to see if this is possible – if not, you may have to leave it with a counselor or nurse.
 You’ve probably talked to your child about allergic reactions and taught him safe practices at school and elsewhere. Camp can be different from school, though. Your child might not always be closely supervised and might be exposed to unknown snacks or foods. Give him some basic guidelines to deal with the situation.Most importantly, your child should know what foods are safe to eat and what foods aren’t safe.
He also shouldn’t eat anything with unknown ingredients or trade food with other campers.
Teach your child to read food labels, as well, as campers may have access to a “candy store” at camp and will need to know if what they’re eating is entirely safe. Have your child ask an adult to check ingredients, if need be.
 Lastly, try to make sure that your child can identify an allergic reaction. She should know what her body might do in case one happens and how to act, including getting help from an adult as soon as possible.Teach your child to seek out help if she thinks a reaction could be starting, even if there are no visible symptoms. She should tell an adult and NOT go off alone if symptoms are starting.
If old enough, and if you’ve cleared it with a doctor, your child should know how to inject herself with an Epipen or other epinephrine injecting device.

