 It can be difficult to get out the door quickly if you have a toddler. But you should take the time to talk to your child before heading out. Let your child know where you're going, what you'll be doing, and when you're coming back. Avoid giving exact times since your toddler probably doesn't understand what 3pm or 5pm really means. This can remove a lot of fear and uncertainty that causes toddler anxiety.For example, say, "I'm going to go to the grocery store to get food for dinner. I'll come back after your nap and before dinner time.";
, If your child focuses on you leaving, give a distraction. Ask your toddler to do something for you. This will help refocus its energy and attention away from you. It will also help your toddler feel independent and give your child a sense of accomplishment. For younger toddlers, try showing your child a new object or toy to distract them.For example, you could ask your toddler to hand you your bag or go give the caregiver a hug.
 Create a consistent goodbye ritual that will signal to your child that you're leaving. This will help your toddler feel secure and prepared. Over time, your toddler will understand that your ritual just means that you're about to leave. Good examples of goodbye rituals include:Kisses
High fives
A hug or a cuddle

, Your toddler might pay so much attention to you leaving that they forget you'll be coming back. Remind your toddler that you always come back. When you do come back, give your toddler a hug and state that you're back.Try to come back when you say you will. If you say you'll be home after the toddler's nap and before dinner, try to do it. This will help your toddler adjust to your absence and learn to trust you., Reduce your child's separation anxiety by helping your child feel comfortable with the caregiver. You might hang a picture of the caregiver on the fridge. You should also spend a few minutes talking with the caregiver in front of your child so they feel familiar.Talk about the caregiver when you're home with your toddler. Ask your toddler what they like about the caregiver or offer suggestions like "Ms. Sarah is really nice, don't you think, Thomas?"

, You shouldn't feel like you can never leave your toddler if they're showing signs of separation anxiety. Instead, plan on keeping your absences short in the beginning. As your toddler gets used to these you can stretch the amount of time you're gone.For example, plan a quick trip or errand where you'll only be gone for about 5 minutes. If your toddler is fine with this length, gradually extend it.
 Many parents think that if their toddler doesn't see them leave, the toddler won't get upset. Unfortunately, this can actually be more distressing for your toddler once they realize you're gone. Instead, let your child know you'll be going, say a fast goodbye and then leave.Once you're out the door, stay gone. Don't run back in for another goodbye or because you forgot something. This can confuse your child and make them more upset.
 Change can be scary for toddlers. To ease your toddler's anxiety try to create a safe and secure environment for them while you're gone. Your child may be comforted by their favorite books or toys. You should also leave your toddler with the same caregiver, if you can. Your child will gradually become familiar with this person and will feel more comfortable.For example, ask the caregiver to come to your house to watch your toddler. Set aside a few special books that only the caregiver gets to read to your toddler. This will become a familiar routine for your toddler.
 If you can plan your schedule, try to choose drop off times when your child isn't stressed. Try to avoid dropping off or leaving your child when your toddler is tired (right before nap time) or hungry. Your child will be more likely to throw a tantrum if they feel that their needs aren't being met.For example, you might try to run an errand after lunch but well before your toddler needs their nap.
 While most children will show some anxiety when a parent leaves, children with SAD will fear a parent leaving to the point that the child will cling to the parent around the house. The toddler may also show signs of sickness. For example, your toddler may have a headache or stomach ache. If your toddler has SAD, they might also refuse:To go to school or leave you
To go to sleep
To be alone

, If you've tried to comfort your toddler and adjust your goodbye routine, but your toddler is still anxious, they might have a more severe form of Separation Anxiety Disorder. If your toddler has any of these signs, consider taking them to a mental health professional for a diagnosis and help:Tantrums when you leave (yelling, screaming, crying)
Withdrawing from friends or family (staying away from people or wanting to be alone even when in a group of familiar people)
Fear of leaving the house (not wanting to go anywhere outside for fear that something bad will happen)
Showing actual physical signs of distress (stomachaches, nightmares, or bed wetting)

, Your child will probably need to frequently meet with a child psychologist or psychiatrist. The doctor may treat your child's SAD with a combination of treatments. These can include:Talk or play therapy: A therapist will encourage your toddler to talk so your toddler is able to share their feelings. This can help the therapist tailor further therapies or medications. If your child is too young to speak, the therapist may recommend play therapy to help your child work on their anxiety.
Family counseling: In addition to talk therapy for your toddler, the therapist may recommend working with your toddler in family counseling. Family counseling can help you understand what your toddler fears and teach you ways to respond to your toddler's anxiety.
Medication: If your toddler isn't responding to therapy or counseling, your psychiatrist may recommend adding medication to the treatment. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are commonly prescribed to help your toddler manage severe anxiety.