


Be heedful of vehicles that seem to be zigzagging or weaving back and forth across lanes. They may also drift in a straight line but at an angle to the road.
Look out for motorists who straddle the center of two lanes, drive on the wrong side of the road, or off the road altogether.
Be vigilant of vehicles without their headlights on at night.
Watch out for cars that are speeding or moving much too slow for the specified speed limit.
Beware of drivers who are drunk and are driving much too close to the car in front of them.
Be wary of drivers who use their signals in a manner inconsistent with the actions of their car. For example, if a driver constantly turns on his indicator signals, but doesn't make the turn.
Watch out for erratic braking or stopping for no reason in a traffic lane.
Be cautious of swerving cars or vehicles that turn away abruptly, make wide turns, or divert from a straight course.
Pay attention to drivers who are slow to respond to traffic lights. For example, they stop suddenly or are slow to start when the lights turn green.
Take note of cars that are heading into opposing or cross traffic, especially if they almost strike another car or object.
Be suspicious of drivers who show physical signs of intoxication, such as leaning forward in their seat so their face is close to the windshield, their eyes seems to be fixated, or they are obviously drinking alcohol while driving.;
,


Maintain a safe distance between you and the apparent drunk driver.
Make a note of the car's license plate and the description of the car, noting the color, make, and model, if possible. If there are any other distinguishing details, jot that down also.
Contact the police and tell them that you would like to report alleged drunk driving. Describe what you witnessed, along with the information you have collected. Let them know where you are, with road names if possible, and the direction in which the car is going.
 Your responsibility is to contact the authorities. It will be up to them to take care of the situation.

