 You can find the App Store app on one of your Home screens.;
, You'll see this at the bottom of the screen.
, You may be prompted to enter your Apple ID password.
 This appears after tapping Get.
 This button appears after the app has been installed. You can also tap the Uber app that appears on one of your Home screens.
 This gives Uber location access.
 You'll need to enter a valid phone number in order to create an Uber account. This phone number will be used if a driver needs to get in touch with you about your ride.
 If you don't have an Uber account, you'll be prompted to create one. You'll need to enter your name, email address, and a payment method. You'll also need to create a password for the account.


A valid payment method is required in order to create an Uber account, even if you're entering a promo code.
 You can this in your Apps list, which you can open by tapping the ⋮⋮⋮ button on your Home screen.
 You'll see this at the top of the app. It says "Google Play."

,,,, Depending on your version of Android, you may be prompted to accept the app's permissions before it is installed.
 This button appears after you have installed the app. You can also start the app from your Apps list.
 This will grant Uber access to your device's location, which is required to request a ride.
 You'll need to enter a valid phone number in order to proceed.
 If you don't have an Uber account yet, you'll be prompted to enter account information such as your name, email address, and payment information. You'll also need to create a password.


A valid payment method is required in order to create an Uber account.
You can enter a promo code during the account creation process, but a payment method will still be required.
 to enter a destination. After logging in with your new account, you'll see the "Where to?" box at the top of the Uber screen. Tap this to enter a destination for your trip.
 You'll see suggestions appear as you type, which you can tap at any time.
 You'll see the popular ride options appear after entering the destination, along with the fare.


When you tap a ride option, you'll see the estimated time until pickup next to your location on the map.
, The Uber app will detect your current location, but you can make adjustments by dragging the map underneath the pin.
 The nearest available Uber driver will be notified that you want a ride, and your request will usually be accepted within a few moments.
 You'll see your driver's vehicle on the map in your Uber app. Meet the driver at the pickup location you selected.


When a driver accepts your request, you'll see information about the vehicle they are driving. Use this to help verify that you're getting into the correct car.
 Your driver will typically ask you to confirm your destination again, and then you'll be off. Payment is handled automatically by the Uber app after you reach your destination.
 After the ride is completed, you'll be asked to rate your driver. If you were satisfied with your ride, consider leaving a 5-star rating. Uber will penalize drivers who fall below a 4.6 star rating average.