 Primary schools cover the 1st through 8th grades (ages 6-14). Secondary schools teach students in the 9th and 10th grades (ages 14-16), and senior secondary schools teach students in the 11th and 12th grades (ages 16-18).You should opt for the age group that you find most appealing. However, keep in mind that the higher the age level, the more stringent the qualifications since you’ll be teaching more advanced and specialized courses.;
, Early primary school teachers do not need to specialize. If you would prefer to instruct in a specific field, you’ll need a Bachelor’s Degree in a relevant subject.Primary school subjects include reading, writing, arithmetic, social science, science, and English.
Secondary school subjects include Hindi, English, foreign languages, math, science and technology, history, geography, civics, art, physical education, and health. They also offer elective vocational training and music.
 There are three levels of teaching degrees: a Diploma, Bachelor’s, and Master’s in Education. If you would like teach primary school, you will need a minimum of a Diploma (D.Ted.). If you would like to teach secondary school, you’ll need a minimum of a Bachelor’s (B.Ed.). A Master’s (M.Ed.) is usually only required for specialized subjects or promotions.The D.Ted. and B.Ed. programs are generally two years. M.Ed. programs are usually one year.
Keep in mind that each degree program has different qualifications. To enter a D.Ted., you’ll need to have passed the 12th standard (graduated from senior secondary school) with the minimum qualification. You’re required to have a Bachelor’s of Arts or Sciences (B.A. or B.S.) to enroll in a B.Ed. course. Having a B.Ed. is a prerequisite for getting an M.Ed.
 Becoming a teacher at a private school is generally easier because there are many openings and fewer necessary qualifications. Government-run schools are much more closely regulated and require specific eligibility testing and teacher education. However, public schools generally come with better pay and benefits and have more opportunities for career advancement.The types of students are also generally different between public and private schools. Since students must pay to go to private schools, they generally come from more educated households with higher incomes and are therefore better prepared for scholastic achievement.
 Teacher recruitment in India at the primary and secondary levels is tied to state and national eligibility testing. You must pass the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) to qualify to teach in a government-owned school and some private institutions.The National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) offers preparatory curriculums for the exam and determines the minimum eligibility requirements for each year.
 If you’re a foreign national, there are international organizations that facilitate temporary teaching assignments in Indian schools. Most often, this work is voluntary, minimally paid, or remunerated only in terms of covering travel and living expenses.Many governmental organizations, like the British Council, have teach abroad programs. Go Overseas also has a searchable index of current teach abroad opportunities that is searchable by country and job category: https://www.gooverseas.com/teaching-jobs-abroad


