 If you microchip your cat, there is an increased chance of your cat being returned to you if he runs off. Breakaway collars, which are the type that should be used on cats, can break off easily, but microchips are permanent forms of ID once they are implanted., Microchips last a long time and do not need to be charged or replaced. They require no power because they just bounce information to a scanner. This means that the microchip will last for the entire span of your cat's life, unless the chip malfunctions for some reason.


This means that you only have to implant your cat once., Microchips are devices that use radio wave emissions to project a unique ID number for your cat. There are three different frequencies that can be used, but most veterinary offices, shelters, and rescues have universal microchip readers which allow them to read all different emissions. When a vet, shelter, or rescue checks a microchip, the cat's unique ID and the manufacturer of the chip are displayed.


From this information, the person that found your cat can contact the database to find out your information.
This also means that your contact information is safe from others unless they have access to the microchip database., On average, vets charge between $25 and $50 for microchip administration. This may vary depending on the price of your vet and if you get it done in conjunction with other procedures., Microchips cause very few side effects. Only 391 cases of any side effects have been reported out of four million documented cases of animal microchipping. Pain is felt when the microchip is injected, but it is slight. There may be a little more pain for cats because they are smaller and have less padding than other animals. Your cat may react to a certain degree to the injection, but the pain is similar to that associated with any shot.


If you are worried about the pain associated with the procedure, consider having your cat's microchip put in when he is neutered (or spayed if female). This is commonly done so as to avoid an extra office visit and to save your cat from even the slight pain associated with it.
The rare extreme side effects are microchip migration that leads to abscesses or, in one case, cancerous tumor growth around the microchip.