 Before you can get your marriage license and married in Minnesota, figure out if you are eligible to marry under the state’s laws, which can vary slightly by county. This will ensure that you don’t encounter any problems or delays in getting your license.


Minnesota does not have a residency requirement.
Neither you nor your partner may be married to another person when you apply for your license. If you are widowed or divorced, you must provide proof of your former spouse’s death or of your divorce.You must be 18 years of age or older to get married in Minnesota without parental consent.Sixteen and seventeen year olds may apply for a marriage license when a parent, court, or guardian consents. No one under the age of 16 may marry in Minnesota.Minnesota allows same sex marriage.Minnesota prohibits marriage between family members who are related wholly or partly by blood or adoption. This law also prohibits marriage between cousins.There are exceptions to this rule for some aboriginal cultures.Any person who is developmentally disabled may marry only with consent by the commissioner of human services.For questions on specific laws in the county in which you will marry, contact a Minnesota County Registrar. You can find a comprehensive list of Minnesota County Registrars at http://usmarriagelaws.com/search/united_states/minnesota/marriage_license/#registrar.;
, When you arrive at the County Registrar to apply for your marriage license, you’ll need to have proper documentation and identification. This will help ensure that there aren’t delays in getting your license or married.You will need to fill out the application for a marriage license in Minnesota, which you can find at https://www.co.ramsey.mn.us/ph/vr/marriage_licenses.htm.
Do not sign the application because it requires a witness. You can sign this at the County Registrar.You will need one of the following forms of identification: driver’s license, military ID, passport, or a state certified birth certificate.Remember that your ID must also be valid.
You must provide the following information for each party: Social Security number, full legal name, address, date and place of birth, and telephone numbers. Minnesota also requests post-marriage names and addresses.If you were previously married, you must provide the date of divorce or death of your spouse.Minnesota doesn’t require blood testing to receive a marriage license.Have any documentation that is not in English translated by a certified translator. Although there is no specific provision in the Minnesota law about non-English forms of identification or documentation, it’s nevertheless advisable to have translated versions in case the local authorities ask for them.
 In addition to your documentation and identification, you’ll need to secure the right fees to pay for your marriage license. You have the option to reduce the general fee by taking a premarital counseling class.


Marriage license fees in Minnesota are $115 but you can reduce this fee to $40 by completing at least twelve hours of premarital counseling for which you must provide proof.You can find the guidelines for an educator’s statement to receive the reduced marriage fees at https://www.ramseycounty.us/sites/default/files/Licenses%2C%20Permits%20and%20Records/Residents/guidelines_for_educators_statement_reduced_marriage_fee_june_2013.pdf.
You may pay the license fees with cash, checks, and money orders., County Registrars are the authorities that issue marriage licenses to couples in Minnesota. Call ahead of your wedding date to confirm hours of operation, verify requirements, and any other questions you may have.


For a complete list of County Registrars in Minnesota, consult the website http://usmarriagelaws.com/search/united_states/minnesota/marriage_license/#registrar.
Some Country Registrars have websites with information on specific laws in their county of jurisdiction. In the event that there is no website for your specific County Registrar, you can call the number listed to verify information.
 You must purchase your license at a County Registrar before you can get married in Minnesota. Make sure to have all of the proper documentation and fees prepare before you arrive at the County Registrar to avoid delays.Both parties applying for a marriage license must appear at the County Registrar’s office.If one party is cannot be present, he must submit a notarized Supplemental License application.Sign your application at the County Registrar window.
Minnesota has a five-day waiting period for marriage licenses. You can get a waiver for this waiting period with a valid reason by a local county clerk.A Minnesota marriage license is valid for six months after the County Registrar issues it. The marriage may only be executed within the state of Minnesota.The marriage officiant has to send marriage certificate back to the county clerk within 5 days of the wedding., If you and/ or your partner would like to change your surname upon marriage, you must state this on your application. Making sure to state this on the marriage license application will help ensure that you have legally changed your surname and can avoid a longer process of changing your surname once the marriage has occurred.If you or your fiancé(e) have committed a felony, there is a thirty day waiting period before the County Registrar can issue the marriage license with the changed surname.Once you change your surname on the marriage license, there are no other forms you need to fill out., Before you can begin planning the actual ceremony, you and your fiancé(e) should decide on a location for your Minnesota wedding. From the Twin Cities to the shores of Lake Superior, there are many places in Minnesota perfectly suited for a wedding.


Knowing the location will also help you apply for your marriage license in a timely manner.
Consider indoor and outdoor locations. Minnesota offers a wide variety of state parks and historic sites that can host your wedding.You may also want to think about a destination wedding at one the towns or islands on Lake Superior., Six to eight months before your actual wedding, and before you send formal invitations, send your guests “save the date” cards for your wedding. This will allow guests to schedule time and save money for travel and gifts if need be.Your save the date card doesn’t have to be formal as the invitation. It should just let people know the date and location of your wedding.If you have engagement photos or simply a picture of you and your fiancé(e) that you like, you can use this on the card.Send save the date only to the people who you want to attend. Even if some people already know and have said they will come, make sure to send them save the date cards as well., If you can afford it or just want some extra help, consider hiring a wedding planner. She can help you coordinate the various elements of planning your wedding from venues to photographers. She may also help decrease stress on your wedding day.The costs of hiring a wedding planner varies greatly according to how they bill, where they are located, and the types of services you want. A good rule of thumb is to estimate about 15% of your total wedding budget for a wedding planner.Some wedding planners may have special deals with several venues that you like to help control the costs.There are many ways to find a wedding planner in Minnesota. You can ask friends, family, or colleagues for suggestions. You may also want to search for a wedding planner yourself.
Generally, the easiest way is to search for a wedding planner is online. Some wedding related websites offer search engines for wedding planners by location that can help you find several different options.You can also use local wedding magazines, blogs, and city guides to help you find a wedding planner in your location., Finding the perfect venue for your wedding ceremony can be one of the most difficult parts of planning a wedding. If you’re not using a local wedding planner to help you, there are many factors to consider when looking for and booking a ceremony venue.


Think about the type of ceremony you want. Do you want a religious ceremony in a church? Do you want something simple such as at the civil ceremony (there are no justices of the peace in Minnesota)?Or maybe you want an outdoor ceremony at the beach. Having a basic idea of what type of ceremony you want can help narrow down potential venues.Consider how many guests you have. You’ll need to make sure that your venue can accommodate all of your guests comfortably and within local zoning and fire laws.Figure out how much work you are willing or want to do with a location. For example, if you want to get married in a barn, it may require cleaning not only before but also after your ceremony. By contrast, a reception hall, which may not feel as intimate, may provide staff to do the “dirty work” for you.There are many ways to find a venue in Minnesota. You can ask friends, family, or colleagues for suggestions. You may also want to search for a wedding planner yourself.
Generally, the easiest way is to search for a venue is online. Some wedding related websites offer search engines for wedding planners by location that can help you find several different options.You can also use local wedding magazines, blogs, and city guides to help you find a venue in your location., Who you choose to officiate your wedding can have a significant impact on your wedding, including setting the tone for the day. Select an officiant for your wedding who works with the type of ceremony you want and with you and your fiancé(e)’s personalities.Your ceremony may help set the type of officiant you select. For example, if you choose a religious ceremony, you will likely want your officiant to reflect your beliefs.If you are not having a religious ceremony, you could have a judge, justice of the peace, or friend who is an ordained minister officiate your ceremony.Any person who is a licensed or ordained minister, clergyman, or pastor of any recognized religion may perform a wedding ceremony in Minnesota. In addition, judges, clerks of court may solemnize a marriage. There are also special provisions on officiants for those of the Baha’i, Hindu, Quaker and Native American faiths., Just as your officiant can set the tone for the ceremony, your reception site will set the stage for your celebration. If you’re not using a local wedding planner, there are many factors to consider when arranging your reception venue from number of guests to the atmosphere you want to create.Think about the type of reception you want and style of your wedding. Do you prefer something formal with a band? Or maybe you want something romantic or hip with a DJ? Knowing the atmosphere you want to create at your reception will help you more effectively locate and book your venue.Depending on where your ceremony is, you may want you reception to be at the same place. Some locations, such as hotels, will offer package deals for hosting a ceremony and reception, especially if you’ve chosen a destination wedding.
Make sure your venue can accommodate all of your guests comfortably and within local zoning and fire laws.Find out if the venue is full service, which may help decrease stress and how much you have to arrange, including a caterer.There are many ways to find a reception venue in Minnesota. You can ask friends, family, or colleagues for suggestions. You may also want to search for a wedding planner yourself.
One of the easiest ways is to search for a reception venue is online. Some wedding related websites offer search engines for wedding planners by location that can help you find several different options.You can also use local wedding magazines, blogs, and city guides to help you find a venue in your location., Food at your wedding will comprise the largest aspect of your reception costs, so you’ll want to find a caterer that provides you the highest quality food for the best price. If you can, meeting with several different caterers can help you find the right one for you and your wedding.If you’ve hired a wedding planner, she can help you find the right caterer and may have special arrangements with specific caterers.
Your reception venue may include the cost of food and service in its price. Often, booking the reception venue with an on-site caterer will spare you time and stress.There are many ways to find a licensed caterer in Minnesota. You can ask friends, family, or colleagues for suggestions. You may also want to search for a caterer yourself. You can look online or consult wedding magazines, blogs, and city guides to help you find the right caterer.You’ll want to ask potential caterers a range of questions including if they specialize in any types of food and whether they provide tables, chairs, linens and utensils.Schedule a tasting to ensure that the food meets your standards., You can either use your caterer or hire a separate wedding cake designer to make the cake for your big day. Choose a design that reflects the style of your wedding and taste that you and your guests will enjoy.You can get many different types of cakes from simple sheet cakes to more elaborate tiered designs. The benefit of having a tiered design is that you can have different flavors to reflect the different tastes of you and your guests.Meet with several different cake designers and test several flavors of cakes and frostings to find the best one for your wedding.Depending on whether your cake designer is in the same city as your wedding, arrange for shipping of the cake on your wedding day.There are many ways to find a wedding cake designer in Minnesota. You can ask friends, family, or colleagues for suggestions. You may also want to search for a caterer yourself. You can look online or consult wedding magazines, blogs, and city guides to help you find the right caterer., When you’ve made all of the arrangements for your wedding, you’re ready to send invitations for your wedding in Minnesota Make sure to include all of the information on your various locations in Minnesota so that your guests will know where to go.


Send the formal wedding invitations six to eight weeks before your wedding. If you’re having a destination wedding in Minnesota, consider sending them three months or more in advance to give your guests time to schedule vacation and travel.Make sure to include a deadline for RSVPs of two to three weeks so that your respective venues can have a final head count and accommodate for it.If your guests aren’t from Minnesota, you may want to include a list of local hotels, inns, or B&Bs where your guests can stay.
 As the date of your wedding approaches, make sure to confirm all of your reservations with Minnesota businesses. You’ll also want to take care of last minute details within the state, including getting your marriage license if you haven’t done so already.

