 Running a vacuum over the fabric once a week, or more often if you have a pet that sheds, will keep it looking clean and new.


If you have a very powerful or unwieldy vacuum, use a furniture brush instead.;
, Sprinkle laundry detergent over the fabric, gently brush it into the fabric using a cloth or a brush, and vacuum it up. This is especially useful for preventing the lingering odor of household pets.
 Microsuede furniture should come with a tag printed with a code indicating what kind of cleaning solutions can be used on the material. The code will appear as "W," "S" or "S-W."


"W" indicates that a water-based cleaning solution may be used.
"S" indicates that a solvent-based cleaner (or one which dissolves chemical compounds) can be used.
"S-W" indicates that you may safely use both types of cleaners.
 Even if the fabric isn't stained, washing it will keep it smelling fresh and looking clean.
 Fill a spray bottle with the type of solution recommended by the manufacturer of your microsuede.
 To clean the entire upholstered surface of the furniture, work in three-foot increments to avoid over-saturating one area.
 Apply pressure to the saturated areas of the microsuede using a clean, non-colored cloth. Gently rub the cloth in a circular motion.


Wipe the fabric with a second sponge to remove excess moisture.
 Microfiber material will dry quickly. Allow 15 to 20 minutes for the furniture to completely dry before using it.
 Some removable microsuede covers are machine washable. Check the manufacturer's instructions before laundering your microsuede.
 If you can catch a spill before it soaks in, you may be able to prevent a stain. A quick wipe with a paper towel or cloth will take care of most small spills.


Don't rub the spill into the fabric; dab it lightly so it won't soak in.
Sprinkle baking soda over larger spills. When it dries, run a vacuum over it.
 Choose a spot on the bottom or back of your furniture; you never know if a stain-removal method might damage or cause discoloration to your fabric.
 Soak a cloth or piece of cotton in rubbing alcohol and gently rub the stain until it is removed.


Hand wipes containing alcohol are useful for this purpose.
You can also use vodka if you don't have rubbing alcohol in the house. Just be sure not to use a liquid that isn't clear.
 Wet a cloth with vinegar and rub the stain until it is removed. To prevent the vinegar smell from lingering, wash the microsuede with water or solvent-based solution, whichever your microsuede requires, after applying the vinegar.
 Use a concentrated amount of the cleaning solution approved by your microsuede manufacturer. Spray the stained area liberally and scrub with a brush until the stain is removed.

