 The first step to treating azoospermia is to visit a urologist or fertility specialist. They can help you find out whether your condition is obstructive or nonobstructive. Both types of azoospermia are easily treatable, but treatment options vary widely:Obstructive azoospermia, in which there’s a blockage in the reproductive tract, can be treated surgically.
Nonobstructive azoospermia is often related to a hormonal imbalance and treated with oral or injected hormones.
Other causes of nonobstructive azoospermia include medications, chemotherapy, and recreational drugs. In these cases, the reproductive system often recovers on its own in a little time.;
, Have your urologist or fertility specialist analyze two samples at two different times. These tests will determine the number of viable, motile sperm the sample contains.The tests will help rule out other issues, like low sperm motility or low sperm count (as opposed to a lack of sperm, which occurs in azoospermia).
Testing two samples will help account for your body’s natural variability.
 In order to detect obstructive azoospermia, your doctor will need to take some images of your insides. They’ll take an ultrasound, MRI, or CT scan of your reproductive system and look for any abnormalities. There's no need to worry, as these are all easy, painless procedures that will help your doctor come up with the best treatment.The type of imaging scan will depend on your specialist’s preferences and your insurance coverage. To verify your coverage, contact your insurer and ask if a procedure is covered or if it requires prior approval.
 Be open and honest with your doctor. They want to give you the best care possible! Let them know about the medications, even over the counter, you regularly take, about any recreational drugs you use, whether you’ve ever had a sexually transmitted infection, and whether you’ve ever received chemotherapy or radiation therapy.If you have cystic fibrosis, ask if you might have a related congenital deformity that affects the reproductive tract. Around 95% of men with cystic fibrosis have a congenital reproductive tract deformity.