 If you, for example, had been close friends for two years, you are two years ahead in getting to know each other and two years more comfortable with each other. Especially if you were the type of friends that told each other everything, having the following conversation with them should not be difficult or scary. Just take a deep breath, and remember that they will still be your friend no matter what.;
, But for those who have not, you need to gather your thoughts together and take a look at your behavior towards each other in the recent past. Have you been openly flirting with each other? Have either or both of you made comments about dating and being a couple? If so, then this is reassuring in letting you take the next step and telling your best friend your feelings.
 If you have not broken the touch barrier by this point, begin by doing that on the physical aspect of your relationship.
 You are still best friends, technically, so don't let old habits change. Just upgrade them. When you have that date officially, just be yourself. They fell in love with their best friend, not a stranger. Please do keep that in mind. If you HAVE broken the touch barrier by this point, feel free to show some affection. Of course, this all depends on you and your more-than friend's level of comfort with one another and physical contact itself.
 For one, do not go on about the crushes you used to talk about when you were still friends. If they liked you all that time and held themselves together while you talked about crushes then, imagine how they would feel now, when you two are a couple! If you must continue these habits, find someone else to take their place as best friend in those areas.
 For example, if any previous people you were involved with liked the smell of perfume or cologne, it does not necessarily mean your current will. Remember, even though you may have been friends for awhile, does not mean you will know or even remember every single detail about them. Even the people you find yourself closest to learn something new about you everyday. So don't feel awkward asking them about their preferences.
 If not, you have even more reason to meet them. However, what if you met them once or twice? How do you deal with the awkwardness that may come the next time you meet? Simply be polite and yourself, just as you were when you were only best friends with your significant other.
 Some people say that phone calls between couples should only last a few minutes or the guy will end up in the "friend zone" because his girlfriend will start telling him everything. Well apparently the guy in this relationship managed to get OUT of the "friend zone" so it really should not matter. If you two are serious about the relationship, it makes no difference the length of the call.
 If you say that you are, but go on acting only as friends, it will confuse both of you and irritate the other person. And lastly, don't forget to let them know that you love them. Many people forget that they shouldn't say "I love you" unless they mean it... But if they mean it, they should say it a lot.

