 The basics are learning by seeing, doing, and hearing. Think back on something you remember well from class; was it a hands-on activity? Did the teacher give you a detailed essay? Were you given a handout? Once you know how you learn it can be done better. Though it's important to note that most people react better to a combination of learning styles. There are tests available on the internet to determine your learning style.;
, Hands-on activities are great, as they stick in your memory and help you more:


When you perform experiments in class, make sure that you concentrate.
Actually write down notes, even when they're not required during a lecture. The more open your mind is, the faster information will stick.
Alternatively, instead of taking notes, record the lecture on a mini-recorder and devote your attention to listening; use the recording to create notes afterwards. This extra step takes time, but makes use of what psychologists call the "dual-coding hypothesis", where you are more likely to learn something if you experience it in two different ways (i.e. listening and writing, in this case).
 Cell phones, music, and your chatty partner distract you from your instructor. Sit in a suitable place, as classes are for concentrating, not talking to your friends. Keep valuables in a bag, or far away enough for them not to attract your attention.
 If you hate your teachers, then you will have a lot of trouble learning. Be polite and show respect, and put in some effort, and your teachers will hold a liking for you that will make classes more pleasant.
 For example, take notes during class, and at the end of the week, see if you can write a short essay based on the material you've been learning. Before you begin a new unit, write down some questions on the topic, and at the end of each lesson, see how many of them you can answer. Each time you accomplish a goal, reward yourself by buying a CD or item of clothing, going out and having fun, or just taking a break.
 Find ways to motivate yourself:


Find something about the topic you are learning that interests you and focus on learning as much as you can about it. The more you want to learn, the more you will learn.
Find a "study buddy" - that is, a friend or classmate to study with. Hold small tests/quizzes for each other, discuss things you don't understand or that interest you, or take notes together. Having someone's company can motivate you more.
 Jot down a sentence or two that you can look back and recall the day with.
 Many people don't do this. If you find you are struggling, know that almost all teachers want to help you catch up. See if your school has a resource room you could use during study halls or go directly to your teacher. Don't be shy to ask .

