 Charley horses are typically experienced in the calf, feet, and sometimes thighs; massage these areas to help reduce the pressure and painful cramping. Use medium pressure with your thumbs and fingertips in a circular motion at both the direct area of pain and slightly above it to improve circulation. Continue this for a few minutes until the pain subsides or you wish to move onto another treatment.;
, Your muscles have become constricted as a result of spasms, so stretching will help to relax and soften them. Performing one or several stretches which elongate the muscles in the affected area should help to provide quick relief.


Stand up straight, and then get into a lunging position, with your back leg being the one experiencing the charley horse. Straighten out your back leg while keeping your front leg bent. This will force your weight onto the toes of your back leg; you can lean forward onto your bent knee slightly if it is more comfortable.
Sit down on your bed or the floor, and put your legs straight in front of you. Lock your knees, and point your toes back towards your face. Grab the toes and pull your foot backwards slightly on the leg you’re experiencing the charley horse on.
Stand up straight on your tippy-toes and hold it for as long as you can manage. This will stretch the calf muscles and reduce the spasming. Take a break every few seconds and then continue stretching., Fill your bathtub with warm water and epsom salts and take a soak for 10-20 minutes. The heat and the salts will work together to soothe your tight muscles and distract you from the pain.
 Raise the affected area by propping it up on pillows or the armrest of a chair or couch. Elevating the area will help to improve your circulation and move blood to/from the spasming area more effectively.
 To calm down the muscle spasms, use an ice pack or cool compress on the area you’re experiencing the charley horse. Never apply ice directly, but wrap it in a towel or bandage before placing it on your skin. Do this for 5-15 minutes for the best results.

