 One of the most important things you can do to raise awareness of your pet issue is to start a website. You’ll only reach a limited number of people if you stay local. By creating a website and corresponding social media accounts, you can connect with people across the nation.


Try to set up a memorable domain name. Choose something uncomplicated that addresses the issue or the fact that you are trying to get an amendment for it. The more sensible and less complicated it is, the easier it will be for people to recall the URL.
You should also consider setting up Twitter and Facebook accounts to correspond with – and link to – your website. Social media is a good tool to use if you want people to interact with you and spread the word.
Consider posting videos or ads for the suggested amendment online, as well, like on Youtube. People often prefer easy media like video, and may take the time to learn more about it if first presented with a short video instead of a long block of text.
 Another key part of taking action to amend the Constitution is to create a petition for those who share your beliefs. The petition should clearly state the potential amendment being supported. It can even include the formal language of your amendment. Once you reach a designated number of signers, send it to Congressmen across the United States.There are multiple websites you can use to start an online version of your petition for free, like Petition Site, iPetitions, GoPetition.com, Change.org, or Petition Online.
 If you find the idea extremely important, you can also go door to door to inform people in your neighborhood about it. If you have volunteers, case whole neighborhoods or the entire city for signatures.


As you go door to door, bring along a copy of your petition and informational pamphlets about the suggested amendment and its importance.
Respect others’ opinions. You should never try to coerce someone into signing something she feels uncomfortable with. Speak sincerely and passionately, but do not pressure people.
Be sure to know the rules for petitioning in your area. In certain places, the petition can be invalidated if your signature gatherers are under 18, if you do not gather the date along with the signature, or if you do not self-identify., You can spread the word about your cause alone, but you’ll farther if you create an organization of volunteers who are willing to take on the burden of spreading the word in their own area.


Provide interested parties with help and support. For example, you might send them informational pamphlets and fliers to print and use, or make the documents easily accessible from your website.
Remember, people usually take the path of least resistance. They often do nothing because doing something, and making a difference, takes effort. You’ll therefore get more of a volunteer response if you ease some of the challenges.
 Whether formal or informal, a public forum will allow you the chance to express your beliefs and to describe the proposed amendment to an audience. Seek opportunities to talk publicly.


Informal forums include public fairs and opinion columns in the newspaper. If petitioning at a public fair, make sure that you do so within the guidelines and restrictions set up by those running the fair.
A more formal setting would be at a town hall style meeting. Make sure that the meeting you attend is open to issues like this and not geared or centered around a specific topic.
If you are confident in yourself as a speak, explore the possibility of giving a talk at a local college campus, community centers, or at professional organizations.
Contact your local news channels or radio stations and ask for time on air to talk. If you have money, you could also fund a commercial.
 Try to find a representative who can officially support the proposed amendment, even if she is not connected to your district. You will need to have backing if an the idea has any shot at becoming an amendment.


As said before, calling or writing your congressional representative is one way to make your voice heard. Encourage other people who share the cause to do the same. A larger number of people will be taken more seriously than a small handful.
Alternatively, contact state legislatures. The Constitution can also be amended through the use of a constitutional convention set up by state representatives. While this has never been done, it is something to consider if your federal representatives refuse to take action.
Make sure to notify all state legislatures. Two-thirds of legislatures nationwide must propose a constitutional convention in order to propose amendments, so you must gain wide support.

