 Be aware that The American Psychological Association explicitly states that social, religious and faith areas must be respected and is important. Education of psychiatrists in spiritual and religious matters is also required by the American Psychiatric Association including:


Meditation and prayer may be helpful in emotional, mental and physical areas as they offer relief and affect areas such as belief.

Work and leisure -- career and recreational events that impact all areas of life like the social, cultural, physical and educational development and progress so that it can affect all areas of ones mental health.

Friendship -- relationships with mutual esteem, loyalty, affection, respect and "being there" in need or crisis. Their similar tastes and interests usually allow sharing fun activities, hardships and values of one another's advice. Compassionate love (friendship) is interpreted as affection and feelings of certain levels of intimacy not accompanied by passionate, physiological arousal.

Love -- attachment expressed in combinations of intimacy (sharing), commitment (permanence and persistence), and various kinds of caring and passion as shown in family love, as well as romantic love.

Passionate love is intense longing, and is often accompanied by physiological arousal (shortness of breath, rapid heart rate). Emotional and physiological arousal may also be present in mental stress, fear and aberrant behavior.



Self-direction -- self-actualizing so one finds their place and calling in life, while continuing to learn, along with serving and helping or even competing with others throughout all phases and stages of life. One may make progress and have feelings of success. Success is contagious--you'll want more of that.
,


Respect their essence and spirituality of personality and identity -- many mental health professionals understand the importance of respecting religion and personal spirituality.
Consider "God being here to stay" to understand -- even if you are not religious -- involving some science opinions on psychological or spiritual nature or life such as discussed in Newberg, Aquili, 2002, Why God Won’t Go Away: Brain Science and the Biology of Belief.