 As the plaintiff’s attorney, always have your eye focused on what you need to prove in your lawsuit. If you are the defense lawyer, then be mindful of what the plaintiff must prove as well as how you can prove a defense.As the defense lawyer, you can win your case if you disprove at least one legal element of the plaintiff’s claim. Revisit your legal research to understand the legal elements of the plaintiff’s claim.
For example, in a fraud case, the plaintiff must actually have relied on the false information. During your deposition, you can ask questions about what information the plaintiff relied on. If she admits that she didn’t rely on the false information, then you’ve won your case. You can then file for summary judgment.
 One purpose of a deposition is to uncover information about the case that is not in the written record and which you don’t know.You should identify gaps in your knowledge. Brainstorm a list of questions you don’t know the answers to.


For example, in an automobile accident lawsuit, you might depose the defendant. You should ask what he or she had been doing before getting in the car. You might find out that he or she had left a bar or had been drinking alcohol at a friend’s house.
 Another purpose of the deposition is to set up “impeachment.” When you impeach a witness, you confront the witness at trial with a previous statement they made that contradicts their trial testimony.This kind of contradiction undermines the witness’s credibility in front of the judge and jury.


There are many opportunities for impeachment. However, you should focus on key facts of the case.
For example, in an auto accident case, you would want the defendant to describe what he did while he was driving. If he doesn’t say in his deposition that he looked over his shoulder before pulling into the other lane, then you can raise this omission at trial if he testifies on the witness stand that he looked over his shoulder.
 There are some questions you should ask during almost any deposition because they typically yield helpful information. Be sure to work these questions in somewhere:The witness’s arrest and conviction record.
The witness’s social media accounts. Get the URLs.
How the witness prepared for the deposition, including what documents they looked at.
Whether the witness has testified before in a case.
Whether someone else was in their meetings with their lawyer. If so, then the attorney-client privilege might have been broken.
 You want to take a solid outline into the deposition. If you’ve never created a deposition outline, then ask another attorney for an example or go online and find examples.After you brainstorm questions, you should put them in an order that is logical and coherent for you and for the witness.


For example, if the lawsuit is a breach of contract case, then you will want to ask questions about (1) the negotiation process, (2) the contract, (3) the witness breaking the contract. You can organize your questions into these groups and in this order.
Organizing your questions chronologically is probably better than jumping around. However, you could jump around at key points if you want to throw the witness off guard.
 You want the witness to understand the question, so don’t make the questions too complicated. Phrase the questions exactly as you would for trial.You can ask open-ended questions for areas where you are hoping to uncover information. For example, “What did you do after getting up in the morning?” is a good question when you have no idea what the witness did.
However, you should ask more pointed questions if you are trying to lock a witness into a story or to catch the witness in a lie.
 Although you want to be organized, it often benefits you as the lawyer to let the witness ramble. He or she could inadvertently reveal helpful information, so don’t be too rigid in your questioning. Don’t cut the witness off.

