 You will want to confer with the couple to determine a date that is good for them. It is also a good idea to consider events that may be going on in your community when choosing a date.;
, Consider the age of the couple and the age of the guests when deciding on a time. If the party is for an aged couple, you may want to set the time before dark.
 You may choose to host the party in your home. Some people have nice halls available at their churches for hosting parties. You may want to rent a room from a local community center or conference center. You might even consider hosting the party in an outdoor setting.
 Consult with the anniversary couple about who they would like to attend. Consult with any family members about the guests that should be invited. You may need to limit the number of people that are invited because of space or financing.
 You can order preprinted invitations online. You can hand write the information on standard invitations that you purchase from a local store. Decide if you want your invitations to include an RSVP card, so you will have a better idea of how many guests will attend.
 The name of the anniversary couple and the number of years they are celebrating should be included. You will need to include the date and time. You will need to state the location of the event, and possibly the directions for how to find the place of the event. If you do not want the guests to bring gifts, include a note about no gifts in the invitations.
 This will give your guests time to mark the date on their calendars.
 You may want to hire a catering service to prepare the food for you. Whether you prepare the food yourself, or hire someone, you will still need to decide on a menu.
 Most anniversary parties do include a special cake. You can order the cake a few weeks before the party and then pick it up the day of the party. You may want to order the cake from a bakery or a deli at a grocery store. There are also people who make cakes for special occasions in their home.
 You may want to keep things simple with table cloths and flowers, or you may choose to be more elaborate by creating a themed party. You also have the option of hiring someone to do the decorating for you.
 The amount of time you need will depend on your decorations. Decide if you will set up tables and chairs and how these will be arranged.
 Be sure to have your camera ready with batteries charged. You may even want to hire a professional photographer.

