 Look for clothing that goes together—that way you know you'll actually be able to wear it. If you pick up a great top but can't think of anything at home it would go with, don't buy it unless you can find the bottoms to match.Don't forget the accessories—thrift shops can be a great source of funky jewelry, ties, hats, and belts.
Some thrift stores organize their clothing by color. Use this as a fun way to find matching items. For instance, if you found some killer yellow shorts, you can trot over to the white shirt aisle to find a good complement.;
, If you find a really great piece that's a little worn out, don't wear it with other old things, or your outfit will just look drab. Wear it with a brand new piece and turn its age into a statement.


For instance, if you find a classic leather jacket with scratched up elbows and a raggedy collar, wear it with a crisp button-down and new jeans or leggings.
 Thrift items offer you a great opportunity to go highbrow-lowbrow, to mix vintage and modern, and to add some whimsy into your wardrobe. Shop for discarded prom dresses and pair them with sneakers and a jean jacket. Wear a gorgeous vintage jacket with a raggedy rock band t-shirt. Look for items that clash outrageously.Look for campy items like oversized ties, corny 70's button-ups, and kooky vests.
Try on some classic grandpa coats and loafers—you can pair them with v-neck t-shirts or oversized denim button-ups for an unexpectedly sexy masculine look.
 Thrift stores are great places to find oversized and undersized statement pieces. That's because less common sizes sell more slowly—meaning that if it's suddenly trendy to wear a huge coat this fall, you can find some great options at the very end of the aisle.


Big t-shirts and sweaters can double as dresses.
Maternity dresses can make for lovely slouchy loungewear.
Meet your baggy jean needs at thrift stores.
 Small loose shirts can be worn as crop-tops. Little girls' sleeveless dresses can make adorable tank tops. You might even find an adjustable baseball hat with that cartoon character you loved so much when you were little.


Make sure to try on your find! Ascertain that the neck and sleeves fit.
 Look for beautiful fabrics and solid tailoring that will shine with a little love and care. Feel the fabric, check the brand, and check the fit.


Look for silk. Thrift stores are a great supplier of old silk ties and blouses. If you are getting a blouse, make sure to check under the arms for discoloration—sweat isn't kind to vintage silk.
Hunt for leather. Jackets and shoes might just need a polish to look brand new (or at least shabby chic).
Get your denim needs met at a thrift store. Solid denim wears well and feels good.
If you're into tweed, there's something special about a tweed jacket—it doesn't show stains, it's easy to rehabilitate, and it never stays out of style for long.
 The fashion wheel whirls faster than ever these days, and the best way to keep up in an environmentally sustainable and non-exploitative way is to thrift. Look out for items that exemplify recent decades—check up on recent fashion journals and websites to see if the fashion world is having an 90's moment, a 40's moment, etc.


If you see a perfectly 70's piece when it isn't a perfectly 70's season, buy it up anyway (assuming the synthetic fabric has survived the years). It will come back in style soon enough—or you'll bring it back.
 Have you seen the way fashion designers handle clothing? They have no mercy—they pin, tuck, sew, cut, and fold an innocent item out of recognition in moments. If you're crafty, look at the thrift store as a collection of works in progress.


When you try something on, try tying it, turning it inside out, wearing it backwards, or tucking it in. Pinch it back with your hands to see what a clip or a few stitches would do to the drape. If something only needs a minor edit, take it.
Follow through immediately! Don't leave your unaltered clothing lying around the house—you may lose inspiration and end up with a heap of unwanted junk.
Dig through the bargain bin. You'll find stained and stretched pieces there—some of which can be easily mended, dyed, or otherwise restyled.
 If you've found a cute sweater or other item with a pilled section, you can use a razor to lightly shave the pilling off. Lay the garment out flat and run a shaving razor lightly up it. If the pilling does not decrease, shave a little harder.


You can also remove pills with a sandpaper sponge, or trim individual pills with scissors.
Specialty products for removing pills from sweaters can also be worth your while.
 You can patch to salvage a garment, or you can patch just to restyle. Sew a matching fabric or an artfully contrasting fabric over the hole in your thrift find.


If you don't want to sew, iron-on patches are easy to acquire.
 If you bought it cheaply, mess with it freely. Cut and hem sleeves and pantlegs. Try artfully slashing some ho-hum jeans—all you need is to run a razor across the area you want cut. Undo the hem on some capri pants for a trendy look. Paint splatter a plain shirt.



Dye a dull garment.

Make cut offs from overlong or worn-out jeans.

