 By keeping your back straight and gluteus muscles tensed, you’ll be able to control the movement of air through your lungs and into the mouthpiece. Adjust your posture as necessary to allow your lungs to fill fully with air. Relax your core and rely on your lungs to provide the necessary breath support., Warming up before a run stretches muscles and prevents soreness, and your trumpet warm up performs the same function. Play a number of long, low tones. Gradually, work your way up the scale playing notes and holding them. Once your lips are warm, move on to playing scales quickly. Slur up and tongue down. Accelerate your tempo as your repeat the scale to begin warming up your fingers as well., Once you’re warm, use a chromatic tuner to make sure your C on the staff, the traditional trumpet tuning note, is on pitch. If you’re playing with a group, tune to one instrument to ensure the ensemble sounds good together. If your instrument is sharp, move the tuning slide in. If your instrument is flat, push the tuning slide out. Repeat the tuning C, until you’re able to play in tune at least three times in a row., If you practice for an hour each day, only six minutes of your practice should focus on reaching higher notes. This may seem like a relatively small amount, but the easier your low and mid register notes are to hit, the simpler your high notes will be. Improve your overall skill, and your high range will improve with it., This makes high notes easier. A good rule of thumb is that however difficult a C on the scale is to play a C above the scale will be twice as hard. Thus, the easier it is to play a tuning C, the easier it will be to play your high C., Once you’ve developed your skill using a beginners or deep mouthpiece, you may want to switch to a more shallow option. While it may be tempting to depend on a shallow mouthpiece to help you play higher notes from the beginning, it’s essential that you learn to rely on your embouchure combined with the speed of air to hit high notes rather than your mouthpiece. However, some mouthpieces can make hitting the right notes easier.