 Since you cannot access an Android TV’s storage memory via a computer, you need to root it remotely. Android Root lets you do just that by accessing your Android TV using your home Wi-Fi connection.


Create a new browser tab on your computer and open this link: https://www.sendspace.com/file/y6weis. Click the “Download” button found on the page to save the file locally to your computer.;
, The application will be saved onto your computer inside a compressed ZIP folder. Right-click on the downloaded file and select “Extract to” to extract all the contents of the Zip file to a new folder.
 Double-click on the newly created folder to open and view the contents of the application you downloaded. Inside, you should find another folder called “Root Unlocker”.
 Use the Android TV’s remote control and open its settings. Inside, select “About Device” and choose “Status” from the available choices.


All the network details of your Android TV will be displayed on the screen, including its IP address.
 Go back to your computer and click the Start/Orb button on the desktop.


Type ‘”cmd” on the text area field on the Start menu and press the Enter key on your keyboard to open the Command Prompt application.
 On the Command Prompt window, type in “cd” followed by the address of the extracted Root Unlocker folder on your computer (i.e., C:\Desktop\Android_Root_1.0\Root Unlocker).


You should type something like this command on the Command Prompt window:

“cd C:\Desktop\Android_Root_1.0\ICS Root Unlocker 1.0”



, Next, after successfully typing the command and accessing the Android Root folder inside the Command Prompt window, type the following lines on the Command Prompt: “files\adb connect “IP Address of your TV.”


You should type something like this command on the Command Prompt window:

“files\adb connect 192.168.1.100:1111”, where the IP address is the one you got from your TV in step 1.


After typing in the command, a message should appear on the Command Prompt window telling you that it has successfully connected to the TV. If it doesn’t, repeat step 3 and make sure that you’re inside the Root Unlocker folder.
 Go back to the extracted folder and double-click the “Root_Unlocker” file application inside.


Wait for a few moments while the program tries to root your Android TV. A notification message will appear on your computer once the rooting is successful.

