 Are you going by ship, plane, train or car? Cruise ships are one of the best ways to travel if you are alone, since you have a place to stay, entertainment, and each time the ship comes into a harbor, you can hop off and explore a new place. However, they're not the most adventurous way to to travel, and you may come to resent the confinement.


Cruise ships usually stay in a town/city for one day and then move on. If you want to really discover a place, try to join up with some trusted people from the cruise and not hang around the tour groups; that way you can discover more interesting things about the city.
Planes are a good option if you are traveling long distances in a short amount of time. However, if you have little experience with airports ,you may have a difficult time finding your gate. Be sure to do your research and don't pack too much. There is always a weight limit and it is enforced very strictly in many places.
Cars are convenient if you want to explore the country in depth, get to know the culture, go hiking and camping etc. However, car accidents in a foreign country are a very real possibility, so unless you've been driving for a few years and are not on a restricted license, this is not the best option. If you are driving on the opposite side of the ride from your normal side, do not lose your alertness; it is very easy to accidentally shift back into your usual driving mode and end up on the wrong side of the road, potentially having an accident.
Consider trains. You don't have to drive yourself, you get to see a lot of the countryside and the travel is usually very smooth. You might be able to book a sleeper cabin for longer journeys, but make sure the door can be locked. Trains are very expensive in some countries, near non-existent in others but very good value and everywhere in others; do your research first.;
, One of the most important things to do before you leave home is find a place to stay. Are you going to stay in hotels? Camp? Stay with family or friends? Do your research before deciding, it would be an incredibly bad move to, say, go camping in a crime filled country. Book your hotel, ask your friends, buy your tent, beforehand.


If staying with friends or family, pitch in an help out around the house. It's not a completely free deal.
If staying with people you don't know, be alert to feeling uncomfortable. It may have sounded like a good deal to stay with Uncle Bert's fifteenth cousin twice removed, only to find when you get there that this cousin is annoyed at your presence or is a little creepy. Always be prepared to act on your gut feeling; you can always say "Thanks for the offer but something else came up with a friend since we last communicated and I won't be needing your help now but I really appreciate that you offered." Really, it is not advised when traveling alone as a young person that you stay with anybody whom you don't know or hasn't been properly vetted.
Only go camping in countries and areas where it is absolutely safe to do so. If you know families go camping in a place, it's generally going to be okay. On the other hand, if it seems that only rather unusual characters are camping in a place, you see open drug usage, or there is a bad vibe, then it's not a good idea to camp there yourself; you don't know the local culture and it could be very unsafe.
 While you are young, sleeping in budget accommodation should be easier. You won't notice the lack of soft bedding, the minimal amenities or the empty mini-bar because you're not focused on the hotel room but on what is happening out there. Make the most of this time in your life and keep the accommodation costs low. You will not be in the room for much longer than sleeping!


Hostels are a good choice for young people, as you'll meet many other young people and may even decide to team up with people to do specific tours or trips. Always check the feedback on hostels online before deciding on one; if there are bad reports, look for another one.
Just be aware that cheaper isn't always better. For example, it may be safer at times to choose a pricier modern hotel in an uptown area over a dingy one––the lack of safety in terms of building soundness, people who frequent the hotel, the homeless milling outside, and so forth, can make a cheaper place an unsafe one to be in. This will depend on where you are traveling, as some countries, areas or regions have more problems than others.
 Again, intensive research is required. If you are going to a cold climate, pack warm clothes. The beach? Don't forget sunscreen, swimsuits, a towel etc. Take your credit card, phone, a flashlight, a medical aid box, and anything else you will need for the environment that you are going into. It varies. Don't forget a camera!


Always have a backup supply of cash. Although credit cards are great, cash and traveler's checks are important additional resources. Traveler's checks are useful because if they go missing, they can be reissued quickly and they are also good for places where credit cards are not accepted (there remain many such places in the world). Try to have a small pool of emergency cash in an account back at home that a family member can access and forward to you should anything dire happen.
Keep clothing to the necessary minimum. Wash your underwear regularly and dry it overnight. It really does not matter that you're wearing the same pants and jacket every day––you're on the move and the fashion police aren't following you. The less baggage you have to worry about, the more you can enjoy the journey.
 It's very dangerous to travel to unknown areas alone, especially when you are young. Being young is a form of vulnerability, even if you don't feel that way. Some people prey on the young because they know that the young are inexperienced, easily convinced and often overly trusting. It is very important to realize from the outset that while it's great to have your levels of energy and enthusiasm, this must be accompanied by a wisdom beyond your age because you must stay alert for all possibilities.


Stay in touch at all times. Always communicate with someone, making sure that someone knows exactly where you are at all times.
Constantly be on the lookout for potentially hazardous environments. Not every place is the same, just because you can wander downtown alone where you grew up, doesn't mean you can do that in a foreign city.
 It is preferable if you can travel with a friend. Using the "buddy system", you can watch each others' backs, present a united front to others and look like less of a target. It's not foolproof but two heads are often better than one when it comes to staying alert and being cautious.
 It is a really good idea to use planned tours if you are entirely alone. This will often be all-inclusive of accommodation, much of the food and touring a lot of the area on a bus or similar transportation. While it can feel a little restrictive because everything is directed, it is a safe way for a young person to see a lot quickly and not have to worry about where to stay, etc.


Consider booking a few of these tours in between getting around yourself. That way, you can combine both the directed travel and the more independent travel, using the planned tour time to learn what you can and backtrack independently if wished.
 Keep a low profile so that you can get on with your journeying without attracting unwanted attention.


Don't show copious amounts of cash, you could get robbed.
Don't wear flashy jewelry or clothing. Flashy items on the body can signal local thieves that you're a valuable target.
Use a standard, boring backpack or bags for your gear. The less attention drawn to what you're toting your stuff about in, the better.
Keep digital equipment usage discreet. There is no need to flaunt your smartphone, iPad and latest technology in a place where people are impoverished.
Be considerate of others when taking photographs. Not every person wants their soul captured as they go about their daily happenings. If there is a person you'd like to photograph, ask nicely first. Not asking could result in an angry outburst or other trouble.
 It's both a sign of respect that you've tried but might also help keep you safe by having a better understanding of signs and the things people are saying.
 Use your common sense and ask locals for advice, including the staff of any place you're staying at.

