 Carbohydrates come in multiple varieties, but when it comes to diet, most people are concerned with processed (simple) versus naturally occurring (complex) carbs. You will find naturally occurring carbs in grains, fruits, vegetables, milk, nuts, seeds, and legumes.These complex carbohydrates resist digestion more than simple, refined carbohydrates such as those found in flour and sugar.Sources of simple carbohydrates include white breads and pasta, cake, candy, cookies, and sugar-sweetened beverages.Generally speaking, complex carbs are better because their sources additionally include vitamins, minerals, protein, and other nutritional value, whereas simple carbs do not. The fiber content in complex carbohydrates also alleviates some of the negative impact on blood sugar.;
, White bread, white rice, and flour provide relatively little nutritional value and increase the amount of simple carbohydrates in your daily diet. For fiber intake, stick with small amounts of whole grains. These will cause fewer fluctuations in blood glucose levels as well., Desserts, pastries, sugary beverages, and other confectionery treats may taste wonderful, but they tend to provide little in the way of nutrition, and they increase the amount of carbohydrates in your diet significantly. Opt for servings of fruits or frozen fruit desserts that are made with no extra sugar if you feel the need for a treat.


When something does call for a sweetener, use alternative sweeteners if possible.
 While you do want to eat more vegetables, limit your intake of white potatoes, corn, and other starchy foods. A five-ounce russet baked potato has 30 grams of carbs, for instance.


Substitute with other root vegetables that contain fewer carbohydrates, and increase the amount of dark green vegetables that you consume at each meal. They tend to have few if any carbs while providing the benefit of a lot of nutrients.
Other starchy, high-carb vegetables include beets, peas, parsnips, sweet potatoes, and some winter squashes., Many low-carb diets replace the missing carb calories with high-protein calories. Many red meats have very little in the way of carbohydrates and offer the benefit of plenty of protein. Fish and poultry are also good options that provide nutrients and are filling, which will help to satisfy your body's craving for more carbs.
 When preparing meats and vegetables, avoid battering and frying those foods. The flour used for the coating contains plenty of extra carbohydrates that your body does not need. To add flavor, use plenty of herbs and spices while broiling, and use an egg batter/crushed bran flakes combination to bake chicken and fish and enjoy a crispy coating.
 Learn the difference between a sliver and a wedge of cake or pie, and get an idea of how much is actually in a single serving. Limiting portions will make it easier to enjoy more of the foods you like without taking in a lot of carbs. It can also be beneficial to weigh foods prior to cooking. For instance, it can help to weight out 4-6 oz of raw chicken before cooking to ensure the proper portion size is being consumed.

