 Pay special attention to the kitchen, where odorous ants are most likely to be found scavenging for crumbs and food. Wipe down your counters with soapy water, then sweep the floor. Follow up by mopping with a soapy water mixture. Wash the dishes as soon as possible, and empty your bin regularly.Soap will eliminate pheromone trails, disrupting odorous ants’ ability to navigate your home.
Soap also weakens ants’ exoskeletons, causing dehydration and death.
 Food left out on counters or in the sink will attract odorous ants. When preparing food, use what you need, then replace it immediately in the fridge. Use airtight containers or resealable bags for uneaten crackers, desserts, and breads.If you have a large amount of some foodstuff that cannot be transferred to a resealable container (a large bag of potato crisps, for instance), seal the container as well as you can and place it high on a shelf or on top of your refrigerator.
Covering pans and plates with tinfoil will not be enough to prevent odorous ant access.
 Aerosol ant sprays will kill odorous ants either on the spot or a short time after exposure. Instructions for use vary with the specific product you use, but generally, you can simply aim the nozzle of the can at the odorous ants or their entry point, then push down briefly on the can’s actuator (the “button” on top of the can).Some sprays can be harmful for pets and children. Consult manufacturer directions before using an aerosol ant spray.
If possible, obtain an ant spray designed for maximum efficacy against odorous ants.
 Trace the ant trail back to its point of origin and try to block it. For instance, if odorous ants are coming in through your window casings or a small crack beneath your kitchen counter, seal it by applying a line of caulk or an extra layer of paint to the area., If all your homemade and store-bought remedies have not enabled you to get rid of odorous ants, it might be time to bring in someone with more experience. Contact your local exterminator. Look for an exterminator who has dealt specifically with odorous ants. Be warned, though -- exterminators are expensive, often charging $400 to $1,000 to eliminate ants.Most exterminators will treat odorous ants with professional-grade insecticides.
A good exterminator will also help you identify home modifications that can prevent future odorous ant invasions.

