 Bespoke tailors report increased sales and there is a feeling that being causal at work translates to casual in your job. The Hedge Fund Dress Down Friday look, has largely been replaced with a return to formal suits and shirts. This is an easy uniform to adopt.;
, This works really well in any work environment providing the skirt is not too tight. In a more casual workplace separates, skirt and coloured jacket look great too. A dress and jacket also looks good providing the dress is smart enough and not too tight or too short. Think elegance here. Sweater dresses cut to knee length with a toning jacket is another great look for more casual workplaces.
 Grooming is important, hair should be well cut, clean and not extreme in colour or cuts. Make up should be discrete, wearing makeup has been shown to increase your chances of promotion just don’t overdo it.
 Traditional work colours are black (chic), navy (trustworthy), red (dynamic, aggressive), grey (conservative). To venture into hot pinks, oranges and wild prints is far riskier and after all it is your career on the line.
 Invest in good quality suits and coats and aim to keep them for several years. Beware of buying cheap clothing, cheaper fabrics and cheap jewellery or wearing old fashioned or worn out clothes. If you aspire to be promoted look as if you mean business and are a competent, confident professional. Clothing sends out very powerful messages about who we are, so dress to make a positive impression, dressing for success is a necessary precursor to obtaining it.
 If you don’t know use a personal stylist and find out the best colours to bring out the best in your skin tone and hair colour. Summer brings more challenges, women should ideally buy a smart summer work wardrobe of tailored dresses that will compete effectively with the men sweltering in suits. Invest in a few key outfits that will last a couple of years, linen shift dresses look great, as do linen mix suits providing they are crumple proof.
