 National Eating Disorder Awareness Week is a week-long event each year that works to raise awareness for eating disorders. Many local organizations partner with the larger association, the NEDA. You can work with one of these partners to help raise awareness during this week specifically.You can find partners on the NEDA's website.
If you don't live in the United States, try finding an organization near you that focuses on eating disorders. Check with your local nonprofits, as well as with your library to find groups or organizations in your area. Clinics may have information, as well. Try finding one that is associated with a larger, reputable organization if you can. If you don't have a group in your area, consider starting one.
 Social media is a great way to spread the word about eating disorders. You can do things like share informational pages about disorder, or use your voice to encourage others to get screened.In fact, during the National Eating Disorder Awareness Week, the NEDA makes it easy for you. They provide images that you can share on platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. They also have sample messages you can use, so you don't even need to write one yourself. You can use these messages anywhere in the world, but you can also create your own messages to spread awareness.
 Another option for raising awareness is to use posters to help raise awareness. The NEDA provides images that you can print at home, then you can spread them around your school, office, or city. Just make sure you get permission to post them first.You don't have to be in an area where there's an NEDA organization. You can print the posters to use anywhere in the world, but you can also find an organization in your own country that has similar support. You can also make your own posters.
 You can also host events during this week to help raise awareness. You could ask a local expert to come and speak, then put up information around your school or office promoting the event. Don't forget to use social media to promote it if you're opening it to the public.

