 If your cough has lasted longer than a month, your subacute cough may be turning into a chronic cough.You may have a sinus infection, asthma, or gastroesophageal reflex disease (GERD). Knowing the cause of your cough is the first step to treating it.






You're doctor may put you on an antibiotic if you have a sinus infection. He or she may also suggest a nasal spray.
If you have allergies, you'll obviously be told to avoid those allergens as much as possible. You cough could diminish easily if this is the case.
If you have asthma, avoid conditions that make it flare up. Take your asthma medications regularly and avoid all irritants and allergens.
When acid from your stomach gets into your throat, that's GERD. There are medications your doctor can prescribe for you to relieve your pain. Apart from that, wait 3 or 4 hours after you eat before you go to bed and sleep with your head adequately elevated to lessen your symptoms., There are many programs and resources out there to help you kick the habit and your doctor can help. He/She can refer you to a program or expose you to new, effective methods.


If you are around second-hand smoke, know that that could be an explanation for your cough. Remove yourself as often as possible.
 Coughs are generally a symptom -- therefore, cough medications are only taken when the actual problem isn't known. If you have a chronic cough, though, that's a slightly different story. Only take medications if your doctor okays it. Here are your options:


Antitussives are prescription cough suppressants. These are generally the last thing to be recommended and only are so when nothing else works. OTC cough suppressants aren't backed up by science, for the record.
Expectorants loosen up mucus and as a result you cough it up.
Bronchodilators are medicines that relax your airways., Though the cause of your cough won't go away, you'll feel significantly better.


Drink mainly water. Carbonated or overly sugary drinks can irritate your throat.
Warm soups or broth can help ease the pain of an aching throat, too.

