 Making cone petal flowers does not require anything different from regular crocheting. You will need:

Crochet hook
Yarn
Scissors;
, You may want to practice petal cone edging by making a small flower. To do this, you will need to make a chain circle. First, crochet a chain of six and then join it in a circle with a slipstitch.If you already have a crocheted project that you want to edge, then you do not have to worry about making a circle. You can just begin by making the bases for the cone flowers along the edges of your project.
 Next, you will need to single crochet 15 stitches around your chain circle. Insert the hook in through the center of the circle—not through the stitches—and single crochet around the chain.To single crochet, loop the yarn over the hook and then insert the hook through the center of the circle, then loop the yarn around the hook again and pull this new loop through the other loop on your hook.This will create a stitch around the chain.
 Insert the hook in through the first single crochet in your round and then loop the yarn around the hook and pull it through the stitch and the other loop.This will join the end of your round with the beginning of your round., Start the second round by chaining six stitches. This will provide a long enough chain to form the first space in your second round. You will be connecting back into the middle of this chain at the end of the round, so don’t worry if it looks a bit odd right now., Next, skip over the first stitch and double crochet into the next one.To double crochet, loop the yarn over your hook, and then insert the hook into the stitch. Then, loop the yarn over again and pull it through the first two stitches. Then loop the yarn over again and pull it through the last two stitches., After the first double crochet, you will be following a pattern of chaining three, skipping a stitch, and double crocheting for the rest of the round. Chain three, skip, and double crochet to create your second space.Continue to ch3, skip, and dc to the second stitch from the end of the round.
 To finish the second round, you will need to chain three more stitches, and then skip a stitch. But instead of double crocheting, you will need to join this chain to the middle of the chain of six you created. Count to the third stitch from the beginning of the chain and slipstitch into this stitch.This completes the second round.
 Begin your third round by chaining four stitches. You will be extending this chain across your existing chain of three and then working the stitches for the cone flower petals onto this chain., Next, insert your hook into the double crochet stitch at the other end of the chain of three. Then, single crochet into this stitch to connect it to the other side., Turn the work around so that the other side is facing you and then chain two stitches.This is also known as a turning chain and it is a common technique in crocheting.The turning chain provides some slack to allow you to continue your work without causing it to pucker., Next, begin to double crochet onto the chain of four. You will need to double crochet six stitches onto this chain. Do not double crochet into the chain. Instead, double crochet into the space between your chain of four and chain of three and go around the chain., When you finish double crocheting six stitches, turn the work again and then double crochet five stitches onto the vertical chain of three from the previous round. This will create the part of the petal that you will fold over and connect to form a cone., After you finish double crocheting five stitches onto the vertical chain of three, cross over to the beginning of your petal and then slipstitch into the first double stitch to connect the ends of the petal. This will form your petal into a cone shape and complete your first flower.Continue to create cone flowers to the end of your project. If you are working in the round, then you will repeat the process of making cone flower petals until you reach the end of the round. If you are edging a crocheted garment, then continue to make cone flower petals on the edges of your project until you achieve your desired result.

