 Look at your schedule and choose a week that you're not busy and don't have any other activities or appointments planned. Having a week that's clear and not too busy will give you plenty of time to plan the cupcake party, find decorations, and get it set. Find a time that's easiest for most people to join. For example: Hosting a cupcake party for five year old girls would probably not be a good idea during the middle of the night.

Once you have picked a date and time, stick to it and mark it. Mark it on your calendar and set reminders (such as on your phone, tablet, computer, etc.) daily so you can plan properly and avoid procrastinating the night before the cupcake party.;
, Having a party without anyone isn't a party at all. Ensure you tell as many people as possible about your party, but knowing your limits and not inviting too many to avoid overwhelming yourself. Clearly state what day the party is on, when the cupcake party starts, what time it ends, where it's at, and other needed information. You could state this by calling them or, more preferably for the fun of the part, make an invitation.

Send invitations to your friends and family. Create cupcake-themed invitations to keep up with the theme. You may also want to create invitations that are colored in shades of pink, purple, or light blue since these are common colors for cupcake parties, but shades of light green, yellow, and light brown can work and match well with the theme, too.
Consider creating invitations that are in the shape of a cupcake, rather than regular paper shaped in squares or rectangles. This can make the upcoming party more exciting and may want others to attend the cupcake part as well.
Placing small craft decorations on each invitation such as pom pom balls, sparkles, glitter, lace, colored foil, and/or ribbon can make the invitation more exciting and will help match with the cupcake theme.
 One thing that you must have at a cupcake party is most definitely cupcakes. Beware of allergies that your party guests may have. You may want to provide nut-free or dairy-free cupcakes so others don't feel left out. Be creative as well, instead of the classic chocolate and vanilla, try making cupcakes you've never made before that are unique, and will make others want to try. You may want to consider making:

Bacon cupcakes
Jalapeno cupcakes
Rainbow cupcakes
Smore cupcakes
Cookie monster cupcakes
Coffee cupcakes
Oreo cupcakes
Hamburger cupcakes

, While cupcakes should be provided at a cupcake party, it's not the only food everyone will eat. Offer party snacks such as snack mixes, chopped fruit and vegetables, dips, mini-sized fried food, and crackers with cheese. If the party guests will be staying over for a meal such as lunch or dinner, plan the food you will be making by writing it down. Don't forget to also offer liquids, especially water. Consider bringing lemonade, fruit punch, chocolate or strawberry milk, smoothies, milkshakes, hot or iced tea, fruit juices, and/or coffee.

To match with the cupcake theme, try making savory cupcakes when it comes to appetizers or meals. You may want to consider making meatloaf cupcakes, pizza cupcakes, spaghetti cupcakes, or macaroni and cheese cupcakes.
 You'll most likely need a few decorations and basic party supplies. Always buy your supplies ahead of time rather than last minute to avoid overwhelming yourself on the day of the cupcake party. When shopping, try finding supplies that have a certain color theme. You may want to buy pink forks, pink plastic plates, pink napkins, etc. For children, you may want to pick out party hats or streamers. If possible, choose decorations that have cupcakes on them to match with the party theme.

Try finding finding small, plastic goody bags or colored paper bags to store with treats when the party guests arrive or leave.
Consider buying colorful paper lanterns. These can be hung on the ceiling and make pretty decorations for a cupcake party.
 Write down the activities on what all your party guests will be doing. You may want to plan a schedule on how the party will work by including when the will start, what activity everyone will be doing this period of time, when they will leave, etc. Split up the party time into periods where something new will happen every half hour or full hour. Knowing what you'll exactly do at the cupcake party will cause less stress and hassle when the party starts and continues., You may want to have the party inside if the weather is particularly cold, foggy, wet, extremely hot, and/or rainy. If the weather is mild, sunny, and slightly windy, it might be a good idea to set up the party outside. You may find it easier to set up the cupcake party inside since it's easier to decorate, but it's also a great idea to throw one outside, especially during the spring when the weather is not too hot or too cold.

Try to pick an environment most of the party guests would want. If most of the guests like the great outdoors, set it up outside, but if most of them like everything indoors, plan the party inside.
 Pin a dozen or more cupcake liners together and wrap it around a table or chair.You can also hang it up against a wall, door, or countertop for pretty looks. Try pinning together colorful cupcake liners, rather than the basic white, to make the decor more exciting and bright.

For a colorful look, pin together cupcakes liners that are made out of colorful foil.
 Set up a table and cover it with a tablecloth. You may want to place a poster that says 'Cupcake Booth' or 'Cupcake Station' and adding other unique designs. Make a batch of simple cupcakes such as chocolate or vanilla. Place different toppings and colorful sprinkles in clean art easels. Allow the party guests to decorate and top the cupcakes to their desires. This method works especially well for younger children since they will enjoy decorating and topping off their cupcakes.

You can also place cupcakes that are unfrosted and allow the party guests to frost them. Set up different frosting flavors such as strawberry, chocolate, vanilla, and/or lemon. Place butter knifes of frosting pipes and have others frost them.
Some toppings you can hand out include a variety of different colored or shaped sprinkles, mini chocolate chips, small candies such as Skittles or M&Ms, edible glitter, coconut flakes, chocolate shavings or curls, mini marshmallows, and/or berries.
Try making mini-sized cupcakes rather than them being regular-sized since these are easy and fast to decorate.
Place the cupcakes on a metal cupcake tray so others can spot and pick up the cupcakes with ease.
 Create a large poster that others can see right away when they arrive at your cupcake party. The party should be more of a 'fun greeting', welcoming others to your party. To decorate the poster and make it more catchy, use glitter, sparkles, sharp markers, fake sprinkles, craft pom pom balls, lace, and/or ribbon to help the poster become more visible to the guests. Ensure the poster has a cupcake to match with theme.

Keep the poster visible where all the party guests can see it once they arrive. You may want it placed on the doorway or on the wall.
 On colorful sheets of paper, stick or write down cupcake quotes or cute sayings. You can place these on chairs, on the table, the wall, the doorway, the entrance. Add extra designs on the quotes such as glitter, sparkles, sharp markers, fake sprinkles, craft pom pom balls, lace, and/or ribbon to help the poster become more visible to the guests. Some quotes and sayings you can use include:

O.C.D - Obsessive Cupcake Disorder
Get you cupcake on
It's cupcake'oclock
Life is full of questions. Cupcakes are the answer.
Keep calm and eat cupcakes.
Life is short, eat more cupcakes!
You are the icing on my cupcake.
You can't be sad when you're holding a cupcake.
Happiness is only a cupcake away.
 Create craft cupcakes by using paper, craft foam, tissue paper, and glue. Make variety of different colored craft cupcakes and place them all over the floor. You can also hang them up on the wall or doorway for decorative looks.

Stick a red pom pom ball on the craft cupcake for a more realist look.
 You can blow up balloons that are shaped into a cupcake or use normal balloons and tape them together to form a cupcake. Find balloons that match with the color theme of party. You may want to tape the balloons on the wall, leave them all over the floor, or leave them floating., Fake sprinkles resemble the real type of sprinkles and make colorful, cute decorations for the cupcake party. You may want to sprinkle them all over the floor, table, countertop, or entrance to enhance your cupcake party and make it look more fun.

If your cupcake party includes younger children you may want to use real sprinkles instead of fake to keep from choking hazards.
 When your guests arrive, welcome them in with a warm greeting and smile, and thank them for making it to your your cupcake party. First impressions always start when you meet, after all. Show your guests where they can sit and offer a cupcake or two as they wait for the rest of the guests. You may also want to offer your guests snacks, drinks, and a few appetizers., A cupcake creation contest can be a fun activity do with younger children. Blindfold your player's eyes and have them create a cupcake with toppings for only ten seconds. You'll want to choose cupcakes that can be a specific theme such as clown cupcakes, bunny cupcakes, snowmen cupcakes, spider cupcakes, or reindeer cupcakes., Using homemade or store-bought frosted cupcakes, have a cupcake fight. This is preferred to be done outside since it can make a mess. Have everyone throw cupcakes at each other and enjoy the fun. Avoid throwing cupcakes with toppings or decorations, only use plain, frosted ones., Have a few guests do a cupcake eating contest, eating as many as cupcakes as they can in only a minute. Offer basic flavors to the contest such as chocolate or vanilla that are frosted since these are the best for cupcake eating contests. Have others cheer on while the participants eat as many cupcakes as possible. Whoever eats the most wins!

Try leaving the cupcake liners on the cupcakes so you can count who ate the most cupcakes at the end.
 Children and teenagers may enjoy doing cupcake-themed crafts since they're fun to create and make., This activity must be done indoors and it's best to have a large kitchen with two or more ovens so everyone can bake. Have your guests split in three or four groups (depending on how many guests are there) and have them work together to make unique batch of cupcakes. You may want to hand out cupcake ingredients ahead of time and choose some special ingredients such as mint, gummy bears, marshmallows, candy bars, etc.

Have a few of the guests be the judges and allow them to choose their favorite cupcake. Whoever has the tastiest cupcake wins!
Make sure that all the ingredients and tools to make the cupcakes are in the kitchen so the participants are able to bake easily.
 This is mostly for older guests with experience in baking and fondant. Set out plenty of cupcakes, fondant, and fondant tools. Have the participants get blindfolded and in one minute, make a fondant design for their cupcake. The cupcake with the most neat fondant designs wins!

For younger children, you may allow them to fondant cupcakes with their eyes open. Children usually enjoy playing with exploring with baking tools, and will find it fun to create designs for their cupcakes.
 Young children will enjoy this. Hide about 30-40 mini-sized cupcakes either outside or indoors. Hand each participant a paper plate to place their cupcakes on, and in five minutes have everyone search for the cupcakes. Whoever finds the most cupcakes wins!, Prepare a variety of unique flavors and different types of cupcakes such as cookie dough cupcakes, bacon cupcakes, apple cupcakes, eggnog cupcakes, green tea cupcakes, lemon cupcakes, and lime cupcakes., Put on some music and have everyone dance as they eat a cupcake. This can be done either outside or inside as long as if you have some place to blast music and dance. You may consider having a disco ball on for an extra touch of light and color., Verbally thank all the party guests for taking the time to attend your cupcake party., Instead of throwing out any leftover cupcakes, hand them out to the party guests as a thank you for coming to your party., Find colorful plastic bags and place small treats such as stickers, mini toys, cupcake erasers, small snacks, and other goodies. Wrap the goody balls into a knot using a ribbon and hand them to others., Before everyone leaves you may want to consider handing out cupcake milkshakes to satisfy everyone's stomach. Place them into plastic colored cups and top it off with sprinkles. Stick striped straws that match with the cup's color., After the party it will most likely be a mess. Clean up the house and take off the decorations for another party. It was fun while it lasted.