 Start by writing down your name and contact details at the top of your resume. Include your address, your mobile phone number, and your email address. You can also choose to include additional information like:


A headshot of yourself.
Links to your social media platforms.;
, Some people choose to begin their resumes with two to three sentences that sum up your education, skills and accomplishments.If you choose to include this summary, it should be placed directly beneath your contact information.
 If you are applying for an entry level position without much work experience, job recruiters will be most interested in reading about your education. Include information regarding:


The level of educational degree you have received.
Your majors and minors (if you attended college).
Relevant coursework that relates to the job you are applying for.
 The section following your education should be dedicated to honors you have obtained and achievements you have accomplished. You can also discuss certifications you have received. The point of this section is to show how you stand out from a crowd based on your accomplishments. List out things like:


Your GPA if it is above 3.5.
Honors such as Dean’s List or other honor roll positions you have held.
Achievements like serving as a student ambassador in a foreign country with an organization like People to People.
Certifications like being TEFL (Teaching English as a Foreign Language) certified.
 Create a comprehensive list of the skills that you feel represent your abilities best. Take time to consider what sort of skills the company you are applying to is most likely looking for. Tailor your list to the position you are applying for.


For example, if you are applying to be a desk receptionist at a daycare, you may think about listing skills like: excellent organizer; knowledgeable about Google Docs, WordPress, and social media platforms; etc.
 This section should be devoted to discussing experience you have in an office or volunteer setting. Consider listing each experience out and then describing it briefly. Only include relevant internship and volunteer experience.


For example, if you are applying to be a facilitator at a daycare, you would include information about when you volunteered at a children’s camp in your local community. Describe the volunteer position and what tasks you had.

