 Most scales you buy in a store will not be sensitive enough.
Specs: I strongly recommend you get a scale that measures in grams, unless you want to be doing conversions all the time. You'll need resolution to at least one gram, minimum. One decimal place is good, two is ideal, three will probably not be worth the extra money.;
, Once you use the cups for the laboratory, they stay in the laboratory. Period.
At least one graduated pipet or buret will eventually be a necessity. Try to get one for each volume range you will use. These must be bought from a laboratory vendor.
You will need graduated cylinders and volumetric flasks from a laboratory vendor. Get one of each in 50 milliliters (1.7  fl oz) and 100mL sizes, and get another graduated cylinder in 10mL size.
 There are many applications for them, including boiling/freezing point determination, measuring heats (enthalpies) of reactions, measuring specific heat capacity, and other applications involving temperature.

Glass thermometers work well, but may have a range limited to a hundred degrees Celsius. Look for one with a range to one hundred and fifty degrees Celsius. The same goes for analog (non-digital) dial thermometers. For digital dial thermometers, you must be careful to pick one with a resolution of at least one tenth of a degree Celsius and a deviation plus or minus one tenth of a degree Celsius at most. Also try to get a thermometer with the least lag time.


Litmus paper is quite useful. pH meters are ideal, but they can be a pain to maintain. Once used, they must be stored with the probe submerged in acidic solution (vinegar works), and the probe cannot be allowed to run dry. For most things, litmus paper is a quicker and more hassle-free way of measuring pH. pH is relevant in almost every situation.

Sodium carbonate--sold as washing soda, closely related to baking soda.
Dilute acetic acid--distilled white vinegar is usually 5% acetic acid by volume. Some labels read "5% acidity," which implies a volume percentage. Five percent by volume means five volumes of acetic acid in one hundred volumes of vinegar (not one hundred volumes of water).
Sodium chloride--table salt. Try to get Kosher salt, which usually has fewer additives. These are not too much of a concern however, because they are usually in trace concentrations.
Dilute ammonia--can be bought by name among cleaning supplies. Colorless ammonia is best. Concentrations of ammonia are usually measured in degrees baume, a rather annoying unit related to specific gravity (Wikipedia "Ammonia"). Try to find a percent by mass labeled solution if possible.
Concentrated hydrochloric acid--depending on how much you need, hydrochloric acid can be obtained more reliably from a laboratory vendor or less reliably from a harder store under the archaic name "muriatic acid." These will vary in concentration from 32% to 40% by mass-to-volume percent. A 40% concentration means there are 40 grams (1.4 oz) of hydrochloric acid in 100 milliliters (3.4  fl oz) of the solution. Be very, very careful handling this solution. Hydrochloric acid is caustic, releases harmful fumes, and will corrode stainless steel easily. Never open the bottle in a cramped unventilated room.
Sodium hydroxide--this is best obtained from a laboratory vendor, but can be obtained, probably with trace additives, in lye or in Drano drain cleaner. Be careful with the solid or a solution of sodium hydroxide. It is also very caustic, dissolves glass over a long period of time, will make you blind if it gets in your eyes (another good reason to wear goggles at all times), and releases a lot of heat when it reacts with water or acids. Do not add the solid to strong acid solutions or you run the risk of slagging your glassware. It's happened before.
Ethanol--Ethanol is usually only a necessity if you intend to do organic reactions. It does have a few minor uses in inorganic chemistry, but it's definitely not a necessity for inorganic.
Graphite--the graphite in "pencil lead" is actually quite useful for Electro-chemistry experiments. It comes in a pretty good shape for inert electrodes.
Acetone--available in hardware stores or as 100% acetone nail polish remover. It dissolves a variety of organic compounds and evaporates quickly.

Make sure the storage area is not particularly valuable, since it will probably get dirty.
If there are children, pets, or nosy people in the building, get a lock on the storage cabinet.
Find a space for equipment like buretts and ring stands, which can be over two feet long when laid horizontally.

Also make sure that you can readily get to the chemicals cabinet in a hurry.
Store certain chemicals in separate containers.

Label a lidless plastic box "corrosive bases" to store ammonia, sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, and any other bases you have.
Label another plastic box "Oxidizers" to store any oxidizing agents you have (except for hydrogen peroxide) including nitrates, hypochlorites (bleach), iodates, and other reactive oxyanions. If you have hydrogen peroxide 30% or more solution, store it by itself.
Label another plastic box "acids and corrosives" to store acetic acid (vinegar), hydrochloric acid, and any other acids and other corrosive chemicals you have.

Corrosive chemicals that are not acids include transition metal chlorides and bromides, ammonium salts, formaldehyde, bisulfate aka hydrogen sulfate salts.


Label another plastic box "flammables" for flammable chemicals.
Label another plastic box for health hazards if you have any (barium, chromates and dichromates, mercury and its compounds, lead compounds, etc.)



