 If someone is trying to shoot you specifically, you will first want to evaluate the situation. If you are being mugged, comply with everything the person is asking, following many of the instructions in the first section. If you are in a fight, your options are more limited.
 If you are being pursued, do what you can to get away. If you have been caught but see an opportunity to escape or distract the attacker, do that but only if your chances of getting away are fairly good. Turning your back on an attacker makes you easier to hit.

If you are a fast runner or have bad knees, run in a straight line away from the attacker towards cover. The faster you can get away, the fewer shots they will be able to fire.
If you are a slower runner and do not have knee trouble, a zig-zag run may be a better option. You may still be hit in this case, but the chances of being hit in a vital area may be reduced.
If you can, create visual distractions for the attacker, such as spraying a fire extinguisher.
 You may not be able to buy yourself enough time to get away completely, but getting yourself to cover can at least be helpful. Also, if you see that they are about to shoot, dive for cover if you can.
 During your confrontation, look for an object that can be used as a weapon. Heavy objects, especially ones with sharp corners, make good weapons, but if you have access to something a bit more potent, that is best.
 If you have nowhere to go, nowhere to hide and no other options, your best bet will be to talk to the shooter. Do not beg for your life or try to get him to feel sorry for you. Instead, sympathize with him and try to ask him what he wants. Offer to help him and ask him why he's doing what he's doing. This could buy you time until help arrives.
 If they appear to want to shoot anyway, the best you can do is try to get out of the way. Moving at least increases the chances that you will be hit in a less important area, since it is very difficult to shoot accurately while moving.

