 Indiana has fill-in-the-blank forms available for spouses who want to file for divorce but don't want to hire an attorney. This packet contains forms for couples with biological or adopted children who haven't been able to come to an agreement about child custody and support issues or about the division of marital property. Be aware that family law is complicated, and hiring an attorney is recommended, especially if there are contested issues in your case. If you represent yourself you will be expected to follow the same rules attorneys do. , You can download the forms you need online, or you can go down to your local courthouse and pick up hard copies in the clerk's office., The packet includes nine forms that you'll have to fill out to start your case and request the court grant you a divorce.

You can either fill out the forms on your computer by typing in your information, or write the information out by hand on the paper copies.The Appearance by Unrepresented Person in Civil Case tells the court who you are and that you want to participate in a civil case without an attorney.
The Confidential form provides a place for you to let the court know information such as Social Security numbers or financial account numbers without them being a matter of public record.
The Verified Petition for Dissolution of Marriage is the form where you ask the court to grant you a divorce, and also to make any necessary temporary arrangements until the divorce is finalized.
The Summons tells your spouse that you've filed for divorce and that he should file an appearance if he wants to participate in the case.
The Notice of Provisional Hearing will notify your spouse and any other parties of the date, time, and location of the provisional hearing in your case.
The Temporary Order will be signed by the judge and will list temporary arrangements for matters such as child custody and housing until the divorce is finalized.
The Motion for Final Hearing asks the court to set a hearing to end your marriage and finalize your parenting arrangements and property division.
The Notice of Final Hearing alerts your spouse and any other parties of the date, time, and location the final hearing in your case.
The Decree of Dissolution of Marriage is the judge's final order in your case dissolving your marriage and outlining the division of property, child custody and visitation, and child support., You must complete the Child Support Obligation Worksheet and take it with you to your provisional hearing.To fill out the worksheet, you'll need to use Indiana's child support calculator at http://mycourts.in.gov/csc/parents/. The calculator is based on the Indiana Child Support Guidelines, which you should read thoroughly.The child support obligation worksheet is the only one that's required. However, you also will need to fill out the other worksheets, such as the parenting time credit worksheet, if they are applicable to your situation., After you've completed your forms, you'll need the originals and at least two copies – one for you and one for your spouse. Check your local rules to see if your court requires any more copies., Since you're opening the case, you'll sign each of the forms you've filled out in the blank for "petitioner.", To start your case, you'll need to take the originals plus all copies of your appearance, confidential form, verified petition, summons, and notice of provisional hearing to the clerk's office.

You'll have to pay a filing fee between $132 to $152 depending on the county where you live.If you can't afford the fee, you can fill out and file a form with the court to apply for a fee waiver.
Once you've paid, the clerk will give you a case number and process your forms by stamping them with the filing date., You must send your spouse, or his attorney if he has one, a copy of your file-stamped forms. If your spouse has an attorney, it would probably be in your best interest to hire your own, especially considering there are contested issues in your case.

You can complete service by hiring someone from a private process serving company or by contacting the Sheriff's office, but typically you would send them using certified mail.Different counties have different preferred methods of service, so ask the clerk what would be the best way for you to do this.
 The court will mail you and your spouse a notice with the date, time, and location of your provisional hearing., You and your spouse have an opportunity to present evidence and testimony in favor of the temporary arrangements you want the judge to order while the divorce case is ongoing. These temporary arrangements will be legally binding until the divorce is finalized.

Bring originals and copies of your temporary order and your child support obligation worksheet. You also should have originals and copies of your parenting time credit worksheet, your health insurance premium worksheet, or your post-secondary education worksheet, if any of those are applicable to your case.Keep in mind that the amount of money the worksheet produces isn't necessarily the specific amount you or your spouse will be obligated to pay. The worksheet is based on the information you entered, but the judge has discretion to raise or lower that amount in the best interests of the child, depending on other factors or circumstances., You have to wait 60 days after your initial filing, but then you can return to the clerk's office and file your motion for final hearing and notice of final hearing. The clerk will file-stamp your originals and copies., Just as you did with your initial filing, you must serve your spouse with copies of your motion for final hearing., When the court places your case on the docket, you and your spouse will receive a notice of the date, time, and location of your final hearing., Take all of your documents and any evidence you want to present as well as your decree of dissolution, your child support obligation worksheets, and any other child support forms you had to fill out.

Arrive early and dress in clean, conservative attire. Turn off your cell phone or other electronic devices and treat all court staff politely and with respect.
As the petitioner, you will get to speak first. Answer any questions the judge asks you, but don't interrupt her or talk over her. Keep your statements brief and try to stick to the facts. Address the judge rather than speaking to your spouse.After you speak, your spouse will have an opportunity to present his side of the issue. Don't interrupt him, talk over him, or attempt to argue with him. If he mentions anything that the judge wants you to clarify, she will ask you to do so.
 Sometimes the judge will make her decision on the spot, but you may have to wait for your final decree to come in the mail. The judge may simply sign the decree you drafted and brought with you, but she also may decide to write her own., The court will mail final decrees to you and your spouse within a few weeks of your final hearing. If several weeks have passed and you still haven't received your decree, call the clerk's office and ask for a copy.