 Running water will not only clean the wound, but help to stop the bleeding. Run cold water over the cut to constrict the blood vessels and stop the bleeding. Doing the same with hot water will cauterize the cut, allowing the blood to clot. Don’t use both hot and cold water - just one or the other should do the trick.


You can use an ice cube instead of cold water to close off the arteries. Hold the ice to the cut for a few seconds until the wound closes up and stops bleeding.
If you have multiple small cuts on your body, taking a hot shower will clean off all the blood and cauterize the multiple gashes concurrently.;
, As a result of the waxy texture of vaseline, applying a small smear of it to minor cuts will block off the blood flow outside of the skin and give the wound time to clot. You can use regular chapstick if you don’t have any plain vaseline on hand.
 The astringent properties of vinegar help to disinfect and clot small cuts. Dab a bit of white vinegar onto the cut with a cotton ball, and wait for the bleeding to stop.
 Similar to white vinegar, witch hazel acts as a natural astringent great for clotting small cuts. Pour a little over your cut or dab it on with a cotton ball for the same effect.
 Sprinkle a bit of cornstarch onto the cut, being careful not to rub it or cause any further abrasions. You can lightly press the powder onto the cut to help expedite the process. When the cut has stopped bleeding, use running water to rinse the cornstarch off.
 Follow Mary Poppins’s advice at pour a little sugar over the cut. The antiseptic qualities of the sugar will help to clean it, while simultaneously aiding the blood clotting process.
 This is a great option if you are cut while hiking or outdoors. Grab some (spider-free!) spiderwebs and place them over the cut, rolling them up if necessary. The webs will stanch the blood flow and give your cut time to clot internally., These waxy pencils were originally made for shaving nicks and razor burn but work great for any small cut. Rub the pencil over your skin and let the mineral astringents it contains go to work. It will sting a bit on contact, but after a few seconds both the pain and bleeding will go away.
 Similar to a styptic pencil, your deodorant has aluminum chloride which works as an astringent to stop the blood flow. Put some on your finger before smearing it over the cut, or rub the stick directly onto your nick.
 Originally created as an aftershave, use regular Listerine to help stop blood flow. Pour some directly over the cut or dip a cotton ball into the Listerine and dab it on. You should notice a decrease in blood flow after a minute or two.
 Cayenne pepper will help to seal up your wound fast and stop bleeding. However, this is one of the more painful methods. If you’re in a hurry to stop your bleeding and don’t mind a little stinging, sprinkle some cayenne pepper over your cut and let it work its magic. When the bleeding stops, rinse it off with a bit of cold water., This is a soap-like bar created from minerals which help to stop bleeding. Wet the alum block in water and gently rub it over the cut. There is no need to apply pressure as you place the block over your gash; the minerals will do the work themselves., You know when you crack an egg, the filmy membrane left on the inside of the shell? Well this actually works to seal off cuts and give your body time to clot. Peel the membrane from an egg (try to keep it in as large a piece as possible) and place it over your cut. Within a few seconds you should notice a stoppage in the blood flow.
 Apply a sterile bandage or dressing to the wound to help keep out any dirt and stop further bleeding. You can use a simple band-aid or a piece of clean gauze.

