 Being mindful means being aware of what’s going on around you, as well as inside of you. It means paying attention to your thoughts, feelings, and body and is a great way to recognize and process your emotions. It’s also a good way to manage your depression because it can help you recognize and avoid negative thoughts and feelings before they become a full-blown depressive episode.Take a few minutes, several times a day, to check in with yourself. Ask yourself, “Am I fully present in the moment? How am I feeling right now?”
Pay attention to signs your body is giving you about your emotions. For example, notice if you feel tense or fatigued.
Allow yourself to feel whatever emotions arise. Don’t fight them, instead experience and process them.
 Sometimes depression can skew your perspective on things and make you feel more negative emotions than are appropriate for the situation. It can be a good idea to take a step back and look at things from a fresh, objective perspective. Doing this can help you recognize how you truly feel and process those emotions without the filter of depression.


For example, you might ask yourself, “If a friend told me that they felt this way, would I think their emotions were rational and appropriate?”
Or, for instance, you might ask yourself, “Am I feeling these emotions because of the situation or because of my depression?”

, One way to get a handle on your emotions is to practice deep-breathing. This stress-management technique is good to use during stressful and emotional situations. It’s also useful to practice on a regular basis because it can relieve physical tension, slow your heart rate, and calm you in general.


Every day, take a few minutes to practice different deep-breathing techniques. For example, you might practice breathing and counting one day and mindful breathing another day.
When you need to process your feelings, try slowly inhaling through your nose. Then hold it and slowly release the breath from your mouth.
 Taking a moment away from a situation can give you the physical and mental space you need to process your emotions. This can be particularly helpful when you have depression and may be prone to automatically interpret situations negatively. A brief break gives you the chance to calm yourself and work through what you may be feeling.If you can, take a brief walk outside or to the bathroom to clear your head. Do some deep-breathing and try to be mindful of your emotions. You might think to yourself, “How am I feeling about this?”
If you can’t physically leave the situation, try to close your eyes for a few moments and take a few deep breaths. Do a mental inventory of your feelings about what’s going on.
 You might not feel like being active, but physical activity can help you manage your depression symptoms. Being active increases oxygen to your brain and releases chemicals in your body that naturally boost your mood, which can help you manage your depression and process your emotions. Being active can clear your mind, help you focus, boost your energy, and relieve tension and stress.Try a solitary activity like hiking, jogging, weight training, swimming, or cycling if you need some time alone to work through your feelings.
Also consider partner and team activities like basketball, tennis, martial arts, or rugby to add a more social element.
 Writing about your feelings is a great way to process them. It gives you a chance to examine the situation fully and help you determine whether your feelings are because of depression or the situation. In other words, is depression coloring your outlook, or do you truly feel a certain way because of something that’s happened? It’s also a good way to document your emotions in case you need to share what you’ve been feeling with your therapist or someone else you trust.


Use your journal as a safe place to explore how you feel and why you think you feel that way.
You can also write about how you think your depression might be influencing your emotions.
You can use your journal as a place to keep a list or notes about strategies that help you process your emotions successfully.

