 Electrocyclic reactions are a class of organic reactions that are important from the theoretical point of view to the computational chemist. They are also important from the practical point of view to the practitioner organic chemist. In order to understand how electrocyclic reactions occur and proceed, one needs solid information in the area of molecular orbitals theory of organic systems in particular.;
, This area of organic chemistry was investigated theoretically by two American chemists one previously at Harvard called Woodward (deceased) and the other an emeritus professor at Cornell University. These two scientists investigated many electrocyclic organic reactions from the theoretical point of view and came up with a collection of chemical observations that are called the Woodward and Hoffman rules of electrocyclic reactions. These formulated laws are basic and fundamental to the understanding of this type of reactions.
The impetus for discovering these electrocyclic reactions stemmed from the fact that the chemist at Harvard was doing certain synthetic work in the organic laboratory and was unable to rationalize the products that he obtained in his flask. This led him to collaborate with the other scientist from Cornell to investigate the possible pathways of these interesting reactions. Roald Hoffmann is a distinguished professor of theoretical chemistry that has sound mathematical background. This background helped him to exceed other scientists in this area of chemistry due to their poor mathematical skills. He also won the Nobel prize along with Woodward for his contributions to the understanding of the chemistry of the electrocyclic reactions and for his formulation of its laws that are called the Woodward and Hoffman rules of electrocyclic reactions.
 Electrocyclic reactions are versatile type of organic chemical reactions that share in common The presence of unsaturated conjugated organic compounds that can undergo reactions in several ways. An example of such an electrocyclic reaction which has been extensively studied is the Diels-Alder reaction which is a very powerful synthetic method in chemistry for the generation of two carbon bonds at the same time. In the chemical literature there are hundreds of research articles on this reaction and its variations. Most explanations to the manner in which this reaction occurs are based on theoretical work from the molecular orbitals theory area of chemistry and in particular the electrocyclic reactions theory predicts very confidently the fate of this type of reactions chemically.
 The sigmatropic shifts of hydrogen atom and of organic functional groups occur in an organic conjugated system of double bonds. Hydrogen atoms were observed experimentally to shift from one carbon to another under thermal effects or under the effect of UV light. These shifts are well understood and rationalized based on the molecular orbitals theory that include a description of the shape of the p orbitals along the conjugated system with its symmetry. Symmetry of the frontier orbitals on the reacting compound in this respect is fundamental to the understanding of how the reaction will take place and to predict the behavior of the reactant molecules.


Sigmatropic shifts are governed by the HOMO orbital symmetry of the conjugated system. The effect of light is completely different than the thermal effect on the fate of the electrocyclic reaction. In a light induced reaction electrons are promoted from the HOMO to the LUMO. This process changes the roles of the frontier orbitals making the previous LUMO now HOMO. This in turn changes the symmetry of the orbital that is involved in the reaction.
 Conjugated double bonds can undergo electrocyclic reactions of ring closure or ring opening. These reactions can occur under thermal conditions or under photochemical effect. In both of these cases the ring closure or opening can be of two basic processes. These are conrotatory and disrotatory ring closure. Conrotatory ring closure refers to bending of the p orbitals that are located on the terminal carbons on the HOMO orbital in the same direction to form new sigma bond between these two carbon atoms. As a result the conjugated pi orbitals framework is changed.
 This diagram explains the building of molecular orbitals. It is a good description of the reaction pathway qualitatively that help to understand the manner in which the reaction occurs. These correlation diagrams are based on connecting molecular orbitals in the diagram that have the same matching in energy and in symmetry. There are many books about this subject in general and about the use of correlation diagrams to understand how electrocyclic reactions proceed.
 They have nonplanar transition states that is very dependent energetically on the symmetry matching of the overlapping orbitals.
 Electrocyclic reactions can be investigated kinetically by the method of labeling using isotopes of hydrogen. These reactions have been investigated for particular systems and the rules are based on these results. Extension to other systems needs investigation for each of the particular system that needs to be done since chemistry in general and organic chemistry in particular is a non-rigorous science that is based on experimental data from previous research that was done on similar systems. Other effects can alter completely the predicted manner of reactivity of a given compound such as the solvent effect and the substituent effect.

