 A common home remedy for removing skin tags is to cover the skin tag in a coat of clear nail polish, as this is believed to dry out the skin tag, causing it to fall off.


Simply cover the skin tag in a coat of clear polish and allow to dry. Repeat this process 2 to 3 times a day until it shrinks and falls off.You can speed the process up slightly by wiggling the tag every day.
 Apple cider vinegar is reputed to be a very effective remedy for skin tags. Dip a cotton ball or q-tip in the vinegar and apply it to the skin tag. It may sting a little.


Repeat this process once or twice a day until the skin tag turns dark and falls off. This could take anywhere from two to four weeks.Be careful not to get vinegar on the surrounding skin, as it may burn.
 Tea tree oil has been used to successfully treat many different skin conditions, skin tags among them. To use, soak a cotton ball in water then add a couple of drops of therapeutic grade tea tree essential oil.


Dab the skin tag with the tea-tree infused cotton ball.
Repeat once or twice a day until the skin tag dries up and falls off.
 There are many over-the-counter creams on the market which claim to get rid of skin tags. Some people find them very effective, while others do not. Follow instructions on the label for how to use.


Particular brands which are said to work well include Tag Away, Skinhale and Dermatend.
 The citric acid in lemon juice can lighten and dry out the skin, and has been cited as an effective remedy for skin tags. Simply squeeze a little fresh lemon juice into a container, dip a q-tip into it and dab onto the skin tag.


Alternatively, you can cut a slice of lemon and rub it directly onto the skin tag.
Keep applying the lemon juice every day, taking care to avoid the surrounding skin, until the skin tag dries out and falls out.
 Applying vitamin E oil in combination with a band-aid is said to help in the removal of skin tags. The band-aid limits blood flow to the skin tag, while the vitamin E oil speeds up the healing.


To use, break open a vitamin E capsule and rub the contents onto the skin take. Cover tightly with a band-aid.
Leave on for a day or two, then remove the band-aid, clean the area and repeat. Keep repeating until the skin tag falls off.
 Duct tape is often used in mole removal, and the same method can be used in the removal of skin tags. Stick a patch of duct tape over the skin tag and leave it in place until it begins to loosen.Pull off the tape and check to see whether the skin tag has come away with it.
If it hasn't, repeat the process until the skin tag comes off.

