 Before you begin let me tell you this will take some time to do, if you transform yourself it will change how you feel and maybe it will change what other people think. You will hopefully have more confidence in your self since you will be wearing new clothes and have a new well-suited haircut. You will have to work to obtain this by buying latest fashions, styling your hair and applying your make-up to look natural.;
, You will need this to help you with your choices throughout the re-vamp!

, To clear out clothes you should start with throwing out what is ripped and what is too small. Once you have done that you should now be able to clear out what you don't like. Then with shoes try all on and clear out what you need too following the rules above. With accessories throw out the broken and dispose of them, with make-up throw out the empty, the messy and the ones that don't compliment your skin tone. Once you have everything you are going to clear out decide what you can sell, fix or give away to a friend or charity.
 Think about what friend would be best to go with, one that isn't too nice to say no to a bad outfit, one that won't get bored, one that will stay with you and do her own shopping as well, one that will make the shopping trip fun and one who can crack a laugh and isn't picky where she eats and shops. Ask the friend who you decide along to a huge shopping trip to make the re-vamp more fun.
 Do a checklist and tick off what you have at home already before you go shopping. You will need a foundation (the shade should match your skin tone as much as possible), blusher, a pink for pale skin or a plum for darker, lipstick (a red for pale porcelain type complexions if you want to look doll-like which is a good look with floral or for tanned for an easy going look, a plum for darker skin or a pale pink for girly girl looks such as vintage or glamour) eyeliner (go for black or you could be adventurous and go for blue, brown, purple or pink), mascara(go for black, brown or clear for work/school/parties or for a very party look go for blue, purple or pink), concealer(again one shade lighter than skin tone), eyebrow pencil(in same colour as brow), lip liner(same colour as lipstick), lipgloss(shiny clear is always good) and any sparkly stuff (use sparingly!) for nights out. If you shop in a department store for make-up ask the people at the desk for advice and it is probably a good idea to get better quality too.
 10 t-shirts both long sleeved and short, 6 jeans, 4 shorts, 4 dresses, 5 jumpers/cardigans, 3 pairs of pyjamas, underwear, ankle socks, ballet flats, sandals, leather boots, suede boots and a cute pair of slippers.
 Buy blouses for work and cute flowing skirts. Pencil skirts are also a good option for more formal work environments. Buy a few more sandals and a couple pairs of heels, buy things that catch your eye or makes you look amazing.
 If you wear the same outfit over and over it will look different with a new necklace, bangle, shoes, belts, bags, purses and hairbands.
 Choose a little black dress or a lovely dress that will be timeless so you don't always need to re-vamp your wardrobe to update the fashion.
 Get manicures, makeovers, facials, pedicures, massages and a haircut.
 At the end of the day you will want nothing more than a box of chocolates and a long movie wrapped in a blanket in your pajamas.

