 Return on assets, also called return on investment, is calculated by dividing a company's net income by its total assets. Formally, the equation is ROA=Net IncomeTotal Assets{\displaystyle {\text{ROA}}={\frac {\text{Net Income}}{\text{Total Assets}}}}. In order to calculate ROA, you will first need to calculate each part of the formula., Net income, known colloquially as profits or earnings, represents the company's "bottom line." That is, it is what's left after subtracting all expenses from sales. These expenses include the cost of goods sold, operating expenses, interest, taxes, and depreciation, among others. A company's net income should be listed near the bottom of their income statement for a given quarter or year.Some analysts use a slightly different figure than net income when calculating ROA. For example, you might add interest expenses back in if you want to just look at operating profit.Financial statements for publicly-traded companies, including their income statements, can be found using the SEC's Edgar system. This system can be used for free online., Total assets represents the total value of the company's assets, including everything from cash and accounts receivable to land and investments in securities. Total assets is found on a company's balance sheet.

You can also use average total assets in place the listed total assets. This might yield a more accurate ROA, especially if the company is undergoing rapid expansion. 

Calculate average total assets by finding the total assets for the beginning and end of the period in question and averaging the two., Fill in the formula for return on assets with the data on total assets and net income for the company in question. Then, simply divide to get your answer. The result should be represented as a percentage and can be understood as the percentage of total asset value realized as profit for the period in question.For example, if a company generate $10 million in net income over a year and their total assets are $50 million, you would solve for ROA with the equation ROA=$10,000,000$50,000,000{\displaystyle {\text{ROA}}={\frac {\$10,000,000}{\$50,000,000}}}. 

This would give you a result of ROA=0.200{\displaystyle {\text{ROA}}=0.200}, or 20 percent. 


, At base, ROA tells you how efficiently a company is using its investments to generate profit. A relatively low ROA can mean that a company is holding on to unproductive assets or that management is not using the company's assets to their maximum potential. Conversely, a high ROA, and particularly an increasing ROA, can demonstrate that a company's management excels at effectively deploying their resources to generate profit. Therefore, ROA can be seen as a way to judge the competence of a company's management., Work to understand why your return on assets is at its current level. This can include researching past business efforts or expansions, looking at mergers or other corporate developments, and considering how management has attempted to make the company more profitable over time. If the ROA is particularly low, look at profits to note a decline over time or to assets to see any recent, large investments that may not be performing as planned., Plot the company's ROA over time in an easy to understand way, such as on a line graph. This will allow you to spot an overall trend, such as an increase or decrease over time. An increase over time means that the profitability of the company is improving, whereas a decrease means that profitability is declining.Conversely, an increase in ROA over time may mean that the company has not recently invested in new production equipment, and will soon lag behind their competitors., ROAs can also be compared between companies to figure out how well a given company manages its assets relative to others. However, differences in operations, expenses, and structure can mean large ROA differences between companies in different industries. So when comparing ROAs, use only ROAs for competitors within the same industry.

For example, a construction company and a computer software company would have different ROAs due to the nature and costs of the assets used in production of their respective products. 

However, two construction companies' ROAs would be directly comparable.You can also research industry-average ROAs for the industry in question to see where the company stand overall. 

For example, the industry average for auto manufacturers hovers around 1 percent, whereas the figure for software companies is about 13 percent., ROA, like any financial ratio, can be manipulated with clever accounting. For example, a company can use an accelerated depreciation method to reduce the book value of their assets and boost their ROA. In addition, management can outsource production or any other key operation to reduce their total assets. Finally, certain expenses can be delayed or ignored to artificially boost net income., While it may not be simple to just increase profits, there are a number of strategies that can be employed to increase net income. However, these methods are not without risk, and may backfire on a company if not implemented properly. For example, you can easily increase income by just raising the price of your product or service. However, you might lost some customers who are unwilling to pay your increased price.

You can also try increasing production. However, the demand may not be there to meet your increased output, resulting in unsold inventory. 

On the other side, you can reduce expenses and therefore increase net income by sourcing cheaper production materials. Just make sure that the quality of your product still holds up with the cheaper materials. 

Finally, you can reduce expenses by moving to a cheaper area, firing employees, or downsizing. , Inventory is included in total assets. Excess inventory in particular can over-inflate a company's total asset value. To keep total assets as low as possible, work to eliminate excess inventory by matching production as closely to demand as possible. This can also be achieved through more efficient inventory management and tracking techniques or systems., Many companies hold assets that are not actively or efficiently contributing to their business operations. Look through the company's assets to see if there are any unnecessary holdings inflating the company's total assets. For example, there may be unused production equipment or vehicle sitting around. These can be sold to reduce total assets.

In addition, some assets can be leased or rented, rather than purchased, to reduce total assets., Using measurements like the return on assets, you can start to determine how you might change current practices to give your enterprise the best chance of future profits. Create a plan using the information in this part to increase net income and decrease total assets. Then, actively work to meet goals on the plan and increase your ROA over time.
