 People with anorexia have an antagonistic relationship with food. One of the driving forces behind anorexia is an intense fear of gaining weight, and anorexics severely restrict their food intake -- i.e., starve themselves -- in order to avoid gaining weight. However, simply not eating is not the only sign of anorexia. Other potential warning signs include:Refusal to eat certain foods or whole categories of foods (e.g., “no carbs,” “no sugars”)
Food-related rituals, such as excessive chewing, pushing food around on the plate, cutting it into smaller and smaller pieces
Obsession with measuring food, such as constantly counting calories, weighing food, double- or triple-checking nutrition labels
Refusal to eat out because it’s hard to measure calories;
, Even though they eat little, people with anorexia are often obsessed with food. They may obsessively read many magazines about cooking, collect recipes, or watch cooking programs. They may talk frequently about food, although these conversations are often negative (e.g., “I can’t believe anyone eats pizza when it’s so bad for you).Obsession with food is a common side-effect of starvation. A landmark starvation study performed during WWII demonstrated that people who are starving fantasize about food. They will spend inordinate amounts of time thinking about it. They will often talk about it with others and to themselves., For example, if invited to a party where there will be food, they may say they ate before they arrived. Other reasons commonly given to avoid food include:


"I’m just not hungry"
"I’m on a diet/need to lose weight"
"I don’t like any of the food available"
"I’m sick "
"I have 'food sensitivities'" (A person who truly has food sensitivities will eat enough as long as they are given food that works with their sensitivities.)

, If the person seems very thin but still talks about needing to lose weight, they may have a disturbed view of their own body. One hallmark of anorexia is “distorted body image,” where the person continues to believe they are much heavier than they actually are. People with anorexia will often deny suggestions that they are underweight, even if they have many visible bones.People with anorexia may also wear large or baggy clothes to hide their true size. They may dress in layers, or wear pants and jackets even in the hottest weather. Part of this is to hide body size, and part of it is because people with anorexia often cannot regulate their body temperature effectively and are thus frequently cold.
Don't rule out overweight or obese people automatically. It is possible to be anorexic at a large size. Anorexia, restricted eating, and fast weight loss are very dangerous regardless of the person's BMI, and you shouldn't wait until they become underweight before getting them help., People with anorexia may compensate for food they eat by exercising. Exercise is excessive and usually very rigid.A person with anorexia may dangerously over-exercise, going for too long or pushing their body too hard.


For example, the person may exercise for many hours each week, even if they are not training for a particular sport or event. People with anorexia may also exercise even when they are fatigued, ill, or injured, because they feel compelled to “burn off” the food they have eaten.
Exercise is a particularly common compensating behavior for males with anorexia. The person may believe he is overweight, or may be unhappy with his body composition. He may be preoccupied with body-building or “toning.” Distorted body image is common with males, too, who will often be unable to recognize how their body actually appears and will see themselves as “flabby” even if they are fit or underweight.People with anorexia who cannot exercise, or who have not exercised as much as they want to, will often appear fidgety, restless, or irritated.
 As it progresses, anorexia causes a host of physical symptoms. However, you cannot tell if a person has anorexia just from their appearance.A combination of these symptoms with disordered behaviors is the best sign that the person is suffering from an eating disorder. Not every person has all of these symptoms, but people with anorexia will usually display several of the following:Dramatic, rapid weight loss
Unusual facial or body hair in females
Increased sensitivity to cold
Hair thinning or loss
Dry, pale, yellowish skin
Fatigue, dizziness, or fainting
Brittle nails and hair
Bluish fingers

