 Determine the church's denomination and make sure that it matches with your religion. Check on the church's website or inquire with a staff member or pastor about any possible affiliations with outside organizations.Find a church that supports the same causes that you are passionate about.


For example, your church may be affiliated with youth organizations like Boy Scouts of America.If the church is affiliated with an organization that you oppose, consider choosing another church.
Churches that are affiliated with nonprofits that concentrate on doing acts of good may be a good choice.
 Some churches are small with only a few dozen members while others are large and have thousands of followers. Decide what kind of environment you want to worship in. While larger churches will have the capital for new infrastructure and amenities, smaller churches can provide a more personalized experience. Decide on which environment you like better and try to find a church that reflects that.


You may become closer to your pastor, priest, or minister at a smaller church because they will have time to speak with you individually., The doctrinal statement is the closely held beliefs of the church you're looking to join. Before making the decision, go to their website or give them a visit to see their doctrinal statement.Make sure that it matches with your closely held beliefs, so there are no conflicts once you join.


The doctrinal statement usually includes views on Scripture, God, the son, Mary, figures of authority, and the church., Amenities include things that you may need such as sufficient parking, wheelchair ramps, handicapped-accessible restrooms, or a sign-language interpreter. You must make sure that you have the ability to worship even if you or a loved one has a physical disability so choose a church that has access for you and your family members.
 Keeping a physical checklist will allow you to evaluate all the churches around you fairly. As you go around and visit different churches and watch different sermons, take note of things that you like and dislike so that you can make an informed decision. While you're unlikely to find a church that meets all your criteria perfectly, you can choose one that matches your needs the closest.


Things on your checklist could include: traditional worship, a powerful sermon, confession, singing the traditional hymns, or casual and open worship.
The things on your checklist will differ depending on your personality.
 A good way to get an understanding of the way that a specific church will worship is by visiting during a service. There, you'll be able to examine things like the church's traditions, the ministry, the sermon, and the congregation so you can get a better idea of whether the church is right for you. Get a list of churches in your area and visit each of them during service.


Pay attention to the preaching style during the sermon, as this is a usually big deciding factor for many people when choosing one.Take notice of the service and whether you feel engaged and inspired.
 Some churches are nontraditional, and the pastor or preacher will dress down, use technology, or use non-traditional instruments like the guitar during praise choruses.Other churches will stick to the denomination's traditions like a confession, communion, and instruction. Decide if you want a traditional church that will require you to dress up or a more casual church experience.


Some churches require you to wear a suit and tie or a dress during service, while others are more relaxed and allow you to wear casual clothes., Music remains an important aspect of the church. While the Catholic and Orthodox churches have more traditional worship styles and sing the traditional hymns, other churches prefer to take on a more contemporary music style, even incorporating styles like reggae and hip-hop.Many Baptist churches sing gospel music, which combines the sounds of jazz and blues with Christian hymns.Other examples of music include Christian rock, European cantatas, and African choruses., Take a look at your checklist and compare each of the churches that you were able to visit. Try to remember things that you liked and disliked about each service, and consider all of the things that you've researched. Think about the church's worship style, what is expected of you, and the type of clothing that you'll have to wear.


Ask the ministry questions that you can't answer by looking at their website.

