 The single leg stand is done by standing with one arm placed on a table or any support you can find. Carefully shift the weight of your body to the injured foot and then hold it there for 15 seconds if you can. If you can’t, just stand on your injured ankle for as long as you can—it will get easier with time and practice.


As you progresses, try to stand on your injured foot for 45 seconds. Do two sets of this exercise with 10 to 15 repetitions, two or three times a day.
To make the leg stand as hard as possible, close your eyes while standing on a cushion.
 The standing calf raise is done by standing up straight and then lifting your uninjured foot partially off the floor. Your injured foot should have its heel lifted but your toes should remain on the floor, as if you were wearing high heels. Try not to hold on to anything while you do this to increase your stability.


Do two sets of 10 or 15 reps, two to three times a day.
 Sit in a chair and raise your injured ankle up so that it is out in front of you. Pretend that your big toe (or even your whole food) is a pen. Write the alphabet in the air, keeping in mind that your ankle will most likely feel pretty stiff in the beginning—it will get easier with time and practice.


Once you have written the alphabet, try to write the alphabet backwards.
 The windshield wiper is done by sitting on a chair with your foot flat on the floor facing straight. Move your injured foot carefully inward then outward. Your foot and ankle should reflect the way a windshield wiper moves back and forth across a window. Do two sets of 10 to 15 reps, 2 to 3 times a day.
 Eversion refers to turning or moving your foot outward, while inversion means turning your foot in towards your body. You can do the eversion and inversion exercise by standing next to a leg table or door jamb. When doing the eversion, you push against the table leg or door jam with your foot and ankle. To do the inversion, put your foot on the other side of the table leg or door jam and pull it towards you.Hold each push or pull for 2 to 3 seconds. Do two sets of 10 to 15 repetitions, two or three times a day.
 You can also do eversion and inversion exercises with an elastic band. The same principle is applied. You loop the elastic band on your foot while the other end is tied on a heavy object. When doing the eversion, turn your foot away from your body. When doing the inversion, turn your foot towards the center of your body.


Do two sets of 10 to 15 reps, two or three times day.
 If you have done this exercise and found it to be easy, make it harder by adding some more challenges. Stand on a folded up towel or cushion because both of these things create an unstable surface that you have to work hard to stand still on.


You can also make the single leg stand harder by closing your eyes. When you don’t have a point of reference to look at, you may find that it is harder to keep your balance.
You can also do this exercise as a sitting calf raise. Sit on a chair with your foot flat on the floor. Slowly lift your heel up while keeping your toes on the ground.

