 You will need to sit for this nationally standardized test for entrance into any graduate program. The current GRE has a verbal, math, and essay section. Most humanities departments, religion included, will be more interested in the verbal/writing scores.Get a practice test and take them to improve your score on the actual test.
The scoring scheme for this test changes from time to time.
Check your prospective program's guides for average accepted scores.
Scores older than ten years will usually not be accepted by your program.
Select the school(s) you are applying to for submission of your scores during the live test.;
, The humanities and/or social sciences can cover many subjects. Consider getting your earlier degrees in topics related to religion.Examine your prospective Master's program's degree offerings for a religion or philosophy department.
Contact the Master's program's professor(s) for recommendations of their program as a starting point for an academic career in theological studies. Otherwise, they may be able to direct you elsewhere.
Look into the similar fields of history, literature, and anthropology for programs and classes that will benefit your studies.
 If you're already in a master's program for theological studies, you might ask about staying at your school for the doctorate. You may be able to combine your master degree achievements into the doctorate.


Make sure you make any decisions on the "fast track" by your program's deadline.
Get an accurate list of the requirements of the doctorate program. Look for increased credit hours, dissertation requirements (the final written research composition you will produce), and course options.Even without a "fast track" option, you may stay in your current school for the Ph.D. However, this may require a fresh application.
 Most humanities doctoral programs in the United States, theology included, require a minimum of reading knowledge of one foreign language. If your thesis or dissertation involve international research--you will probably need to learn another language beyond that.


Check your prospective program's course lists for what languages are regularly offered.
Get a schedule of when the official knowledge reading exams or equivalent tests are given each semester.
Ask your prospective program about their rules for passage of the language credit. Find out if a class and/or exam are needed to pass the credit.
 The thesis is the major research writing project at the end of a master's degree. These projects, in the humanities, are primary source based works with you as interpreter of the evidence.


Select a topic that adds to or fills a gap in the existing field. Don't "reinvent the wheel," and write about what's already been done. Find something new or find a different angle within a well known topic.
Save your research. The books (secondary sources), manuscripts, interviews, and archives you visit may help you again in your doctoral work.
 Peruse your prospective schools' departments to see if they have a theology department or similar--religion or philosophy.Read the faculty lists of the programs you are most interested in and narrow them down to the professors that cover the subfields of theology you want to study. , They will be directing your program of study and dissertation.


Introduce yourself and your ideas for the theological project you would like to work on with this faculty member.
Discuss the work you've already done--especially your master's program work. Engage the faculty member on theological ideas and see if you can form a good professional bond.
 Physically going to your top program choices may help make your decision about where to spend the next few years it may take to get your degree.Schedule time to meet with the professor(s) you may work with. See if you can at least with your potential major advisor to go over likely dissertation subjects, courses, and program expectations.
Visit the department you would study with. Find out what work the other religion, philosophy, and theology professors and grad students are doing.
Ask about religious organizations that work with the department or university that could contribute to your topic. Get their contact information., Universities vary on requirements, but beyond personal information, you will need letters of recommendation that include some from your master's program faculty--especially your thesis advisor.Submit transcripts from your undergraduate and master's program. Make sure they arrived at your prospective doctoral school by it's application deadline.
Send writing samples. Most doctorate programs require a writing sample. This can sometimes be a research paper or a thesis chapter. You may also need to provide an additional original essay. Read your program's application requirements carefully.
 Consider applying to at least half a dozen schools, if not more. These departments can vary considerably in size and funding, how much competition you will be facing can be unpredictable.
 The names of the major field may differ by school, but some examples include: Ancient Religious History, Ethnography, Iconography, Ethics and Philosophy, and Philosophical Theology.


Most universities require a major field to be taken along with several minor fields to improve a graduate's academic credentials.
Pick a committee. These professors will lead your minor fields and consult for your comprehensive exams in addition to your major advisor. They may or may not also serve on your dissertation committee.
Meet with your department's academic advisor and your major professor frequently to make sure you're satisfying the required credits for your major and minor fields.
 In most doctorate of theology programs, a minimum of 2 years or 30 credit hours of full-time course work is required for the degree beyond the master's degree.


Pick classes that also help your dissertation along with the research and papers that you will complete for them.
 Graduate programs generally fund their students through assistantships--frequently grading or some other form of part-time assistance to professors and the department during the semester.


Instruct a class if you get the opportunity. This is both practice for real teaching positions, and a highlight for your job applications.
 Most colleges, universities and seminaries require students to pass a written and/or oral comprehensive exam to become a Ph.D. candidate. At this point, all coursework is complete and only the dissertation stands between you and the degree.


This test will cover the major/minor concentration fields.
Get questions and/or prepare with your committee members well ahead of time.
 Your status at this point sometimes is called "ABD" (all but dissertation).
 Meet often with your major advisor about your work. It is best if you can continue on a topic your master's thesis related to, but either way you will be doing a substantial amount of additional research and writing.Outline your ideas, theological problems, religious theories, sources, philosophical arguments, methodology, and working bibliography.
 Outline the dissertation chapter headings, subtopics, and working bibliography.
 There are numerous research and writing funding opportunities for humanities scholars and graduate students. Look into your program's and college's listings as well as any academic societies you may belong to.


Check your funding opportunities so they match the right stage of your work "pre-dissertation" while you're researching and others while you're in the writing phase near completion.
 This will be mostly primary source based work supported with secondary sources. Use the work for your master's degree if applicable.


Request archivists for help in locating more information on your subject. They can find items than you might not be finding in catalogs.
Present at conferences to get early feedback on research and writing you do. You can do this even if your writing is not in its final form. You can exchange research and theological concepts you had not considered.
 Keeping a steady writing schedule can be extremely difficult, especially as one is likely to have other life distractions.


Try to write just a little daily, maybe a couple of hours. Otherwise, set aside blocks of time you know you won't be disturbed on particular days of the week.
Share parts of what you write to your major advisor, academic mentors, and/or graduate students at a similar level of progress. For graduate students, this can be mutually motivating.
 Upon completion of the dissertation manuscript, each student meets with a dissertation committee--usually the major advisor, a specified number from your department, and one "out of area" faculty member. If the committee approves the dissertation and defense, the degree will be awarded.

