 Tripping causes many users to see patterns, new colors, and even objects and people appear out of everyday life, making the entire world a fascinating playground. The idea of seeing the world as if for the first time, astonished by the shifting things around you, is key to playing the psychedelic user.


Keep your eyes wide open, taking in as many sights as possible.
Curiosity is your guiding principle.
 There is rarely something funny happening, but a tripper will find the the humor. Usually, this sort of laughter just kind of bubbles up in trippers as the result of a cool sight, strange new texture, or completely random, untraceable thought.
 Psychedelics tend to be sensory overload, and touch is one of the most commonly enjoyed. Note, however, that trippers are rarely zoned into one sense at once. The thing you're stroking is likely changing color or visualizes as well, molding under your hand.


Again, the sense of wonder is key to selling the performance. You don't have to explain what you see -- just be entranced by it., People who trip are rarely selfish -- they're too out-there to be self-absorbed. Instead, they often "see" connections between everyone, and every living thing, that sober people don't. When they talk, trippers are often speaking on a "higher plane" that doesn't usually make sense for the people who aren't on the same ride:


A long rant about the beauty and connection between you and the earth would not be out of place.
Stopping halfway trough a thought, as if taken by an incredible and inexplicable new truth, can help if you're running out of philosophical thoughts to improvise.
 Want to really go for broke on your fake trip? Make it a bad one! You'll need to be convincingly freaked out, and you'll need a point of fixation -- either an object that has "transformed" into a demon or an imaginary space that you claim is "filled with horrible energy." Bad trips are characterized by:


Wide-eyed fear
Fixation on a real or imagined worry, stress, or terror
Sweating, nervously moving.
Nausea
Desire to be anywhere but here
Inability to move (paralyzed by fear)