 All Hogwarts students wear white, long sleeved button down shirts with a collar. Button up the shirt all the way, because you will wear it with a tie.
 You can wear either a long or a short black skirt, depending on your style. This element of the Hogwarts uniform is pretty simple.
 Wear this sweater over your white collared shirt. You can also wear a cardigan, if you don’t have a pullover.
 You can wear flats, loafers, or even black Converse sneakers. The color is the most important part here.
 Ravenclaw colors are bronze and dark blue, so wear a traditional tie that incorporates those colors in a striped pattern. You can also take a plain dark blue tie and draw gold stripes on it with glitter glue, gold fabric marker, or gold paint. Tie the tie in any knot, but make it look neat and clean., Wear a dark blue and bronze scarf. You can purchase one online easily; Harry Potter themed costumes are very popular. However, you can also knit the scarf yourself or sew it with dark blue and gold fabric., Luna Lovegood is known for this signature necklace, which features a butterbeer cork.


To make this necklace, you should find a cork; you can use one from a bottle of wine.
Find the material you want to use for the necklace. In the movie, Luna wears a double strand, blue-beaded necklace. If you want to make this type of necklace, put small blue beads on a wire necklace that is the length of two loose necklaces. However, you can also use ribbon.
Put the blue beads on half of the necklace.
Glue a big silver bead onto the top of the cork.
Thread the cork into the middle of the necklace.
Put blue beads onto the other half of the necklace. Attach necklace clasps, and wrap twice around your neck., Purchase a wand at a costume store. You could also use a forearm-sized branch from a tree. Choose a “wand” that you like and feels good in your hand.
 You can find a robe easily at a costume store or online, but you could also find one more inexpensively at a yard sale or a thrift store. Harry Potter robes are popular costumes!

