 While kidney infections can be dangerous and should be treated immediately with antibiotics, there is much that you can do to help the healing process. Drinking a lot of water can help flush out the bacteria that are causing the infection.Avoid coffee and alcohol. These beverages can irritate the bladder and also add to dehydration.
Drink cranberry juice. It has been shown to prevent kidney infections.;
, You can apply a heating pad to your side and back.This heat will reduce, but not eliminate, the pain.


It is not natural, but an OTC pain reliever and fever reducer, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol), will control your symptoms more effectively., Kidney infections can be very stressful on your body. You need to preserve your energy for recovery as much as possible


To get more energy for recovery, eat small, frequent meals. Make sure you are getting nutritious foods into your body.
 Let your physician know if you are not getting better. If your symptoms are getting worse, you should contact your doctor immediately.
 You should suspect you have a kidney infection if you have several of the symptoms. These include:


Fever
Back, side (flank), or groin pain
Abdominal pain
Frequent urination
Strong, persistent urge to urinate
Burning sensation or pain when urinating
Pus or blood in your urine (hematuria)
Urine that smells bad or is cloudy

, If you have the symptoms of a kidney infection you should see a physician as soon as possible. Kidney infections can damage the kidneys and the infection can spread throughout the body.


Kidney infections are very serious and should not be treated lightly. They often require hospitalization.
 A kidney infection is diagnosed by a doctor with a combination of symptomatology and urinalysis. This means that your doctor will ask you about all of your symptoms and then you will need to give a urine sample if the doctor suspects a kidney infection. Other tests, such as an ultrasound or X-rays, are occasionally also needed to get a definite diagnosis.
 Kidney infections are usually treated with the antibiotics, such as levofloxacin or ciprofloxacin. Other antibiotics may be needed if you don’t respond well to the ones given initially.

