 The first level is the EMT-Basic (EMT-B). This level is the easiest to attain. Next up is the EMT-Intermediate (EMT-I). At both EMT-B and EMT-I levels, you’ll earn a Certificate of Completion (CCL).Becoming an EMT-I requires becoming an EMT-B, then enrolling in additional coursework. Though it takes more training and time, EMT-Is have a higher earning potential than EMT-Bs.;
, The list is updated periodically to reflect upcoming courses. Look for a course near you and contact the appropriate institution about cost, course dates/times, and other specific questions you may have.
 Be studious during your EMT training course and attend every class. Read all the texts required. You will be taught important medical information that will not just help you to pass the EMT tests, but to help others who are hurt and possibly even save lives. Depending on the intensity of the course, it could last one to three months.Your course will provide you with the know-how to handle pediatric treatments, trauma (head, neck, chest, or spinal injuries), anatomy and physiology, legal and ethical issues concerning EMT work, lifting and moving patients, and related medical situations.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has published a useful guide describing what EMTs should know about a variety of situations. Use the guide to identify what you should know by the end of the course., Visit the application page and get started on your application.Choose the appropriate test level (EMT-B or EMT-I), and enter your personal information. Select a date, time, and location that work for you to take the test. Pay the exam fee of $70.The NREMT test is a Computer Adaptive Test (CAT). CATs use an algorithm to administer questions, so no two tests will be exactly alike. The questions will cover a broad variety of information that you should be familiar with from your training course. The test will last for at least 60 questions and no more than 70 questions.
When the computer determines with 95% confidence that you are competent, you will pass.
Answer each question as well as you can.
In addition to the computerized test, you’ll need to demonstrate your abilities in a practical examination. This will simulate a real EMT situation in order to evaluate how you respond to a medical crisis. These situations will draw broadly on your training and EMT education to determine whether you’re ready for certification.
Rent an NREMT study guide from your local library, or buy one at your local bookstore to help you study for the test.
 Click on the yellow “Register” button. Read the information, then click “Continue Registration” at the bottom of the page.
 This position encompasses EMTs advanced EMTs, EMT-I/99s, and paramedics.In the “Role Assignment” drop-down menu, select EMCT, then click “Next.” The “Role Assignment” box will expand, and you’ll be able to choose an organization you work for. If you do not work for an organization, type the words “Not employed” in the text box labeled “Filter Orgs by Name.” Click the “Not Employed” option in the organization chart when it comes up, then click “Next.”

, You must enter a first and last name. You may, if you wish, add a profile image, a suffix, and a middle initial if you wish. You could also add a profile image.


If you don’t enter a profile image or middle initial at this time, you can go back and add one later.
If you choose to add a profile image, choose a very professional-looking image, as the image will appear on your certificate card later. Make sure your head and shoulders are visible and you are balanced within the frame. The image should measure at least 150 x 150. Larger images will be resized down to 150 x 150, and smaller images will be rejected.
 After entering your name, you’ll need to add contact information to complete your application, including your home address and a phone number. You’ll also need to include unique identification information, including your date of birth and Social Security number., Your password must be 8-20 characters long and must contain at least one upper case letter, one lower case letter, one number, and one symbol (the character set accessible by holding the shift key and pressing a number).


Your first initial combined with your last name is usually a good user name. For instance, if your name is Michael Johnson, your user name might be “mr. johnson” or “m_johnson.”
Do not use a password that you’ve used on another online account. Good online security requires crafting unique passwords for each online account.
Have a piece of paper handy to write down your user name and password. Keep this paper in an easily accessible but secure location. Keep it in the top drawer of your desk, for instance, or in a notebook along with other information to help you log in to your email, blog, or other online services.
 A customer service representative from the Bureau of EMS & Trauma System will approve your account. During regular business hours, it shouldn’t take long to get your account up and running. If you’re applying after regular business hours, however, you’ll probably need to wait until the next business day before your account is approved.


Do not try to logon before receiving your confirmation email.
 To check the information of each tab, simply click on the tab. For instance, if you want to see if your address is correct, click the “Address” tab. If it needs to be updated, click on “Edit Address Details” at the bottom of the open tab.


The personal information you provided in your account will be automatically added to your EMT application.
, Upload your document to the application and click “Next.”


Acceptable forms of employment eligibility documentation include passports, a letter from a current employer, a Certificate of Citizenship (Form N-561), or a birth certificate.
Certain combinations of documents -- such as a census record with your name on it and proof of birth in a U.S. territory -- could also qualify as eligibility documentation.
Driver’s licenses and Social Security cards are not acceptable employment eligibility documents.
Check out http://www.azdhs.gov/documents/preparedness/emergency-medical-services-trauma-system/certification/PublicBenifitEligibilityRequirements.pdf for a full list of acceptable documents.
 You will also need to provide the test level and certification number of your NREMT test.


Use care to be accurate when entering information about your education and personal background. While you can revise most parts of your application even while it is under review, you cannot manually revise your criminal history and your regulatory disciplinary history once you’ve submitted them.
 Click on the “Messages” button on the left-hand panel to find information relating to your application’s status. Additionally, you will receive updates pertaining to your application status in your email.
 Look online and offline for a job in your area. Check your local newspaper for additional job openings. Alternately, you could inquire directly with major hospitals and fire departments in your area to see if they are looking for EMTs. Ambulance services also hire EMTs, but make sure you are assigned to a job that involves answering emergency calls, or you might end up just driving the ambulance from one place to another.Sites like Monster.com, Indeed, and LinkedIn are great for finding work as an EMT. The NREMT also maintains a database of available EMT jobs at http://emtjobs.nremt.org/.
If you’re having trouble finding work, start out as a volunteer EMT for a college or sports stadium.
 What did you learn? Talk about your strengths and accomplishments, and show the employer how your skill set can contribute to their institution


Be able to explain your own interest in becoming an EMT. What inspired you to pursue work as an EMT? You might say, for instance, “I want to be an EMT because I want to provide comfort and care for people who need it.”
Familiarize yourself with the employer you’re applying to. Be able to connect an employer’s specialization or reputation to your own capabilities.
 The recertification program is administered by the NREMT and is known as the National Continued Competency Program (NCCP). To apply for recertification, submit an application through your NREMT account online.


You must be actively employed as an EMT in order to apply for recertification.
The program consists of 40 hours of continuing education , including 20 hours of national requirements, 10 hours of local requirements, and 10 hours of individual (elective) requirements. The national and local requirements are decided by the NREMT and the ADHS, respectively. The elective requirements are decided by you, but must also be courses approved by the NREMT. 
Contact the ADHS for more information about recertification at 602-364-3189.