 Oil pulling is an ancient technique used to clean the mouth, but it is also reputed to strip stains away from the teeth. It involves swishing oil around your mouth for a few minutes daily.Use fresh coconut oil for best results, although sesame or sunflower oil can also be used.
Scoop 1/2 to 1 Tbsp (7.5 to 15 ml) of into your mouth. You might need to let solid oil melt for a few seconds (coconut oil, for example, is often solid at room temperature).
Swish the oil around your mouth, letting it coat your teeth and gums. Avoid letting it come into contact with your throat.
Do not swallow the oil. If you have trouble swishing around the oil without getting the urge to swallow, you're probably using too much. Spit it out and start over with less.
After five to 20 minutes, spit the oil into a trash can. Avoid spitting it into the sink, since the oil could clog the drain.
Rinse your mouth with clean water a couple of times or brush your teeth with your standard toothpaste. Repeat daily.
You can also try brushing while holding the oil into your mouth — keep your lips closed and, using a soft bristle toothbrush, try brushing the external surface of your teeth. This can help your teeth look shiny and polished.
 Activated charcoal powder has chemical properties that remove stains and whiten teeth. Mix it in with your toothpaste to harness these properties.


Sprinkle the powder onto your toothpaste before brushing, then brush normally.
You can buy activated charcoal at health stores or on the internet.
Activated charcoal powder is not the same as the charcoal you would use in the barbeque. Do not substitute activated charcoal with barbeque charcoal.
 Most whitening products contain both of these ingredients, so you can use them together to whiten your teeth. Making your own toothpaste with these products is easy.Pour some baking soda into a cup. Then add peroxide and stir until you get a thick, pasty mixture.
Dip your toothbrush into this mixture and use it to gently brush your teeth. Allow it to sit on your teeth for a minute or two, then rinse.
Brush with regular toothpaste after this, with a separate toothbrush.
Since both ingredients can be corrosive to tooth enamel if used too much, use this treatment only twice a week to protect your teeth.
Do not swallow this mixture.

