 These are two of the safest and most effective ingredients you can find in deodorants. Baking soda helps neutralize odor surprisingly well, while coconut oil kills fungi, yeast, and bacteria that contribute to unpleasant aromas. Coconut oil also naturally moisturizes.For an especially economical option, go with a Tom’s of Maine product, such as Beautiful Earth women’s deodorant, or Mountain Spring men’s deodorant.
Some other products you can find at a healthy cosmetics store or online include Bare Bones Body Deodorant Stick and Schmidt’s Deodorant Jar.
 Not do only do essential oils have powerful and appealing aromas, they have naturally antibacterial properties. Simply purchase an unscented deodorant and add a drop of any essential oil to avoid artificial aromatics.


A good example of an unscented or essential oil deodorant is the Nourish Organic Deodorant Sticks. There is an unscented version, and there are also options that are already scented with essential oils and extracts. Aromas include lavender, fig, and almond vanilla., While this article focuses on deodorants, it’s worth noting that many ingredients commonly found in other popular underarm products may give cause for concern. In any event, they are also often unnecessary.Antiperspirants work by blocking your body from sweating, which hampers your body’s ability to release harmful toxins. Stated most simply, it's healthy to sweat.
In short, products marked only as “deodorant” are almost always a better option than those marked with something like “antiperspirant and deodorant.”

, There are certainly occasions when you may wish to reduce the amount you normally sweat. In these scenarios, consider using a natural antiperspirant.Arrowroot powder and cornstarch, for instance, will help keep your pits dry and control odor. Meanwhile, they won’t clog the pores in your pits, so they still allow your body to get rid of toxins.
 If you shave your armpits, choose a deodorant that includes these ingredients to help diminish both post-shave discomfort as well as the little red bumps that sometimes follow a close shave., You may notice that you will actually sweat a bit more after you switch away from a synthetic product. This will occur precisely because your body is expelling toxins, including preservatives and artificial fragrances. After this purge concludes, you may find yourself sweating less than you used to, as the body has fewer toxins to get rid of.