 Step in the shower or tub and run your hair under warm water. Apply a small amount of lightweight volumizing shampoo directly to your scalp. Work the shampoo into a lather and then rinse it out with warm water. Coat the ends of your hair (from mid shaft to the tips) with a small amount of lightweight volumizing conditioner. Rinse out the conditioner with cold water.Warm water opens your pores and cleanse your scalp.
Cold water seals in moisture and increases your hair’s natural shine.The lightweight volumizing shampoo won’t weigh your fine locks down with added moisturizers.;
, After stepping into the tub or shower, rinse your hair with warm water. Apply a dollop of moisturizing shampoo directly to your scalp and work the product into a lather. Rinse your hair thoroughly with warm water. Apply a small amount of moisturizing conditioner to the ends of your hair (from the middle of the shaft to the tips). For added shine, rinse away the product with cold water.


Use a wide toothed comb to evenly spread the moisturizing conditioner through your hair.
The moisturizing shampoo and conditioner will hydrate your hair, preparing it for the straightening process., Natural hair is very dry and fragile. To prevent damage, take additional steps to add and seal-in moisture.


Rinse your hair with warm water.
Apply a cleansing shampoo directly to your scalp and work the product into a lather. Do not apply any shampoo to the ends of your hair. Rinse the product from your hair with warm water.
Apply a moisturizing conditioner to the ends of your hair (from the mid-shaft to the tips). Rinse out the conditioner with cold water.
Step out of the shower and squeeze or pat the excess water from your hair. Instead of a towel, use a cotton t-shirt or a microfiber cloth.
Apply a deep conditioning treatment to your hair, start with the ends and work your way to the roots. Apply a heat source to your hair for 30 minutes. Let your hair return to room temperature and then rinse out the product with cold water. Squeeze or blot the excess moisture from your hair with a cotton t-shirt or microfiber cloth.
Lock in the moisture with a light coat of leave-in-conditioner or oil. , After rinsing your hair with cold water, use your hands to gently squeeze the excess water from your locks. Step out of the shower and grab a cotton t-shirt or a microfiber cloth. Carefully pat your damp tresses with the shirt or cloth to remove as much moisture as possible.


Never towel dry your hair. The fibers will damage your hair cuticles, leading to frizz., Heated styling tools, like blow dryers and flat irons, damage hair, causing unwanted frizz and breakage. To minimize the damage, always apply a heat protectant to your damp hair.


For fine hair, apply a volumizing mousse with an added heat protectant.
For coarse or thick hair, apply a smoothing serum with an added heat protectant.
For natural hair, apply a silicone-based heat protecting serum., Begin by rough drying your hair. With the nozzle pointed down, run the dryer over your damp hair until it is about 80% dry. If you have damaged hair, you may wish to let your hair air dry. If you’re hair is relatively healthy or you are in a rush, finish drying your hair with the blow dryer and a round brush.


Blow drying your hair all of the way will produce sleeker tresses. It will also give your hair more volume., Pat your hair with a t-shirt or microfiber cloth to remove as much water as possible. If you have time to let your hair air dry, set your hair in rollers or braid it and allow it to dry overnight. If you have to blow dry your hair, use the lowest temperature setting and hold the dryer several inches away from your locks.


Consider using a diffuser on your blow dryer.
Make sure your hair is completely dry before using a flat iron., When you have to pass over a section of hair several times to straighten it, unnecessary damage occurs. To avoid this, set your flat iron to the correct temperature for your hair type and allow it to completely preheat before using it.


For natural hair, set you flat iron between 300℉ and 350℉.
For fine hair, set your straightener at 360℉ or below.
For medium or wavy hair, keep your straightening iron between 360℉ and 380℉.
For thick and coarse hair, set your flat iron between 380 and 410℉. , While your flat iron preheats, take a moment to separate your hair into manageable sections. Part your hair in half, from the top of your forehead to the base of your skull. Depending on the thickness of your hair, divide each half into 2 or more layers. Clip the layers to keep them separate., Unclip one of the lower layers of hair. Grab a ½ inch to 2 inch section of hair and place the flat iron ½ inch from the roots. Smoothly and swiftly pull the straightener down the length of the hair. If necessary, run the straightener down the section of hair again. Repeat this process on the lower layers of your hair., Unclip 1 of the 2 top layers of hair. Grab a ½ inch to 2 inch section of hair and pull the it away from your scalp. Place the straightener as close to the roots as possible. Quickly pull the flat iron outwards and down the length of the hair. If necessary, straighten this section of hair again. Repeat this process on the remaining hair in the top layers.., Complete your sleek look by coating your straight locks with a shine serum. In addition to adding a gorgeous sheen to your hair, shine serums control frizz and smooth strands. When applying this product, follow the instructions on the bottle.