 As with any major life change, you may have to renew your personal definition of meaningful, productive and happy to include your condition and genuine restrictions it imposes.;
, However, talk to your psychiatrist if the side effects are overwhelming. There are many medications and possible combinations. You may need to experiment for a long time to find the right combination.
 It carries many essential benefits (health insurance). Talk to HR (discretely) about your disability rights.
 Consult a lawyer who specializes in employment law.
 The definition of disability is NO WORK. Focus on medical treatment. For bipolar, rest and relaxation are likely to be a big part of this.
 All of us have artistic, creative or intellectual abilities. Use this opportunity to explore.
 This impresses your supervisors (too many volunteers don't take this seriously). From here you can obtain recommendations and apply for positions in the organization if they open up.
 You are not a list of symptoms. You are a whole person with interests and talents. Don't say, "I'm bipolar." Say, "I have bipolar disorder."

, We don't know why, but some people as they age, such as Ruth Deming, co-author of this piece, reach a full recovery from bipolar disorder and do not need medications. This is documented in the book "A Mood Apart"

, Medication and therapy are essential tools for mood management.
 It creates new neural pathways for new learning, older pathways are no longer so tightly wired. However, you never lose them. It is possible to recover "lost pathways". By engaging in pleasant activities and changing your outlook, you can permanently alter your depressive mood and keep it at bay by re-wiring your brain. It can take months but it will happen if you continue.
 Use the Internet, read books and ask questions to your family doctor, psychiatrist, therapist and fellow support group members. It enhances your ability to talk to your psychiatrist meaningfully. In turn your psychiatrist can develop more effective treatment approaches.
 It's great to talk to people and learn how they cope with their illness.
 If you have the website for other locations, please add it by clicking 'edit'.
 These include pleasurable activities (to manage depression), tracking daily activities and mood (to detect mania), exercises designed to enhance your ability to change your behavior. Goals such as "I'm going to set my kitchen timer for an hour and make phone calls looking for a job." can be used to control mania (restricting the desire to make phone calls until you collapse). Alternately that same goal is appropriate to treat depression, building momentum and reinforcing confidence.
 Have someone you trust recommend one if possible. Support groups can be a starting point. Also, if you like a particular university hospital, call that hospital and ask for a referral, or ask for a referral to that hospital from your family doctor.
 Most of the time, you can only see them while they conduct a clinical trial. They will not have time to see you after the research is completed. Ask them about aftercare.
 Most psychiatrists are too busy to train patients especially with complex conditions like this one. Therapists often conduct classes on skills for mood management, are knowledgeable about local resources, such as support groups, can give advice about additional therapies or approaches that you might try (nutrition, exercise).
 Give each group a try (4-6 sessions), them move on if you aren't getting anything out of them. You may need to get referrals from your psychologist to enter the group.
 Then try out the psychiatrist. Do you feel you trust this doctor? You can try another psychiatrist if the trust issue isn't working out. How do you feel about communication? Do they understand you when you describe how you feel? If it's communication, then most likely you need to learn some medical jargon to get the relationship going. You can't pop the right pills if the doctor doesn't know what's going on.
 A psychiatrist must be readily accessible to you. If you can't reach a psychiatrist in an emergency, you need to check in at a hospital or intensive care unit.
 Telephone appointments if you need an appointment fast? Voicemail for urgent but not emergency questions? Secure email for more routine questions? Some questions about medications can be answered by your pharmacist.
 Others you can't touch without your doctor's permission ever. Talk to your psychiatrist about how to manage this process.
 Doctors especially in HMO's don't have time to answer questions like valproic acid can take six months or even a year to take effect. You may have idiosyncratic side effects. These are so rare that it's all hit or miss. Ask everyone.
 List them under ICE (in case of emergency) in your smart phone.
 Visits are short. Come with a list of questions. Also bring your version of a "mood chart," which tells how you've been feeling between visits. These are available FREE online by entering the words Mood Chart.
 This includes: extreme behaviors you've engaged in, mood patterns, triggers, average length of time of mood stabilization. Have this info typed up beforehand so you won't waste time or forget important information.
 Don't depend on your psychiatrist to keep all the notes. In this folder, keep records of your lab tests, per below.
 Call your psychiatrist immediately if you feel your depression is worsening or you're getting manic. Most HMO's should have a psychiatrist on call 24/7. Get the number. Ideally, you'll learn, with your psychiatrist's help, how to medicate yourself should you or a loved one perceive the arrival of mania.
 If you are hallucinating or psychotic (it's very hard to self-diagnose this) don't drive. Get an ambulance.
 Keep track of when you need the tests done.
 Drink plenty of water, wear sunscreen with an SPF rating of 15 or more, as your skin is especially sensitive to the sun. Watch for lithium toxicity (dizziness, confusion, altered gait) and if you have symptoms go to the ER immediately.
 It will list the most common side effects. Some these medications have rare but lethal side effects. You will have a short window of time to get help. You need to know what to look for!

, If you are treatment resistant you have options such as the newer more precise electroshock treatments (ECT) as described by Kitty Dukakis in her book: "Shock: The Healing Power of ECT." Vagus nerve stimulation is also helpful.
, This approach is becoming more popular.
 Just be aware that many of these approaches have not been clinically tested for effectiveness on bipolar depression.

