 It is very important to realize when you have strayed from Allah's guidance. You should analyze what made you do it, how it is affecting you, and what kind of consequences it will cause around you. Have a clear mind, think openly and accept your mistakes. It isn't to make you feel bad about yourself; it is to make you realize and accept the bitter truth that you committed the sin. Never forget that Allah has created and sustained us and all He asks in return is for us to worship and obey Him.;
, Many people might guide you and tell you what's right and what's not, and if they know that you have committed a sin, they will suggest you to ask for forgiveness. But, it won't have any effect unless you sincerely repent and seek forgiveness. It will only have an effect if it comes from your heart, not someone else's.
 To seek repentance, you can't be like, "I'll ask for forgiveness and do it again". No, you shouldn't. You have to make it certain that you will never repeat the mistake. Don't feel like, "I might do it, I'm not sure". Then, be sure! Don't let a shadow of uncertainty spoil your desire for forgiveness or it will not be accepted and will attract punishment instead. Remember that a minor sin that is repeated becomes a major sin.
 The process of Tawbah includes the following factors :


Recognizing your sins and mistakes;
Feeling ashamed to having violated Allah's trust;
Making a promise to never repeat the mistake.
 Know whether your actions hurt others. If so, seek their forgiveness too.


If the sin violated the rights of any other person like right of money or property, then it is necessary to restore their rights.
If the sin consisted of slandering someone, then seek his forgiveness with all your heart.
 That said, He can, on occasion, be severe in punishment and we should never take His forgiveness for granted. Entering the period of repentance without being committed to your God won't do any good. Have belief on Allah and pray that he will make things right. Remember, Allah also says in the Quran,


“Indeed Allah loves those who repent and purify themselves.“ , 'Tawbah' has many merits, that are worth noticing.


'Tawbah' paves way for success.
Tawbah keeps us away from hardships and trials.
Tawbah helps clear our conscience.
Tawbah pleases Allah.
Tawbah is a life transformational process.
Tawbah makes our Duas more ‘worthy’ of a response.
Sincere Tawbah (repentance) leads to forgiveness of ones sins.
 Do your prayers with utmost sincerity and reverence toward Allah. Perform the five compulsory salaat. If you can, try to do them at a mosque. The calm and devoted environment might help you. Do not hesitate from performing additional Sunnah (recommended) and Nafl (voluntary) rakats. They will count heavily in your favour, especially if completed consistently.
 He says in the Quran, “And perform Salaat, at the two ends of the day and in some hours of the night .” (Hud 11:114). This states the fact clear that Allah loves those who offer their prayers at the right time, with the right attitude and devotion.
 Seeking forgiveness could be a long path and could be tiring, but it is your only hope. Know that you probably won't be forgiven in a day, nor is He likely to forgive you after listening to just one or two prayers. It is a slow process of improving yourself from within.


The Prophet (S.A.W.S) said: “Allah, the Exalted, will continue to stretch out His Hand in the night so that the sinners of the day may repent, and continue to stretch His Hand in the daytime so that the sinners of the night may repent, until the sun rises from the west (start of day of judgment)”. .
 The most suitable of the names could be : Al-’Afuww (He who pardons), and Al-Ghafoor (He who forgives), and Al-Ghaffaar (The Oft-Forgiving).


“And Allah has the most excellent and perfect names, so worship and invoke Him by them” (Al-A’raaf ,7:180)

, It is the most important time for any Muslim to show his devotion towards Allah. Moreover, it is considered as the 'month of forgiveness'. Delve deep into sincerity and devotion.


Read make the most of Ramadhan for more guidance.
 Focus on doing good deeds that Allah appreciates, and stay away from those which Allah prohibits.


Prophet (S.A.W.S) said: “The five daily prayers and one Jumu’ah to the next, and one Ramadan to the next Ramadan, is expiation for what lies between them as a long as one refrains from the major sins.” , Zakat is a nice way to wash away your sins, which will not only make you feel light, but will also make someone else's life better.
 This is the best way to gain forgiveness. It is said that, all your sins would be washed away when we go on a hajj for the first time.


Read how to perform hajj for more detailed instructions.
 It might be a bit tempting to 'break the law' at times, but remember that Allah the Most Merciful has promised to reward those who exercise patience and restrain from behaving in a negative manner.



Respond well to the the Azaan. The Prophet (S.A.W.S) said, “He who says upon hearing the person calling the Athaan, ‘I also bear witness that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah alone without a partner, and that Muhammad is His slave and messenger. I accept Allah as a Lord, Muhammad as a messenger, and Islam as a religion’ – all his previous sins will be forgiven.” (Sahih Muslim).
Saying 'Ameen'. The Prophet (S.A.W.S) said, “When the Imaam says ‘Ameen’, say ‘Ameen’, because he who coincides with the angels when saying Ameen will get all his previous sins forgiven.” (Al-Bukhaari & Muslim).
Being around people, or in a gathering of people mindful of Allah. It is very important to be away from bad company or any person who distracts you from the holy path of Islam.
Following the Islamic dress code will help you remember Allah and remind you of the need for full obedience.
Praying two ra'kaah of Salaah attentively can also aid your seeking of forgiveness.The Prophet (S.A.W.S) said, “He who performs ablution properly, then prays any two rak’aah (of salaah) without being heedless, will get all his previous sins forgiven.” (Ahmad).
 Many duas have already been mentioned in the above steps, but there are many more which will help you seek forgiveness.


“Our Lord! We have wronged ourselves. If Thou forgive us not, and bestow not upon us Your Mercy, we shall certainly be of the losers.” (Al-A’raf; 7:23) and Allah forgave him.
“……. And his Lord pardoned him (accepted his repentance). Verily, He is the One Who forgives (accepts repentance), the Most Merciful.” (Al-Baqara, 2:37)
Recite Astaghfirullah constantly. Say it 3 times after every salat and minimum of 100 times a day, as reported. It means, " I seek forgiveness from Allah".
Recite ‘SubhanAllah wa bihamdihi' 100 times a day & all your sins will be forgiven even if they were as much as the foam of the sea 