 While you may not like your present situation, you can accept what you cannot control. You can’t, for instance, send magically money into your bank account or a lover back into your life, but you can accept that it is part of your reality. While practicing acceptance isn’t easy, it allows you to diffuse stress and live more peacefully.When things aren’t going your way, take a few breaths and say to yourself that you are accepting what's happening, even if you do not like it.
You can practice acceptance in all parts of your life, not just when in the thick of hard times. Practice acceptance when sitting in traffic knowing that you will be late to your appointment, when the kids are sick and are screaming, or when you’re disappointed in your school grade.
 While most events are out of your control, do take care of what is within your power. If you feel like everything in your life is out of control and you can’t seem to get a foothold, take a pause. Recognize what you can actually master and resolve to control it. And even if you cannot control the situation, you can control your reaction.


Write a list of all of your stressors, then recognize which problems have a solution. You may be out of groceries, which can be solved by going to the market (or asking a friend to help you out).
Don’t depend on people to make your decisions for you, assuming that they know better for you.It’s your life and only you are responsible for your decisions.
 While emotional pain is inevitable and a part of every person’s human experience, there is no need to suffer. Suffering is a mindset based on ruminating thoughts (living in the past), blaming other people, or telling yourself how miserable you and the situation are. You can’t glide through life without experiencing pain, but you can learn to decrease your suffering.This doesn’t mean ignoring your feelings or pretending they don’t exist; it’s about changing how you think about your situation. Instead of believing that you are so unlucky, say that you aren't happy about the situation but able to control and accept it, and not feel sorry for yourself.
While you may be in an incredible amount of emotional pain due to the end of a friendship or a natural disaster, don’t see yourself as a victim. Remind that tragedies happen (in various degrees) to each person throughout their lifetimes. The same is true for you.
 The good times do not reveal our true inner depths; that's the job of the bad times. Do you like what is being revealed? If not, it can be a very constructive time of life when you pinpoint parts of your character that you'd like to work on and improve.


Take a step back and observe how you respond to people and situations while you’re in this difficult time. Are you more snappy with people, or do you use your pain as an excuse to not get tasks done? Or do you see yourself rising to the occasion and doing whatever you can do push through? Don’t judge these actions, but see them for what they are and as a reflection of how you handle yourself in difficult situations.
Observe what new aspects of yourself emerge during this hard time, both good and bad.
 When struggling through a difficult time, you may find most of your focus on yourself and your needs. When you feel compassion toward another, you allow yourself to experience more happiness, feel less lonely and less stressed.Even if you feel down, choose to treat others with kindness and respect and offer your help, even if you feel they do not deserve it.


Remember that you are not the only person in pain that needs help.
Lend help when you can to someone in need. Help someone carry groceries, offer to make dinner for your stressed spouse, or be extra patient with your child’s difficult homework.
If there’s a screaming child on the airplane, take a breath and remind yourself that it is upset and that the parents are probably frustrated or embarrassed. Instead of expressing your upset, ask if there is anything you can do to help.
 Even if you’re looking for the light at the end of the tunnel, take a moment and enjoy the tunnel. It can be easy to put your focus onto what you don’t have or what you want, but also remember that you can enjoy what you have now. Gratefulness allows you to see beyond the bad experience.Express gratitude daily. Give thanks for the little things, such as a short line at the grocery store, a walk with your dog, or even the absence of your smoke alarm beeping. There’s always something to be thankful for daily.
 Find ways to make yourself laugh or at least smile. This can include watching animal clips, surrounding yourself with positive, happy people, or going to a comedy show. Laughing helps relax your whole body and improves your mood and benefits your mind too.You don’t have to go out of your way to find laughing stuff. Watch humorous TV shows or video clips. Play with a pet or offer to babysit your niece. Host a game night with friends.

