 There are a variety of e-cigarette or vapor styles, ranging from mini models that look like traditional cigarettes to larger APV models used by more experienced smokers.Mini or Cig-A-Like models look like tobacco cigarettes and are very popular. They are small and lightweight. If you are just starting your vapor habit, these models are a good choice.Mid-size models are the size of a cigar and last longer than the mini models. They produce more vapor than the mini models.Advanced personal vaporizers (i.e., MODs) are designed with the advanced e-cigarette smoker in mind since they produce much more vapor than both mid-size and mini models. They are about the size of a flashlight.;
, Kits include all of the materials, vaporizers, batteries, and instructions for use. They are available for both complete beginners and more experienced smokers.Decide on whether you want a kit with pre-filled or refillable cartomizers. The pre-filled and disposable cartomizers are thrown out when they run out of the nicotine solution. In contrast, the refillable cartomizers need to be regularly refilled with nicotine solution.Decide how much you want to spend on a starter kit. Starter kits are typically between 30$ and 100$, Performance is commonly understood as including vapor production, throat hit, and battery life. To find the vapor cigarette that's right for you, consider all three factors.Vapor production is simply the amount of vapor produced by the e-cigarette. If you are a light smoker, you should be happy with low vapor production. If you are a heavy smoker, you will want an e-cigarette with higher vapor production.Vapor cigarettes try to mimic the burning sensation one gets from smoking a tobacco cigarette. The term throat hit is a way of describing this quality in a vapor cigarette, which can be weak or strong depending on the model.If you are a heavy smoker or on the road a lot, you may want to consider how long the battery will last on your vapor cigarette., Some vapor cigarettes and starter kits will come with a warranty, which can be helpful if any of the equipment is not in working order. It is also really important to shop at a reputable retailer so that you can get accurate product and warranty information.
 The vapor cigarette industry is competitive and rapidly growing, so it is wise to do some research on the existing brands and products.Look into the reputation of the vapor brands you are considering and the quality of their products.


Look at vapor cigarette review websites. There are a variety of websites that post reviews of new e-cigarette brands. You should familiarize yourself with the reviews of popular and new brands.Compare different brands by first trying their disposable vapor cigarettes. The small, disposable vapor cigarettes are cheaper than the starter kits. You can compare the quality of different brands by testing their disposable vapor cigarettes., Original vapor cigarettes have serial numbers located at the atomizer and battery’s connector parts while fake ones don’t have serial numbers. With a magnifying glass, locate these serial numbers.

