 Unless your teacher said otherwise, he or she will be your best resource to finding out what’s on the test. Always ask teachers if they can provide you with tips or hints regarding test and study material.Ideally, you should ask your teachers about information you’ll need to know for the test in the weeks prior, rather than waiting until the day before. If something your teacher says during a lesson seems particularly important or difficult to remember, for instance, you might want to ask your teacher if that material will be covered on the test so you’ll know if you need to devote significant time to memorizing it.
It’s okay to ask your teacher for help shortly before the test, too, but know that you’ll likely get summarized information instead of detailed information. For example, your chemistry teacher may tell you to review the equations covered within the last two units--you won’t know exactly what those equations are unless you’re also able to consult your notes and textbook after that.;
, As a general rule, if your teacher takes the time to write something on the board, he or she does so to emphasize that information. Emphasized information is very likely to appear on the test, so make sure you include it in your notes and study it.The same principle applies to information included on a projector or computer slide.
Consider starring, underlining, or highlighting this information in your notes so you'll remember to return to it later on.
 In addition to information written on the board or on slides, you should also pay close attention to any information your teacher repeats, states slowly, or explains loudly, as these are all signs that your instructor is telling you to pay close attention to these details--probably for exam purposes.Similarly, if your teacher directly says something like "you need to know this" or "this will be on the test," the information attached to that phrase is almost guaranteed to appear on your exam.
Listen for language that connects ideas, too. For instance, if your teacher starts preceding details in a "first...," "second...," "finally..." arrangement, it's possible that these same points will appear on your test.
 If you’re trying to figure out what to study shortly before the test and well after the material has been covered, mentally review the class discussions or lectures that have taken place since your last test. Ask yourself what immediately jumps out in your memory.


While it’s possible that you’ll only remember information you found important rather than information your teacher finds important, if you regularly pay attention in class, there’s a decent chance that you’ll end up remembering the key points your teacher spent the most time emphasizing. You probably won’t remember all of the necessary details, but knowing which areas your teacher emphasized could give you a starting point in your studies.
 The test format can reveal a lot about the type of information you’re going to be tested on. Multiple-choice tests often require you to know facts and details, while essay questions often require you to know enough about a topic to share facts and your personal opinion. Try to find out the format of the test so you’ll know from which perspective to review your notes.


For example, if studying for a multiple-choice test on American history from 1860 through 1865, memorize important dates and the names of prominent historical figures from that time period, such as the start-and-end dates of the Civil War. If studying for an essay test on the same material, worry less about the dates and focus more on the causes, culture, and influential figures involved in the same set of important events.