 If your child’s muscles appear floppy or rigid, their head flops when they sit or if they only tend to use one side of their body when moving, this may indicate a motor skill developmental issue.


While it is perfectly normal for your child to have a head lag at one month old, by four months, typically developing gain increased head control and be able to hold up their head properly.Poor head control or a head lag can indicate a condition called cerebral palsy.
 As early as six months, normal children can grab objects such as a toy or food and put it into their mouth using their hand. But if your child does not grab or grasp for objects and put them in their mouth, this indicates poor hand to mouth coordination.
 Normally, your child can roll over by six months old without any assistance.But if they cannot roll over in any direction, and they have difficulty sitting properly on their own, these may be warning signs.


As well, if your child has difficulty bearing weight on their legs when held up to stand or if they look clumsy and fall often, they may have developmental motor skill issues.
 By two years old, typical children are able to walk on their own and push or pull objects or toys. If they are unable to walk by 14 months, this may indicate problems with their motor skills.
 If your child shows delays in the development of small muscles skills like holding crayons or utensils with their hands, this may indicate larger developmental issues.


Any signs of regression of already learned motor skills, both small muscle and large muscle, such as holding objects, crawling, sitting, or walking, may indicate serious developmental issues, so always be cautious of this. There is a wide range of normal motor skills in children, but it is important to detect any delays early to intervene and improve your child’s motor skills.
 Possible causes of motor skill delays include:


Ataxia, a defect that impairs muscle coordination.

Cerebral palsy, a condition caused by damage to the brain before birth.
Myopathy, a disease involving a loss of muscle function.
Vision issues.
Spina bifida, a genetic condition that can cause partial or total paralysis of the lower body.

Autism.
 This may include occupational and physical therapy by specialists and at home with a caregiver or by you.


Children with mild motor skill delays will improve well with the help of therapy but children with disorders like cerebral palsy have a weak prognosis and may not be able to lead an independent life.

