 This method works best on crochet amigurumi dolls. If your doll is made from cloth, or any other material, you will have to crochet a wig cap for the doll first, follow this method, then attach the wig cap.
 Poke your crochet hook through a stitch on the back-right of the doll's head. Pull a loop of yarn back through the stitch with the hook. Leave behind a short tail of yarn.Where you start crocheting will be the edge of the hair line. Plan carefully!
Use a crochet hook that matches your yarn. When you buy your yarn, look at the label to find out what kind of hook you should use.
 Once you have the yarn attached to the doll's head, begin making your first chain stitch. Make it twice as long as you want the hair to be. Hair shortens as it curls. If you make it the right length at the start, it will end up too short in the end!, Insert your hook through the third chain from the hook. Pull a loop of yarn through the chain. Begin slip stitching down the length of the chain until you reach the base.If your doll is large, or if you want thicker curls, use a single crochet instead of a slip stitch., Insert your hook back into the starting stitch on the doll's head, and out the next one. If your doll has thick hair, your might want to poke the hook out a few stitches over instead., Before you make the first chain, place the tail end of the yarn over your work. Chain stitch right over the tail end, pinning it down., Keep making chains until your reach the left side of the doll's head. By now, the tail should be completely hidden. If it isn't, you can trim it down now.
 Poke your hook back into the stitch you just attached your last curl to. Instead of poking the hook out of the next stitch on the left, poke the hook out of the next stitch above.
 Keep working left to right, right to left, in zigzags until you reach the front hairline. Try to follow your doll's hairline—you can do this by making each row a little wider than the one below it. You can also lightly sketch out a hairline using a washable dressmaker's marker.


The chains will curl naturally on their own. You can help them curl further by wrapping them around your finger.
 When you finish your last curl, cut the yarn, leaving behind a tail. Use your hook to pull the tail back through the last loop of yarn. Gently tug on the tail to tighten the loop., This is not absolutely necessary, but it will help the hair on your doll lay down better. Start by threading the tail through a yarn needle. Then:Pull the needle through a stitch between the last two rows of curls.
Push it through the first curl on the last row, close to the base.
Bring the needle down through the next stitch.
Continue stitching across the head, catching curls as you go.
Tie the yarn to the last stitch, weave the tail under a few stitches, then cut it.

