 This applies to birth control pills as well. Bring the list with you to the pharmacy.


Remember to list things you may be taking that you do not normally consider to be medication, like ginseng or St. John’s Wort.;
, Bring the list with you, then show it to the pharmacist before purchasing new medications.


Mention any food allergies you might have, especially if you are lactose intolerant.
Bring up an live and renal conditions.
Some mild antibiotics are OTC(over-the-counter). When buying any of these, it is very important to inform the pharmacist if you have a history of hypersensitivity or abnormal reactions to any antibiotic.
Inform the pharmacist about the age of anyone else you for whom you are buying medication.
 For example, a drug with a generic name "acetylsalicylic acid" may be sold under the brands Aspirin, Asperan, Acetisal, or many more.


The best way to do this is to write down the generic name on a note card as many medications have very similar names. This will ensure that you do not take the wrong medication.
Learn the "active ingredient" of your preferred medications and add them to your list as well.
Coming to the pharmacy with this information in advance will save you time there. Take a few minutes at home to write it down.
 After taking the time to compile the information in part one, make sure that you bring it to the pharmacy and show the pharmacist.


Tell your pharmacist if you have are pregnant or planning to become pregnant.
Your pharmacist may also want to see your insurance information. Have it ready to go.
Your pharmacist will need to know your information up front, so make sure you do this first!

, Many medications have generic versions, medicines that do not have the brand name, that are cheaper and just as effective. By mentioning the generic name of a drug, you will help the pharmacist suggest a proper substitute.
If the pharmacist offers a specific medication for your condition, ask for alternatives with the same active ingredient. Often there are cheaper substitutes for expensive drugs, their only downside being their less famous manufacturer.
 First, ensure you have the medication you expect. When buying prescription drugs, ask the pharmacist to write the appropriate dosage for each of them on the package. This way the pharmacist will be able to correct any possible mistakes on the prescription. This will also keep you from overdosing on a potentially dangerous or lethal drug you may have mistaken for harmless.


Confirm that you understand what “as directed” means, if you medication instructs you to use it “only as directed.” If you aren’t sure, ask the pharmacist.Each drug has a maximum daily dose, indicated in the patient leaflet.
Never change (increase or decrease) the dose prescribed by your doctor or your pharmacist.
 Your pharmacist can answer a variety of questions about what to take, and how to take it. Many pharmacies have a special area set aside for talking with the pharmacist. Use this area to speak with the pharmacist without interruption.Pharmacists are well trained to interact with their customers, and spend considerable time during the schooling on the topic. Take advantage of their expertise.Consider some of the following questions:


Are any interactions between the medicines I am currently taking and the one I am buying.
Does my medication need to be stored in a special way or place?
What are the potential side effects of the medication? What can I do to avoid them?
Should I take my medication with food? Liquids?What should I do if I miss a dose? 