 It is customary to give an employer at least two weeks’ notice before leaving a job.Accordingly, you should begin preparing for your departure early.


Sufficient notice sometimes depends on the nature of your job. If you are in a professional or managerial position, then you may need additional time to transition out of the organization.If so, try to avoid setting a firm start date at the new job so that you give yourself enough time to leave your present job without causing too much disruption.
Avoid also giving too much notice. As soon as you tell the company that you are leaving, you will be perceived as an outsider.Accordingly, your continued presence at the company could make people uncomfortable.;
, One way to burn bridges with an employer is to leave at an inconvenient time, e.g., in the middle of busy period for the company. If you are an accountant, then leaving in the middle of tax season would not be ideal.


Similarly, leaving a retail job during the holiday shopping season would leave your employer in a lurch. To the extent possible, you should time your exit so that you avoid leaving in the middle of these busy periods.
 If you have an employment contract, then the contract might spell out the steps you must take before you leave the company. Pull your copy of the employment contract and read it. If you don’t have a copy, then ask Human Resources for a copy.


Should you violate your employment contract, then you could be sued. For this reason, it is critical that you understand what your responsibilities are with respect to leaving the company.
 As you prepare to leave the company, you should make sure that your physical and electronic files are properly maintained and in good order. Good organization will make it easier for your replacement to hit the ground running.If you have never bothered to organize files, then see Organize Office Files for tips.
 You should finish any large or important projects before leaving. Even if you train a replacement, that replacement will lack your depth of knowledge. If you can realistically complete an important project in your time remaining at the company, then you should do so.


Furthermore, the work you do in your final weeks should be of top quality. Don’t check out mentally, but do the kind of work your employer has come to expect from you., You should inform your supervisor first that you will be leaving the company.You do not want your supervisor to hear second-hand gossip that you are leaving. Instead, set up a time to meet so that you can inform your boss that you are leaving.


Meeting with your boss will also allow you to discuss how the rest of the organization will be informed of your departure. The news could be announced at a team meeting, in an email, or by you individually., Unless your boss wants to inform team members of your departure, you can let coworkers know individually after telling your boss. Try not to brag about your new job.Doing so could only alienate your colleagues and make it difficult to return to the company in the future.


Also make sure that you tell a consistent story about why you are leaving.People gossip. If you tell one group of people that you are leaving because the new job is too good to resist but tell another group that you are dying to leave the company, you should anticipate that your conflicting stories will get out.
 One dramatic way to ruin your relationship with your employer is to send a company-wide email on your last day, in which you make sarcastic remarks about the company or complain about aspects of the organization. These types of emails sometimes even make the national news, as when one lawyer wrote that he would rather be a “piñata and beaten” than stay at the firm.You should also think carefully before sending a positive email to the entire company. Many people won’t know who you are and will be annoyed. Furthermore, coworkers might scour the email for secret hostility.If you want to thank people, you should do so individually. Even supposedly positive emails could be misinterpreted or seen as insincere.
 The purpose of an exit memo is to outline the status of any projects or matters that you have been working on. The memo would include appropriate contact information for clients. An exit memo is particularly helpful if your employer has not hired a replacement by the time you depart.
 If necessary, offer to train your replacement.Again, this will help the company move forward after your departure. By training your replacement, you can assure that he or she has a good understanding of the job and any outstanding projects.


Furthermore, you might be able to add to your skillset by taking part in the interview, hiring, and training process. This can be invaluable for your resume.
 Larger employers tend to schedule an exit interview for individuals leaving the company. If you are offered the chance, you should agree to participate in one.


If no exit interview is offered at your company, then you should ask for one anyway.But request one only if you are confident you can be positive. Sharing what you’ve learned and expressing gratitude during an exit interview is a great way to leave a positive final impression.
 Although an exit interview may be anonymous, you should still avoid unloading on the company or trashing specific individuals.Word could get out, which would permanently damage your reputation.
 Whatever criticism you offer should be constructive. Always focus on what’s best for the company.Types of advice companies want to hear include anything that will allow employees to be more engaged in their jobs and tips for improving the workplace culture.You can also provide useful facts about salary and benefits. If you are leaving because a competitor offered a better salary and benefits package, then you might want to let your current employer know.