 Having a dog is a lot of responsibility. If you want to convince your parents to let you get one, you should take some steps to show that you are ready for the challenge. Make sure to do everything they ask of you.Completing your chores when asked is a great way to show that you are capable of handling a dog. Make sure you set aside time each day to take care of your housework.
Do things without being asked. For example, if you are in charge of taking out the trash, go ahead and do that anytime you notice that it is full.
Volunteer for extra responsibility. You can say, "Mom, I want to show you I am responsible. How about you let me be in charge of packing my own lunch this week?"

, Try your hardest to be a good student. Success at school shows your parents that you can handle challenges. Make sure to spend plenty of time on your homework.Make a study schedule for yourself. This will show your parents you are capable of sticking to a routine.
Wake up on time. Don't make your parents come in to your room several times to get you out of bed.
Getting up early will be important once you have a dog. Show that you are ready to handle early morning walks.
 Animals deserve a loving owner. Show your parents you are capable of handling that responsibility. Be kind to others to show them that you are the type of person who will be kind to your dog.Show consideration for your family members. If you see your dad out mowing the yard on a hot day, bring him a glass of iced tea.
If you have siblings, be nice to them. If you fight less with your brother, it shows that you are a kind, responsible person.
Be a good friend. Showing kindness to your friends will help your parents see what a great kid you are. Offer to let your buddy ride your new bike.
 You want to show your parents that you are growing up. Let them know that you are mature enough to handle having a dog. One way you can do this is by communicating with them.Don't throw fits. If you don't get your way, don't stomp off. Instead say, "Ok, I accept your decision."
Use your words. If you are upset by something, talk to your parents. You can say, "I'm upset that I can't spend the night at Sarah's this weekend. Is there something I can do to earn the privilege?"
Work on creating a relationship based on trust. This will help your parents see that you deserve to adopt a dog.

