 You want to help ensure that your girlfriend is receptive to your kiss so take some basic preparation measures. Establish a good relationship and get to know each other a bit before moving on to kissing. This will make the kiss feel more satisfying. You should also time your kiss carefully. Don't do it when other people are around or in situations that aren't romantic.;
, Okay, you can't exactly cover yourself in strawberry lip gloss like she can, but you should still aim for those moist, slick lips. This makes kissing more comfortable. Keep hydrated and use a lanolin-based lip balm like Carmex a couple days before you kiss. If the kiss feels imminent, use a lip balm that tastes better.
 Fresh breath is a big deal. Brush your teeth regularly (don't neglect the tongue!) and touch up with a mint, gum, or breath spray soon before the kiss itself. Go for a flavor like mint, as flavors like fruit or cinnamon can go bad very quickly.
 Lean in and snuggle her, put an arm around her, pull her into an embrace, or get in the Kiss Zone.
 Placing your hands around her face, cupping that space between her jaw and ear, can help you keep aligned and give you more control over the kiss. It also makes it easier for you to guide yourself if you close your eyes too early.
 Lean in for the kiss but hesitate and look at her lips before actually planting the kiss. It doesn't sound like a good idea, but you do want to give her the opportunity to stop the kiss before you kiss her. She needs to know what is about to happen. This keeps you from getting slapped later.
 Before you go full in for that kiss, angle your head just a bit to one side or the other. This will save you from a war of the noses.
 When you kiss, don't kiss with aligned lips like you'd kiss your grandma. Instead aim to have her lower lip hit in the space between your lips. Take her lip just a little in your mouth, making the same motion as if you were finishing taking a bite of a banana.


Practice on your hand first. It's better for everybody.
 You'd be surprised how easy it is to forget. Let your lips leave hers for just a moment as you move from angling from one side to another and breathe nice and deep. It's a bit like swimming.
 When you kiss her, keep your lips loose. Avoid taut, puckered lips.
 Don't rush into that impassioned make out. Even the most experienced of kissers needs to learn the rhythm when kissing someone new. Take things slowly and sensually. Passionate kissing can be an experience for another day.
 You know how you cupped her cheeks earlier? This is when you can bring that back into play and turn her into make her heart just about melt. With your hands still cupped around her face, use your thumb to gently caress her cheekbones, following the curved line of the bone. Gently is the key word here.
 Yes, you do have to stop kissing at some point...if only to get some air! Don't worry, you can always kiss more later but you don't want it to get awkward.
 It's harder than it sounds to be really and truly good at making out, but you can learn how.
 This is often less complicated than it seems, so long as you do a little prep work and cover a couple of basic do's and don'ts.
 You don't want to be that terrible passionate kisser that basically eats the head of your girlfriend, so get some basic tips on passionate kissing before you totally gross her out.
 You do not want to pressure a girl into a kiss or do anything to make her feel uncomfortable. This shows basic respect and you shouldn't be kissing a girl you don't respect: you deserve to be with someone that you can see as an equal worthy of the highest respect and care! Pay attention to her reactions and the things she says, and don't feel like it's not okay to ask if she's okay. Make her happiness your goal!

, Serious public kissing is pretty gross for everyone that's not in the kiss, and in some places it might even get you in trouble! Save kissing for times that are private, no matter how hard you find it to keep your lips off of her.


Exceptions can sometimes be made for a single, quick peck, however. Just don't go overboard.
 If you haven't learned about hickies, you should do some research. Avoid leaving evidence of your kissing like this, as while a hickey can be a badge of honor for guys, it can spell trouble for girls. There is quite a societal double standard and for girls, hickies can mean getting harassed or even fired from their job.