 There is no way to 100% prevent stomach cancer. However, the best route to take to prevent stomach cancer is to control the risk factors you can change and keep a check on those that you can’t.


This means you should discuss any past conditions with your doctor and see what he says about ways to prevent additional damage., Obesity can increase the risk of cancer developing in the cardia area of your stomach. However, obesity is a risk factor that you can control in most situations. Obesity occurs when your weight a great deal over what is healthy for your body to handle. You can use diet, exercise, and lifestyle changes to start losing weight.


Start out small at first. You will not be able to lose the weight overnight., In order to lose weight and increase your general health, you should increase your physical activity every week. According to the American Cancer Society guidelines, you should work out moderately for 150 minutes a week or for 75 minutes if you do intense exercise.


Break this time up and aim for 30 minutes of moderate intensity exercise on five days of every week.
You can add all different kinds of exercise, including walking, running, aerobics, team sports, yoga, weight lifting, tai chi, or any other activity that you enjoy., Salt and salty foods are probable risk factors for gastric cancer. The recent decline in cases of stomach cancer has been partially attributed to the modern refrigeration practices replacing the mass use of salting and pickling to preserve food. However, there are still plenty of foods available that are salted. In order to prevent stomach cancer, you should avoid eating these foods.


These foods include beef jerky, cured ham, and other salted meats and fish.
You should also avoid pickled foods as well, which have a very large salt content as well., A change in diet can help you prevent stomach cancer. A diet rich in fruits and vegetables has been shown to lower your risk of stomach cancer. Your goal should be a variety of fresh fruit and vegetables which total at least 2 ½ cups, or five servings, of each a day.


Citrus fruits, such as lemons, oranges, and grapefruits, can be especially helpful in lowering the risk.Vegetables should constitute about 50 to 60% of your meals.
 Processed meats are smoked and typically have nitrates and nitrites in them. Nitrates and nitrites react to certain amino acids and create cancerous cells, which have been linked to stomach cancer.


To avoid the possibility of stomach cancer, find lunch meats, sausages, hot dogs, and other meats without nitrates and nitrites in them.Instead, eat fresh fish and poultry.
You should limit your red meats, but if you do eat them, make sure they are grass fed and lean red meats.The World Health Organization has listed certain meats as potential carcinogens, including sausages, bacon, ham, beef jerky, corned beef, and other smoked, salted, and fermented meat products. They have also concluded that there is a positive association between processed meats and stomach cancer., Smokers have double the risk of developing stomach cancer than non-smokers and about 18% of stomach cancer cases are attributed to smoking.Smoking can cause cancer to the section of the stomach closest to the esophagus. It is also responsible for many other types of cancers, accounting for one third of all cancer related deaths in the United States alone. It can be very hard to stop smoking, but there are many aids to help you. You can try nicotine replacement, shots, medication, support groups, or many other options to help you quit.Try using the START acronym to begin your goal of quitting smoking.

S=Set a stop date.
T= Tell your friends and family about your goal.
A= Anticipate problems and difficulty.
R= Remove tobacco from your home, office, and car.
T= Talk with your doctor for additional support.

