 Perhaps the first step to solving the mystery of a dream or series of dreams is the realization that no other person, no matter how schooled, practiced, or confident, can tell you this meaning. Many people, and some professions, profess to have this ability. But generally, you can uncover a deeper truth if you revisit the dream yourself, perhaps with the help of a trusted guide.;
, At the turn of the 20th century Sigmund Freud used dreams as a window into unconscious desires. Later, Carl Jung wrote about a "collective unconscious" and archetypal symbols, but emphasized the unique and personal significance of dream symbols. He found understanding dreams helpful to himself and others. But perhaps the most practical and helpful insight for contemporary seekers is in the work of Fritz Perls. Both writings and videos are available to further your exploration beyond these brief steps.


Fritz helped people to explore dreams by helping them act out or relive the components of their dream. They acted out the people and even the symbols in their dreams. The dreamer becomes "the window" itself. How does the window feel about what is happening in the dream? What is the window's part in this theater? What does the window say to the other dream people and objects? Although this may sound silly or strange, most people are surprised by the feeling and insight that arises in reliving a dream in this way.
 Look at all similarities, no matter how small

, You may need a trusted guide or group to go with you. It may take courage to journey into a dream. Trusted people are those who will not tell you what your dream means because they understand it is within you and is yours. Trusted people are those who can cry or laugh with you and who are as brave as yourself, if need be.


You may already know a trusted person or group. If you seek others to come with you on a dream journey, interview them first. They must be willing. And beware of those who seem to know the meanings you do not yet understand. Prefer those who are kind and more interested in the journey than the destination.
 Over time, and later, the significance may reveal itself to you. Enjoy your dreams, even the frightful ones, for the rich and complex tapestry they reveal about the person you really are.

