


Ask your primary care physician to recommend educational books, videos, or even library books to prepare for childbirth. You can also ask the childbirth teacher which educational materials about pregnancy and childbirth they recommend. As you choose which resources you'll use to educate yourself, share them with your husband.
Insist to your husband that he attend childbirth classes with you. These classes play a key role in understanding what will happen to your body before, during, and after childbirth, and can provide both of you with valuable information and the confidence that you'll know what to do during labor. It will also help your partner understand that your reactions may change during labor and that that's only natural.
Watch at least one birth video together - preferably one that has been recommended by your primary care physician, obstetrician or teacher at your pregnancy classes. Though many husbands resist the idea of watching a recording of a birth, it can demonstrate exactly what to expect of childbirth and emphasize how the birth partner can help relieve the mother's stress and pain.;
, It's important to communicate how each of you feels about childbirth. If you want a natural birth and your husband thinks it's an unsafe and scary option, you should be able to talk about it and resolve the issue so both of you feel good about how your baby is delivered.


Have your husband speak to your primary care doctor about your pregnancy and childbirth. This way, he's free to ask any questions and express any concerns he has and can get an expert answer.
Make your birth plan together with your husband. That way, you can finalize your preferences for your baby's birth together and you are both prepared when you go into labor.
When making your birthing plans, discuss alternative actions in the event something doesn't happen according to plan. Though this may be a difficult topic, you need to be honest with each other about possible emergencies and/or medical complications that may make you have to schedule a cesarean section.



Your husband may feel uncertain and scared about labor, as it's never comforting to watch a loved one in pain. Many men try to fulfill a problem-solving role in a relationship, but during labor this isn't always possible. Assure him that it's okay if he can't immediately take action to relieve your pain, and understand his frustrations.
If your husband doesn't feel comfortable being at the foot of the bed, or even in the delivery room, you should respect that. Only require that he witness the birth to the degree that's comfortable for him. If he gets stressed or even sick, it won't alleviate any of your pain and discomfort during labor. Allow him to remain in a role where he can function properly and still be of comfort and support to you.
If your husband can't or won't provide the support you need during pregnancy and while you're in labor, discuss alternative options. You can get a doula, somebody who provides non-medical support during birth, or ask a friend or family member help you instead.







