 It will be harder to find a good home for your litter of kittens if they are not vaccinated. Take your litter of kittens to the vet when they are about eight weeks old so they can begin receiving a series of routine vaccinations. Your vet will advise you regarding which vaccinations your kitten needs and when.When taking the kittens to the vet, have them dewormed and treated for any other maladies – such as parasites – that might be present.;
, Kittens need to be properly socialized during their formative period. The formative period is the first two to seven weeks of your kitten’s life. Lift the kittens up, touch them all over, and talk to them for at least 30-60 minutes each day.The time spent interacting with your kittens need not be continuous.
 Kittens should be exposed to a variety of sights, sounds, and smells. This will help them better adjust to domestic life when they finally find homes. Some common experiences or things your litter of kittens should be familiar with include:trips in the car
wet and dry food
music and TV
various cat litters (recycled paper, corn-based, and so on)
cat carriers and baskets
children and adults
men and women

, Four the first four weeks of their lives, your litter of kittens will drink their mother’s milk. When they are about four weeks old, however, you should introduce them to cat food. High-quality cat food will include a healthy balance of amino acids, including taurine.Dry cat food is not generally recommended, though some cats might prefer it. Provide your kittens with dry cat food in the event they find canned food disagreeable.
If possible, obtain a cat food specially designed for kittens.
Do not feed your kittens baby food. It could poison your kittens.
 If kittens are removed from their mothers too soon, they might experience emotional and psychological trauma, and will not have time to be properly socialized to other animals. As the kittens grow, this might manifest as aggression toward people or other pets.Therefore, wait until your kittens are at least eight to 10 weeks old before rehousing them.