 Mix a ½ teaspoon of vitamin C with 5 teaspoons of distilled water in a glass jar. Mix it well, because vitamin C takes time to dissolve.


Stir it frequently until it is fully dissolved, without leaving any grainy particles in the mixture.
 The benefits of almond oil include protecting the skin from sun damage, rejuvenating and softening the skin, and reducing scarring, inflammation, and skin irritation.


Almond oil is rich in vitamin A, B, and E which are great for skin health.
 Olive oil is rich in vitamin E, which helps moisturize the skin and fights against free radicals and skin irritations.
 Geranium oil can reduce the appearance of scarring, improve blood circulation to the skin, tone up skin, and cause new cells to regenerate. Geranium comes from a plant named Pelargonium, which is often used to treat many skin problems.


Geranium oil is classified as antiseptic, astringent, tonic, and anti-infectious.
 Lavender oil soothes the skin very well and helps reduce fine lines and wrinkles on the face.


Lavender contains phytochemicals, linalool, and linalyl acetate that improve overall skin health.
 Beeswax offers anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and antiviral benefits. Creams, lotions or soaps containing beeswax can greatly improve dry, rough skin.


This can reduce the effects skin aging, especially wrinkles.
 Vitamin E is an important antioxidant because it protects cell membranes and prevents damages to the enzymes associated with them. Vitamin E helps inactivate free radicals, making them less likely to cause damage and reducing skin aging.


Applying vitamin E to the skin can reduce the damage caused by sun exposure and limit the production of cancer-causing cells.
 Shea butter is also known as an all-natural vitamin A cream. It is known to be a superb moisturizer, and good at combating dry skin. Because of its anti-inflammatory and moisturizing properties, shea butter is lauded as an anti-aging cream.


The chief causes of aging are inflammation and sun damage.
Therefore, the damage reversal properties of vitamin A may be beneficial for wrinkle reduction and collagen renewal.
 Place the glass jar into a pot filled with 3–4 inches (7.6–10.2 cm) of water and simmer the mixture. Mix together all the ingredients thoroughly to create a smooth and easy to apply mixture.


Let the jar sit without its lid until the ingredients have melted.
Stir occasionally.
Once the mixture has melted and it is evenly combined, pour it into a small glass jar.
Let it sit at room temperature until the cream solidifies.
 After the cream has solidified, transfer it into an apothecary bottle or keep it in its jar. Then, keep it refrigerated.


The vitamin C cream will only last for 2 weeks.
 After you finish creating your cream, apply a small amount to your skin to test it, because some people are very sensitive to ascorbic acid (Vitamin C).

