 Do not be pushed into investing or providing a large amount of money upfront. The resources should help to inform you about investments before asking for your money. Salespeople can be persistent and sometimes quite rude, learn to spot these scammers.


If they require you to make a decision quickly, they are trying to pressure you and make you more stressed. Always take time to think about a situation.
Do not let them personally attack or bully you. People will try just about anything to make a sale, including trying to undermine your intelligence or way-of-life.
 You want to make sure a website is easy to understand and easy to read. Do not be conned into submitting your personal information (like banking or social security card) to get access to information. Always submit this sensitive information only if you completely trust the website and its provider.
 This also includes a guaranteed return on your investment. If it is too good to be true, it probably is.


For example, avoid working with a website if it sells a very costly manual on a technique they claim has "never before been revealed to the public." This is a common ploy that hides true facts and discredits regulations. If the information is not readily disclosed, it is not the investment for you.
 Check and see if an investment has been registered with a reputable source. You can check if your broker is registered. Try and gather as much information as you can before making an investment decision. , There are numerous laws in place to serve as a checks and balance for the economy. This includes both national laws and international trade regulations. Check your government’s website to learn about trade sanctions. These laws are put in place to achieve market integrity.
 Investors and investing products should be registered with a national or international trade regulation. This could be through a government run financial authority (like SEC) or a regulation authority, such as Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FIRA).
 Never make an investment without seeing the bond or stock paperwork. Paperwork can be forged or an investor can attempt to sell you an unsanctioned trade. Make sure you receive and keep any paperwork regarding any sort of investment trade.

