 You can create a garden, build a doghouse, or make a painting. When you work together, you have fun and solve problems as a team.Choose an activity you both can enjoy, get the supplies, and go do it!


If you have problems trying to find something you both agree to do, pick something neutral than neither of you have done before.
Choose an activity that both of you can excel it. If you’re good with building and your sibling is good at designing, you can create something new together that both of you enjoy.
When problems arise, make sure you tackle them as a team.
When you finish your project, you’ll both have a sense of satisfaction from building something together.
 Functional families smile and laugh together.Find things you both enjoy and go do them. This can include watching tv shows you both enjoy, putting together a comedy routine, or having your own inside jokes that only the two of you understand.
 Treat your sibling the way you want to be treated.Do you want to be made fun of, teased, or laughed at? Probably not. So, when you interact with your sibling, say things you would like someone to say to you. Avoid being mean or doing things that you know will upset your sibling, even if you think it’s funny.


Be respectful and be thoughtful in your words and your actions.
 Find your niche and allow your siblings to have theirs, too. You may excel at school while one sibling excels in gymnastics and another in dance. Be supportive of your sibling’s activities and don’t try to compete for the limelight. If your sibling is a great dancer or excellent artist, be happy for her. Try not to be jealous if your sibling is really talented at something. Remind yourself that there are things you are really good at, too.
Don’t become rivals.It’s okay to be good at similar or different things and still get along.
If you feel like your sibling gets more attention than you do and it bothers you, talk to your parents and let them know how you feel.
 Show your sibling that you love her and are there for her.If your sister has a rough day, offer to talk about it or try to make her smile. If your brother is in trouble, go help him out. If you’re there for your sibling, it’s likely he or she will be there for you, too.


Help your sibling with homework, or be there to talk if your sibling goes through a breakup.
 If you feel like you live in your sibling’s shadow, take your focus off of your sibling and on to yourself. Be proud of your own accomplishments and interests. Your sister may be a great student, but you are an excellent artist. Perhaps your brother excels at singing, but you enjoy karate. When you focus on your own interests, you’ll spend less time dwelling on your sibling.If you’re not sure what your interests are, go out and try new things that you might enjoy. Go hiking, play chess, start a dance or art class, or play music.
Don’t worry about how “good” at things you are but that you enjoy them. It’s okay if you enjoy pottery even if you’re not “great”. And even if you are great, don’t go bragging about your skills. Focus on doing things you enjoy.

