 One way you can help a person with kleptomania is to encourage them to follow their treatment plan. Especially at first, it may be difficult for the person to commit to therapy or resist their impulses. Help support them during this time.For example, you can help the person set up a schedule to take their medication. If they don’t have a way to therapy, offer to drive them to their sessions.
Remind the person that relapses occur. That doesn’t mean they should stop their treatment. Continuing with treatment after a relapse is an important part of sticking to recovery.
 Some people steal when they are triggered by something. This trigger may give them the impulse or urge to steal. It could be a thought, emotion, or situation that triggers them. Help them figure out what triggers them so they can work on avoiding those triggers or being able to cope with the feelings when they arise.For example, feelings of stress, loneliness, or sadness may trigger kleptomania. They may be suffering from depression, which leads to stealing, or they may have a substance abuse problem that feeds into their stealing.
 The person should set goals once they start treatment. This helps them stay focused and be motivated to achieve something. These goals can be anything from steal less, pay off their debt, or fix relationships.For example, the person may set short-term goals where they use relaxation techniques and CBT exercises learned in therapy to overcome impulses. They may also want to apologize to people they hurt and pay off any debt. Their long-term goals may be to stay stealing-free, build trust with others, start a new hobby, and build their finances back up.
 Stealing leads to broken trust. Even if the person has never stolen from you, you may not trust them because of their actions. If the person has stolen from others, they may have lost trust in the person. Help the person work on building trust with people so they can repair damaged relationships.Sticking to treatment is one way to help build trust. Committing to a lifestyle where they don’t steal is another way.
Encourage the person to be be responsible, follow through with commitments, and keep their word.

