 Your partner or friends may want to attend therapy appointments or support group sessions with you. It’s great if you feel comfortable doing that. However, tell them if you don’t.

When they offer you could say, “That’s really kind you want to join me. However, I enjoy going alone.” You could say that you feel more comfortable talking about your depression with just your therapist or support group and may feel embarrassed with your friends or partner around. They should understand where you are coming from., Your friends may want to tell you they’ve been through it and that you have a wonderful life and shouldn’t feel depressed, or they may point out that there are people who have it much worse than who have much more cause to be depressed. That may be true, but listening to that may not be helpful. Tell them if they are hurting your feelings and let them know what you would rather them say to you.

For example, you could say, “I know you want to make me feel better. What you’ve been saying, however, just makes me feel worse. Instead, please just tell me you’re here for me.” Perhaps consider not talking about your depression with them if they can’t respect your wishes., Some people believe that depression isn’t real. They believe that a person can simply decide to be happy and feel better. As you know, this isn’t the case. Tell them when they disrespect what you are going through so that they, hopefully, don’t do it again.

Try saying “These are my feelings and what I am going through. You may not agree with them, but it’s my reality and I’d appreciate it if you would at least acknowledge what I feel.”, Your social network may have a direct impact on your mental health, for better or worse. If you have loved ones who are overly demanding, unsupportive, or tongue-in-cheek about your depression, you may choose to end the relationship or get distance.

Closely evaluate everyone in your life. Ask yourself whether these people are encouraging and supportive. If not, make the decision to spend less time with them or completely cut them out of your life, if possible.
Make sure that if you do decide to cut certain people off that you have another support system in place, such as a trusted friend, your therapist, or a support group.

