 Doors often get covered in layers of dust and cobwebs quickly – especially if they are in the corner or on an outside wall. Use a duster to periodically dust off your wood doors to keep the dust and cobwebs from building up over time.Try to dust your wood doors once every week or so to keep them looking nice. This will also help prevent larger stains from forming.
This is especially important for exterior doors because it will help keep spiders and insects from congregating near the entrance to your home.;
, For minor cleaning, you should be able to use a bit of mild dish soap mixed with hot water. Dip a nonabrasive sponge into the water and scrub the surface of your wood door.When you finish, make sure you rinse all of the soapy residue away with hot water.
 Open the wood door and use a clean, damp cloth to wipe off the edges all around the door frame. You may need to rinse the cloth as you go to keep it clean enough to do the job, especially if there is significant buildup of dust or dirt.You can add a bit of mild dish soap to your damp rag if the dirt seems resistant to wiping. But be sure to clean off all of the soapy residue when you finish.
 Apply a few drops of mineral spirits to a clean, soft rag until the cloth feels damp. Wipe the surface of the wood door with the moistened rag, always going with the grain of the wood. This should work to help remove any dirt or grime buildup.Mineral spirits are also called paint thinner. You can purchase this product at any home improvement store.
 Spray some liquid furniture polish on the surface of the wooden door and use a clean dish cloth to rub it into the grain of the wood. This will help remove any existing stains and will restore the wood’s natural sheen.This is especially important for use after applying mineral spirits to the wood.
 Get a steam cleaning machine with a hose attachment and add a tiny bit of soap to the bristles at the end. Spray the steam at the stains on the dirty wood and move it back and forth across the stained portions. The dirt should just disappear as you do this.Make sure you rinse off any soapy residue with a clean rag when you are done.
You can rent steam cleaners from most grocery stores or carpet repair stores.
 If your wood door has an old paint finish or other kind of varnish that you want to remove, there are a couple of options. You can sand the old varnish off – a very time consuming task. Or you can use chemical strippers to remove the layers of paint.Either option will work well, but remember that chemical stripping must be done in a ventilated area with proper precautions (like wearing a dust mask).
There are several types of chemical strippers – liquid, brushable pastes, and wash away strippers. In any case, you apply the chemical stripper to the wooden door and let it sit until dry. Then you brush off the remnants (or rinse it off, depending on the kind of stripper you are using).This method is particularly effective for exterior wood doors.
 When cleaning your wood doors with water or other liquid cleaners, make sure you let the wood dry thoroughly. If the wood isn’t sealed properly, the moisture could cause the wood to warp or stain over time.Wipe any excess moisture off with a clean towel. You can also point a box fan at the wood door to help it dry more quickly.
 It’s important for your wood to have a protective seal on it to keep it safe from the elements and to help keep it clean after extended use. Wipe down the door thoroughly before you apply any finishing stain or paint. Choose a stain that is made specifically for indoor wood (unless this in an exterior wood door) and choose a color that suits your décor. You may need to sand down the door or scrape (and then sand) away any existing varnish that is chipping or flaking. Apply the stain or varnish and let it dry completely before you begin using it like normal again.If there is a glass window on your door, make sure you tape it off with painter’s tape before you begin staining. Otherwise, you might get the glass dirty or accidentally paint it.
 As you clean your door, be sure to periodically clean the fixtures as well. This means that you should take some time to thoroughly clean all door knobs. Use a regular all-purpose cleaner to wipe down and sanitize both sides of the door knobs.The fixtures come into contact with the most bacteria, so it’s important to address this when cleaning your wood doors.

