 Massie has hers every Friday, which is a good day for your to be, too. That way it doesn't interfere with school or church the next day. Be sure to choose a Friday you know all of your Clique can come to the party.;
, Write a list of the people in your clique (generally 3-5 people) that you'd like to invite. Then, make invitations. These can be on Facebook, e-mail, text, phone, IM, or face-to-face, but e-mail or mail is usually best. E-mail invites can sometimes can be tacky, so if you choose to use them, use a fancy brand like Papyrus, and send them out.
 Pick a big room so you can do a variety of things. Pick one far away from your parents room so you won't wake them up. DO NOT have it in your bedroom, as personal things will be messed with or misplaced. Also, it's impossible to fit your entire clique onto your bed. Another bad place to have it is in your living room. It may seem perfect because it has a TV, couches, carpet, all that stuff, but it makes your party less private because when you and your friends could be gossiping your parents could be eating next to you. A great place to hold a sleepover in your house is a furnished basement.
 Move all the furniture that will interfere with the sleepover out or to the edges of the room. Dust the remaining furniture and vacuum the carpet/flooring. Set some sweet pea or lavender candles out on a small table or counter. Keep it away from the sleeping area of the room. Lay some comfy blankets on the floor around the room. Close the doors to the room to keep it untouched.


Remember, no movies allowed! Massie specifically said in "Invasion of the Boy Snatchers" that DVDs are off limits at her sleepovers. Still, keep the remote near unless you want to watch some TV.
 This formation makes it easy to talk and distribute gossip points. If you did not provide the other sleeping bags, put place-cards to where everyone else should put their bags. Make yours at the "head" of the room, being the host and alpha. Put your beta's right beside you.
 Put all of the best snacks on a large table in the main room. Have a snack bowl for each guest full of their favorites. Ask ahead what kind of drinks your clique likes. Make sure you have healthy snacks and junk food. Everyone needs sugar to stay up. If you can afford it get big sushi platters (custom to what your clique wants), put them in cute colorful bowls. If you can't afford some of the expensive food try cheese and crackers, a bag of shrimp from H-E-B, and for drinks try vitamin water or Sprite with a bottle or Grenadine. Great drink choices are Italian sodas or French lemonade.
 Once you have all your supplies, make different stations. A spa station, an eating station, a game station, and a sleeping station. Your friends will love how organized you are! Get together a bunch of magazines, you don't want your friends to be bored. If you have a pool in your house, tell everyone to bring a swimsuit.
 If you really want to be like Massie Block, go to sleep in a satin-like robe and a sleeping mask.
 Put lit scented candles in the bathroom, put a new roll of toilet paper on the holder, make sure the soap container is full, and keep fresh towels in the bathroom. Only put shampoo, conditioner, and body wash that you want the guests to use in the shower/tub. Avoid confusion by not making guests feel overloaded by tons of old, raunchy containers of shampoo. Also, give the bathroom a spritz of room spray to match the candles' scent. Make sure that you're close to the bathroom so it allows easy bathroom-breaks and no rushing.

