 At the end of every day, before you go to sleep, think about all that you’ve accomplished. Try to pick out one moment that makes you particularly proud, it can be something as simple as finally understanding a song lyric. By celebrating your day in a positive way, you are acknowledging and validating your contributions to the wider world.


Keep and frame any awards or certificates that you receive, even if they feel minor. Hang them in your bedroom, if you want, but display them nonetheless. These displays will remind you of what you can do.;
, Accept the fact that you are not perfect-no one is. The more that you try to hide your flaws the more people will possess the ability to wound, and diminish, you. At the end of each day think about what you could have done differently. Say, “This is how I will act next time.” Making a game plan turns your perceived weaknesses into strengths.Try to laugh off your flaws. If you burnt all the cookies for local bake sale, admit it and say, “I’m not good at baking, but I’m good at buying. These store-bought ones look great to me!”
If you have a more serious flaw, such as an aggressive temper, recognizing this weakness will allow you to lessen its impact. For example, you can tell yourself to hold for five seconds before responding to a comment if it angers you.
 Recognize your boundaries and push them. Then, look back and honestly assess what you have done. You never really know what you are capable of until you push yourself. To be honest about your limits, you must discover them first.Don’t succumb to peer pressure and do something that makes you uncomfortable under the guise of challenging yourself. Finding your true limits only works if you approach it as your own personal goal. For example, if a group of friends urges you to scale an outdoor rock face with them and it terrifies you, try an indoor rock wall first.
 Don’t beat yourself up mentally. Keep your thoughts positive and forward-looking. If you feel as if you are straying into negative territory, visualize a stop sign and imagine stopping and turning around, heading in a better direction.If you have a bad day at work, instead of thinking, “I hate my life,” say, “I’m not sure this job is for me. What can I do to change it?”

, Be honest about what your body needs and what it doesn’t. Don’t lie to yourself and pretend that certain behaviors are okay if they are destructive. Eat three balanced healthy meals a day, exercise at least three times a week, and allow yourself plenty of rest.Resting is especially important because it gives your body a chance to recharge itself. It is also important for managing stress over time.Aim for around 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night and, if you are able, you might even consider taking a quick nap (around 20 to 30 minutes) during the day to help fight fatigue.
Not using drugs, avoiding drinking alcohol to excess, and quitting smoking are other actions that will elevate your health and boost your self-esteem. You might say to yourself, “If I’m honest with myself and care about myself, I really should stop drinking like this.”

, If you feel overwhelmed, identify what is causing that feeling and step away from it for a bit. So, if work is stressing you out, you may want to plan a vacation or take regular lunch breaks away from the office. Taking a break is about investing in yourself, an action which elevates your self-esteem.


You may also need to take a break from social media or technology entirely. Ask yourself, “Do I feel smothered by being available all the time?” If you answer “yes,” then put the phone away.
Maximum health benefits are created by taking at least one break every two hours. These so-called “mini-breaks” boost productivity and positive emotions.