


You must be the writer or co-writer of a song or musical composition that has been published, performed publicly at a licensed venue, commercially recorded or performed on television or the radio.
Visit the ASCAP website listed in the Sources section of this article to see the complete list of requirements.



You will need your Social Security Number, money for the application fee and detailed information about a song you wrote or co-wrote.
The application fee is $35 if completed via the Internet and $75 if you send an application to ASCAP by mail.
The one-time, nonrefundable fee can be paid by credit card, check or money order.
Information about your song must include specifics, such as the song's name, the artist who performed it and the date it was performed.
,


The questionnaire will determine if you are eligible to complete the application on the Internet.



To be eligible for the online application, you must have a valid email address, be over the age of 18 and have a Visa or MasterCard for payment.
Follow the prompts to begin filling out the application online.
If you are not eligible to complete the application online, follow the steps to download and mail the application.
,,,


Send the application to ASCAP Membership Department (address line 1), Application Enclosed (address line 2), One Lincoln Plaza, New York, NY 10023.



You will be required to fill out information such as your name, date of birth, Social Security Number, any stage names or professional names you use and your current contact information.;
,


Indicate whether you are a composer or lyrics author or both and if you belong to any other music associations or affiliates.



This information will include the title of your song or musical composition, the name of the artist who performed it, the record label, its release date and more.
,,


You will receive an acceptance letter in the mail, if ASCAP has elected you to become a member, with the details of your membership and a personalized membership card.

