 Ambition is a core characteristic of the Slytherin house. If you were sorted into Slytherin, then you likely have bright hopes for the future. Harness your natural motivation into action, and take steps towards your goals every day. Little achievements make for long-term success down the road.Don't burn yourself out working towards your goals. Sometimes Slytherins neglect self-care in pursuit of their interests.;
, Slytherins are naturally cunning and inquisitive about the world around them.If they think a certain subject will help them in their pursuits, they soak up knowledge like a sponge. Do something every day to expand your mind: complete a puzzle, read thought-provoking books, and question how the world works.

Work hard in school! Slytherins know that a good education is often the gateway to achieving their goals.
 Slytherins value order and tradition. Study the past, and research historical figures who made society what it is today. Honor their contributions by showing gratitude and preserving the good they did.

Although this may not come natural to Slytherins, don't be afraid to ask questions about tradition. Even things that have "always been done" aren't necessarily the best or right thing.
 Slytherins are the best house at self-preservation. In a dangerous situation, you want a Slytherin nearby to brainstorm a clever escape. When in a stressful situation, imagine the worst-case scenario and think of a solution. Practice quick-thinking skills to keep your mind sharp in case of emergencies.As impossible as a situation may seem, there is almost always a solution to bring you peace of mind.
 Look for Slytherins who have developed the best of their house traits. Perhaps you need to improve your ambition or gain greater respect for tradition. Look for characters who have whatever you're lacking.

Because the books are more detailed and offer a three-dimensional view of the characters, you might have better luck re-reading the series.
 Perhaps you're drawn to Severus Snape's sardonic wit, or Draco Malfoy's eventual good nature. Maybe your heart belongs to Regulus Black for his bravery in the face of danger. Whoever you pick as your role model, write down which traits of theirs you admire. Set goals to achieve those traits.

Not all Slytherins are evil, despite what some houses claim! Remember: the greatest wizard of all time (Merlin himself) was a Slytherin.Choose a role model who inspires you to overcome difficulty in your own life. You may not be fighting Dark Lords at Hogwarts, but you can use their example to face challenges in your own life., After you've narrowed down a Slytherin and why you admire them, work towards achieving that character trait. Suppose your favorite Harry Potter character is Draco Malfoy. Some traits of Draco Malfoy's are negative, like his rudeness and prejudice against others, but other traits are positive. He is, for example, a charismatic individual who cares for his family. Focus on developing his charisma but not his cruelty.

For example, maybe you want to be like Salazar Slytherin because of his cunning. You might read a new book every week and study hard to ace your classes. You might avoid mirroring Salazar Slytherin's prejudice against muggle-borns or people he doesn't understand.
 The point of having a role model is not to mimic that person entirely. Use your Slytherin role model to develop positive traits in your own way. You are not Snape, for example, but you can learn from his devotion to love and apply it to your own life. You can learn from Albus Potter's curiosity and natural intellect, but eventually you must become your own person.

Some people use role models as a way to hide from their insecurities. Avoid this temptation. If you're trying too hard to become your Slytherin role model, work on becoming comfortable in your own skin., Every Hogwarts house (even Gryffindor) has their fair share of dark wizards.Do not choose one as your role model, even if they have positive traits. Young Tom Riddle, for example, had admirable ambition but he had a cruel heart. Choose someone who used their Slytherin traits for good, instead.

If you ever feel like Slytherins have no positive traits, remember: Slytherins are resourceful, clever, ambitious, loyal (to those they care about), cerebral, and daring., Ravenclaws are curious souls who deeply value and respect wisdom.Intellect comes easy to Slytherin, but that is different from being wise: one is raw intelligence while the other is knowledge gained through experience. Channel your cunning into positive outlets, like schoolwork and personal passions, to turn your wit into wisdom like a Ravenclaw.

Pick a few Ravenclaw heroes to learn from, too: Luna Lovegood, Rowena Ravenclaw, and Filius Flitwick are all great choices., Hufflepuffs are compassionate and loyal to those they call friends. Given the right conditions, Slytherins can be fiercely loyal. To bring out this trait, observe the Hufflepuff's trusting nature and willingness to connect with others. Stay true to your friendships and protect those you love with your intelligence and ambition. A Hufflepuff's loyal nature can bring out the best in a Slytherin.

At first glance, Hufflepuffs and Slytherins may seem like water and oil. But both are passionate and hardworking: the difference is just how they reach their goals.
Look to notable Hufflepuffs for inspiration: Nymphadora Tonks, Newt Scamander, and Cedric Diggory are shining Hufflepuff role models., Traditionally, Gryffindors and Slytherins have not always been on good terms with each other. But a Slytherin's self-preservation pairs well with Gryffindor courage. Slytherins have the intelligence to protect themselves in times of danger while Gryffindors take great risks for those they love. If you can develop bravery like a Gryffindor, you can face almost any challenge with strength.

Remember the brightest and bravest of Gryffindor alumni: Hermione Granger, Albus Dumbledore, and Ron Weasley all make excellent inspirational figures.Try to overcome the inherent Slytherin bias against Gryffindor. When enemies, Slytherins and Gryffindors are formidable foes. But when they work together for the greater good, they can accomplish almost anything.
 Never insult or otherwise disrespect a friend who identifies with another house. All houses have positive traits, and no house is better than the rest. If everyone was a Slytherin, our world would be lacking in so many important character traits. Appreciate differences between people and houses, and never make someone feel less than you.