 Medieval can be anything from 900 (kilts and loose gowns) to 1600 (neck high corsets and hoop skirts). If you show up in an Elizabethan gown and everyone else is sporting basic tunics and pants, it will look silly.;
, Find out if it will be cheaper to make it (if you have the skills for that) or cheaper to buy it online.
 Then you can buy in bulk, cheaper. Also, you'll be able to spot your family easily in the crowd despite strange clothing you're not used to.
 A man who hates the notion of wearing tights will be embarrassed and uncomfortable for the whole wedding. A woman who would never display her cleavage shouldn't wear a corset.
 Offer to put them in touch with anyone else going to the wedding - often for a large order, they'll let you get things at a lower rate.
 If you mention to a vendor that another place is willing to make a bulk deal, you could get better rates - but do *not* lie to them. A lot of those people work together at the same fairs, and have good friendly relationships.
 The more people dressed by the same company, the more classy the wedding will look - and the less you'll stick out.
 Men: Don't tuck in your shirt, strap a belt across it. And wear the belt under your belly, if you have a belly. It just looks silly when someone tries to girdle in their gut with a leather strap. It should go where your pants belt goes. Ask someone who does medieval re-enactment or a friend who is a history buff to help you try on the clothing. Some things that look like they go on easily don't. Corsets lace in the back, belts wrap around you twice, and men look very silly if they tuck in their shirt, since the shirt has a billowy loose bottom.
 Find out if the venue has somewhere you can change, or at worst, wear some of the costume and put on the parts you can't wear in the car (corset, belt, etc) once you get there.
 One of the best parts of medieval clothing is that you can wear loose pants or skirts that hide your shoes entirely, and medieval clothing never, ever had high heels until well after the Victorian era. Do not, under any circumstances, wear a traditional gown with heels. You'll be very off balance, more likely to fall, and look ridiculous.
 By the end of the day you might be relieved to put on a pair of jeans and a sweater. Being stuck in something you're not used to wearing might be frustrating or even embarrassing if you're pulled over or have to stop for food. People who wear that kind of clothing all the time for fairs or re-enactments are used to being looked at funny in the 7-Eleven, but it might be pretty humiliating if you aren't.
 Otherwise, sell it on Etsy or eBay. You can make a decent penny back on your investment that way, and if you have a set of family costumes, you might even help another family going to a wedding!

