 Dating a friend can be fantastic: you already know each other’s quirks, you have similar friends, and there is no awkward “feeling out” phase. But dating friends can also get awkward if you don’t talk about what you are looking for in the relationship. Do you want someone you can see casually, or are you looking for your soul mate? Do you see things progressing slowly, or are do you want to go “all-in” and see if you are compatible? This conversation, though not easy, needs to happen.Try beginning the conversation with your own needs, stating something like, “I know we’ve been friends for a while, but I am looking for something long-term.”
Follow up with, "What are you looking for in this relationship?" "How do you see things moving forward?"

, Friends often rush over the early parts of the relationship, getting physical with each other before they are technically “dating.” While there is nothing wrong with this, there is a problem if you don’t slow down and talk at some point. Don’t try and hide your intimacy and attraction to each other. Rather, use this opportunity to make your move and say how you feel. Trying to bury a random hook-up or kiss will lead to relationship issues later on when you are both confused about what happened before. If someone is moving too quickly for you, casually remind them that "Our friendship comes first, we've got plenty of time for everything else."
Just because you are dating now does not mean you need to spend every hour together. Keep your space and take things slowly.
Keep remembering that a strong friendship makes the base of a strong relationship.
 No one likes it when a couple gets together and disappears from the world, only to reappear holding hands and ignore everyone else from time to time. Not only is this tough for your friends, it puts a strain on your relationship. If you stop dating, you’ll have alienated your core friends, showing them that you only cared about them insofar as you got a date.Make time for group activities, and maintain plans and traditions you had before dating.
While you shouldn’t hide your relationship, you shouldn’t let it affect your other friends. Spend alone time with them and focus on other friends when you are in a large group.
Be discreet – there is no need to tell your friends all of your "couple’s stories." They don’t want to hear them and your partner might not want to share them like you do.
 While you shouldn’t ignore your old friends, you also shouldn’t try and keep things the same now that you are dating. You need to find things you love doing together. Talk together and spend time alone to help your relationship grow from friendship into something more. If you only wanted to date someone without putting in the effort to love them, you would have stayed friends.Maintaining a relationship takes time, energy, and work, but the payoff is a close-knit bond that is unique to just you.
 Just because you are dating now does not mean you should change who you are to make them love you more. They fell for who you were when you were still friends. While everyone will go through changes as they build a relationship, becoming someone’s girlfriend or boyfriend is no excuse for a personality shift.


Your friendship should stay intact no matter how romantic you become.Make sure you are comfortable together. If you feel like you need new clothes, new lingo, or new hobbies to make them love you then you might be better off as friends.
 When you get to know someone romantically, it becomes incredibly hard to remove those feelings and return to friendship. Dating someone is an intimate experience, and you will learn things, good and bad, about the person you never knew about. Coupled with any lingering romantic feelings between you two, you have a mixture that makes friendship difficult if not impossible. Remember the great times you shared together and move on, knowing that you both did the best you could to make things work. Ultimately, this is all you can hope for.

