 If it's a genuine desire to be harmonious, friendly and considerate of your fellow human beings, that's a great reason to seek out being liked. On the other hand, if it's motivated by needing to have confirmation that you're a good and worthy person, then you'll need to reach that acceptance inwardly first, otherwise you'll risk having others take advantage of you and you'll end up being miserable every time someone fails to like you.


If you feel that you need to change yourself, to be more ingratiating, pleasing or giving in when around other people, spend some time learning how to voice your own preferences, wishes and needs in a way that isn't bossy, threatening or angry. Learn to communicate assertively and firmly, while remaining polite and considerate of others. Understand that compromise is a good tool too, allowing both sides to get a little of something each of what they want while still getting along with each other.;
, That's a simple result of the diversity of people in the world. People annoy one another for various reasons and sometimes, no matter what you do or say, you remind another person of someone they don't like and they unconsciously don't like you for it. Your political, faith, lifestyle, etc. choices and your values are other reasons why not everyone will like you and it's not only hard to stay completely neutral, it's unrealistic because that's not what being human is about. So, in some cases, just be ready to stay polite but accept that liking each other isn't going to come through.
 Communication is the transfer of energy/emotion. Everyone seems to love someone with enthusiasm because we all admire it and wish we had more! Enthusiastic people seem to brighten up a room with their positive energy, and we want that to rub off on us, we want to be a part of it. When someone is enthusiastic about our thoughts and ideas we immediately feel understood, appreciated and just plain great! No one will ever be offended by you getting excited about their ideas!

