 Every episode featured a teaser tie-in before the introductory "credits." This was followed by an introductory spiel that most fans will remember.The audio track never really changed, with the exception of the host names, when the host changed. It generally ran a little something like this: 'Welcome to Wild & Crazy Kids, the show that goes anywhere and does anything to find kids having fun, with your hosts, Annette Chavez/Jessica Gaynes, Omar Gooding, (and) Donnie Jeffcoat." If there was a guest star on the show, they'd include the snippet "and our special guest star (name), at the very end of the spiel.You could hear a robotic backup group singing a melodic loop of "Wild and Crazy, Wild and Crazy, Wild and Crazy," until the end when they sung a long and drawn-out "Kids".
During season 1, Omar and Annette narrated these spiels interchangeably. During season 2, Jessica narrated, and by season 3, it was both Donnie and Jessica. However, fans could tell that Jessica did so more often than Donnie during season 3.


The video track changed from year to year, mostly with new scenes of kids having fun from that season's games.Then, on the graffiti-style logo, each letter flickered on and off on the screen. In season 1, each letter from the title flickered on and off until the word "Kids" displayed on its own, in full, on a separate slide. Each letter was outlined in black and surrounded by a single color of the screen behind it. The Nickelodeon name was never seen on its own slide on the screen during this time. The letters they used were huge and filled the screen from top to bottom, at an angle; they also featured more previews of other games inside of these letters.In subsequent years, the games changed in the narrated intro, and the video track began with the splash screen of the Nickelodeon logo, followed up with the same letters in the filled in screen. This time, each letter expanded until it completely filled the screen from top to bottom. No matter what season you had looked at it, all letters were completely wacky. Also, when Jessica came in, after "Kids" displayed but before the logo was revealed at the end, a bunch of exclamation marks inside soap-bubbles were placed overtop of the logo for a short time and were revealed one at a time for a few seconds.;
, This game show had little to no structure, so there was no point structure to determine a team winner in this game. The three (sometimes four) games were played purely for fun, and to spark the audience's excitement and imagination., It didn't have a typical prize structure, but the main goal seems to have been enjoyment of the game itself. While kids gained satisfaction from the idea they could get wild and messy and crazy, parents and teachers appreciated how the game sparked imagination and energy in the kids.

In the closing segment, the teaser trailer to each episode was continued, as the show faded to the credits with a sped-up version of a continuation of the teaser.
 Most of the games on this show weren't played more than once, so there isn't a set structure to become familiar with. However, some of games made big-time news in other programs, including "Dizzy Bat Home Run Derby" and even the biggest (record-setting) game of Twister ever played.

In Dizzy Bat Home Run Derby, a Home-Run Derby styled game was played between parents and kids. However, before going up to bat, each adult player had to spin around with their head on top of a baseball bat that was standing on the ground, to make them dizzy. While the kids were thrown the balls by a pitcher (Marc Summers and Scott Bailles), parents had to bat off of a baseball T - not an easy thing to focus on when you are dizzy. Parents were also given a time frame in which to complete the task of hitting the total number of balls allowed, while the kids didn't have that restriction.
This game show set the record for most kids playing the game of Twister, using more than 20 boards attached to one another. These were set up on the National Mall in Washington, DC (from one end to the other).
In another game, they played a massive game of Simon Says, with comedian Brian Seeman as the head caller. Both of these two games were standard rules but involved larger numbers of players.
In another game, a massive game of tug of war was played with a team of wrestlers versus a team of kids. There were other games, too, such as Three-Legged Races: Soccer Style and even a game of Donkey Basketball.In one episode, they used the Colossus roller coaster at Six Flags Magic Mountain (at the time) to film a game where kids held a cup of colored water to see which team had more water in their cup by the end - you'd be surprised at who completed this the best (sorry, no spoilers here!).In yet other games, slip and slides were used, along with games that featured kids dunking their parents and educators in dunk tanks.Still other games involved a bunch of teams playing challenges inside an empty mall. The games there included chugging a stein-worth of root beer, drilling a basketball in a hallway, racing other teams on a Nintendo Powerpad, pumping up pump-shoes (similar to Nike Pumps), taking part in a pie-eating contest, dealing with having a scare boarding contest, and putting on surfer outfits.In yet another episode, there was a massive pillow fight, while the player had an egg secured to their body and had to make it through a course in order to protect the egg.
Another popular game featured kids driving remote-controlled cars in an arena where a steamroller was also driving around. The car couldn't be ran over by the steamroller or the team would be eliminated. The car that remained was the winner. In a variant of the game, a few cars were placed on the board and the first player to have it run over by the steamroller won. Other variants include having the cars on a sand dune gauntlet area; while some players were moving the cars, other players were hacking them with mallets in order to destroy the cars. The best car that survived the beating won the game.
 No one game ever was played the same, so there really was no one "set" here. The producers had to keep changing things and making things different for each item they played. Although they had soundstage rights at Nickelodeon, they used alternate locations around the country for filming, including theme parks., This differed by the event and by how many teams were playing. Sometimes it would be between blue and red, but they also had other colors choose from, including green (lime green), yellow (sun-bleached yellow) and many others including pink, purple, black, orange, grey, lavender, peach, aqua (they called blue) and many others. Each color differed by season., Safety measures were taken for every game, so equipment varied a little. However, players would always wear their team-colored t-shirt with their show logo on it. Each shirt was embossed with the complete Wild and Crazy Kids logo, without the Nickelodeon logo nor the logo's traditional colors; the shirts were embossed in pure black ink and filled in by the shirt color. Contestants wore sneakers, and often had eye protection and knee protection., The show's classic full Iogo contained two parts - the traditional Nickelodeon splash banner on top of the Wild&Crazy (with no spaces) Kids (line 3) title. All the letters were in all capitals, apart from "k" and "i" (which were lower case but full-sized). Both the Wild & Crazy Kids words looked like graffiti. The & symbol was formed as a backwards E with two tinier lines above and below the E. The second line (Wild & Crazy) words were off-pink, and were filled with a texture like soap bubbles, in darker pink, about a quarter of the way from the bottom. The word "kids" was painted green, and also had the soap bubble effect, about half-way into each of the letters, in a much darker hue of green. Each letter had a thick black outline, which connected the letters of "Wild & Crazy" to each other and to the letters of "Kids". On some of the later episodes, the black faded into the white border and made it look like the white was the only border used to form these letters. On the back of the shirt, there was a cloud-like graphic with an exclamation mark symbol inside of it.



 


Before the last season, a much simpler approach was used. There was no Nickelodeon banner, and the lettering was rainbow colored from top to bottom. Even the soap bubble backings got dropped, and in place, there was a squiggle paint of greenish color just randomly painted "underneath" the title.Players would also be required to wear Sketchers sneakers, as part of a promotional deal with Nickelodeon. Kids had to wear these sneakers that were provided, in exchange for playing the games.
 This show used a few hosts. Two of the three hosts stayed for all of the years this show aired, but one didn't stay past the first year. During the first season, Annette Chavez starred, along with two others, Omar Gooding and Donnie Jeffcoat. Wild and Crazy Kids was the first and only TV game show Annette would do, but she has since taken other acting jobs for TV roles on major sitcoms such as E.R. and General Hospital.Replacing Annette for the second and third season was Jessica Gaynes, who, much like Annette, went onto other roles (such as Jawbreaker and the film-adaption of Chicken Soup for the Soul ). Omar Gooding, who starred in all seasons of this show, went on to other non-game-show roles, including parts in Hangin' with Mr. Cooper and Cousin Skeeter.Donnie Jeffcoat later acted in General Hospital, but he first got his big break (even before Wild and Crazy Kids) was as Eric on the Wonder Years., During the third season, Wild and Crazy Kids brought along special guest stars who hosted and interacted with the teams and even played in some of the games. These included Arnold Schwarzenegger, Lark Voorhies, Jonathan Taylor Thomas and Michael Fishman, and others. Marc Summers came on board to help pitch in an episode when there was Dizzy Bat Home Run Derby: The Sequel". Others included Scott Bailes and Bruce Hurst, Rodney Pete, Michael Bower/Venus DeMilo/Danny Cooksey, Bode Miller, Brandon Call, and Tobey Maguire., Wild and Crazy Kids aired on Nickelodeon for three straight seasons, for a total of 75 episodes between July 4, 1990 and December 1, 1992. Although its time slot on weekends differed, it was fit into a thirty minute time slot (with the actual program being 22 minutes)., The pilot used a much simpler logo that included a hand-signed "Wild and Crazy" line and the word "Kids" in boxes. There was also a left-over triangle on a nighttime starry background. This single episode, which debuted in 1989, had lesser-known hosts, Matt Brown, Leslie Hibbard and Cory Tyler.

The introduction was simpler: Welcome to Wild & Crazy Kids, with your hosts, Matt Brown, Leslie Hibbard and Cory Tyler. The pilot was shown on TV to the public, but few people actually remember this specific episode. It had games such as Horses vs Bikes Race, Student-Teacher Maze Race, and Kung Fu Smash House.Due to copyright restrictions, the pilot episode is not available on YouTube.
 After loosing some of the audience for a potential 1993 season, Wild and Crazy Kids was revived in 2002. It had only 10 episodes between July 29, 2002 and October 7, 2002 , but it featured some significant guest stars. Daryl Sabra and Alexa Vega were on the show, as well as Nick Cannon and Aaron Carter. It was hosted by Mati Moralejo and although the game outline didn't change much, its graphics did.

The classic Nickelodeon logo appeared inside of an orange right-pointing arrow, along with the new logo inside of a circle, with other red, blue, and green colored arrows pointing in every which direction possible. The circle was outlined in purple and the text no longer looked like graffiti; the letters were in the correct case for a title - with some letters inside of the circle bigger than others.Players had a new shirt design, and games weren't just played solely by kids now - parents joined in on the team-mate fun with their kids.
The introduction was shortened to, "It's Wild & Crazy Kids! I'm Mati Moralejo with David Aizer and Vivianne Collins!" Then they'd describe what would be happening in that particular episode. The teaser trailer was dropped, and the game started right from the roll of the credits. The game was less popular than the original, and didn't last very long, so it has fewer fans.

