 Increasing your fiber intake can help to prevent constipation, which is the main cause of hemorrhoids. You will find fiber in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. The increased fiber softens the stool, which makes it easier to avoid straining with bowel movements, which is a prime cause of hemorrhoids.


The recommended daily amount of fiber varies from about 20 to 35 grams per day depending on your age and sex. Women under 51 require 25 grams per day, while women over 51 require 21 grams per day. Men under 51 require 38 grams per day, while men under 51 require 30 grams per day.You can also supplement your fiber intake with over-the-counter fiber sources such as psyllium husk (Metamucil, Citrucel).
Increase fiber in your diet slowly to avoid increased gas.
If increasing you fiber intake does not help with your constipation, then you may want to consider incorporating a stool softener, such as Colace, as a short-term solution., Staying hydrated can also help to prevent constipation. Try to drink 6 to 8 eight ounce glasses of water per day. It softens the stool and helps bowel movements pass more easily. This is especially important for individuals using fiber supplementation because not drinking enough water with increased fiber can cause constipation or make pre-existing constipation worse., Regular exercise increases the motility of the bowel, which prevents constipation. It can also help an individual lose weight, which could decrease pressure in the lower rectum and anus, which is another measure for preventing hemorrhoids.Aim for 30 minutes of exercise at least five days per week. You can divide your exercise sessions into shorter ones as well. For example, you could exercise for 15 minutes twice per day or 10 minutes three times per day if that is easier for you.Look for an activity that you enjoy so that you will be more likely to stick with it. Try going for a walk after dinner, riding your bike to work, or taking an aerobics class a few times per week.
 Delaying bowel movements can worsen constipation, which then aggravates hemorrhoids. Try to stay close to a bathroom during your regular times for bowel movements in order to go as soon as you feel the urge.If you cannot go to the bathroom after sitting for about five minutes, then get off of the toilet and come back later. Sitting on the toilet for long periods of time can worsen hemorrhoids., Prolonged sitting increases the pressure in the veins of the lower rectum and anus, which can contribute to the development of hemorrhoids. Try standing up and walking around even for a few minutes whenever you take breaks at work if your job involves lots of sitting.