 Typically players are either "serve and volley," who charge the net and slide their back foot while serving, or "baseline," who generally play along the back line. Since these two types move differently on the court, they wear shoes out differently.

Choose a shoe with a toecap if you're a "serve and volley" player.
Buy shoes with lots of lateral support and a durable sole if you run from side to side a lot.;
, The harder the court surface, the more durable the sole should be. Using the right sole for the right court surface can prolong the life of your shoes, offer the right amount of traction and prevent court surface damage., Hard surfaces wear shoes out faster. Shoes made for concrete are more durable and made with tougher materials, while others are more flexible.

For clay or grass courts, the soles may not be as durable, but they are designed to provide traction without damaging the court.
Multi-court shoes are also available that adapt well for a variety of surfaces.
Shoes with a herringbone style outer sole work especially well for clay. The narrow treading helps grip the floor and prevent loose grains on the surface from entering the sole and smoothing it out., This is arguably the most important step in choosing the right tennis shoe. Your foot type will determine how much lateral support and cushioning you will need for optimal safety and comfort.

Use the "wet test" to determine your foot type. Wet the soles of your foot and step onto a flat surface, such as a piece of construction paper or the sidewalk. Look at the area between the ball of the foot and the heel of the foot.

A large gap indicates a high arch, which means your feet are supinated.
No gap at all indicates flat feet, which means your feet are pronated.
If your feet are in between, then they are neutral.For supinated feet: Opt for a more flexible shoe. You will experience most wear and tear around the heel and toes.
For pronated feet: Buy a stabilizing tennis shoe, since you will experience most wear and tear around the front inside area of your foot.
For neutral feet: You can try just about any shoe.
 Tennis shoes are made with 2 types of cushions: EVA and PU. EVA cushions are lighter and more flexible, but offer less stability and durability. PU cushions are more durable and stable, but tend to be heavier., Putting together a list of your play style, court style and foot type will help you figure out what kind of shoes you should be shopping for, so you don't waste your time trying on tennis shoes that won't work for you., Remember that feet tend to swell a bit during exercise and you may be wearing thicker socks than normal., Knowing what kind of sole and how much stability you need, based on court type, playing style and foot type will go a long way. Determine how much the kind of shoes you're looking for tend to cost.

Even if budget is a factor, buying the best shoes you can afford will help protect your feet and ensure your shoes last as long as possible.
Shopping around and visiting different stores and websites can help you find the best deal.
In general, you get what you pay for, and $80 shoes will be higher quality and last longer than $15 shoes—but paying big bucks for celebrity-endorsed shoes may not be worth it.
 After you've figured out what kind of shoes you need, the brand and style you like, and where the best deal can be found, it's time to buy!

Unlike leather shoes, most tennis shoes do not need to be "broken in" and should feel ready to play in when you try them on. They should fit snugly but not so tightly they will chafe.Stores specializing in athletic shoes may have employees who can recommend brands and styles that will work well for you.
If you're ordering shoes online, be sure you know the site's return policy and how to return shoes that don't work for you.
 See how your shoes work in action on the court and make sure you're fully satisfied with your purchase.