 Talk to your boyfriend well before the meeting and ask what his parents like and don't like. He should also be able to tell you some favorite subjects you can talk about and topics to steer clear of.


Things you might want to find out: Where are his parents from? What kind of work do they do? What do they like to do in their spare time?
Make sure you find out conversation topics to avoid in order to prevent a foot-in-mouth moment. For example, you might not want to talk about the expensive cruise your family just went on when your boyfriend’s parents are having money problems., Make eye contact and use body language, such as nodding and leaning toward the speaker, to indicate you are interested in what they are saying.
 Most people love to talk about themselves. Try to get his parents talking by asking about their lives, or to tell you more about their children. Ask them to share a funny story about your boyfriend as a child.Ask open-ended questions. Questions that require more than a yes or no answer are ways to continue the conversation. Try saying, “Tell me more about that” or “What was that like?”, If you need to correct his parents on something, be respectful and polite. Don’t act like a know-it-all, and do not engage in an argument.


You could say, “I’ve also heard this perspective…” or “You know, I just read about this! The article said.....” which can help take the heat off you while gently offering another perspective.
Do not say things like, “You’re wrong,” or “How can you even think that?”
Don’t act like a know-it-all. People do not like lectures, they prefer conversations. Make sure you are allowing others to share their opinions, even if you are an expert on a subject. , It is easier to talk to people you don’t know well when you have some common ground. See if his parents share any of the same interests as yours, and start a conversation about that.For example, say you and his father are baseball fans. Ask which teams he supports, if he’s been to any games this season, and if there are any players he’s been impressed with this year.
Steer clear of controversial topics like politics or religion. Remember that movies, TV, and music are generally easy discussion topics to which everyone can contribute.
 His parents will likely also want to learn about you, too. Share about your childhood, your education, career goals, and family life.


Be careful not to overshare. Especially in the early days of your relationship, it’s probably not a good idea to unload on his parents about the problems you have with your family, for example.
 Remember, your boyfriend is with you because of who you are. Make sure that his family gets to know what makes you so unique, too! While it is important to be polite and respectful to your boyfriend’s family, don’t feel like you need to shove your entire personality in a box whenever you are around them.


Share your interests with his family, whether it is your fondness for baking or your unapologetically dorky love for sci-fi movies. Your enthusiasm will help them get to know you better.
If you have a good sense of humor, try to make them laugh (with appropriate jokes). If you love children, spend time with his younger cousins. Let his family get to know the real you.
If your true personality includes of lots of swear words, make sure you make efforts to stop swearing in front of his family. Many people find swearing unpleasant, and many people also believe it makes a person look less intelligent.