 Before going to the dealer to look for RVs, it's best to already have some preliminary financing in place. This allows you to know how much you can afford to pay for an afford. In addition, it will give you a starting place for talking down your dealer's own financing terms. This can allow you to get an even better rate as the RV dealer works to earn your business., Like car dealerships, RV dealers generally offer in-house financing. Their rates are slightly higher other rates you could get from a third-party, but may qualify you for better loan terms or discounts. Work with your dealer to identify and negotiate these terms.


RV dealer financing may be more difficult to get than car dealer financing., If you choose not to go with dealer financing, you will be able to seek out other lenders that may offer a lower rate. The exact rate you will get depends on your credit score and other factors, but even a slightly lower interest rate will mean big savings over the life of your loan. There are many options for pursuing a third-party loan, including banks, credit unions, and other independent lenders.Credit unions often offer the best rates. Search for credit unions in your area to see if you qualify for one of these loans.Some of the best rates and terms in the industry are offered by Good Sam Finance Center, Essex Credit, and Alliant Credit Union. Visit the websites for these lenders to determine current interest rates and get a quote., Look around and get quotes from a number of different third-party lenders and from your dealer. Compare interest rates, down payments, and other items, like prepayment fees if you plan to repay you loan early. Interest rates and lenders' willingness to accept your credit score will vary widely between lenders, so make sure you check out every available source of financing and choose the best one for you.Remember to talk to your RV dealer about any discounts or special terms you may be eligible for if you take out a dealer loan with them. They may be willing to offer you additional discounts to earn your loan business.
However, know that dealer loans are generally more expensive in the long run due to higher interest rates. Even a small different in rates can add up over the life of the loan. With a dealer loan, you're paying for the convenience of a one-stop RV purchase.
In general, dealer rates are your best option if you're buying a brand new RV, while third-party options are better if you are buying used.