 Every person has stereotypes and biases about people from other races.Think about what stereotypes (i.e. exaggerated belief, image, or distorted truth about a person or group) you may have and ways you may be discriminating (i.e. treating people unequally). You must understand your feelings before you can address them.Take the Project Implicit Hidden Bias Teststo uncover any bias you may have. You may feel defensive or upset when you read your results. Just take a deep breath and remember that you can change your attitudes and beliefs.
Think about the racism you have seen, experienced, and/or contributed to.
 Read as much as you can about race relations, white privilege, and ways to reduce racism. Read books, listen to music, and watch movies about other cultures as well. Learn about the history of the culture and current happenings. Listen to other people talk about their experiences with racism.


Talk to people within your racial group about your attitudes and beliefs before you have cross-cultural conversations. There are conferences and alliances that allow you to work out your own feelings before you begin the work.Educating yourself is the best way to change your attitudes and beliefs.
 People are grouped into large racial and ethnic groups such as White, Indian, Black, Latino, etc., but there are differences within each group. For example, do not assume that all Black people have the same culture. Black can include people from Jamaica, North Carolina, and Nigeria. Each of those areas has a different culture. Ask people questions about where they grew up, what holidays they celebrate, what kind of foods do they like to eat, etc., It may seem like a good idea to pretend everyone is the same color, but you will miss out on how differences are natural and good.Value diversity instead of ignoring it. Race is often linked to cultural differences (e.g. language, holidays, clothing, etc.) that influence how a person experiences the world. If you are colorblind, you are not acknowledging these differences.


Ignoring a person's race could be offensive to that person. A person may feel like you are ignoring an important aspect of who they are.
 Working with, going to school with, and having close relationships with people from different races helps reduce racism. These one-on-one relationships can help correct any misinformation and stereotypes you have about different groups of people.Put forth an effort to meet people from different races. Join a club,sports team, or organization where you can meet people.
 Pick groups that you have generalizations about and write down your opinions about each of these groups. Be completely honest with yourself as you write. Once you have everything written down, write down where these ideas came from. Did they come from your parents? Did you have a personal experience? You may not even know where the ideas came from.Share your findings with someone from your same racial group if you feel comfortable. This way you will be free to discuss your feelings without offending anyone else.
 Every person has racist thoughts. Accept that this is normal, and it is a good thing that it bothers you. It will be uncomfortable to think about and talk about racism. Instead of being sad or feeling ashamed, put your energy into changing yourself and learning as much as you can.

