 Learn everything you can about menopause. Research common symptoms such as mood swings and hot flashes. Learn what changes and experiences are common and how other people deal with them.Once you realize that your partner’s behavior is normal, you may feel reassured to realize it has nothing to do with you.


Do some research online or at your doctor’s office about menopause.
Educating yourself about menopause can show your partner that you care and want to understand her experience.;
, A woman may feel sadness or loss as her reproductive days are officially over. Her weight may change despite maintaining a healthy lifestyle. These sudden changes can leave a woman feeling like she is less desirable or less of a woman. Remind her that you love her and find her attractive.Suggest a date night for both of you to dress up for and enjoy.
 Insomnia is common during menopause. If you often snore loudly, find a way to sleep that allows her to sleep as well. Perhaps you can offer to sleep in the guest bedroom or to get a sleep study to improve sleep apnea. The more quality sleep she gets, the better her mood will be.Practice good sleep habits together. Have a nightly routine you do together, such as sipping tea, reading a book, then falling asleep at the same time each night. A routine can help induce better sleep., Even if you cannot wrap your mind around her experience, validate the experience for her.Empathize with her experience as best as you can, even if you feel frustrated, angry, or confused. Reassure her by saying, “I can tell this is hard for you.”


For example, if your significant other is moody, say, “It seems like you’re having a hard day. I’m sorry you’re upset, and I’m here to help you however I can.”
Do things to make her life easier. If she finds a bath soothing, offer to draw her a bath to help her relax.
 Many women experience sexual changes as a result of menopause. Relearn ways to show intimacy and affection with your partner.Hold hands, kiss, cuddle, and focus on emotional intimacy. Show that you want to be close to your significant other through your affection.


Express your desire toward your partner by initiating affection and closeness.
 Acknowledge that menopause is difficult and that you want to support your partner. Offer your help and support, and ask her, “How can I be most helpful during this time?”Even if your partner doesn’t know how you can help, you can communicate that you’re on her side and care about how she’s feeling.


Say, “I’ve noticed things are harder for you since you’ve been going through menopause. I care about you and want to offer any help I can give.”

, You may feel frustrated and irritated, yet believe your significant other when she says she’s doing the best she can. Even if it doesn’t seem like she’s trying, know that it’s a difficult time for her and that she may feel fragile or exhausted.Recognize that you do not understand her experience and therefore, cannot judge it.


When she says, “I’m doing the best I can,” believe her, even if it frustrates you.
 While some women do not experience menopausal symptoms, most women experience changes to their moods. Remind yourself that her ups and downs have nothing to do with you. If she’s feeling weepy, offer a shoulder to cry on. If she’s angry or upset, give her some space to cool down.


Don’t take her moods personally. Listen and be supportive without thinking her upset has to be your upset., The bodily changes that result from menopause can affect sex. For example, a woman may experience vaginal dryness or a drop in libido.If you’re feeling frustrated that you’re not having sex (again), remind yourself to be patient. Most women’s sex drives return post-menopausally.


You may want to introduce lubricant into your sexual activities. This can help ease pain during sex.If using or discussing lubricant feels uncomfortable, surprise her with a luxurious lubricant that both of you can enjoy.
 Some women experience depression as a result of going through menopause. She might isolate herself or retreat from you, stop enjoying her favorite activities, feel hopeless or helpless, or feel guilty and worthless.If you’re concerned that your significant other is suffering from depression, offer to take her to see a therapist.Therapy can help with symptoms of depression. A therapist can also help your significant other talk about what it’s like to go through menopause and how this experience affects her.
 Maintain a sense of humor and playfulness in your relationship. Gently playing and laughing together will help you to continue feeling intimate. It can also lower any tension the experience may cause. However, don’t use humor to be disapproving or sarcasm to make a point. Use humor to keep her on your side.For example, if she’s having an intense mood she can’t seem to get out of, say, “I saw a new cat video I thought you’d like, and I’d love to watch it with you since I know how much you like funny cat videos.”

, If your partner’s menopause causes you stress, anxiety, and overwhelm, you may benefit from seeing a therapist.A therapist can help support you and help you approach the menopause more compassionately and with more understanding.
 View menopause as a challenging and new situation that you’ve never faced before. See this time as an experience to help you cope with a new situation from a positive viewpoint. Tell yourself that you can grow from this experience and become a better person and a better partner as a result of this time.For example, practice patience, compassion, and goodwill toward your partner in ways that you never have before.
 Your partner’s menopause can be a stressful time for her and for you. Find outlets for stress through relaxation practices. Practice relaxation 30 minutes each day to combat stress and stabilize moods.If you can do activities together, this can help both of you relax. Go to yoga classes together and meditate together.
 While menopause may seem like an unending nightmare, take comfort in the fact that it does end. Menopause won’t last forever. While the transition may take several years, most symptoms do not last beyond two years.Keep offering your support and she will notice and appreciate your gestures.

