 Giving a present can be spiced up a bit with a small "treasure hunt." Blow up some balloons and hide inside each a note of where to go next. The present can either be material or something simple.
 Find a puzzle company, or make a puzzle yourself with a picture of you or the both of you. At some special date, start sending pieces in letters.
 A silly but funny present is to make a mouse pad with your partner's favorite picture of you/you two.
 If (s)he picks up, ask the partner to hang up and don't pick up again. When you finally reach the answering machine, have something ready which can play music. Then instead of leaving a message just leave a piece of the love song, preferably when something sweet is being said.
 Whenever your partner laughs, you are entitled to kiss him/her. This can be during a movie or when going out shopping or a visit at the museum.
 For example, when traveling, include his/her name on your name tag on the luggage, put his/her name on the door to your place. Change your chat-name to include or make reference to him/her. Make him/her feel that (s)he is a part of your life.
 Blow up a lot of balloons and place them between you and your partner while laying in bed. Try to pop them by squeezing your bodies together when you cuddle. This is harder than it sounds. In some of the balloons you can add sweet notes.
, Call your partner at work and say: "Hello handsome! Are you free tonight?"

,,

,, Use a thesaurus to help you describe your lover: beautiful, angelic, divine, sublime, alluring, bewitching, stunning, gorgeous, exquisite, marvelous, magnificent, charming, enticing, fabulous.
 It will surprise your partner next time (s)he uses it.
 The note says "Try some vitamin L."

,,,, It's simple, compliment more, complain less.
 Only do this if you consistently tell your partner you love them or it might be creepy.
 Before getting out of bed, face your partner, give him/her a kiss and say: "I'm thankful to have you in my life."

,,, Insert a love note. Tape up the bag and return it to the box.
 Or if you shower together, write it while he or she is drying him or herself.
 Go out and find a book full of questions and email, or randomly ask your partner the question. Or be creative and respond to their questions and respond with your own question.
 However, do note that many people actually prefer special flowers (not roses) or even better planted flowers as they last months rather than days. Though if they are not a gardener, cut flowers would be the better idea.
 If you've spent the evening together, go to bed together...even when sex isn't in the picture. It shows caring beyond physicality.
 Make a note saying "In every bunch there's one who stands out - and you are that one." Or send 11 real roses and 1 fake one. Make a note saying "I will love you until the last one dies."

,, They might not take you up on the offer, and will instead just keep the coupon as a memory.
 They will appreciate that you cared enough to do it.
 a movie or restaurant or club or arcade that you know they like but you're not normally in to). Just something special to let them know you pay attention to their desires.
, It's relatively cheap and they provide a nice atmosphere and plenty of games. If not, bring a deck of cards or another small sized game and have fun a couple of hours with something nice to drink and playing games.
 They will feel like the luckiest person alive.
 If they like to kiss you, they like to be kissed.
 Tell them 1-3 things you really respect about him (e.g., I respect the way you open the door for me.", "I respect your work ethic.", "I respect how you really understand how the car works.")

, It's simple, yet always has a good effect.
 Most people feel exhilarated knowing their partner wants to please them in ways beyond the ordinary.

