 Chicken wire works fine as long as the mesh is 1 inch (2.5 cm) or less. Bury the bottom of the fence 3 to 6 inches (8 to 15 cm) into the ground to prevent rabbits from digging under it. Extend it at least three feet (one meter) above ground. Be sure to install flashing along the bottom of gates to ensure rabbits can't squeeze underneath to gain access to the garden.Fencing and chicken wire can be purchased at hardware stores, usually in a wide variety of styles and colors to compliment the décor of your yard.


Consult a landscape designer to see if they have any suggestions as to fencing that can be effective at protecting your garden as well as aesthetically pleasing.
 Automatic, motion-activated sprinklers condition rabbits to stay out of the area by spraying them with water every time they move into the sensor's range. Some of these sprinklers not only spray a burst of water to deter rabbits, but also emit a sound that is annoying to rabbits. This option is also environmentally friendly and humane because it does not use any chemicals—only water and sound. These sprinkler systems are available in hardware stores and online and they are fairly easy to set up, generally staking into the ground much like a standard sprinkler used for watering your lawn.Many different brands and styles of motion-sensitive sprinklers are available.
Consider the path of the water as you set up the sprinkler so as not to overwater or damage your plants.
 Many different repellents may be available, but no repellent will work on all rabbits, so you may have to try several before finding one that works for you. Remember that some repellents may have to be applied more than once per season.Some repellents include:


Blood or bone meal fertilizer. Blood or bone meal fertilizer repels rabbits because they are natural herbivores, and, as an added bonus, these fertilizers are great for your garden.Chemical repellents. Some chemical repellents like ammonium soaps can help deter rabbits, but they may not be safe for the more delicate plants in the garden, so be sure to read the label. A solution containing the bitter Bitrex can also be sprayed to deter rabbits, but generally only if the garden is made up of flowers because Bitrex will alter the taste of vegetables.
 Cayenne pepper, human hair, dog hair, or manure on the ground near the garden or mixed with fertilizer can help deter rabbits. You can also spray vegetables with a mixture of vinegar and water with a small amount of hot sauce mixed in as well. This mixture sprayed on vegetables make the are unattractive to rabbits and may make the vegetables distasteful as well.


Dried sulfur and onions can also be effective repellents against rabbits.