 Mix 1-2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar with 1 cup of water. Start with a small dose of vinegar and work your way up until you find what works for your hair. After shampooing, rinse your hair with the vinegar mixture.








Massage the mixture into your scalp and let it sit for a few minutes for the best results.Try doing this once or twice a week to keep your hair healthy.Apple cider vinegar can also help balance your hair's pH as well as treat dandruff and an itchy scalp., Crack an egg in a bowl and mix it with a little cool water. Massage it into your scalp and let it sit for around 20 minutes before rinsing.








Eggs contain lots of protein and fat making them natural moisturizers. For especially brittle hair, use more egg yolk than white for your rinse. You can do an egg rinse about once a month.Make sure you rinse with cool water, otherwise you'll cook the egg into your hair., For added protection against frizzy hair and split ends, make a hair mask. Mix one avocado with 2 tablespoons of coconut oil and make a paste. Apply the mixture to your hair and let it sit for about 30 minutes before you shampoo and condition your hair.








You can try adding other ingredients to the mask for more moisturizing power. Add 1-2 tablespoons of eggs, sour cream, or even mayonnaise. Play around with the combinations and find what works best for you.Another method is using a combination of bananas and honey. Take one ripe banana, 2 tablespoons of olive oil, and 1 tablespoon of honey and blend them together. As with the avocado, work it into your hair and let it sit for half an hour before washing., Warm up as much coconut oil as you need to cover your scalp. Massage the warm oil into your hair and let it sit anywhere between 20 and 40 minutes. The coconut oil will condition your hair and scalp, and may reduce frizzy hair.You can also try mixing a small amount of coconut oil in with your shampoo when you wash your hair. You only need to use about 1 teaspoon of oil. If your hair is thin, use a little less., Coconut and lime both have lots of vitamins and minerals that improve hair health. Making your own conditioner requires a little cooking, but may be worth your while.









Whisk together 1 can of coconut milk and 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a saucepan over medium heat. Add 4 tablespoons of lime juice and 2-3 tablespoons of cornstarch. Whisk constantly. The cornstarch will thicken the mixture until it resembles conditioner. Add more cornstarch if the mixture seems too thin.Allow the mixture to cool and then work the conditioner into your hair. Work in sections and make sure every strand is covered.Cover your hair with a plastic cap and sit under a hooded dryer. If you have access to a heat thermal cap, you could use that instead. Let the treatment sit for 30 minutes before rinsing and washing your hair.Try this variation for a natural detangler. Mix the following ingredients until smooth: 1 cup of coconut milk, 1 tablespoon of coconut oil, 1 tablespoon of olive oil, and 1 cup of plain non-fat yogurt. Apply the mixture to your hair, working in sections. Cover your hair and wait 45 minutes before rinsing.