 It usually takes about 60 days to dry the antlers.;
, This is only necessary if you are trying to make it into the Boone and Crockett official records.
 Hover over the tab entitled “Big Game Records.” Scroll and select “Scoring Your Trophy.”

,,, You can use a ¼-inch steel measuring tape for the straight measurements. Then, you should place a yardstick down and use a flexible steel cable to wrap around the circumference of the antlers.


You will lay the flexible steel cable out across the yardstick to find the exact circumferences.
Measurements should be taken to the eighth of an inch.
 The points must be one inch (2.5cm) or more from the tip of the point to the edge of the beam. Enter the number of points on the left antler and the number of points on the right antler.
 These are any points originating from the bottom or sides of the beams, outside of the normal five points per antler.
 There should be spaces from one to four. Any additional points can be tallied in the abnormal points section.


The tips of the main beams are not considered points in the same sense.
 There should be five spaces on each side for abnormal point lengths. If there are more, you can add them together with the point lengths in the final space.
 These often loop inward off of the front of the beams. This is called the tip-to-tip spread and it is the inner space between the tips of the main beams.
 Measure the space between the outermost points of the antlers on each side. It can be measured across the main beams or points, depending upon which is wider.
 This is the inside area between the beams, not the tips, from left to right.
, Wrap it around the thickest point and mark it with your thumb until you can measure it against the yardstick.


Repeat on the left antler.
 Write it down and repeat on the left side.
 Measure it and mark it. Repeat on the left side.
 Measure, mark and repeat on the left side., You may need to make your antlers available for official scoring to be accepted into a hunting organization’s record books.