 If you live in a relationship where your wife is the primary house cleaner, take some time and pitch in. The extra time you save her that day will allow her to do something else she enjoys. She will also appreciate your consideration in taking an active role in keeping your house clean.Household chores could also mean taking care of small children. Brushing teeth, going to the toilet, combing hair, getting dressed, and eating breakfast is a time-consuming process. If you can pitch in or take the responsibility away from your wife a couple days of a week, she will appreciate both the time you save her and your interest in the kids.
If feeding, grooming, and taking the dog for a walk is not usually your responsibility, go ahead and take care of the dog or other pets once in a while. It will make both your wife and the pooch happy.
A few nights a week, wash the dishes and silverware or even better, polish them. Try doing the same with the laundry, washing and ironing so she doesn't have to.
 Let your wife know how much you appreciate all the work she does around the house. There is little enjoyment in household chores, running the children all over town, and going grocery shopping, often while working another job as well. If you do not participate in any of these responsibilities, then let your wife know how impressed you are with her abilities to multitask.Acknowledging your wife’s hard work is important because there are few, if any, awards, salary increases, or promotions for the jobs she does around the house. She deserves the credit for keeping the family moving forward.
Recognize your wife’s contributions by telling her she is the reason why you call this a “home” and not a "house.” This will prove to her that you appreciate how she puts her heart, love, and skill into making this your home.
 Little things can make big things happen. Take notice if your wife gets a haircut, wears new jewelry, or changes a routine meal with new ingredients. She will be happy that you care enough to notice when she does something different.Other little things you can do is hold your wife’s hand if you are out taking a walk or put your arm around her when you are sitting together in front of the television. These little “love messages” let your wife know you still care and that you are happy that she is with you.
Don’t forget to say “Thank you!” Remember, just because you are married does not mean that she is still not a woman, or human being. Saying thank you shows appreciation for all the hard work.

