 When snow covers the ground, it reflects almost 80% of UV radiation. This radiation bounces right back into your eye, causing the same damage it would if it entered your eye directly. To avoid this added UV exposure, limit the time you spend outdoors on snowy days.For instance, instead of spending all day outdoors when snow covers the ground, limit your outdoors time to no more than a few hours each day., Omega-3 fatty acid is an essential nutrient for good health, and low levels of omega-3 have been linked to dry eye syndrome.In the winter, it becomes even more important because it helps your body produce tears that keep your eyes hydrated.Fish is the most common source of omega-3, and is available in tuna, sardines, trout, salmon, mackerel, and herring. You can also get it in:algae
flax seed and flax oil
omega-3 capsules
walnuts
pecans

, One of the best ways to keep your eyes from getting dry during winter is to drink water and stay hydrated. If your eyes continue to dry out in the cold winter weather, increase your liquid consumption.Hot soup is a great way to increase your liquid consumption and also stay warm.
Avoid drinking sweet juices, soda, and alcohol.
To stay hydrated, drink at least nine eight-ounce glasses of fluid each day if you are a woman and at least 13 eight-ounce glasses if you are a man., If you get teary or bleary-eyed when walking about in winter, wipe your eyes with a clean tissue and dispose of it when finished. Wiping your eyes with a used or otherwise soiled tissue could spread germs into your eye, leading to infection.Always wipe from the inner eye (starting near the tear duct) toward the outer eye. This reduces the risk of introducing bacteria to the tear duct.
 If you’re taking medications that indirectly cause dry eyes, talk to your doctor about alternatives that do not.Common medications that cause dry eyes include thiazides or diuretics (often used to treat heart disease), antihistamines like Claritin and Benadryl (typically used to combat allergies), and beta blockers (typically used to treat angina pectoris, essential hypertension, migraine headaches, and myocardial infractions ).