 This is because it is during this timeframe that women may inadvertently lose more hair following pregnancy. This is related to the changes the body is undergoing as it returns to its normal state following pregnancy.


A baby can get hair tourniquet syndrome from repetitive motion in a confined space where there is hair present.
For example, a baby may get a hair tourniquet on a finger after having his hands in mittens.
A baby may get a hair tourniquet on a toe after having his feet in confined pyjamas that cover not only the legs but also the feet.;
,


The most common locations for hair tourniquet syndrome are the penis in boys (accounting for 44% of cases), and the toes (accounting for 40% of cases).
The fingers account for 8.7% of cases, and 6.8% of cases are at other sites — these include the wrist, the scrotum, the tongue, the vaginal labium, the ear lobe, the umbilicus, or the nipple.
 One of the key preventative strategies for hair tourniquet syndrome is to ensure that your baby is playing and sleeping in a clean environment. Regular cleaning (at least two times per week) minimizes the chances that hairs are present, thus diminishing the chance that a hair tourniquet will form.
 It may become more pale, or a purplish blue color. If you notice discoloration in any of your child's extremities, go to the Emergency Room immediately. If the hair tourniquet is tight enough to have compromised circulation, immediate medical care must be received in order to keep the compromised extremity alive.
, If you notice this, it is highly suspicious for hair tourniquet syndrome.
 You want to remove them before they have the chance to tighten to the degree that they cause a full-blown syndrome, cutting off your baby's circulation and compromising the health of that body part.
 This includes the penis in boys, and the toes and fingers in both boys and girls. If you check these areas every day for any concerning signs or symptoms, and you notice no abnormalities, your baby is probably okay.
 If so, cut it off immediately and you will prevent it from developing into full-blown hair tourniquet syndrome.


If is already too tight to cut off (because the scissors cannot fit underneath it), see if there is a loose end.
If you can find a loose end to the hair, you can try unwrapping it. This is a slower method than cutting; however, it is oftentimes quite successful.
If you cannot find a loose end, see if there is a knot anywhere in the hair. If there is, you can break the hair at the knot and use that as the loose end from which to unwrap.
 Otherwise, you risk your baby losing circulation to that body part, and suffering irreversible damage possibly requiring amputation.
 The type of anesthesia given will depend upon the location, severity, and which body part is affected. If it is an extremity such as a finger or toe, local anesthesia (either topically or by injection) will most likely be sufficient. In other cases, general anesthesia may be needed to ease the pain prior to removal.
 Note that, if it was the penis that was affected, your baby will need to see a urologist (a specialist in the male urinary system) following the hair removal to ensure that there are no further problems or damage to that area.


Instead of using forceps and sharp tools, your doctor may use a hair removal cream (a depilatory such as Nair) to remove the hair tourniquet.
In the most severe cases, where circulation has been compromised and the extremity is no longer viable (it has "died"), amputation may be needed.

