 The first step you need to take is to eliminate all and any distractions that can inhibit your sleep. As a result, after you’ve located where you’ll sleep, go around and systematically eliminate distractions.Shut off your radio, unless the music or program playing on it helps soothe your anxiety.
Turn the television off. While television could entertain you and relieve anxiety, it is more likely that it will keep your mind active and stop you from sleeping.
Silence your cellphone.
Mask your clock and don’t worry about time. However, if you have an obligation to attend to, make sure to set your alarm clock.
Turn off your laptop or tablet.
 Darkening your room will in many cases help soothe your anxiety and help you get to sleep. This is for a number of reasons, including the fact that visual stimuli and light may help keep your mind active and contribute to anxiety. In addition, bright lights are known to inhibit the release of melatonin in your body – a chemical that is important for sleep health.Shut off lights.
Close your blinds.
Turn off any electronics that might have bright lights or LED displays.
 Many people can rely on soothing sounds to help calm their mind and help put them to sleep. Such sounds depend on the person, so make sure you know what is calming and soothing for you before you turn anything on. Consider:


White noise. White noise may help relax you and put you in a mood to sleep.
Classical music. Classical music also has a calming effect and can help soothe you and put you to sleep.
Any other noises, sound tracks, or programs that relax you, make you feel safe, and won’t keep your mind active.
 Often times, making ourselves as comfortable as possible can help put us to sleep. Comfort not only has the ability to relax us and help us sleep, but to distract us from things that bother us and cause anxiety.Turn the thermostat to the perfect temperature for your comfort, whether hot or cold.
Find a bed or couch that is the most comfortable place to be. Sometimes our beds are not the most relaxing places for us. If you prefer the couch, go sleep there.
Grab some pillows and blankets. Don’t deprive yourself of pillows or blankets. If you need an extra blanket to be comfortable, grab a clean one.
 Part of creating a relaxing environment is to gather items that make you feel safe and relaxed. Whatever these items are, they might help put you at ease and help you go to sleep. Consider:An old teddy bear from when you were a young child.
Pictures of loved ones that make you happy.
Your favorite keepsake from last Christmas or anything similar that might make you feel safe.

