 Aim for four to six hours weekly of riding during winter. This is especially important if you're a competition rider or want to ensure that young horses get used to the work required of them., Generally speaking, if the conditions aren’t safe for you to ride in winter, then they won’t be safe for your horse either. There is no temperature bar to riding a horse, provided that it’s not too cold for you and that your horse has adapted to the temperature, which requires regular outings. This means avoid riding during fierce cold winds, severe thunderstorms, or blizzards.


Winter means longer driving times, longer preparation times, and shorter days. Be aware of the time constraints affecting your ability to ride your horse and care for him and plan accordingly.
Always remember to take a fully charged cell phone and try to stick within a signal area, so you can easily call for help. Remember, in winter, hypothermia can set in very quickly.
 Mud buildup in the hooves can cause serious thrush infections. Well-trimmed hooves additionally have a better grip on icy surfaces than neglected hooves do.


If your area necessitates it, you should also invest in a hoof pick to take with you on rides. This tool allows you to remove ice and snow packed into your horse’s hooves as necessary.
 Even before you get your horse ready for riding, check the terrain and pasture where you plan to ride your horse. Look for ice or deep mud hazards that could cause your horse to slip or trip and make plans to avoid those areas. Add de-icing agents, such as salt or sawdust, to slippery zones around the stable, tacking areas, gateways, doorways, etc.
 Run hot water over your horse’s bit or use a non-toxic hand warmer gel. If you don't have access to either, remove the bit from the bridle and put it in your pocket close to your skin as you prepare everything else. You can also breathe on the bit to warm it.


Another alternative is to use a sweet iron bit. This isn't as harsh and doesn't become as cold as normal steel.
 In addition to packing a hoof pick, add a layer of non-stick cooking spray or petroleum jelly to your horse's hooves. This will prevent balls of ice and snow from forming in the hooves.
 This is not only good for warming the horse's muscles, but serves as an excellent warm-up workout for you too., This is especially important for a clipped or thin-skinned horse, or a horse that as been restricted to a stable. Use it while tacking up as well as riding.
 Find a clear, clean spot to tack up. Avoid muddy or icy spots and find an area that has good footing. The same requirements apply to the riding area itself.
 Pitfalls for riding during winter are varied depending on whether you're riding in snow or in more temperate muddy, cold temperatures. Things to watch out for include:


Deep snow, especially where it conceals holes, tree wells, and crevices where your horse could slip down.
Ice. Any ice is potentially dangerous as your horse has no grip or traction.

Mud. While a little mud is fine, a lot of mud can cause the horse to become bogged or to trip. Mud can also conceal objects that might harm your horse. Large areas of mud are best avoided.
Wet slopes. Take care riding a horse down a wet slope, as it is easy to lose grip, especially when going fast, and moving over wet stony or rocky areas.
Never canter or gallop your horse in snowy, muddy, icy, or slick terrain.
 This is a time when the horse can get a chill, moving from being very hot and sweaty to being cold. You want to cool the horse down as well as taking other precautions before stabling him.This is also a good time to groom the horse again. This also helps his muscles to cool down more slowly in addition to removing mud from his legs, which can cause irritation and mud rash.
Feel your horse’s ears as you cool him down. If they’re still hot, then you should continue walking the horse for a few more minutes. They should be cool, not cold nor hot. Cold ears mean a cold horse.
 Any snow that has attached to your horse (especially his legs) should be brushed off. Try to do this outside to prevent taking it indoors where it can melt and become slippery.
 Clean the hooves out the same as you did before the ride, and apply another layer of non-stick cooking spray or petroleum jelly to the hooves. This helps protect the hooves for any time the horse walks around between rides.
 You should dry a wet horse after riding in winter. There can be snow, rain, and sweat combining to make for a very wet horse. Take a towel in each hand and rub the towels over his coat in circular motions. Roughing the hair up will help dry it faster.


If your horse is used to a blow dryer, you might consider using this as well.
 This will separate the hairs and help to keep him warm, as body heat warms the air between the coat and skin.
 Ensure that there is adequate food and water. Give him hay to eat, as eating roughage warms him quickly, releasing heat as it's digested.


If blanketing your horse, ensure that the animal is completely dry before doing so.
Be sure to check that the drinking water supplied is not frozen. Horses will drink more water if it is warmed, reducing their risk of colic brought on by dehydration.