 One key step to ensure that your hermit crab's home maintains constant humidity is to ensure that their habitat is properly set up. Avoid using the plastic homes hermit crabs are often placed in at pet stores. Instead, strongly consider buying an aquarium. The smallest enclosure you should use for two small to medium sized hermit crabs is a 10 gallon aquarium.;
, Once you have the proper cage, you can choose to cover the aquarium with a wire covering or with glass. If you have humidity issues in your habitat, consider a glass covering. However, a wire covering should be okay.
 Hermit crabs enjoy burrowing, particularly when they are molting. Playground sand, which you can find at most home improvement stores, is cheap and is generally a good burrowing option for hermit crabs.


Consider baking this sand to ensure that bacteria and mold are killed before they enter the habitat (first rinse, and then bake for a half hour at 300°F). If you want only the best for your pet, consider pure calcium carbonate. Different sands retain different amounts of moisture. Play sand can retain moisture well but it can also mold, which is why it's important to clean your hermit crab's habitat monthly (check for mold, replace dirty substrate). A substrate that seems to handle mold well and retains moisture remarkably well is coconut fiber.
 This can be found at any pet store. Hermit crabs tend to love burrowing in this, particularly while molting. Be sure to follow the product instructions and properly moisten the coconut fiber using dechlorinated water (chlorinated water, what you will find in your normal tap water, is harmful to hermit crabs).


Many hermit crab caretakers like to have one section of sand (a beach scene) and one section of coconut fiber (a jungle scene). Ideally, this substrate should be at least twice the height of your largest hermit crab. However, take precautions with newly adopted hermit crabs. Their bedding should only be half an inch deep to help them adjust to their new environment. This is sometimes referred to as "weather therapy".
 At this point, the substrate alone, particularly if you've added coconut fiber and have a glass lid, will keep your habitat at a decent humidity. However, to reach the ideal 80% humidity there are a few additional things you can do. Hermit crab caretakers often like to bring a moist, natural sponge into the habitat to add humidity.
 To ensure that mold or fungi do not grow on the sponge, replace the sponge daily; you can sterilize a used sponge by boiling it in dechlorinated water for a minimum of 15 minutes. 


To help retain moisture, you may also use a handy gadget called an airstone, which you can insert into one of your hermit crab's water bowls to create bubbles and therefore push moisture into the air. You may also want to moisten moss and add it to the tank. 
Finally, use a spray bottle with dechlorinated water to spray the tank should it drop below 70% humidity. Depending on the room environment where the hermit crab's habitat is located, you may need to spray once or twice daily.
