 If you've openly discussed marriage, then you can assuage his fears a bit so he sees that he has nothing to be scared about. Maybe he's concerned that once you get married, you'll change somehow, and settle into a comfort zone. Or, is he worried that after tying the knot, he'll be pressured to start a family right away? It could also be that he feels insecure somehow, and his current self-image doesn't match the role he envisioned as a husband.


If he's just worried about the ring or the wedding itself, then you can think of some creative compromises. If he can't afford a ring, can you live without one? If he doesn't want a big wedding, how about eloping or having a small, private ceremony?
If he's afraid that marriage will take the luster out of your relationship, have some go-to happily married couples that you both admire that you can point to.
 If he's a logical thinker, appeal to that part of his brain. Though it may not be the most romantic approach to take, there are some practical benefits of getting married. Practical and legal benefits of marriage include putting your significant other on your insurance plan, being eligible for more government benefits and filing joint income tax returns. Marriage is also an effective way to make sure your mate is taken care of if you die suddenly. If you are not married, and one of you dies, the other will not inherit anything unless it is spelled out in a will. And even if it is, there will be estate and gift taxes. Also, if you are married you can receive wages, workers' compensation, and retirement plan benefits for a deceased spouse.
Though you may not want to go down this morbid line of thinking, it is very logical, and is something to consider -- especially if you've been together for fifteen years and aren't married.
 If he really sounds like he's unsure about whether he wants to marry you or not, or even says he needs some time to himself to figure some things out, then let him have that time. But make it clear that you're not waiting around forever for him to make the move, and that you're a great catch that any man would be lucky to marry.While you shouldn't make him feel bad for being uncertain or make him propose because he feels jealous or guilty, you should let him know that if you've invested a lot of time and love into the relationship and he still doesn't know what he wants, that you have your limits, too.
 If you think that the time is right and that you're both ready to get married, then hey, it's the 21st century and you can take the matter into your own hands. If you've been waiting around long enough and you're sure that the only thing really holding your man back is the proposal itself instead of the prospect of marriage, then speed things up by asking him to marry you.

