 If you’re overweight, your back muscles and spine will be working overtime and could easily be strained. Being overweight affects your posture, making it difficult to straighten your spine properly. It may also cause your pelvis to slant forward to accommodate the extra weight, which forces your lower back to curve unnaturally.Staying at a healthy weight can help you avoid back pain.


Your body type may also influence whether or not you experience back pain. Those who carry weight around their midsections put additional strain on their spines, which can lead to serious back pain.
 People find it easier to stay committed to their weight-loss goals and promises when they make a public declaration to do so.Tell a friend or family member you intend to lose weight when you begin your weight loss. If anyone asks why, tell them that you want to avoid back pain and live a healthier life.
Surround yourself with positive people who support your effort.
 Supplement your diet with lean protein like tofu, nuts, and seeds. Do not deprive yourself of a particular food, but avoid eating processed foods that are heavy in salt, sugar, and fat.


Your diet should consist of foods you enjoy and are comfortable with eating every day. Do not adopt extreme diets that you will be unable to maintain over the long term.
 When you are around trigger foods, you may feel powerless to stop eating. Keep a food journal detailing your daily consumption habits and look it over at the end of the day. If you notice patterns of overeating with one particular food, avoid buying it, buy it in smaller portions, or buy it less frequently.


For instance, if you habitually sit down and eat an entire bag of chips while watching TV, buy chips only once or twice each month as a treat.
 The easiest way to track the calories you’ve taken in and burned is through fitness tracking devices or software. For instance, FitBit is a great device to help you stay motivated and track exactly how many calories you’ve burned each day. There are many phone apps like Libra with similar capabilities. These devices allow you to visualize your progress and share your gains with social media.


If you want to go the low-tech route, use a food journal. On one page, write down the drinks and foods you consumed that day and their respective calorie counts. On the opposite page, write down the exercises you did and estimate the calories spent doing each. Tally the totals on each page at the end of each day. If the calories you burned exceeds the number of calories you took in, you’ll be on your way to losing weight.
 Working out can be fun, as well as healthy. Working out with a friend can make exercise even more enjoyable. Choose a friend who is equally committed to losing weight and encourages you to push yourself and meet your goals.


Even if you don’t want a workout buddy, surround yourself with positive people who support your weight loss effort.
Avoid workout buddies who only want to goof off and talk when you’re at the gym together. They will only hinder your progress.
 Continue your exercise regimen so as to continue developing your back muscles. Check your fitness tracking device or food journal to ensure you’re burning and taking in a roughly equal amount of calories each day. By keeping your calorie input and output even, you’ll remain at your current weight.
 While these things may help, their impact is small. The only proven way to lose weight and keep it off is by making lifestyle changes, exercising regularly and eating a healthy diet.

