 Post a description and a set of images in online marketplaces like Craigslist. Alternately, use a local community message board to connect with people you know are interested in obtaining a kitten., Create a flyer with images and a description of the kittens. Print out an appropriate number and post them in high-traffic public areas (restaurants, libraries, and so on). Veterinary offices and pet shops are also good locations for flyers., The application should consist of a brief questionnaire, an information-collecting section, and a set of three to five references. Ask questions like “Have you owned pets before?” and “Do you have children or plan to have children?” Ask for references – including their current vet, if applicable – and follow up.When you contact the references, ask them if the applicant is, has been, or could be a responsible pet owner. If they suggest the applicant would not make a good pet owner, do not allow the applicant to adopt any of the kittens in your litter.
Ask for identifying info like their name, home phone number, date of birth, and address.
 Ask applicants to meet you at a public office supply store or similar location where you can copy their driver's license, passport, or other form of ID that includes their address and photo. Alternately, use your phone to snap a picture of the ID for future reference.Verify the information they provided on their application by checking it against their photo ID.
With this information in hand, you’re more likely to ensure that only people interested in providing your kitten with a good home will inquire about obtaining one.
 Talk to the individuals in a public place about their background and motivations for buying a cat. For instance, you might ask, “Why are you interested in adopting a kitten?” Listen carefully for inconsistencies or incomplete answers.If at any point you feel the applicant is being untruthful, politely end the meeting. Do not allow them to adopt any of your kittens.
If the applicant seems honest and their background checks out, allow them to adopt the kitten.
It’s best to offer kittens to people who have children and people who have owned pets before.
 If you give kittens away for free, they might be obtained by people who do not value the cat, and might use it in animal research or as food for a snake or other predatory animal. Never give kittens away for free except to friends and family members you know to be responsible.Usually, you can sell a kitten for $50 or more.

