 It can be difficult to hide your depression around others, especially friends who know you well. To keep your depression hidden, you can try to avoid social situations with large groups of friends so you do not have to pretend to be happy and engaged around others. Stick to a small, close group of friends, so you don’t have to hide your depression all the time.


Keep in mind if you are usually a sociable person and you turn down invitations to group hang outs or group events, you may arouse suspicion from your friends. Often, it is more useful to talk about your depression with others rather than avoid social situations to keep it hidden, as it can be difficult to hide your true feelings from your friends.
If your attendance at a large gathering is unavoidable, possibly for a work function, try to limit your time at the venue or allow for frequent breaks to the bathroom to take a break. Don’t try to get through the whole night without taking some time for yourself, away from the crowd. Continue to manage your feelings rather than suppress them completely.;
, To counteract any suspicions that you may be experiencing depression, you should make the effort to put in a brief appearance at social events, especially if it is with a few close friends. Showing up at social events will show your friends that you are still able to go out and be around others, even if you are in fact dealing with depression.


You can also try your best to act positive and motivated at these social events or put on a happy face. However, doing this can be exhausting and you may end up being honest about your feelings of depression with close friends. This can be a good and useful thing, as it is often better to share your depressed feelings with others rather than try to keep them hidden., To sidestep any discussion around your depression, you may try to switch to a different subject if a friend is discussing her feelings of anxiety or if she expresses concern about your depression. You may bring up the latest television shows or movies, or ask her about school or work. Changing the subject can be one way to keep your depression hidden and avoid having to discuss it with someone else.


Often, changing the subject can be seen as a clear sign of avoidance, especially if your friends are already concerned about you. Assuring friends you are doing fine or feeling great may also only show them you are struggling with feelings of sadness and anxiety as it may be difficult for you to put on a convincing happy face.
You can also be direct in your conversations with others by telling them you appreciate their concern, but that you are unable to or do not want to talk about anxiety or depression right now. For example, “Sara, I know you really care about me and that’s why you are asking about depression, but I’m not able to talk about it right now. I will definitely let you know when I’m ready to talk and what you can do to help.”

, Being on your own will relieve you from having to pretend you are not depressed around others, but it may also cause you to feel more isolated and alone. Another option is to find other friends or acquaintances who have also struggled with depression, as you may feel more comfortable being open about your depression around them. This will allow you to hide your depression from some of your friends and share it with others who will be sympathetic and understanding.


Though it may be hard to share your feelings of depression with others, keeping them hidden can make your depression worse and threaten your safety and well-being. Confiding your negative feelings to someone else who is struggling with the same feelings can help you to feel better and put you on the road to recovery from depression.If you have a friend who is currently struggling with depression, it is ok to spend time together, but you both also need to seek support from others who are not depressed or who have recovered from depression. It is hard enough to deal with your own depression and adding the low thoughts and feelings of someone else can bring you both further down. Love each other, but save room for others too.

