 Place a piece of parchment paper over the sheet pan. Remove the ground chuck from the container and place it on the pan. Cover the chuck with plastic wrap and roll out the ground chuck using a rolling pin. Keep rolling the ground chuck until it covers the entire pan.Always wash your hands after handling raw meat. You should also wash any kitchen utensils that came into contact with the raw meat.;
, Mix the onion powder, garlic powder, pepper, and salt together in a small bowl. Remove the plastic wrap from the ground chuck. Sprinkle these seasonings over the meat. Make sure to sprinkle the seasonings evenly over the meat. You want it to all be equally flavorful., Use your parchment paper to fold the meat in half from side-to-side. Then, take a knife or pizza wheel. Cut your meat into eight even squares. These are your sliders, which you will now grill., You will need to heat both your sliders and your buns. You can use any buns you like from a local supermarket. Preheat your oven to 250 degrees Fahrenheit. Preheat your griddle pan to 350 degrees Fahrenheit., First, wrap the buns in tinfoil. Then, place them in the oven. Cook them for 5 to 10 minutes, until they're crisp and brown., Grill the burgers on the griddle pan. Sliders are small, so they will cook fast. You only need to cook them for 2 to 3 minutes per side. Make sure there is no pink in the middle before serving., You can use small or large slices of pepperoni here. Large slices may be easier to work with, but you can create multiple emojis for one slider with smaller slices.Use a small, sharp knife to cut emoji faces into the pepperoni or pepperonis.
For example, you can cut a sideways D-shape into one pepperoni, and then cut two circles above it to make the emoji ":D."
You can then put the pepperonis on the patty or use something sticky, like mayo, to plaster them on the bun.
 Take a plastic Ziplock bag, fill it with chocolate syrup or some kind of condiment, such as ketchup, and cut a small hole in one corner. You can use the corner of the bag like the tip of a pen. You can draw emoji faces on the buns to make cute emoji sliders.Chocolate syrup is usually used to make emojis for sweeter buns, so it may be better to use something like ketchup or mustard on a burger bun.
 You can make emojis by putting eyes on the bun just above the burger. This makes it look like the bun look like your emoji's head, and the burger looks like the mouth. You will need an edible marker, which you should be able to find in the baking aisle of the craft store, for this method.Cut out tiny circles of the stringed cheese. Use the edible markers to add pupils to the eyes.
Dab the eyes with mayonnaise. Then, stick them onto the top half of the bun.

