 Before you wash your work out clothes, turn everything inside out. Sweat, oil, and other bacteria come from your body. Therefore, they tend to accumulate inside your clothing. To get your clothing as clean as possible, turn it inside out first., Mix one part vinegar with four parts cold water. Soak your clothing in the sink for about 15 to 20 minutes. This will help remove some of the unwanted scent from your clothing.You can also add a splash of white vinegar to the wash for the best results.
 Some work out clothing must be hand washed. If the tag says hand wash only, wash your clothing in your sink or bath tub with some laundry detergent. Rinse the clothing thoroughly after hand washing and then hang it to dry., Fragrances can actually be harmful to work out clothing. Fragrances can clog the fibers of work out clothing. This can make them hold onto more odor. Scent free detergents work best for work out clothes.You may be able to find sports washes in the laundry detergent section, which are specifically designed to remove odor from clothing.
 Work out clothing tends to shrink in hot water. Always wash your work out clothing in cold water. Select the coldest option for water on your washing machine when washing your workout clothes., Work out sneakers can actually be washed in a washing machine. Wipe off any caked on mud or dirt and remove the shoe laces before adding your sneakers to the wash.Place the sneakers in a pillow case and then tie it shut.
Wash the sneakers with dark clothing to keep them from bouncing around too much.
Used the coldest setting possible to wash your sneakers.
 Sports bras can be washed in the laundry machine as long as you use a non-chlorine detergent. You can wash them in hot or cold water, but should always allow them to air dry. If you have a lingerie bag, place sports bras in this before throwing them in the wash. This will prevent them from snagging., Socks can be washed with your regular clothing. However, you should avoid fabric softeners when washing socks. These can make your socks less resistant to odor., Jock straps should be washed with care to prevent damage. Hand wash your jock straps or wash them on a very gentle setting on your washer. You should always air dry your jock straps., It's always best to allow work out clothing to air dry. They are less likely to stretch out this way. You should also hang dry your clothing if you don't have time to do laundry after a work out. Sweaty clothing should be hung up somewhere in your home.If you don't already have one, invest in a clothing rack. This is important if work out frequently, as you'll need somewhere to hang dry your clothes.
 The longer you leave your work out clothes sitting in a bag, the worse they will smell. This will make washing them more time consuming. As soon as you get back from the gym, remove your work out clothes and hang them up somewhere in your home.Leaving gym clothes buried can be just as bad as leaving them in a gym bag. Always hang sweaty gym clothes instead of leaving them bunched up on the floor.
 The longer work out clothes are left sitting in the dryer, the worse they'll smell. Whenever possible, wash your work out clothes immediately. This way, they're less likely to build up a bad smell.