 Before you decide to become a rancher, spend some time learning a bit about the career. A career in ranching can make you feel like something of a modern day cowboy. If you love the outdoors and animals, it could be a great career path for you.


A rancher's job is to look over land and animals on a large farm property. Ranchers can own their own farm and can also work for other farm owners. The life of a rancher can be exciting due to its unplanned nature. Every day presents unique challenges and opportunities depending on season, animal temperament, weather, and other factors.As a rancher, you'll spend a lot of time outdoors. You may have to travel a lot as well, but will see a lot of beautiful countryside across the United States. If you love traveling and the outdoors, this could be a great career for you.Salary can be tricky when it comes to a rancher. Your annual salary will fluctuate based on the current market and how much a given farm makes in a year. A bad season can mean financial setbacks. Traditional benefits, like healthcare, are not usually offered for ranchers. These are factors to consider before committing yourself to the life.In recent years, the outlook for rancher as a career has been getting worse. Keep in mind you may make less money the more time you spend working on a ranch.;
, To be a rancher, you'll need analytical skills, critical thinking skills, interpersonal skills, and mechanical skills. Start working on these early on.


Analytical skills are useful for managing a farm and ranch. Taking on leadership positions and college courses in marketing and management can help. You'll also need critical thinking skills as you'll have to make decisions regarding livestock. Seeking out management positions, even for unrelated fields, can help hone your critical thinking skills as problem solving is a key component to management.Interpersonal skills are important. Seek out experience in customer service and other jobs where you have to work with people. Take a summer job at a call center, for example. Networking with other ranchers and making deals with farmers is a key component of ranching, so interpersonal communication is key.Mechanical skills are also vital. Work on a local farm and ask for the opportunity to learn how equipment works. Take an internship or apprenticeship with a local mechanic., Many people who go on to become ranchers are born into the life. Oftentimes, their parents or grandparents worked on farms. If this is not the case for you, you can still become a rancher but should seek out experience working on farms and with animals early on in high school.


Stock up on science related classes in high school. While there's no specific educational path to become a rancher, having knowledge of animal biology can certainly help your chances of success. You should also take food and consumer studies courses to learn about agriculture, food production, and other aspects of farming.Start gaining experience working with animals. Volunteer on a local farm. Join 4H. Take horseback riding lessons. Anything that builds relevant, hands-on experience with farm work can help you build your resume for a career as a rancher., As stated, there is no specific career path for becoming a rancher. However, if you're serious about the career some secondary education can help. Some of the following degree paths might prove relevant for a career as a rancher:


A four-year degree in food studies, agriculture, biology, or other fields related to farming and farm studies can help.An associate's degree or apprenticeship might also be a good option if you don't want to dedicate four years to school. Depending on your location, you may be able to enroll in a program that specifically focuses on ranching and farm work. Ask around at local farms or talk to your school counselor about your plans.Many land-grant or state universities offer beginning farming programs. They're not a full 4-year degree but provide you with a relevant certification., If you're just starting out, look into working for retiring farmers. As many farmers are retiring in the coming decade, a lot of ranchers start out through linking programs. These are programs that connect new ranchers with retiring farmers.


The US government has some beginning farming and ranching programs you could look into. This would be a great place to start gaining experience.Linking programs are listed on the Center for Rural Affairs website. This can help you find linking programs in your area and match you with ranchers who share your ethics.Even if you do not end up staying in the program long term, doing some work for various linking programs can help build your resume and allow you to gain valuable experience., Once you're an established rancher, work on practicing good farming. Always stay up to day with the latest and most innovative techniques and talk to other ranchers about how you can improve.


Be a steward of the resources around you. Make sure you take care of land you work on and engage in in environmentally friendly farming techniques.
If you're working with a herd of livestock, use preventative health plans. Vaccinate calves against contagious diseases and watch for the signs of seasonal colds and flus. Quarantine animals showing early signs of sickness.
Make sure all the livestock in a herd get enough food. Some animals may to slow or weak and get cut off from a food source. Always monitor animals to make sure they're at the proper weight.
Buy quality but inexpensive materials. Network with other farmers to keep track of where to get the best hay, riding supplies, and other ranching materials for a low cost without sacrificing quality.