 Disabling a car alarm can be a temporary fix before seeking professional auto assistance. However, keep in mind, car alarms are meant to be anti-theft, and when tampered with, some systems prevent a vehicle from starting as a security measure.
 Alarm systems consist of a few components.Control unit. This part is often referred to as the brain because it functions as the command center for the system.
Alarm transmitter. This comes in two forms: key-chain remote or the key.
Sensors. Alarms vary and can get complex with various sensors such as pressure, door, or window sensors.
Siren. Alarms need some type of warning signal; some systems have their own siren component while others are wired to car stereo.
Wires. Wires connect the siren to the control unit, the control unit to the fuses, and the control unit to the sensors., Open up the hood and locate the battery. Using a socket wrench, unscrew the negative terminal (-) of the battery and pull it off. This is a safety measure; messing around with a vehicle's electronics can be dangerous.
 If you have a factory car alarm, check in your owner’s manual as a guide.The alarm system is usually under the hood near the steering wheel. If you have an after-market car alarm, it may be installed in any part of the car, but companies usually install them under the steering wheel.
 Some alarm control units have labels for each wire. Removing the wires attached to the control unit and removing the wires attached to the siren are two ways to disable and silence your alarm.


Pull the wire of the siren. This will silence the alarm and might be a good temporary fix before seeking professional assistance.
Remove the control unit. If you pull out the brain, there will be no alarm in the car. However, depending on the way your car alarm was set up, this might disable your vehicle from starting.
 After you pull a wire, plug the battery back in to make sure the alarm isn't going off again. Turn on your car and give the engine a rev. You want to make sure the car can still function.

