 Making bright or deep red frosting can be difficult, but the color of the icing will deepen as time passes. It's best to prepare the frosting 24 to 72 hours before you'll need it so the color can set.


This is especially important if you want pure red frosting made with only red food coloring, but the same trick can also apply to red variations if they aren't as deep in color as you'd like.
 When you need to create dark or bright shades of red, the amount of dye used can cause the icing to become bitter.


Taste-testing the icing as you work will allow you to monitor the change in flavor and prevent too much bitterness from developing.
If the icing does become bitter, however, you can usually fix it by adding more flavoring. Stick with clear extracts, and use roughly 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) per 1 cup (250 ml) of icing.
 Place white icing into a non-reactive bowl. Add red food coloring in small increments, mixing well after each addition, and continue until you make a bright red shade.


It's best to work with gel or paste food coloring specifically formulated for use with icings. Standard liquid coloring isn't concentrated enough; the amount needed to make red frosting would ruin the taste and texture of the icing.
As a general guideline, you'll need roughly 1/2 tsp (1.25 ml) of red icing color per 1 cup (250 ml) of white icing. If using "No Taste" red icing formulas, you may need 1 tsp (5 ml) of dye per 1 cup (250 ml) of icing., If you want to make deep red frosting but only have bright red dye, the best way to achieve the desired color is by adding a little brown.Add red food coloring to a dish of white icing, following the same procedure used before. Continue until you achieve a very dark pink or light red.
Add brown food coloring to the red icing and mix. The amount of brown dye should be roughly one-quarter the amount of red dye, if not a little less. Once mixed, you should have deep red icing with a hint of brown.

Similarly, you could mix brown cocoa powder into the red icing to deepen the color. Doing so will usually improve the flavor, too.
 As with other mediums, you can alter the hue of the frosting by mixing pure red or "red-red" food coloring with other dye colors. Experiment several different combinations, starting with fresh white icing in a clean bowl each time.


Make burgundy frosting using five parts "rose pink" dye and one part violet dye.
Mix maroon frosting by combining two parts red-red and one part burgundy dye.
Create raspberry red by combining red-red and pink.Make rust-red by mixing relatively equal amounts of two to three parts red-red, five to eight parts orange, and one part brown.
Prepare a dark ruby red by adding a small dip of black to prepared red icing.