 You buy maternity clothes for day wear, so you should also buy them for nighttime wear. If you are sleeping in pajamas that don’t fit right or are too tight, this can hinder your good night’s sleep. Invest in some comfortable maternity pajamas to help you sleep more comfortably.
 If you experienced discomfort on your mattress before you became pregnant, it is only going to get worse when you are pregnant. It may be a good time to invest in a new mattress that provides you with some good support. This can make all the difference in the world when it comes to getting a good night’s sleep.


If you can't afford a new mattress, try a mattress pad. This could help your back and legs when you sleep without much added expense.
Make sure your sheets and comforter are also comfortable. You don't want to have a great mattress ruined with bad bed covers. Make sure you get a fabric you like and a comforter or blanket that matches your temperature needs at night., Pregnant women generate a lot of extra heat, so try to keep your room at a cooler temperature to accommodate this factor. Keep an extra blanket near you so that you can cover up if you get cooler during the night because of the cooler temperature.


It is better to be a little cold than too hot when it comes to sleeping. It is very hard to sleep comfortably when you are too hot.
This temperature may vary depending on your personal body temperature. Keep working at it to find the right temperature for you.68–69°F (20–20.6°C) seems to work for most people

, If you are used to sleeping on your back or stomach, you are going to have to adjust to a new sleeping position while you are pregnant, which can be very difficult at first. When you are pregnant, it is best to sleep on your left side, according to the American Pregnancy Association. This position helps increase blood and nutrient flow to the developing baby and it is comfortable for you.


It can also help to sleep with a cushion between your legs or with your legs propped up on a cushion or a couple of pillows. This can help to keep your blood circulating to you and the baby and help you sleep better.
Consider purchasing a body pillow designed especially for pregnant women., If you tend to have heartburn no matter what you do, try to sleep in an upright position by using pillows to prop yourself up — just make sure you still sleep on your side. Also, keeping some TUMS close by during the night can help get heartburn under control if and when it strikes.


You can also try keeping a light snack like crackers near your bed so that you can snack on them if you are prone to waking up and feeling nausea during the night.
Taking TUMS is safe while pregnant. However, ask your doctor before taking other antacids that include sodium bicarbonate, such as Alka-Seltzer and Zegerid.