 Consider why you are chopping this tree: perhaps it has become an obstruction in your yard; perhaps you need firewood for the winter; perhaps you want a Christmas tree. If you already have a tree in mind, then you'll need to evaluate whether it is feasible to chop down. If you don't own the land on which the tree grows, make sure that the landowner is okay with you removing it.


If you are chopping a tree down for utility, not to clear space, there may be multiple choices. The best tree will depend on what you intend to use it for: building planks, using as firewood, etc.;
, If the tree is on your own property, then you can chop it down at your own discretion. You'll need to ask permission if the woods are on public land or on someone else's private land. Do not illegally chop down a tree.
 You'll need to consider how tall the tree is and where it will fall. Discern whether the tree is leaning in any particular direction, and make sure that it won't fall onto any person or property. Decide what you'll do with the tree once you chop it. If you plan to move the tree, you'll need to let it fall somewhere that you can easily recover it. If you leave the tree where it falls, it will take some time for it to rot into the ground. In the meantime, it can serve as a home for beetles, roaches, ants, snakes, and other pests.


View the tree from all angles to ascertain if it leans in any one direction. If so, determine whether it will cause damage to fences, trees, driveways, sheds, or any surrounding property. You must also determine that it will not fall back across or against your house. Proceed only if it passes this test, and you still feel confident.
 You can use an ax, which is a slower, more archaic method best suited to smaller trees. Many modern tree-cutters use a chainsaw, which is heavier-duty, but more expensive and arguably more dangerous. Your choice will be largely dependent upon which tools you have at your disposal. Only use a chainsaw if you are very comfortable using heavy-duty power tools.
 Be extremely careful not to stand in the path of a falling tree, and make sure that there is no one—friends, neighbors, children, pets&mash;in the way when you make the cut. Consider wearing gloves, a helmet, goggles, and other safety gear. Remember: if the tree is large, it could easily kill you or a loved one when it falls.


Be aware of property damage. Make sure that the tree won't fall onto any buildings, vehicles, etc.
If you are chopping a tree in the woods, make sure that you know where all members of your party are at all times. Make sure that you can safely remove the tree from the woods.
 Use a chopping ax (not a splitting ax) or a large machete/knife. The size of the necessary ax depends on the size of the tree.
 Tie it as tightly as you can to another tree, or big rock in the direction you want it to fall. (You may throw a cord with a weight on it over a limb and pull a rope up and figure out how to tie it.) Tie the rope to something that is farther away than the height of the tree, unless you don't care where the tree lands. Tie this rope tightly and make sure there are a couple of backup knots on it.


Avoid damaging any fence, building or vehicle.
 Try to get a good "V" shape going on the side of the tree--remember, axes aren't saws; you cannot chop in a straight line.


Do not try to chop the wood straight. Wedge out little pieces on the side you want it to fall.
You do not need to make it all the way through the tree on one side, just think about where it is best to chop it.
 Keep your eyes and ears open, and be prepared to run out of the way Watch upward, and listen for cracking and groaning sounds. Cracking or groaning will tell you that the tree may be about to give way. As you chop, continue to glance upward into the tree for any swaying or leaning.
 A tree can fall quickly and quietly, and it can easily catch you by surprise. If you are not paying attention, the tree could fell you!


Expect the tree to swing around as it falls. This is due to limbs or the slant of the tree, and due to your "guide" rope. Limbs of your tree may extend outward far enough to strike you. Stay out of the way.
Watch for surrounding trees. The branches of other trees may become entangled or break, and you may find that other limbs and trees begin to fall around you.
 You can rent small chainsaw with with an 18" bar at most hardware stores. These saws are normally 2 cycle engines which require a mixture of two cycle oil and gas. If you rent one, insist on them providing you with a full can if gasoline mixture. You will need what is called "bar oil", which goes into its own tank and lubricates the chain and the bar it is on. Finally, have then shop you how it starts, and ask them to check to make sure the chain is sharp.
 If the tree is standing pretty straight, you will need to make a wedge cut.
 Go to the front of the tree and start your saw. Let it run for a minute to warm up. If your chainsaw doesn't have an automatic oilier, make sure to push the oil button occasionally. Most modern saws do include an automatic oilier.


You never want the chain or bar to get dry under the heat. Bar oil is formulated to cling to the bar, and it will actually string from the bar it you touch your finger to it.
 Rev the saw up about halfway. Hold it completely horizontal, then make a cut from the side in about 1/3 of the diameter of the tree. Then, go up about 3-4" above that cut: pick an imaginary line that will start above the 1st cut, and maintain 45 degrees all the way down, (an angle cut) to where the horizontal cut stopped. Go no further. This is your wedge piece, which you will need to remove.


You may need to knock the wedge piece loose with a sledgehammer. Knock it on the side, then the top, then the side again.
 You can assist the tree in falling along your desired path by roping it and tying it securely with at least a 1/2" rope 2/3 of the way up the trunk. Then, hook that rope to a come-along hand-winch that's tied to a larger tree. Make sure that the larger tree is far enough away that your tree won't fall into it. As you start to cut the tree, have a friend begin to crank the come-along to maintain pressure toward your targeted zone.


Alternatively, you can use two wedges. Once your saw blade is well into the cut (far enough along so the wedges will not hit the bar of the saw) begin to drive them in equally behind the saw blade. Watch the tree as it is being cut. If it leans one way more than the other and that takes it off path, pound the wedge on that side in a bit more. Try to keep the wedges even so the tree falls evenly.
Do not stand directly behind the tree. It can break loose from the trunk and "kick back", causing extreme damage or even death to the cutter(s).
 Move to the back of the tree, and make sure the area where you stand is completely clear. Pick a horizontal, straight line that will intersect the top angle of the wedge cut you made – about 1/3 of the way from where it ends in the tree. As you cut, use a high engine speed, but don't push the saw too hard. Eventually as you near the intersection of the wedge cut the tree should begin to bend in the direction of the fall. Do not cut all the way through.
 When the tree begins to fall, move out of the way and yell to anyone around to get out of the way. If the fall begins to slow, give it a little more cut until it resumes falling. It will normally break loose of the stump and lie on either side of the stump.
 Lop the limbs off in the direction of the growth, and take a piece of chalk to mark where you want each cut made. Saw it up and remove it from the area!

