 Ask the rock climbing instructor to go through the rules and establish the plan for the day. Then allow your team to talk and establish common goals, such as the following decisions:


Establish the team goals for the day. This can be a fun goal or a serious challenge. Perhaps the group will decide to climb a total distance, when all their rock climbing heights are added together. This should usually be done in combination with your office manager and the leader at the rock climbing gym. Many managers prefer not to take the role as the leader, but to work along as a single team member.
Decide the barriers to achieving the goals. Point out potential holes, so that they can be foreseen and met with good solutions along the way.
The Adventure Associates company advocates a "challenge by choice" approach to rock climbing. They ask people to be honest about their physical abilities and reach for goals that are reasonable. This relieves pressure that all employees must achieve the same level.
Make sure the team has made a commitment to turn off outside distractions, such as cell phones, and be totally dedicated to the task. Rock climbing can be dangerous if people are distracted, so make sure everyone promises dedication to completing the day's goals.
 The rock climbing instructor may choose to do this based on ability. There should be an attempt made to work with new associates in order to encourage trust in new colleagues.


One employee will be harnessed in and the other employee will be belaying and observing the person. They can pull on the rope to ensure the climber has extra support if it is needed. The rest of the employees will encourage the climber to reach their chosen goal.
Each employee will take their turn being tethered and climbing, with their belaying partner below. This will encourage patience, communication and confidence.
 Make sure these are instituted with the team's agreement ahead of time.
 Give your employees time to talk about their day and possibly a reward, for the goals they achieved. After the team building exercise is done, publish the goals in a newsletter or email, touting the challenges faced and accomplished throughout the day.

