 Community-building is the cornerstone of a successful recovery. You become more resilient to stress and relapse when you surround yourself with positive relationships. As you make a plan to celebrate the small victories in your recovery, be sure to include those who have assisted you along the way.Consider your therapist, doctor, members of your support group, your parents, spouse, siblings, children and friends.
You might write letters, send thank you notes, or make a special meal for these people.
Friends and family can also help to keep you motivated and to remind you of your successes.
 You probably already have a recovery plan based on your given condition and circumstances. Develop a rewards system that coincides with your plan. This can help you stay motivated in recovery and build momentum towards healthier lifestyle decisions.For example, after you have completed a rehab program, you might sign up for outpatient aftercare services. You can schedule a small ceremony that coincides with your beginning outpatient treatment. For instance, after the first week of group therapy, you might go out for dinner with group members, family or friends.
Try to focus on action rather than emotion as you work on your milestones as well. In other words, don’t focus on how you feel. Focus on what you accomplished.
 It’s important to set up your reward milestones with attractive prizes. Although these rewards shouldn’t be your main reason for staying in recovery, establishing exciting rewards makes the process that much more satisfying.


Make a list of both small and big rewards you’d like to allow yourself during recovery. Rank them according to size (i.e. the further along you get, the larger the prize) or make them random.
 One of the most rewarding aspects of recovery is being able to tell others about the trials and triumphs you have experienced. Doing so can affirm your recovery and encourage others who need help.You can do this by finally speaking up in a group therapy or support group session. You can even write a blog post to be shared with just friends and family, or the public in general.
Creative ways to share your story may include writing a poem or song, drawing a picture, using photography, or making a video.
You can also help other people as a way to help yourself. For example, if you are in AA, then you could become a sponsor as a way to help someone else and to keep yourself accountable.

