 This classic Southern dish is hearty, tasty, and filling. The protein and fiber in the beans pair with the carbohydrates in the rice to make a meal that's completely satisfying on its own. However, you can also serve with gumbo, jambalaya, or spicy sausage for a true Deep South feast!, This popular, spicy stew is perhaps the most famous recipe for using red kidney beans in the world. Traditionally served with meat ("con carne"), chili can be served in virtually endless ways. Try it with an assortment of veggies for a vegetarian treat or pair it with a serving of cornbread for a classic American frontier dish.


If you're using dry beans for this recipe, you'll want to cook them until they're most of the way done on their own, then transfer them to the chili pot with the liquid ingredients. This prevents them from over- or under- cooking. If you're using canned beans, add them near the end of the cooking process.
 Bean soup is delicious, nutritious, and easy to make — all you need are beans, water, and your favorite vegetables and seasonings to make a full-fledged meal. You can also add ham (or ham flavoring) for a classic combination, though sausage, chicken, beef, and other meats work just as well. There's no "right" way to make bean soup, so feel free to get creative! Here is a great recipe to get you started.If you're using dry beans, you can add the other ingredients to the pot the beans are cooking in as soon as they're most of the way cooked.
If you're looking for inspiration, a can of diced tomatoes makes a great addition to almost any bean soup. Plus, it will do wonders for the presentation, turning the greyish water to a pleasant brownish-orange.
 Have a few different types of canned beans handy? Drain them, wash them, and toss them together with a little olive oil and salt for a low-calorie salad that's also a great source of protein and fiber. You can try adding chopped red onions, tomatoes, and corn to add tangy flavor, but the great thing bean salad is that it's usually great on its own, too!

, Making a hummus-like bean dip out of red kidney beans is so easy it's criminal. Just add the beans with a little salt, pepper, and olive oil to a blender or food processor and pulse until you have a creamy spread.


If you're going for a more "hummus-y" taste, add a little tahini and lemon juice — these are essential ingredients in traditional hummus. Garnish with cayenne pepper and parsley before serving.

