 Any size is fine, although gauge the needs of the plants you'll be growing when choosing smaller or larger jugs.;
, After washing it out to remove residues of milk using hot, soapy water, rinse thoroughly to remove all soap. Then, let it dry before proceeding.


If milk residues are stuck on the sides, scrub off gently.
Peel off labels or stickers from the jug. Either scrape the label from the plastic jug or use hot soapy water and a scrubbing pad to gently remove it.
 Depending on how large you want your planter mouth to be, cut either a tighter or larger opening at the neck of the jug or just below it. To cut, use the end of the scissors to stab into the side of the jug before cutting. Once the scissors have a hold, cut around the jug. Cut to remove the top completely. Although you could cut straight around you could also create a wave pattern or even an up and down pattern around the top of the jug.


Make sure you are closer to the top of the jug opening so you leave enough room to hold the soil.
It might help to mark the are you wish to cut around the jug, to have an easy-to-follow line.
 Using scissors, poke small holes in the bottom of the jug. This will allow for drainage and keeps the plant healthy. Poke three to five small holes underneath––enough for drainage but not too large so that soil drops out of the bottom.
 While this is optional, it's a chance to be creative or to hand it over to the kids for some garden decorating fun. Get as creative as you wish when decorating your milk jug. You could even “bling” out your jug using faux jewels or cover the jug with fake money for fun. Use tempera paint for the best application if you plan to paint it or you could add on with papier-mâché. Perhaps create an animal face and then paint it.


Use care if applying charms or other items using a hot glue gun. Hot glue and plastic may slightly warp or bend, so use the minimal amount of glue if you plan to use a hot glue gun for application. Consider using Super Glue as an alternative way for application.
 Pour in the soil. Put a paper plate or newspaper underneath the milk jug before you do this in order avoid picking it up and leaving dirt on the table. Fill almost to the top of the opening.
 If you're adding a seedling, use a hand shovel to dig a nook inside the soil deep enough to cover the plant to its base. For seed placement, use your finger to push the seeds underneath the dirt.
 Add water to get the plant started. Be sure the planter is in an area that can receive water runoff (such as outside in the grass or you’ve placed a plastic tray underneath).
 Keep reusing milk jugs to make planters so that you have rows of them. These can placed on shelving, which can be recycled too, such as using an old wooden crate or pallet.

