 If your child is under five, allow them to determine their own activity levels by giving them plenty of time to play. The important components of play at this age are safety and support. Provide age appropriate toys, often meant to touch, rearrange, or look at., From age five into adulthood, children should exercise for at least an hour every day. Recreational, or “moderate” everyday activities include jogging, biking, and team sports that are stop-and-go, such as baseball. About three days of the week, a child's daily exercise should be more vigorous. Examples of appropriate aerobic or “vigorous” physical activity include running, playing tennis, or playing more active team sports, like basketball or soccer.When your child is young, be sure that some family time is spent doing physical activity. For instance, go on hikes together. You don’t have to push them to exercise heavily - but it’s important to get outside and move around a bit every day.
 Children should not spend more than two hours a day watching TV or playing video games. This is partly because these behaviors lead to sedentary lifestyles, and establish dangerous behavioral trends that are hand to change as someone ages. Meanwhile, physical activity patterns - which are most more likely when they are encouraged - often persist into adulthood.Avoid exposing children under two to video entertainment of any sort.
 As a person reaches their teenage years, increased physical activity can improve cardiovascular health even further. In fact, as people approach and enter adulthood, encourage them to shoot for two and half hours of moderate physical activity per day. An hour of more vigorous activity is also sufficient.This amount of exercise can reduce an individual’s risk of developing coronary heart disease by roughly 30%.
 With the rise in popularity of sedentary activities, you may get some resistance from young people when you encourage them to exercise. Keep in mind that if they remain inactive, they are are much greater risk of heart disease and other health conditions.In fact, persistent inactivity into adulthood can effectively double someone’s chances of experiencing a heart condition. Fortunately, even small amounts of physical activity can help immensely.
 One of the best ways to help motivate children to be more active is by being active yourself. Best of all, exercise together. Go for a walk after dinner, or bring a ball or other toy to a park near your home. On weekends, plan outings that include physical activity, such as hikes at nearby state parks.Even just two hours of walking per week can have a significantly positive effect on both your own and your children's cardiovascular health. This is in part because exercise helps prevent risk factors, such as obesity, from developing.

