 There is a requirement you must meet in order for Gracie to visit your town: Your convenience store must be at the third upgrade, the Home Center.


To get the Home Center (T.I.Y), you need to have spent 50,000 bells in the shop and waited 21 days since you got the Super T&T, the second upgrade. Once you have T.I.Y, Gracie will be able to visit.
Gracie’s visits are, however, rare, so you may find yourself waiting a long time before you see her. To make sure you don’t miss her, play every day and check the area around the town square thoroughly!;
, Since Gracie will only like you if you pass her fashion check, you must know the different clothing themes that she’ll ask you to wear. Clothing can belong to one of ten different themes: basic, cute, historical, iconic, flashy, modern, official, ornate, rock n’ roll, or sporty.


Often times, it is easy to use common sense to figure out which theme any given piece of clothing will belong to.
 Certain themes can clash with one another. If Gracie tells you to follow the basic theme and you wear something rock n’ roll or flashy along with your other basic clothes, that counts as clashing. Below is a list of clashing themes:


Rock n’ roll and flashy clash with the basic theme.
Nothing clashes with the cute theme.
Nothing clashes with the historical theme.
Nothing clashes with the iconic theme.
Official and basic clash with the flashy theme.
Nothing clashes with the modern theme.
Sporty, rock n’ roll and flashy all clash with the official theme.
Nothing clashes with the ornate theme.
Official and basic clash with the rock n’ roll theme.
Official clashes with the sporty theme.
 Once Gracie has given you a theme, you can strategize on how to pass her check. For these purposes, it is very useful to have a variety of clothing options on hand. You can keep extra clothing on the floor in your home or stored in dressers for a tidier house.
 Before you purchase clothes, accessories, or shoes, you can actually get hints on what type of theme they belong to. Inside the Able Sister’s shops, when you click on an article of clothing by pressing “A” but before you choose any dialogue options, Mable will give you some commentary on the clothes.


As an example, she can say, “The sporty vibe of the rally tank is nice, right?” where “sporty” is the theme and “rally tank” is the name of the item. These will change depending on what you’ve clicked on.
 On the accessory side of the Able Sister’s shop, you will need to try on the item before Labelle will tell you what theme it belongs to. Once you’ve tried on the item, Labelle will say, “Oh wow, that look is great on you.” Then you have the option as to whether or not you’d like to buy it.


You can try on an accessory by standing next to it then pressing “A.”

, Inside Kick’s shop for shoes and socks, you simply need to stand next to the item and press “A,” and Kick will say, “Fan of the look?”

, Once Gracie visits, talk to her by pressing “A.” She will tell you that she can fashion-check you. Then, she will select a theme at random. The theme will be indicated by blue lettering in your dialogue.


As an example, she might say “Keep it basic!” and basic will be in blue, telling you that that’s the theme she will be judging you on.
Your outfit is composed of everything you are wearing: pants/skirt and shirt or dress, socks, shoes, and any hats and accessories. Even if you cannot see your socks, they do count towards the check.
 Once you know the theme, you should attempt to find and wear as many pieces of clothing that fit that theme.


If you cannot assemble a full outfit out of that theme alone, you can supplement your outfit with pieces from other themes as long as that theme doesn’t clash. Only most of the pieces of your outfit need to fit the theme, not all.
 Once you’re wearing the clothes closest to Gracie’s theme, speak to Gracie again. She will then evaluate your outfit according to the theme she chose.


Once you pass her check, it will count towards your Nookling Store upgrade, and Gracie will give you a piece of furniture or clothing for being stylish.
You have three chances to pass the test. If you fail all three times, you will have to wait until the next time Gracie visits. Also, if you fail to pass before midnight, Gracie will leave, and you will have to wait until her next visit.

