 There will likely be times when you get annoyed, frustrated, or irritated while on your trip. When kids are present, they will likely have meltdowns, fights, or other behavior problems while traveling. One way to minimize conflict is to communicate clearly what expectations are in place and how to express oneself respectfully. Do your best to ease any tensions as quickly as they come up in order to avoid them growing into massive problems and ruining your trip.You can do a quick review of one or more of the ground rules that best apply to the situation.
Confront problems in a calm, solution-focused manner. For example, instead of saying, “Stop wiping your snot everywhere!” say, “Here’s a tissue if you’d like to wipe your nose.”
Let children know that whining is not tolerated. If you have a problem with another parent disciplining your child, let them know to get you if your child needs discipline., When traveling with other families, make sure you want to do similar activities. If one family wants to rest and relax while the other wants to do lots of activities and sight-seeing, this may cause problems or make kids feel left out. When planning activities, get a firm yes from those involved. Incompatibility in activities can cause tensions and disruptions on trips.If you differ greatly on activities you want to do, consider doing a few scheduled activities together and spending the rest of the time with your own family. For example, you may have one day devoted to taking the kids to the water park all together and another day to a sports game but spend time separately otherwise.
 In an effort to try to keep everyone happy or entertained, you may overbook your trip, which can lead to overtired children, exhausted adults, and plenty of grumpiness. If you plan a day at a theme park, expect a low-key day afterward. Plan activities based on children’s ages and what they can handle. A child who typically takes a nap may have a difficult time being out all day. Discuss these factors with the other families to keep scheduling appropriate.Make a tentative schedule and go over it all together. Make sure it works well for all members and make any accommodations necessary. Remember to shorten longer tentative lists.
 Put all the children who go to bed early together in one room or one part of the room. If children wake up early, let them know not to disturb others. Let early risers know what they can do in the morning; for instance, they may watch TV or make breakfast, but they are not allowed to wake up parents or other children.Consider putting all of the children in one room or divide up rooms by age or sleep schedule.

