 The objective is to place your card next to an opponent card whose number facing yours is less.

Each player has five (5) cards
Each card has four (4) numbers which corresponds to its four sides
The numbers range from 1 to A (equivalent to 10)
Each card may also be elemental, depending on the symbol (if there's any) on its upper right side
The comparisons basically depends on the position of the cards: Left numbers are against right numbers, and top numbers are against bottom numbers.;
, At any point in time, pink cards belong to your opponent, and blue cards belong to you. This means you can only score against pink cards to turn them blue.

For example, your opponent's Quistis' card (9-2-6-A) has the number 2 on its left side. Putting your Seifer's card (6-4-9-A) on Quistis' left would make her flip to blue and earn you one point because Seifer's 9 on the right is greater than Quistis' 2 on the left.
 Rules exist in the game, which may vary over time on each region. The rules may include:

Open. All cards are faced up throughout the game
Elemental. Some of the slots on the playing field are assigned an element, which may increase or decrease a card's values depending on the card's element (or lack of one).
Sudden Death. In case of a draw, the game starts again but the players' cards will be the ones that they flipped. This means that in the next round, your opponent will have all the pink cards, and you will have all the blue.
Random. Probably the most annoying rule when you're trying to collect rare cards, this implies that the five cards that you play are randomly chosen from your deck.
Same. When two or more of your card's numbers placed against two of the opponent's cards are equal, it would flip those cards and earn you points. This means that when Rinoa's card is placed in between Edea's (on the left) and Irvine's (on the right) cards, both opponent cards will be flipped and earn you a point each. This is because Rinoa's A on the right is the same as Irvine's left, and Rinoa's A on the left is the same as Edea's right. This applies to horizontal and L-shaped positions as well.
Plus. If a card's numbers adds up to the same value on two or more adjacent cards of the opponent, those cards are flipped over. For example, when Ward's card is placed below Rinoa's card and above Selphie's, the plus rule will be invoked and flip both girls' cards. This is because Ward + Rinoa (A + 2) is equal to Ward + Selphie (2 + A).
Combo. An addition to the Same and Plus rules, this implies all cards flipped by the Same or Plus rule will flip the cards around it of less value.
Wall. This makes the outer walls of the fields equal to A. This is most useful for strategizing with the Same and Plus rules.
One. The default, the winner will take one card of the opponent's hand of his or her choosing.
Diff. The winner takes cards from the loser's hand equal to the difference of the scores. This means that if you win 6:4, you take two (6 - 4 = 2) cards.
Direct. Opponent takes all pink cards at the end of the game, you take the blue ones.
All. Winner takes all.

