 If you would prefer someone else make your Valentine’s Day meal, look for a vegetarian restaurant in your area. Search online for top vegetarian restaurants and read reviews to ensure the food is flavorful, high quality, and vegetarian friendly. Ask vegetarian friends for restaurant recommendations in your area, such as a spot where they had a great, romantic meal that was vegetarian.You can also look at the menu for vegetarian restaurants in your area to make sure there are menu items that sound appetizing.
If your date is not vegetarian, you may send them the restaurant menu in advance to ensure they like the menu and can find something to eat at the restaurant.
 If you cannot find a vegetarian restaurant in your area, check for restaurants that serve vegetarian dishes. Look on their menu for the “v” or “vegetarian” note by a menu item, as this means you can get the dish prepared vegetarian. Many restaurants will have a few non-meat items for vegetarian diners.Look at cuisines that usually have a lot of vegetarian food options, such as Mexican food, Thai food, Indian food, and Middle Eastern food. Search for restaurants that serve these types of foods for more vegetarian options.
 Do not be afraid to contact the restaurant in advance and find out if they will prepare a vegetarian meal for you. Call them and speak to the wait staff or the chef. Ask about getting a vegetarian meal prepared for your dinner. Talk to them about your options for food already on the menu or the possibility of a special meal for you that is non-meat.Make sure you arrange the special meal beforehand, such as when you place your reservation for dinner. This will ensure your meal will be ready and easy to make once you arrive with your date for dinner.
 Some chefs will offer to modify an existing dish so it is vegetarian, such as swapping out an animal protein like chicken or beef for a plant protein like beans or legumes. Look over the menu at the restaurant and identify any items that can be modified to be vegetarian. Ask the chef if there are existing dishes they can adjust to be vegetarian.

Keep in mind many restaurants will offer to do this for, even if you do not request it ahead of time. Most restaurants will have menu items that are easy to adapt for a vegetarian.

