 The oil will help dissolve the marker stain, making it easier to remove; it also smells much more pleasant than rubbing alcohol or acetone. Simply soak a cotton ball with some tea tree oil and rub it over the stain until it disappears. For tiny areas, consider using a Q-tip instead. When you are done, wipe the area clean with a paper towel.









If there is any oily residue, soak a cotton ball with some rubbing alcohol and wipe it clean.
 Make sure that you are using a good quality rubber eraser. This will be most effective on light stains and smooth surfaces. Simply rub the stain with the eraser until it disappears.
 Keep in mind, however, that the oils in sunscreen can also stain certain surfaces, so you might want to test it out first on an inconspicuous area first.
 Sprinkle some baking soda over the stain, and then drizzle some white vinegar over it. Let the foamy mixture sit on the stain for a few minutes, then wipe it off using a towel., Be sure to get the type that comes in a dark-colored bottle from the first aid section of a drug store. Soak a cotton ball with some hydrogen peroxide and wipe it over the strain. For larger stains, pour the hydrogen peroxide over it and wipe it off using a paper towel.
 The chemicals in the spray will help dissolve the stain, making it easier to remove. Spray the affected area, then wipe it clean using a paper towel. Keep in mind that the chemicals in some hairsprays may damage certain plastics. Consider testing in an out-of-sight area first before working on the stain.
 Products such as Goo-Gone and Goof-Off can be great at removing sticky residue and stains, including permanent marker stains.However, the chemicals in these products may also ruin certain surfaces, especially if they are shiny. Be sure to read the manufacturer's instructions and consider testing the product in an inconspicuous area first. You may also end up with some oily residue, which you can clean off by wiping a cotton ball soaked with rubbing alcohol over it.

