 Generally speaking, the number one rule of dealing with thinning hair is to not let it get too long. This applies to men with both straight and curly hair, and anything in between. Close-cropped cuts will give your hair a more uniform appearance and make inconsistencies in fullness less noticeable. For most hairstyles, a length of about an inch or less will work best for minimizing the appearance of thin patches.
Trying to compensate for hair loss by leaving hair longer in certain areas usually just highlights the thin spots.;
, Smooth your hair in one direction so that it lays over spots with the most thinning. This technique will be especially useful if most of the thinning is concentrated around the crown. Combover styles are versatile because they allow you to slick your hair back, part it to one side or brush it down for a more tousled look.For best results, leave the hair on your crown a bit longer (around an inch) to cover more area, and move a shallow part deeper to one side.A combover won’t always be able to hide everything. If bare patches are still peeking through, it may be worth it to give a more subtle style a shot.
 Work a little low-hold product into your hair, then comb or tease it with your fingers until it comes to a subtle point over the crown. By drawing the hair inward toward the center, you can conceal bald spots and create the illusion of height and thickness. You can even while preserving your natural part—just use a comb to coax the hair upward before sweeping it over.Piled-up styles will look best with cuts that preserve a little length on top while keeping the hair short on the back and sides.
Gathering the hair in the middle will be especially useful for men with fine, straight hair, which tends to have a harder time providing coverage over the scalp., If the thinning is already fairly advanced, or if you’ve begun balding all over, the best solution may be to just take a trimmer to what’s left. A buzzcut will help make bare patches less obvious by bringing the hair closer to the scalp all over. Less hair means cutting, grooming and styling to deal with.Buzz thinning hair down to a quarter inch or shorter, or go all the way and shave all the way down to the skin.Many men prefer the freedom and ease of upkeep that shaved hairstyles offer.

