 If you are prompted to update to the latest version of iTunes for either your Mac OS X or Windows, select the "Update" button and allow the program to do so. ITunes may restart the program to apply the updated features. If you do not have iTunes, you can download and install the latest version from apple.com for free.;
,


For Windows: Click on the "Edit" menu at the top of your iTunes program.
For Mac OS X: Click on the "iTunes" menu at the top of the iTunes program.
 From the "General" area of the Preferences window, select the "Import Settings" button located on the right hand side near the bottom of the window.


The default file type used in Apple's iTunes settings is the AAC Encoder. This file type allows high sound quality with a smaller file size.
The MP3 encoding also outputs a high sound quality and has better compatibility with other devices such as digital music players, but this option also creates a larger file size.
AIFF and WAV files are very large files that are used for specific projects such as use in audio editing software.
Choosing the AAC Encoder option will allow you optimal sound quality with smaller file size allowing you to squeeze more music onto your digital music device.
 The iTunes program will automatically search through an Internet database (CDDB) to retrieve your audio CD's information such as artist name, album name, track names, genre, etc. This only takes a couple of seconds.


Once iTunes has found the information for your audio CD, the album will then show up underneath the "Devices" heading in the column on the left hand side of the iTunes program.
 This will open a window showing all of the CD's information.
 ITunes will then automatically import all of the tracks from your CD into your iTunes library, showing its progress of the imports next to each track as well as at the top middle of the iTunes window.


Once the CD has finished importing, you will be able to find the music you have just imported by clicking on the "Music" area under the "Library" heading in the left hand column.



To edit an entire field on the CD, for example the "Artist" field, select all the songs on the audio CD (hold the "Shift" key down while selecting each track) then hold "Control" and click the highlighted area. Scroll down to "Get Info" from the menu that appears. This will allow you to change the artist name, genre, album name etc. for the entire CD without selecting each individual track to do so.
Although naming your audio CD's information is not imperative to being able to import your CD, it will allow you to find the songs/album you want to listen to and organize your iTunes library better by knowing which songs are which.

