 Hamsters, just like most pets, need access to a source of fresh water 24 hours a day. Because hamsters spend the majority of their time inside their cages, the best source of water is via a water bottle that hangs on the side of the cage.While the water bottle may hold enough water to last more than one day, it is best to refill your hamster’s water bottle every day.While a hamster can drink out of a water bowl, they aren’t recommended. Not only can bowls tip easily (which means you have to clean the cage more often) but it’s easy for your hamster to get her poop or bedding in the water.
An average, inexpensive water bottle will most likely be made of plastic. But because hamsters like to chew things, plastic water bottles (and plastic food dishes, and plastic anything) will likely get chewed and damaged over time and need replacing. Instead, you might want to consider buying a water bottle made of glass and/or metal so it won’t need to be replaced later.
 In general, you should look for store-bought hamster food that contains 12 – 15% protein and 3 – 6% fat. If you hamster is already obese, you’ll want to look for a food with a lower fat content. All hamster food should have this information printed on the package, most likely on one of the sides. Hamsters also need their food to be high in carbohydrates because they need a lot of energy to be so active. Other things to consider when buying hamster food are:Always make sure the food hasn’t expired by checking the expiry date. Select the bag with the expiry date that is furthest away.
If you have store-bought hamster food at home for more than three months, throw it out and buy new food.
Dwarf hamsters only need to be fed 1 – 2 tablespoons of hamster food per day. You can give this amount all at once, once a day, or break up the amount and feed your hamster twice a day.
Always store your hamster’s food in a cool, dry place. You can even put it inside an airtight container and store it in the fridge.
A hamster’s daily food intake should consist of at least 50% store-bought hamster food.
It’s okay to feed your hamster both store-bought seed mixes and pellets at the same time. In fact, your hamster may appreciate the variety.
Seed mixes usually contain a variety of different seeds, grasses, grains, dried fruits, and vegetables. Some hamsters may pick and choose which items they eat and which they leave behind — and they’re more likely to eat the high-fat items first. You can always sort out the seed mix and remove the high fat seeds (e.g. sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, etc.) and only provide them as a treat once in a while.
 Hamsters can be fed all sorts of different fruits and vegetables, but each individual hamster may have her favourites. You can add approximately 1 square inch worth of fruits and veggies to your hamster's diet every day. If you feed your hamster too many fruits or vegetables, he may get diarrhea. It’s also a good idea to remove any leftover fruits and veggies from your hamster’s cage within 30 minutes. Hamsters can’t always tell if fruit or veggies have gone bad, and can get sick from eating spoiled produce.The following fruits and vegetables are safe to feed your hamster: celery, carrots, apples, broccoli, plums, figs, peas, strawberries, melons, beets, cauliflower, grapes, plantains, soy sprouts, pumpkin, sweet potato, rose hips, cucumber, zucchini, dandelions, clover, mint, timothy hay, herbal hay, stinging nettles, chamomile, apples, pears, hazelnuts, and bananas.
You can also give a hamster the twigs from apple, pear, hazelnut and beech trees to chew on, although make sure they’re from trees that aren’t sprayed with pesticides.
The following fruits and vegetables should be avoided, as they may make your hamster ill: cabbage, onions, leeks, spinach, sorrel, rhubarb, raw potatoes, corn, alfalfa, citrus fruit, peaches, apricots, nectarines, pineapple, raspberries, twigs from evergreen trees, horse chestnuts, ivy, acorns, and any type of house plant.
 Every hamster will have treats that she prefers over others. In addition to fruits and vegetables you can also try giving your hamster a small amount of the following carbohydrates: whole wheat bread, cooked pasta or rice, sugar free cereals, cooked potatoes, barley, wheat, oats, and even dog biscuits on occasion for a special treat. You might even find that your hamster likes the following sources of protein: cooked eggs, cottage cheese, live mealworms, insect larvae, grasshoppers, crickets, and small bits of cooked chicken, beef, or fish..Be careful when feeding your hamster the carbohydrates listed above, especially if you want your hamster to lose weight. Most store-bought food should have enough carbohydrates to balance your hamster’s diet, so only give these as a special treat.
Most store-bought food will have enough protein that you won’t need to provide any extra. But if you want to give your hamster one of the proteins listed above, do so only as a special treat.
 Hamsters, like a lot of wild animals, need to ingest salt on a regular basis in order to retain the water they drink and stay healthy. Small salt licks are available that can be placed inside your hamster’s cage, sometimes they’ll even come in the form of a toy. Your hamster will only consume the amount of salt he needs., Hamsters are like squirrels: they hide their food and save it for later. Some foods — like seed mixes — make it easier for your hamster to hoard food because they already come in a small, storable size. The key is to make sure you stick to feeding your hamster ONLY her daily amount of food. It may look like she’s hungry because her food bowl is empty, but in reality she may simply have hidden her food elsewhere in her cage., The most common form of exercise for a hamster inside his cage is a hamster wheel. These wheels attach to the side of the cage and are open on one side. The hamster is able to climb inside and run, like he's on a treadmill. In general, exercise wheels that do not have gaps between the rungs are best. Wheels with gaps can injure your hamster very easily, as his foot can get caught in the gap.If your hamster’s cage is in someone’s bedroom, you may want to investigate which exercise wheel is the quietest. Hamsters will normally use their wheels at night, when you’re trying to sleep, so the quieter the better.
 Hamsters love exercise. While they’re awake they should be constantly on the move. In the wild, hamsters can run over a mile every day in search of food!To give her a little variety over the exercise she can receive inside her cage, make her a play area outside of her cage as well. If you have no other pets (or the other pets don’t harm or stress your hamster) you can just let her out of the cage to run around. Or, if you prefer something a little more secure, you can build her a small play area enclosure.Get creative — build a hamster play area using old boxes, cardboard tubes (toilet paper tubes, paper towel tubes, etc.), ramps, and more. Then hide treats in and around the play area for your hamster to find. Use these items to create a maze for your hamster with treats at the end.
One great way to give your hamster exercise is to let her climb the stairs. Because a dwarf hamster is so small, it’ll probably need to be stairs that are covered in carpet.
The quintessential hamster exercise machine is the hamster exercise ball. It’s basically a large plastic ball (maybe the size of a volleyball) that has a door and lots of air vents. You can put your hamster inside, through the door, and then put the ball on the ground. Your hamster will run around inside like she would on their exercise wheel, but the ball will move from place to place so she can explore. While it may look funny, don’t let your hamster go down the stairs in an exercise ball or allow her anywhere near standing water, like a pool.

