 If you can wait until it’s thick and long, you’ll have more to work with when it comes to achieving a certain look with your trim.


If this is your first mustache, it may take several weeks until your hair is long enough to trim.
Begin etching out the shape of your mustache by shaving your cheeks and chin while you wait for your mustache to grow.
Have some patience: if you start to trim your mustache too soon, you won’t get the best results.;
, This will most likely be your bathroom, but if there’s a brighter spot in your house, consider setting up a mirror there instead. You want to create barbershop-caliber conditions before you get to trimming - a shadow or a slip of the scissors could make it necessary to shave it off and start over from scratch.
 Just as you would wash your hair before a haircut, it’s a good idea to wash your mustache with a little facial soap or shampoo before beginning your trim. This will soften it and make it easier to trim. You could also simply moisten a comb under the faucet and comb it through to dampen your mustache. Pat it with a towel so that it’s damp, but not soaking wet.
 Use a small comb with closely spaced teeth to brush your lip hair straight down. This will ensure that you get an even trim.
 Hold a pair of trimming scissors parallel to the top of your lip and carefully clip the bottom of your mustache along your lip line.


Keep your trimming hand as steady as possible to ensure that your mustache is trimmed evenly.
Follow the shape of your mouth to shape the bottom of your mustache.
Your mustache hairs should just meet the top of your lip. Don’t trim too far above your lip; remember that your hair is damp, and it will be a little shorter when it dries.
 Using a mustache trimmer, reduce your mustache’s volume by trimming the top layer of hair.


If you don’t have a mustache trimmer, use your fine-tooth comb to gently lift the top layer of mustache hair. Carefully trim it to the desired length with your scissors.
This step may not be necessary unless your mustache is thick and bushy.
 Shave the area above and to the sides of your mustache for more definition. Be careful not to shave into the mustache itself.
 Check to ensure that the sides are evenly trimmed.

