 Prioritizing a good night's sleep will give you more energy and make it easier to stick to your exercise routine. It will also improve your mood and decrease your stress, which can help to put you in a good frame of mind to make the positive lifestyle choices that will help your diabetes diagnosis.
 Stress is one of the top causes of over-eating, or of eating sweets (eating is known to be a form of "emotional coping"). Therefore, if you can find ways to reduce the stress in your life you may help yourself to keep up the positive lifestyle habits that can make a big difference in coping with type 2 diabetes.


One option is to try yoga or meditation, both of which are gaining popularity as stress reduction techniques.
You can also make more time for relaxation, such as taking a hot bath in the evenings or taking time to read a book that helps you to rest and recharge.
If you are struggling to manage your stress, it may be worthwhile to see a counsellor or a life coach. They can help you to manage the demands of daily life and the added stress of living with diabetes.
 Just because you have received the diagnosis does not mean you are doomed to live with it for life. If you are pre-diabetic or in the early stages of diabetes, you can actually improve your blood sugar levels and possibly bring them back into the normal range; however, it takes dedication to positive lifestyle measures in order to reverse or improve your blood sugar values.This is an opportunity to show yourself just how much you value your health and wellbeing, by making healthy lifestyle choices a priority.


Stress, anxiety, depression, diet, and negative coping behaviors can all cause increases in blood sugars. Just as anything in life, a balance is needed to acquire control of diabetes. Change is a process, so every day promise yourself to be better than the last, and if one day is bad, forgive yourself and try again the next day.
 Even as you implement positive lifestyle changes, it is key to follow your medication routine as prescribed by your doctor. This will help to ward off any long-term consequences of the disease, such as damage to your eyes, your kidneys, your heart, digestive system, and/or your nerves.


Once you have blood tests that show an overall improvement in your blood sugar levels, you can then speak to your doctor about the possibility of cutting back on medication.Do not attempt to do so without the professional opinion of your physician.

