 The best time for a nap is usually mid afternoon, before 3 pm. This is the time of day you will likely experience afternoon sleepiness or a lower level of alertness. Naps taken before 3 pm should not interfere with your nighttime sleep.Keep your naps short, between 10 to 30 minutes. This will prevent sleep inertia, which is when you feel groggy and disoriented after a nap that goes on for longer than 30 minutes.This will also prevent you from oversleeping the following morning, as naps under 30 minutes should not interfere with your sleep schedule.
 When you take sleeping pills for a brief period of time, and based on your doctor’s recommendations, they can help you fall asleep. But they are just a temporary solution. In fact, sleeping pills can often make insomnia and other sleep issues worse in the long term.Use sleeping pills and medications sparingly for short term situations, like traveling across several time zones or when recovering from a medical procedure.
Using sleeping pills only when necessary, rather than on a daily basis, will also prevent you from being dependent on them to help you sleep every night.
 Many of the side effects of these drugs can have adverse effects on your sleep patterns and daytime alertness. Common medications that can disturb your sleep include:Nasal decongestants.
Aspirin and other headache medications.
Pain relievers that contain caffeine.
Cold and allergy medications containing an antihistamine.
If you are taking any of these medications, try to reduce your dosage. Or research alternative methods to treat these issues so you can stop taking these over-the-counter medications.
 A sleep journal or diary can be a useful tool to help you identify any habits that may be keeping you awake at night and causing you to sleep in. You may also be able to also pinpoint if you are displaying symptoms of a sleep disorder. Update your sleep journal with notes on:What time you went to bed and woke up.
The total sleep hours and quality of your sleep.
The amount of time you spent awake and what you did. For example: “stayed in bed with eyes closed” “counted sheep” “read a book”.
The food and liquids you consumed before bed and the amount of food and liquids you consumed.
Your feelings and moods before bed, such as “happy” “stressed” “anxious”.
How long it took you to get up the morning, and how often you hit the “snooze” button on your alarm.
Any drugs or medication you took, such as sleeping pills, including the dose and time of consumption.
Notice any triggers that start to repeat themselves in your sleep journal and see if there are ways you can prevent or limit these triggers. For example, maybe you often get a bad night’s sleep on a Friday after drinking two beers, or you tend to sleep in after watching tv past midnight. Try not to drink at all the following Friday or skip your late night television routine and see if this improves your sleep.

