 Brush your cat for five to ten minutes at least once a week to manage shedding. If your cat has long hair or sheds heavily, you may need to brush it once every two to three days or more.A soft-bristle brush will work for short- or medium-haired cats. A wire-bristle (“slicker brush”) or specialized cat comb will work best for long-haired breeds. The brush shouldn’t get snarled or require tugging.
Using a comb to get down to the skin will help get the loosened undercoat to the surface.
Finish with a quick rubdown using a chamois or cloth.
Avoid the face and ears while brushing, and be careful near the sensitive stomach area.If the cat does not tolerate grooming with a brush or comb, try using grooming gloves, which feel more like stroking.Mini cat-grooming vacuums are another option. The noise they produce may frighten your cat, though. You may have to start with the vacuum in another room, and gradually bring it closer over the course of a few days or weeks before the cat accepts the device being used on them. Using treats can be a good idea to create a positive association.;
, You may need to train your cat to tolerate grooming. Be attentive to your cat’s response and body language. Some cats are hypersensitive to touch. Watch the cat’s body language to avoid overwhelming or overstimulating it.


Watch for tail or ear twitching. If you see either, stop brushing, praise the cat and/or offer it a treat, then let it go. If you continue brushing, your cat may bite or scratch you.
 To actively reduce shedding, bathe your cat every one to four weeks. Because most cats don’t like water, your cat may not be enthusiastic about a bath. You may need to gradually work your cat up to a full bath.


To help your cat become accustomed to a bath, start by filling a bathtub with three to four inches of warm (not hot) water.For the first few times, just put the cat in the water so that just its feet get wet and let the feet soak for a short period. Gradually build up to getting more of the cat’s body wet each time. Always build up slowly to avoid frightening your cat and understand that some cats may never tolerate a bath.
When you’re ready to bathe your cat, begin by wetting its fur.
Use a soap-free, oatmeal based pet shampoo to lather the fur everywhere but the cat’s face.
Rinse the fur thoroughly, again, avoiding the eyes, nose, and ears.Dry the cat with a large towel.
 Visit a pet store and look for wipes or sprays that clean a cat's fur without water.


These can replace baths entirely for uncooperative cats. Or, you can use them between baths if the cat gets dirty or starts shedding.Alternatively, to quickly remove loose fur from the top coat, use a paper towel or cloth dampened in warm water.
 Make an appointment with a professional groomer if you’re unable to manage the shedding yourself.


A visit to a professional groomer may be necessary for cats with long, thick fur or for cats that react aggressively to grooming.
Consider having a long-haired cat shaved down once or twice a year to decrease shedding.

