 Have a glass of milk with breakfast or, for the lactose intolerant, take a calcium supplement. Generally, 1,200mg of daily calcium is recommended, but since calcium may help diminish cramps you should definitely ensure adequate intake during your period.Spinach and kale are great sources of both magnesium and calcium., Magnesium can improve menstrual pain as well as the breast soreness and bloating associated with menstruation.Foods like spinach, kale, pumpkin seeds, soybeans, avocado, and banana contain magnesium, but you can also take supplements if needed and recommended by your doctor.

Bananas are also a good source of potassium and fiber, and can improve your bowel function.Constipation and intestinal cramping would certainly make menstrual cramps feel worse.
 Get 400 international units (IU) of vitamin E daily to ease cramps.Good food sources of vitamin E are sunflower seeds, almonds, peanut butter, cooked spinach, cooked beet greens, cooked collard greens, safflower oil, cooked asparagus, raw red peppers, mango, and swordfish., Omega-3’s, a good kind of fat, are great for overall health. They may also improve menstrual pain. Get your omega-3’s from fatty fish like salmon or mackerel but adding these to a meal 3 times per week, and snack on walnuts, almonds, and pumpkin seeds.If needed, fish oil and cod liver oil supplements are available at pharmacies, and can be taken for additional omega-3’s. This can be a once-a-day supplement, but speak with your healthcare provider before taking it.
 Your body can make vitamin D3, which eases menstrual pain, when you get sun – so apply your sunscreen and absorb some rays.Of course if you don’t always have fair weather, cod liver oil supplements provide vitamin D3. You can get a little from foods like beef liver, eggs (with the yolk), fatty fish, and cheese – but dietary sources are minimal.Even 10 minutes in the mid-day sun for fair-skinned individuals – without sunscreen – will enable your body to make a day’s dose of vitamin D.Dark-skinned people require more time in the sun. Of course, it’s safest to wear sunscreen and avoid midday sun so you don’t get a sunburn.
 Vitamin B-1, or thiamine, and vitamin B-6 may also reduce menstrual cramps.Supplements are available if you and your doctor decide your diet does not provide enough B vitamins.


B6 shows up in fish, liver, potatoes, and non-citrus fruit.You can add thiamine to your diet with beef, pork, liver, nuts, eggs, peas, legumes, seeds, and cereals and oats marked as fortified.