 You don't want to delay the inevitable, or give her the wrong impression.;
, If you're telling her in person, do it in a location where you can easily leave - a public place that's not overly crowded, such as a bench at the park, or a short walk outside. DON'T do it at your place, because it's always harder to get someone else to leave than to leave yourself.
 It doesn't have to be a long conversation. Say something like "Look, there's something I want to tell you. I'm really flattered that you like me, and I feel uncomfortable saying this, but I don't have those feelings for you."

, The truth is, your reasons are not important - if you aren't interested, you aren't interested. Anything you say can lead to hurt feelings, and isn't likely to go over well. Simply stick with a very simple statement that it just 'wasn't a match,' or that she's a very nice person, but you don't want to be in a relationship with her.
 Hopefully, you haven't been seeing her for very long - most people who realize they aren't interested in pursuing a relationship do so quickly. If there's a specific problem, such as that she was too clingy too quickly, you might find a tactful way to say so, and that will help her in the future. Something like, "It was just too much too soon for me." If she suggests she could slow things down, firmly let her know, "There were other reasons which are not important. What is important is that I don't want to pursue this relationship. I'm sorry, you're a very nice person, but it's not a match for me."

, Don't overstay. As soon as she's had time to express her sadness or anger, simply say that it's time for you to go, and wish her the best.
 It's really important not to lead her on and say things that might lead her to think that there's a chance some day. Some people think this is a way of breaking the news gently or "letting her down easy," but it's much better to deal with reality. Women who have fallen hard will hold onto any shred of hope and will not move on as long as you allow them to believe there is any. Cut it off clean - it's the kindest cut of all.
 Gossiping, or bad mouthing another person never leads to anything positive. If anyone asks, just tell them "It didn't work out." If someone tells you she has a hot new boyfriend and seems really happy, say, "That's great, I'm really happy for her."

