 Having company can make a long car ride into a memorable bonding experience. You can talk to your friends, play games with them, sing songs and even have deep and heart-felt conversations with them on the road.


If you're driving, you can divide the drive into shifts and delegate shifts to friends or family members who can drive. Driving for shorter time periods can prevent accidents from happening if you get tired and it can make the whole journey go faster and smoother. Driving alone might mean you will have to stop frequently to rest.
Choose your companions wisely. A long drive can be fun with the right kind of people, while it can be torturous with the wrong kind. Choose reliable friends who will be willing to help you out during a long drive.
Check with your other companions, especially if you're travelling with family or parents, if inviting others to the trip is okay. It's very important every gets along for the whole ride.;
, Bring CDs, upload music onto your music device, and create a playlist of songs. Choose:


Songs you can sing along to. Belting out notes can make listening to music into a performance. Movie soundtracks or Broadway musical songs are great song choices that you can be fun to sing along with.
Songs with an upbeat tune. If you're driving, you'll probably be tired and you don't want to lose control of the wheel. Choose upbeat songs to keep you awake and feeling fresh.
A lot of songs. If the ride is long, running out of songs and having to replay them can make music become boring. You can calculate how long the ride will be and try to bring enough songs to last the ride.
 You can find many interesting books or podcasts to listen to while on the road. This is helpful if you'd like to read in the car but you're the one driving or you easily get carsick doing so.


There are a variety of genres of podcasts to listen to. Some podcasts are comedic, some are creative, and some are educational. They can last anywhere from 5 minutes to 2 hours long.
Audiobooks give a dramatic feel to conventional book-reading. Some books have different narrators and styles of narration. Sample each narrator to find one that you like the best.
If you want your kids to keep entertained by watching videos offline on YouTube, download the videos they want before the trip. Don't wait for the last minute!

, A long car ride is a perfect environment to learn a new skill, language, or subject. Bring along audio lessons, textbook materials, and supplies to take notes.


If you're travelling in a bus or in a car with internet connection, you can even do research online with a laptop or on your smartphone.
If you have homework or paperwork to complete, a car ride provides you with ample time to finish these tasks.
 One of the easiest ways to pass time is to sleep. Wear comfortable clothes or change into your pyjamas to create a comfy environment to lull yourself to sleep.


Bring a neck pillow to help support your head. It can get uncomfortable sleeping while sitting up in a car. A neck pillow can prevent you from getting neck cramps and protect your head from hitting the window while driving on a bumpy road.
Listen to relaxing music if you're having trouble sleeping.
 iPads, tablets, portable DVD players, laptops, and portable game consoles can be very entertaining, especially if you load them up with games and movies.


Remember to bring each device's chargers. Purchase or bring a car charger to charge your devices while in the car.
 A good, long book should occupy you for a while. Just look up every now and then to stop yourself from feeling sick.


Bring multiple books in case you finish one or you feel like reading another book.
Bring books about your destination. By the time you arrive, you'll be an expert and can point out the best places to eat, shop, and find entertain.

