 "LOL" and "BRB" are instant-message stand-bys that have mostly entered into the popular lexicon. But still, overusing short-cuts like leaving out letters and using acronyms to get messages across can make your communication seem immature and difficult to read for some texters. Use full words and complete sentences whenever possible, and try to use at least some punctuation.
 When you're getting the hang of texting, your texts will sometimes sound meaner than you intend. try to include words like "please" and "thank you" to soften the tone of your messages.


"Come pick me up now" sounds much more rude as a text, for example, compared to, "I'm ready to be picked up now. Thanks!"
Never communicate bad news or frustration via text, save it for in-person or phone conversations.
 Increasingly, some people use text messages as a go-to first means of communication. When you're first getting into it, it can be difficult to know how, when, and if to respond. A quick "Ok" or "Thanks" to let the person know you've read and received the message is often appreciated, or you can also shoot them a quick call if you'd rather.
 Situations in which it would be inappropriate to talk on the phone are often also inappropriate to text. No one wants to sit at dinner with someone who's constantly checking their phone for new text messages.


If you're texting somewhere quiet, like the library or a movie theatre, make sure your phones notification messages are turned off. The marimba jingle that you like so much is just as annoying as a conversation at a dramatic moment in a movie.
 Text messages are most effective for brief missives and short communications of information. Be judicious and save the dramatic pauses and intricate details of a story for when you're with someone in person. Likewise, don't get frustrated if you message someone "hi" and they don't want to have an IM-style chat.Try asking a specific question or offering a particular piece of information in a text. Rather than asking "What's up" to your friend you're hoping to make plans with, you might type, "Do you want to get sushi later?" If you want to have a longer and more personal conversation, call them.

