 No matter how you spin it, you are going to look like the bad guy if you break up with someone on Valentine's Day. Think about why, of all days, you want to break up on Valentine's Day, knowing that this will likely cause the breakup to be extra painful and may even ruin the holiday for your significant other in the future. Is this the precise reason why you want to break up on Valentine's Day — because it will cause your partner the most pain? Or have you realized, through your preparations for the holiday, that you don't really feel the way you would want to feel about your partner on such a romantic day? Before moving forward, really think about why you want to break up on Valentine's Day and what the consequences might be.

Try to look through any anger or disappointment and think deeply about your motives. Maybe breaking up with your partner on Valentine's will be very hurtful — but is this a move you will regret after some time has passed? Is this action really authentic to your character?
Though it's best not to linger in a relationship when you know things aren't going to work out, you may want to break with the person a week or two after the holiday. Or, even better, break up with her before Valentine's Day, so he/she can return presents or cancel any plans he/she may have made for the two of you.
If you decide to go ahead with your plan, just know that you are not going to come off looking great by breaking up with someone on Valentine's Day, so be prepared for some backlash.;
,

Sometimes relationships just fizzle out. Other times one person cheats or is dishonest. In some cases, people simply aren’t compatible. Considering your reasons for breaking up can help you determine what to say.Some people initiate a Valentine's Day breakup because things didn't turn out perfectly from the moment the day started.Don’t end a good relationship because of one day.
Although it may seem like you have a list of reasons, try to look for a common theme between them.
For example, if your significant other is pessimistic, makes fun of people, and depresses you, you can say that he is not positive enough for you.


Even though you are the one initiating the break up, you might not feel good about it. Reflecting on your feelings will make it easier for you to accept the break up. It will also make it easier for you to explain to your soon-to-be ex. Understanding how you feel about the break up may help give both you and your ex closure.

Be honest with yourself. Don’t make up reasons why you want to break up to make yourself feel better about it.
Studies have shown that this is a common day for breakups.But, figuring out why you are choosing Valentine’s Day to break up with your partner will help you determine the best time, place, and way to do it.


Since it is Valentine’s Day, you want to choose your words carefully, and in advance if possible. Having your main points prepared now may make it less awkward and strained moving forward.Think about how you will phrase your reasons. For example, “I don’t feel we’re compatible, so I’m breaking up with you.”
Plan to avoid phrases like “You always…” or “You never…” because they can make people defensive.
Prepare to talk briefly about the future. Take a few minutes to talk about how you are going to handle the rest of Valentine’s Day, letting friends and family know, and interacting with one another in the future.


Practicing will help you become more comfortable with breaking up on Valentine’s Day. It will give you the chance to practice what you want to say and how you want to say it.

Stand in front of the mirror and practice your delivery. Pay attention to your facial expressions; cultivate a caring, concerned expression, but also one that is focused, serious and firm.
Try role-playing with a friend so that you can think about responses to what your soon-to-be ex might say in objection.
Practice your delivery several times until you are comfortable with what you want to say and how and feel you are ready.

