 Most people find it easiest to portray a character who is similar to them personality-wise. On the other hand, some people find it easier to portray a character who is the complete opposite.


Consider starting out with two characters: one who is similar to you and one who is completely different. If one is too hard to mimic, forget about him/her, and focus on the easier one.
 If possible, try to read the manga and watch the anime. Take note of how your character reacts to different situations. Notice the range of their emotions and how they act when they are happy, sad, angry, or afraid. Study how the character acts around different characters: family, friends, enemies, strangers.


If your character is stoic, pay extra attention. These types of characters usually do display emotions, albeit subtly.
Don't stop at just the anime or manga. If they appear in a video game, watch cut scenes from the game!

, The internet is full of information. If possible, try to find the anime or manga's official site, and read up on your character. Unofficial or fan-created material can be helpful, but take it with a grain of salt. Many fans add their own interpretation of the character, which may not necessarily be canon.
 This does not mean that you have to mimic their voice, although you can certainly try. Instead, note how they talk. Do they talk slow or fast? Loud or soft? Does their voice display a full range of emotions or is it stoic and blank? Note any rises and falls of pitch. Try to mimic these when you talk.
 You can take things a step further by learning a few common phrases that your character says. If you aren't copying a particular character, you can learn a few basic words or phrases in Japanese.
 Acting is more than just talking and mimicking facial expressions. Re-watch your character's scenes, and note how they stand, walk, or move. Shy characters may slouch and try to "hide" behind their hands. Confident or arrogant characters will often stand up straight, hold their heads up high, and puff their chests out.


Don't forget about their quirks! Does your character have any specific quirks? Do they play with their hair or do a specific gesture? Take note of that!

, Is your character known for having a certain object with them? If so, consider carrying a similar object with you! A notable example is L from "Death Note", who is often depicted with a piece of cake. You could bring a prop or real slice of cake with you. Another example is Nekozawa from "Ouran High School Host Club," who always has his Belzenef puppet with him.


Do not rely on the prop. Use it to enhance your acting. Do not allow it to do the work for you.

