 Running is a major component of parkour, so your training should include this element. The time and frequency you should devote to running will depend on your personal preference and skill level. Most casual runners run only three times a week to prevent injury, while many serious runners do so twice per day.


If you don't already run as part of your exercise regimen, start out slow with short runs every other day. As your endurance increases, you can then gradually add miles to your weekly run goal., When you parkour, you will need the strength to do things like jump, climb, and vault your way past obstacles. As such, you will need to develop muscles in your legs, arms, and core. Squats, push-ups, pull-ups, and lunges are excellent exercises for this type of strength training that don't require specialized equipment to do.


Remember that the amount of force you'll need to generate is proportional to the weight of your body and that muscle is fairly heavy. Because of this, traceurs tend to be lean rather than bulky.
 Learn to crawl quickly on your hands and feet. When doing parkour, you will use quadrupedal movement to crawl under objects and fit into tight spaces with swiftness and ease. Practicing quadrupedal movement is also an excellent workout in and of itself, as it exercises all four of your limbs along with your core.
 Because parkour relies heavily on tactile feedback and freedom of movement, most traceurs avoid bulky running shoes. You should look for a shoe that has thin soles while providing excellent grip and arch support.If you are not already used to this type of shoe, you will need to take the time to adjust to wearing them. Before doing parkour in them, go for a normal run fist. It's also wise to wear them around the house and for low-impact walks before doing any type of running at all., While you may see some traceurs wearing gloves to protect their hands, they are not generally recommended. Gloves reduce feedback between your hands and your environment, increasing the likelihood of dangerous mistakes. Instead, practice without covering your hands and encourage the formation of calluses.

