 Because group coverage is provided for many people through an organization, insurance companies are ultimately able to save money. Accordingly, you are more likely to receive comprehensive (or full) coverage than if you purchase as an individual on the open market. You are also likely to pay a lower premium than you would by purchasing individual insurance.


One negative about purchasing insurance through an employer is that the employer probably makes various decisions about the scope of coverage. For example, the employer may want to only allow you to access physicians within one provider network.;
, Your HR rep will guide you through the paperwork of joining a company insurance plan. Your company will generally offer several different plans from at least one, perhaps several, insurance carriers. In filling out your application, you may need information pertaining to:


Your previous insurance plan
Any enrolling eligible dependents
Any serious illnesses

, Many companies offer health insurance plans for full-time employees. You can also use these plans to cover an entire family, though you'll have to pay some monthly fees based on the plan that you choose and the number of people you are covering. Companies typically offer these types of plans.


Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs, are the least expensive option. In this type of health plan, you have a primary care physician who takes care of all health issues and refers you to a specialist when necessary.
Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs, are more expensive, but give you more freedom in your choice of doctor. You are able to see any doctor within the organization without a referral.
Point of Service, or POS, plans offer discounted rates for providers that are within a network, but you are free to pay higher rates to see a doctor outside of the network.
 You should complete the application and turn it in to HR in a timely fashion. Keep a copy for your records in case HR loses the application.
 After you submit your application to Human Resources, you should be notified promptly of your acceptance. However, your employer may have certain enrollment periods which limit when you can pick up coverage.


Pay attention to when coverage begins. If accepted, look for your enrollment date, which is the date that you can start using your health care insurance to pay for medical expenses such as doctor visits. The enrollment date can sometimes be several weeks after you are approved.
 If you are laid off from your job, then you still have the option of carrying your insurance. The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, or COBRA, allows individuals to continue an insurance plan after losing health insurance. While you will receive the same coverage, you will be responsible for the full payment of the insurance premiums. If you are leaving a job, your company will give you information about COBRA.


Alternately, the ACA marketplace also offers insurance enrollment if you have left or been laid off from a job. Insurance through the marketplace is likely much cheaper than COBRA.

