 If it’s around 12.8 °C (55.0 °F) or colder, honeybees cannot take off. If a honeybee looks normal but is moving slowly or simply can’t seem to get off the ground, they may just be cold. Use a piece of stiff paper, such as a playing card, to pick up the bee and bring it somewhere warmer. After it warms up, it will likely simply fly away!If you need to bring it indoors to warm up, keep it in a ventilated, lidded container. Once it starts to move around more, bring the container outside and leave it there with the lid off.;
, If the bee has been caught in your beer or lemonade, take it out! Its wings are likely too wet to allow it to fly. Place it in a protected, dry, and sunny area outside so that its wings can dry off. Ideally, place it right on a flower! , If a bee has been cold or shaken up, eating can help them get back in shape. Blend a mixture of 30% honey and 70% room temperature water. Use a pipette or eye dropper to drop a tiny amount on a surface within the bees reach.Be sure that you’re placing the mixture on a surface that will hold the bee food without soaking it up.
Take care not to drop the mixture directly onto the bee.
A 1:1 mix of organic sugar and water will also work.
 If you find a grounded bee outdoors in the middle of summer or early fall, it is likely an old bee. Look closely at its wings. If they are ragged on the edges, they may simply be nearing the end of their life cycle – but they may also still have a bit more foraging left in them! Bring them inside to feed them, and bring them back outside if they regain the strength to fly.If the wings are still mostly intact, you’ve likely found a male worker bee that was taking work too seriously and forgot to drink.
Leave him outside in the sun with a bit of honey and water mixture. He’ll get back to work once he’s satiated.
 If a bee is moving around a bit, it will likely regain the ability to fly after a while. It may simply be resting, and is better off being left alone. This applies to bees with ragged wings too. If you feel compelled to offer the bee some water and honey, it’s fine to do so. Within a couple of minutes, it should be able to fly away.
The best course of action may be to simply place the bee on a flower and allow nature to proceed unspoiled by your manipulation.
 Recognize that the bee will not be able to fly again, and will soon die. However, the bee will be able to live a while if you feed it. Keep it in a lidded container with a dirt ground, a bit of water and a couple of flowers. Do not attempt to glue honeybee wings back together.Though you can glue some butterfly wings back together with acrylic glue, this will not work on honeybee wings. Honeybees would be much harder to hold, pose a danger to you, and have smaller wings. Honeybees would also groom the glued wing immediately, getting glue all over and injuring themselves further.
 Realistically, you won’t be able to tell they’re arachnids. But if a honey bee is covered in tiny red insects, it is infected with a parasite and you will likely be unable to save it. If you’ve warmed it up and fed it and it’s not moving around after a few minutes, bring it outside and simply let it be. You will not be able to treat a honeybee for any illness or parasitic infection., Though a single honeybee sting is not dangerous to most people, it will still hurt a bit. You could wear gloves to handle a honeybee and avoid being stung, though you will likely lose the dexterity necessary to do so without injuring the bee further. Instead, slowly and calmly slide a thick piece of paper beneath a bee that can't fly to move or adjust them safely. If you have had an allergic reaction to any type of bee or hornet sting, do not handle honeybees at all.

