 If you want to sneak some alcohol into an event, or into a location that you're not supposed to have it, your first goal will be getting through the door. This will vary, depending on the venue itself, but there are a few tips to keep in mind to avoid getting caught before you can even get your drink on. Please note that sneaking alcohol into places where it is forbidden can get you kicked out of school or in trouble with the authorities. Do so at your own risk.


To get past the security guard or gate at a dorm, hide booze in a backpack, a packing box, or at the bottom of a big bag of groceries. If you can, split up beers into multiple bags, to avoid that noticeable clinking and clanking. If you're in a big group, split up, and look grim and humorless, not as if you're about to party on the down-low.To get booze into the movie theatre, pick something that won't have a strong smell, mixing some liquor into a big bottle of soda or bringing some wine in other sorts of bottles, and sneaking them in purses. Cans or bottles of beer make noise challenges, as well as an awkward trash situation at the end, and straight liquor will have your neighbors crinkling their noses.
To get alcohol into a festival or music venue and drink on the cheap, it's important to figure out the security beforehand. Often, bags and purses will be searched, and outside drinks will be confiscated, making the vodka water bottle a no-go. Most venues and festivals, however, won't frisk people or search people hard, not carrying bags, so it's a better idea to go the hip-flask route.
 If you're drinking somewhere you're not supposed to, the number one rule of the day is to chill out. No loud, thumping bass in the dorm room, no yelling while passing the flask down the aisle at the movie, and no conspicuous swigs from your illicit bottle snuck into the concert. Unless you want to get kicked out, you've got to treat it like business as usual.


Ask super-drunk or loud-drunk friends to leave, and cut them off. Aside from being irritating, conspicuous drunks are much more likely to get you caught and attract attention. Make a quiet and calm affair, not a raucous party.
 If you're drinking in a friend's basement or dorm room and need to keep the boozy chatter to a minimum, invent code words to use so no wandering resident assistants, nosy neighbors, or little brothers will hear the buzzwords. Instead of shot, say you're going to take a button, or call a beer a biohazard. It'll be fun, and you'll keep it safe.
 Sneaking booze into the dry zones is all fun and good until someone leaves a wizard staff of PBR cans out on the floor in plain sight. Whoops. Make sure to keep close tabs on all the garbage and dirty glasses that come from a night of drinking. Cups reeking of vodka are just as likely to get you caught as an empty bottle.


If you're in the dorm, try to keep some black plastic garbage bags lying around for just the occasion. You won't have to worry about sneaking out bottles a few at a time if you've got an opaque bag to sneak them out in plain sight.
 Sneaking a couple beers into the movie theatre, or having a beer bash in your dorm room will be a lot easier if you're doing it during matinee hours, or a Tuesday, as opposed to prime time on a Saturday night. Busy, packed theaters are much more likely to get you caught, and the RA is probably a lot more likely to be on alert during party hours, ready to crash yours. Stay ahead of the game and do it when they'll least expect it.
 Some events will have their door security start only when things start to get busier. Going early can have things go more smoothly.