 A good way to see what you’re up against is to plant a firm smooch on the back of your own hand. If some of the lipstick transfers to your hand, it’s a good sign that you’ll be able to deal with the rest of it without a lot of hassle. If you’re still wearing a thick, dark coat after the kiss test, you probably have your work cut out for you.


Long-lasting lip colors are resistant to smears and smudges and in most cases will have to be removed through other means.Don’t forget to wash your hands afterwards so you don’t accidentally leave stains on anything else.;
, Take a washcloth or durable paper towel and blot at your lips. Use a light swirling motion to break up the lip stain. Go over your mouth a few times until the washcloth or paper towel stops collecting color.The more lipstick you can strip off beforehand, the easier it will be to get rid of the rest.
 If the lipstick you’re wearing is particularly stubborn, you might need to give your lips a preliminary cleaning before you can remove the bulk of it. Wet a clean washcloth and lather it up with warm water gentle hand soap. Dab your lips with the corner of the washcloth, then rinse. When combined with the heat of the water, the surfactants in the soap should start to wear down the lipstick.Choose a soap that is non-drying and suitable for facial use. Most liquid hand soaps and body washes will work just fine. Avoid soaps with harsh fragrances, as these normally contain chemicals that can cause rashes and allergic reactions.
You may also have success using facial cleansers that contain gritty exfoliants., Rub a thick layer of moisturizing chapstick or lip balm onto both lips. The moisturizing agents will saturate and plump up your lip tissue, forcing more of the lipstick to the surface and making it easier to wipe away. It will also keep them soft and protected from dryness and damage.Don’t be afraid to get heavy-handed with the lip balm prior to removing your lipstick. More is better.
Use an old chapstick that you’re not worried about ruining with your lipstick shade.
 Invest in a good liquid makeup remover or box of cleansing pads. Most makeup removers contain oils and other solutions that are very effective at dissolving caked on cosmetics. Simply wipe your lips clean if you’re using a pad, or wet a paper towel to apply a liquid product.Modern makeup removers are formulated to get the job done without relying on harsh chemicals, but buying name brand cleansers might cost you more.
Be careful not to ingest liquid makeup removers when using them near your mouth.
 Look into exfoliating products that are designed specifically to be used on the lips. Scoop up about a dime-sized amount of the exfoliant with your finger and gently scrub away at the lipstick. Lip polishes and scrubs are the beauty equivalent of taking sandpaper to an old coat of paint.If you’re looking for a homemade, natural lip exfoliant recipe, try combining a tablespoon of brown sugar with a couple ounces of raw honey., This is a time-honored removal method among lipstick devotees. Dip a cotton swab into a jar of Vaseline or Aquaphor. Coat your lips with a generous amount of the jelly and allow it to sit for a minute or two. After it’s had time to work, you’ll be able to wipe away your lip color as easily as if it were never there.Petroleum jelly is an alternative to more specialized makeup remover products that you can find at the corner drugstore or in your own medicine cabinet.
As an added benefit, products like Vaseline and Carmex make excellent moisturizers.
 Take the holistic approach and use coconut oil in place of chemical-based removers. This potent miracle product will melt the color right off your kisser, making it one of the most effective and least labor-intensive home remedies yet discovered. Best of all, it can be bought in large quantities for cheap almost anywhere, and has multiple uses.Rub the semi-solid coconut oil between your fingers until it becomes a liquid, then slather it directly onto your lips. Let it sit for a few moments before wiping it away.With its recent explosion in popularity, coconut oil can be readily found at most supermarkets and specialty grocers.
 Give your lips a break from time to time if you’re the type that tends to wear lipsticks and stains on a regular basis. Cosmetics can affect the quality of your skin after a while, especially when they’re not properly removed. Lip color is also bad about infiltrating the tiny cracks and crevices of your lips where it can be hard to get out later.Going natural more often will make your lipstick appear more vibrant on occasions when you do wear it.
If you’re worried about your lips drying out, switch to a tinted lip balm or non-matte liquid lipstick., Get in the habit of applying chapstick or nourishing lip balm daily. Look for brands like Carmex, Burt’s Bees and EOS that contain moisturizing agents. Not only do chapsticks and balms form a protective layer on your lips that safeguards them from dry conditions and prevent painful cracking and splitting, they’ll also soften them, meaning your lipstick will look better once it’s on.Keep chapstick handy in your purse, car or bedside table so you’ll never be caught without it.
There’s no such thing as too much chapstick. You’ll be glad to have it if you wear lipstick a lot or live somewhere with cold, windy weather!

, Make sure you’re drinking plenty of water throughout the day. When it comes to moisturizing, water is the obvious choice and should be your go-to nutrient not just for luscious lips but for healthy everything else. When you’re sufficiently hydrated, your lips will appear thick, full and rosy, and will serve as a better base for your lipstick.Most physicians and nutritionists recommend that you drink 8-12 glasses of water a day.