 Most electric skillets are larger than their stovetop counterparts, but some jumbo sized electric skillets go up to 16 inches (40.6 cm) across or larger.


Consider how many people you will need to serve. If you often cook for a large number of people or plan to use the skillet while entertaining, a larger sized skillet may be a better fit. Choose a smaller model if you prefer to cook only a few portions at once.
Make sure to take into account the countertop and storage space you have available when deciding on the best size. Remember that most models will have a larger footprint on the countertop than the dimensions of the pan since electric frying pans are either footed or connected to a base.;
, The most common shapes available are oblong and square, but there are some circular models. Oblong and square shaped electric skillets generally allow you to cook more items at the same time as they provide more cooking space than round pans.
 Higher sides allow you to deep-fry and braise, and accommodate larger amounts of food. Awkward food shapes such as whole chickens or large roasts will also fit better in a high-sided pan.



Buy a model that can reach at least 450 degrees F (232.2 degrees C) if you want to be able to deep-fry. Electric skillets that go up to 400 degrees F (204.4 degrees C) will not get hot enough for deep-frying, but they are hot enough for stir-frying and pan-frying.
 You will be able to use most skillets for frying, sauteing, braising, and deep-frying. Some electric skillets have additional settings and inserts for roasting, grilling, or baking.



Choose a glass lid. A glass lid allows you to see the food as it's cooking without lifting the lid and letting heat escape.
Look for a model that has an adjustable steam vent on the lid. If there is no vent, pressure can build up and cause liquid to spill over the sides of the electric frying pan.
Check the height of the lid's dome. A higher dome is ideal if you plan to use the electric frying pan for roasting or for cooking larger food items.
 Not only are heat-resistant handles safer, they also make the electric skillet more convenient since you will not need to use oven mitts while cooking.
 Most electric skillets available on the market are aluminum with a non-stick coating. Some stainless steel options exist, but these are much more expensive.



Find out whether the heat control separates from the pan. Generally models where the pan separates from the heat control are dishwasher safe and fully immersible.
Avoid electric skillets that require hand-washing if easy cleaning is a priority for you.



Examine the thickness of the pan's bottom and sides. Thin pans may not heat as evenly as thicker walled electric skillets.
Verify that the bottom of the skillet is flat. Any curving of the skillet's surface can affect your ability to cook certain dishes such pancakes where you need individual portions to stay separated from one another.
 A warranty usually guarantees that the manufacturer will fix or replace your skillet if a malfunction occurs.



Avoid electric skillets that have multiple reviews describing problems with hot spots or bubbly, easily damaged non-stick coating. These issues indicate the electric skillet is of poor quality.
 Shop in stores or online to find the model you prefer at the best price.
