 Use two long-sleeve shirts for the classic Harley Quinn look or two tank tops for an "Arkham Asylum" inspired version.


Lay the black shirt and red shirt flat on your work surface.
Use a ruler or tape measure to find the exact center of each top. Draw a line down the center using chalk or fabric pencil.
Use your ruler to draw another line 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from the center line. On the black shirt, draw the second line to the left of the center line when facing it. For the red shirt, draw the second line to the right of the center line when facing it.;
, Use sharp sewing shears to cut along the second lines on both shirts.


Do not cut along the center lines. If you cut on the center lines, you will not have enough material for a hem.
You may need to pin the front and back of the shirts together so that you can make an even cut on the front and back. Otherwise, redraw the center and second lines on the back of the shirts and cut the backs out separately from the fronts.
Save the extra fabric to create diamond appliques for the sleeves.
 Turn the shirts inside-out and sew a straight line along this seam.


Using a sewing machine and red or black thread, sew a straight line along the seam to attach the two shirts together. Backstitch the ends to secure them.
If sewing the costume by hand, use a backstitch to sew a straight line from the top to the bottom of the shirts.
Stitch up both sides before turning the shirt right-side-out again.
 If you are going for a classic Harley Quinn look, you will need to attach three diamonds onto the sleeves of your shirt.


Trace and cut out three diamonds from your extra black fabric and three from your extra red fabric. The diamonds should be about 2 inches (5 cm) tall and 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide.
Sew the three red diamonds in a partial-diamond pattern on the upper portion of the black sleeve. The diamonds should be facing out.
Sew the three black diamonds in a partial-diamond pattern on the lower portion of the red sleeve. These diamonds should be facing out, as well.
 This option is more for those who are interested in mimicking the "Arkham Asylum" version of Harley Quinn rather than the classic look.


Lace a black corset around your waist, over the sewn red-and-black tank top. If possible, thread the tank top with red strings or belts. If you don't have a corset then take a black strapless shirt (with sweetheart neckline) then put that over the shirt and tie a belt over.
 Pants have a center seam that extends from the top of the waist, down in between the legs, and back up to the waist again. Use a thread puller to yank out all the thread holding the two halves together.


If you simply cut the jeggings, you will likely end up with a situation in which you will not have enough extra fabric to stitch the two halves together.
You could also use leggings, but jeggings are made from a thicker material and are easier to work with for this project.
If possible, use jeggings made by the same manufacturer so that the two halves will fit together more readily.
Save the color halves that are opposite of the colors used for your shirt. Since the right arm of your shirt should be black and the left arm of your shirt should be red, the right leg of your pants should be red and the left leg of your pants should be black.
Save the excess material for your diamond appliques.
 Turn the Jegging halves inside out and pin the red and black halves together along the unstitched hemming fabric. Sew a straight line from the waist, through the legs, and back up to the other side of the waist.


Use red or black thread.
If using a sewing machine, use a straight stitch and backstitch the ends to keep them in place.
If sewing by hand, use a backstitch to create a sturdier seam.
Test the pants out. Before strutting your stuff, you should wear the sewn-together pants to make sure that there are no holes and that the seams hold as you sit, walk, and bend.
 Cut out three black diamonds and three red diamonds from your scrap fabric. The diamonds should be about twice as large as the diamonds used for your top.


Sew the three black diamonds in a partial-diamond pattern on the upper portion of your red leg.
Sew the three red diamonds in a partial-diamond pattern on the lower portion of your black leg.



Create as even a look as possible. The white cream should extend from your hairline down to the base of your head, where your head meets your neck. You do not need to include your ears, eyelids, or mouth, however.
 Your eye shadow, eyeliner, and mascara should all be black.Brush a black eye shadow over the lid of your eye.
Apply a thick line of black gel eyeliner along the top and bottom lids. Gel liner smears more easily than pencil liners, which is what you will need for this look.
Brush black mascara onto your upper and lower eyelashes.
Use a moist cotton swab to smear the eye make-up. It should look messy, yet still fairly attractive.
Use a little of the black gel liner to create "tear" lines. Apply the gel liner in short, quick strokes extending out from the lower lid line. Only create a few so that they look distinct. Smudge them slightly with your cotton swab to smooth them out.
 You could also use blood red lipstick, but whatever you choose, it must be dark.
 Sponge the blush quickly over the apples of your cheeks, giving your cheeks just a hint of color.
 Flat leather fashion boots work best, but you could also go for boots with a short heel.


Ankle boots work for either version of the costume, but you could also go with knee-high boots if you plan to wear an “Arkham Asylum” version.
Technically, Harley Quinn has one red boot and one black boot. If you have cheap boots and you do not mind permanently altering them, use red fashion spray paint to color one boot red. The red boot should be whichever boot goes over the black leg of your pants.
 Costume gloves or thin knit gloves both work, but the gloves must be made from a thin material either way.


Invert the colors of your top for your gloves. The red glove should correspond to the black half of your shirt while the back glove should correspond to the red half of your shirt.
Add white wrist ruffles to both wrists. The easiest way to do this is to wear white scrunchies or white ruffled hair elastics around your wrists.
 This only applies if you plan on going for a classic Harley Quinn look.


Try to find a jester hat that is red and black. Otherwise, it will not match your costume.
 This applies if you are going for an "Arkham Asylum" look or if you are unable to find a jester hat.


Find a long blonde wig. Tie the wig into two high ponytails on either side of your head.
Tie red and black ribbon around your ponytails. You can either use both red and black on both ponytails, or you can use red ribbon on the side that corresponds to the black half of your shirt and black ribbon on the side that corresponds to the red half of your shirt.
 Harley Quinn wears a black mask that just barely covers her eyes and part of her nose.


A black masquerade mask bought at a craft store should work, but if it appears to cover too much of your face, you can always trim it down so that it only outlines your eyes.
Make sure that the elastic band goes beneath your wig or hat.

