 Piping bags are used to pipe icing onto cakes in a controlled fashion through a pointed tip. The design of the tip results in smooth, ridged, or star-shaped icing. When you're ready to ice cupcakes, assemble the piping bag and tip by screwing the tip onto the bag according to the instructions.


Check out the selection of piping bags and icing tips at your local grocery store or specialty baking store.
Larger icing tips result in a better final look for icing swirls. Smaller tips are used for writing or making small decorations.
Make your own piping bag by cutting a small hole at the bottom of a plastic sandwich bag. You'll be able to attach an icing tip to your homemade bag.
 Set the cupcakes on a tray to prepare them to be iced.
 Icing swirls look better when they're made with stiffer icing that can hold its shape. Since most store-bought icing is a little on the gooey side, you're better off making your own.


Use the following basic recipe to make classic buttercream icing, which is perfect for icing swirls. Simply beat the following ingredients together, adding a little more milk if the end result seems too stiff. You can swap out the vanilla for another flavoring and add a few drops of food coloring if you want:

1 cup unsalted butter (2 sticks), softened
4 cups powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 Tablespoons milk



, It's easier to control the piping when the bag is at least halfway full. Use a small spatula to scoop icing into the bag. Twist the bottom so icing won't squirt out while you work.
 Holding the twisted bottom of the bag with one hand and guiding the icing tip with the other, put pressure on the bag and pipe in a circular motion. Make sure the icing flows smoothly through the tip and that you're able to control the amount of icing that comes through.


If the icing doesn't seem to be flowing smoothly, check to make sure the tip is screwed on correctly.
Make practice swirls until you've got the hang of how to pipe icing.
 Position the icing bag tip over the center of the cupcake. Pipe a high 'cone'. Now, using a small amount of pressure and starting from the outside edge of the cupcake, pipe towards the center in a spiral. Go up the sides of the 'cone'. When you reach the top of the 'cone', stop squeezing the bag and pull up slowly to make a nice point.


If you don't like the result the first time, just scrape off the icing, put it back in the bag and try again. Make sure not to scrape off any cupcake crumbs.

