 Use one large bowl for the rice and another large bowl for the pigeon peas, chickpeas, and lentils, which may be soaked together. Let all ingredients soak for at least 3 hours. It is especially important to soak the lentils, pigeon peas, and chickpeas until they are soft. You may need to soak them for as long as 4-5 hours.Parboiled rice is rice that has been partially boiled in the husk, then left to cool. You can buy it in most grocery stores that stock Indian ingredients.
Once both ingredients are finished soaking, drain the water and combine the rice with the lentils.;
, You can use a food processor or blender, or even a mortar and pestle if you have them. Do not grind these ingredients too finely. A coarse paste is appropriate. You may add water if necessary to make sure that the paste will not be too thick and that you will be able to spread it into a pancake.If you want your adai to have a sour flavor, cover the batter with plastic wrap and let it sit at room temperature for three or four hours. This will allow the batter to ferment., Use a large mixing bowl and mix well. You can use your hands or a large spoon. The adai batter is now ready.
 Swirl the pan to coat the surface. Use medium heat. If using a non-stick pan, be careful not to use heat on a setting past medium. Allowing a non-stick pan to get too hot can damage the non-stick coating., Spread the batter around the pan in a circular motion until it forms a pancake shape. Drizzle one tablespoon of oil over the top of the pancake and around the edges. Keep the heat on medium.
 The best time to do this is once the underside has turned golden brown. You can also close the pan with a lid to make the adai cook faster., Remove from heat and serve. You can garnish it with cilantro leaves or jaggery. Jaggery is a form of sugar derived from palm trees.Coconut avial also works as a garnish. This is a vegetable stew made from coconut milk., For instance, by eliminating the yellow lentils, you can make adai in the Tamil style.Or, if you want a less carbohydrate-heavy form of adai, you can substitute quinoa for the rice.