 You will be asked for an email and a password. Although companies usually sign up for Salesforce, there is a unique login for each user. Salesforce's software is based on "cloud computing" where the database is stored on more than 1 server and made available through an Internet connection.;
, Press "New" near the top of the page, in the "Recent Campaigns" section.


You can also go to the "Create New" vertical panel on the left side of your page. Under the header "Create New," you will see options to create new contact, campaign and more. Click "Campaign" in the list.
 A parent campaign implies that it is a completely new Salesforce campaign and a child campaign implies that it is a subset campaign that is part of a larger marketing campaign.
 The information is divided into subsections that let you split your campaign into stages, such as Planning, Statistics and Links.


Any field that has a red line next to the box implies a required field. Your Salesforce administrator decides which fields are required based on what you will need to keep continuity in your records
Click the "active" button for any new campaign that is going to be used. This will allow other users to be able to view your Salesforce campaign. You can always go back to uncheck the box when your campaign is no longer active.
Make sure you fill out the top and the "Planning" section to begin with. This will include a description at the top, the department, product type, the dates of the campaign and the amount of money you intend to generate. You do not need to use currency symbols because Salesforce will already be set up for your currency type.
The statistics box does not need to be filled in because that information will be provided by Salesforce once the campaign has started and begun to generate numbers.



If you have created a parent campaign, once it is saved, you can create a child campaign under it. You will see the parent or child associations in the "Campaign Hierarchy" box of your campaign page.

