 The best, most enthusiastic decorating team you'll ever find is sitting right in front of you - your class! Getting your students involved in the decorating process will save you both money and time, while also bolstering the kids' sense of class pride.


Split the kids up into teams and assign each team a different project to work on.
Try to rope in a few parent volunteers to oversee each team and help with some of the more complicated stuff.
 Whirligigs are a fun and easy classroom decoration that kids can make themselves. Once the kids have decorated their whirligigs with bright colors and patterns, they'll look fantastic hanging from the ceiling!


Decorate a paper plate any way you like. Try using lots of color, glitter, feathers and plastic jewels. Make sure to decorate both sides.
Cut the paper plate in a spiral pattern, starting from the outside and working your way to the center.
Punch a hole in the center of the plate, then tie with colored string or ribbon.
Hang the paper whirligig from the ceiling and watch it twirl in the breeze!

, Papier mâché is messy and time consuming...but kids just love making it. Plus the finished product looks fantastic. Use paper mâché to make baskets for putting things in, masks to hang on the wall, sculptures of animals. Anything you can think of really.


First you will need to tear newspaper into lots of long, one inch thick strips.
Then you will need to make a glue mixture. You can do this using either two parts white glue and one part water, or one part flour and one part water. Blend your chosen mixture together until smooth.
Dip the newspaper strips into your mixture, remove any excess, then smooth onto whatever surface you're covering.
Repeat until the entire surface is covered, then leave to dry thoroughly.
 Teach your students how to make pretty, woven paper baskets out of different colored card. Use the baskets to hold toys, pencils or art supplies, or alternatively, hang the baskets on a piece of string and drape across the ceiling for a creative and eye-catching display.


Take a piece of 12 inch (30.5 cm) by 12 inch (30.5 cm) colored card and draw two lines - one at the 4 inch (10.2 cm) mark and the other at the 8 inch (20.3 cm) mark - all the way across the card. This will help to mark out the placement of the bottom of the basket.
Then turn the piece of card 90 degrees and cut it into 14 strips - each 1/2 an inch wide.
Weave these pieces together - seven going in one direction and seven going in the other.
Take a wooden box with sides measuring four square inches. Place your woven strips of card over one side and adjust it so that the score marks on the card line up with the edges of the box.
Take another piece of card (in a contrasting color) and cut out another twelve strips, each 12 inches (30.5 cm) long and 1/2 an inch wide. Glue each strip to a second strip to make 6 extra long pieces.
Turn the box on its side and weave the long strips of card horizontally though the card folded vertically over the sides of the box. Turn the box to complete each side. Tuck in or trim the ends of each horizontal row before moving on to the next.
You can add the finishing touch by creating a border around the top of the basket. Glue two 12 inch (30.5 cm) by 1 inch (2.5 cm) strips to the outside edge and two more to trim the inside, once you have removed the box.
Use some ribbon or wire to make a pretty handle for the basket, if you like.
 Everyone knows that kids have the most fantastic imaginations. Why not let your students loose on a blank piece of paper and see what wonderful ideas they come up with? Hang the pictures on the wall for an imaginative display, inspired by every child's unique personality.


Try using different materials. Give the kids access to crayons, pencils, markers, chalk and paint. Each will produce a completely different result.
Give your kids a prompt. Ask your students to draw their families, their favorite animal or their best memory. You'll be amazed and amused at what they come up with.
Try making scratch art or melted crayon stained glass windows.
Try using stencils or let kids trace their favorite picture.
 Plants and small animals can add color and life to any classroom. Teach your students about responsibility by assigning a student every week to water the plants or feed the class pet.


Fish and hamsters are popular classroom pets that require relatively little attention. However, if you're feeling more adventurous, a turtle or rabbit can be a great choice.
Make sure to ask the principal's permission before introducing a pet to the class!

