 If your phone is off, turn it on. If your phone is in standby, bring it out of standby. Then unlock your phone and access the home screen by pressing the home button.


The home button is usually located at the bottom of your phone's screen. It is generally shaped like a small, simple house.;
, The phone app can usually be found toward the bottom of your screen. It will be shaped like an old fashioned phone, which looks like a shallow U-shape tilted slightly on its side, and is often green and white in color. Tap this to open your phone app., Depending on your phone, the resulting screen will vary. Generally, you should see options like Dial, Call logs, Contacts, etc. From the options, choose Contacts so you can find the blocked contact in your directory.


When you've accessed the Contacts screen, you should have a list of contacts arranged from A to Z. Scroll through your Contacts directory until you find the name or number that you wish to unblock. Select this contact.If you have many people in your Contacts directory, it can be troublesome scrolling through hundreds of names. You may want to make use of the directory's search function. Simply type the name or number of the contact you are looking for in the text input box that has a magnifying glass or the words "Search" or "Search contacts" in it.

HTC Sensation XL users, and users of similar phones, should select the People app instead of Contacts. On the People app home screen, you should see a list of contacts and a search box. Find your contact, select it, and toggle the "Block Caller" option to "Off.", Different Android phones will have different ways of accessing a contact's settings. In some cases, this might be as easy as tapping the three vertically stacked boxes (usually in the upper right hand corner of the screen) found on your contact info screen and choosing "Remove from Auto reject list."Sony Xperia Z users, and users of similar phones, may have to select a special edit icon. This icon usually looks like a pencil drawing the outline of person. You can find it on your contact info screen. Tap this icon and on the following screen uncheck the box marked "Send calls directly to voicemail" to unblock the number.