 Wrap a towel around your shoulders (or your child’s shoulders). The infested person should sand in the tub or shower. Apply a generous amount of olive oil to the hair. Work it into the hair and scalp with your fingers. Once complete, twist the hair into a loose braid and place it on top of the head, then wrap the whole head in plastic wrap. Place a tight-fitting shower cap over the plastic wrap to keep oil from leaking out, then wrap a towel around the head as a third layer.


The olive oil treatment should remain on the head for at least eight hours, so it’s best to perform his treatment at night before bed, then remove it in the morning.
Remove the towel, shower cap, and plastic wrap, and wash the hair with a gentle shampoo. Comb the hair with a fine-toothed metal comb to remove as many nits as possible.
Repeat the treatment two to three days later, as it will not treat nits, only live lice.The exact amount of olive oil you’ll need depends on the amount of hair you have. If you have more hair, you will need more olive oil. If you have less hair, you will need less olive oil. Start with a half-cup of olive oil and then use more if needed.
Coconut or tea tree oil also work.
 Treatment is quick and easy. Simply add a tablespoon or two to your shampoo, then shampoo as you normally would. Use several days in a row for the most effective treatment.


You can also buy shampoos that already have neem oil as an ingredient.
 Cover the head with a shower cap. Wait four to six hours, then wash and rinse the hair with regular shampoo. After you’ve washed the mayo out, comb the hair carefully with a fine-toothed metal comb to remove nits that may have survived.


Dawn liquid detergent is especially effective in washing mayo out of hair.
Do not use this method on children and then leave them unattended. They might try to eat the rancid mayo out of their hair., Apply the mixture to the scalp and wait half an hour. Wash the mixture out with hot water. Repeat daily until lice infestation is gone.

