 For a personal letter, place your address on the upper right hand side of your paper.This will make it easier for your recipient to respond to you because he or she will not have to look up your address or save the envelope.


You do not need to include your name in the address. Just include your street address or PO box on the first line and then include your city, state, and zip code on the next line.;
, It is important to include a date so that your recipient will know when you composed your letter. Including a date can also be useful if your recipient wants to save the letters he or she receives and organize them by date. Place the date on the next line after your address.Write out the date with the Month first, then the date, and then the year. For example, “April 22, 2016.”

, Next, you will need to skip a line and move over to the left side of your page. You should always use the salutation “Dear” to begin personal letters. Follow “Dear” with your recipient’s name and a comma.Consider how you usually address your recipient when you talk to him or her. For example, you might address your recipient as, “Dear Stephanie,” “Dear Grandma,” or “Dear Mr. Thompson,” depending on how you usually address the person.
 For a personal letter, such as to a friend or family member, opening with a question is a common approach. You can open your letter with a question to show your interest in what the recipient is doing or how he or she has been.


For example, you could open with something like, “How are you?” or, “How do you like your new school?” or, “Are you feeling better?”

, Another good way to start a personal letter is to begin by expressing your interest in something that your recipient put into his or her last letter, such as a recent accomplishment, a fun vacation, or an obstacle that he or she is facing.


For example, you might start with something like, “Congratulations on your award!” or “Your vacation sounds like it was really fun!” or “I am sorry to hear that you have been having such a bad time at school.”

