 During acupuncture treatment it is best for your cat to be very relaxed. This will allow the acupuncturist to complete the treatment easily. Make sure your cat is content by comforting it, giving it treats, and generally doing all that you can to decrease its stress.


Ask if your acupuncturist offers house calls if your cat gets too stressed going to a veterinary office.;
, Make an appointment for your cat's treatment and bring the cat in at its appointed time. Your acupuncturist will first make an assessment of where the acupuncture needles need to be placed and then they will place the needles. Once the acupuncturist believes the needles have been in long enough, they will remove them from your cat.The length of an appointment for acupuncture on your cat will vary depending on how long the acupuncture needles need to be left in place. During the first treatment, the acupuncturist will give your cat a full assessment, which will make the appointment longer.
You may be asked to stay with your cat to keep it calm and reassure it. However, because acupuncture treatments are not painful, many pets are calmed and relaxed by them.
Typically, you will need to bring your cat in for several treatment sessions. For an acute issue, such as treating pain due to an injury, your cat may need 3 to 5 sessions., Acupuncture can be a great complementary treatment for cats that have serious health issues. For example, if your cat has chronic pain, using acupuncture in combination with other types of veterinary medicine, such as medication or physical therapy, can minimize the cat's pain and discomfort by strengthening its immune responses.Because acupuncture does not have any side effects, it can be used with all types of medication without the risk of complications or bad interactions.
 If your cat is having health issues and other types of treatment have not worked, you may want to consider acupuncture as a treatment option. Acupuncture can be very helpful for treating a variety of health problems, including:Chronic pain
Arthritis
Asthma
Allergies
Digestive problems
Kidney problems
Liver problems
Skin problems

, If you are having your cat treated by a veterinarian, discuss the option of acupuncture with them. The veterinarian may be supportive of the idea of acupuncture as a treatment option, especially if other types of treatment have not successfully eliminated or reduced your cat's health problems.Even if your veterinarian does not believe that acupuncture may help your cat, you still have the right to get a second opinion. Not all veterinarians are knowledgeable about acupuncture and the benefits it can provide, so going to one who is to assess whether it might help your cat is a good idea.
 In most places, those that do acupuncture on animals must go through veterinary school, just as other veterinarians do. This means that veterinary acupuncturists are perfectly qualified to assess health problems and suggest treatments for your cat.While veterinary acupuncturists are likely to suggest acupuncture at a treatment option more than other veterinarians, they also have knowledge of other types of veterinary treatments and may suggest those as well.
 Any trained acupuncturist will tell you that there are limits to what acupuncture can do. This is why it is a great when used in combination with other types of treatment. It will not heal broken bones or immediately eliminate a life-threatening infection but it can be a helpful part of the treatment for these problems.However, acupuncture can help with the symptoms or side effects of these conditions. For example, if your cat is in pain from a broken bone, an acupuncturist may be able to help ease that pain.
 Usually, the easiest way to find a licensed and experienced acupuncturist for your cat is to ask for a referral from your veterinarian. Your veterinarian is likely to know the best and most experienced ones in your area.Depending on where you live, there may not be any veterinary acupuncturists near by. If this is the case, your veterinarian will probably not be able to give you a referral.
You do not need a referral from a veterinarian to see a veterinary acupuncturist. It is just usually the easiest way to find a good one in your area.
 If you need to find an acupuncturist without the help of your veterinarian, begin your search online. Go to the websites of professional organizations for pet acupuncturists, such as the website for the American Academy of Veterinary Acupuncture, and look for lists of accredited veterinary acupuncturists.Most professional organizations have lists of members online. This can be helpful for finding a qualified acupuncturist.
 Once you have identified the pet acupuncturists in your area, you should meet with them to pick which one will treat your cat. Discuss their treatment philosophy, their experience and education, and the cost of their treatments so that you can pick the one that best suits your needs. They should be a veterinarian and have completed a certificate in veterinary acupuncture from an accredited program, such as the International Veterinary Acupuncture Society, Chi Institute, or Medical Acupuncture for Veterinarians.If you are comfortable with all of their answers, then go ahead with treatment for your cat.
Finding an acupuncturist that has treated issues that are similar to your cat's issues will improve the chance of their treatment working on your cat.
 There are some health therapies that can be used on cats that are closely related to acupuncture. Acupressure is one of them, which is a technique in which pressure is applied to acupuncture points. This is meant to have a similar effect to acupuncture but does not require needles or the patience of having needles in place for long periods of time.


Acupressure can be very helpful for cats that are resistant to acupuncture or for locations on a cat's body that are hard to apply needles to.
 Aquapuncture is similar to acupuncture except that it uses fluid, which contains vitamins or homeopathics, that is injected into acupuncture points instead of acupuncture needles. This is a much newer technique than acupuncture but it may be effective for cats that can't sit still for acupuncture treatment.It may be difficult to find a aquapuncture practitioner in your area. Ask your acupuncturist if they do this type of treatment or if they know someone who does.
 Electrostimulation is a technique in which very small amounts of electricity are introduced into the body through two acupuncture needles. This electricity stimulates muscles, which can be very good for cats that are suffering from nerve damage or injuries to spine, as it can help to reestablish nerve connections.


Talk to your acupuncturist and veterinarian to figure out if this treatment would help your cat.