 If you are assigned a report, create a digital version instead. Your teacher will be impressed that you made the extra effort. The other students don't need to know you turned in a different type of project, so they won't think of you as the teacher's pet.Use a free online service like Powtoon to create digital book reports and presentations. Start with one of their templates, and customize them to fit your project.;
, Don't write about the same thing half the class will choose. If you make your work stand out by doing something different, your teacher will be impressed.Brainstorm to think up unusual angles for the topic. Set a timer for a set amount of time – say, 30 minutes – and do some internet research. Collect a list of possible ideas, then choose the best one.
Try freewriting. Get a pen and paper, and let your thoughts flow freely. Write down anything that comes to mind. You may be surprised at the ideas you come up with.
 When trying to understand a new concept in a class, try looking at it from different perspectives. If you need to research a topic for a paper, consider different angles before settling on one idea.Describe the subject in minute detail. Include every little part of the subject, and try to find the most interesting things about it. What makes this subject different from others that are similar to it?
Trace the subject's history. Describe how this subject has changed over time, and find specific moments or events that changed it.
Map your subject. Find a few things that are similar to your subject, and people or events that influenced it. How have other people approached your subject, and what were their thoughts about it?

, If you have a term paper to write, try to include a brief personal interview. Most people are flattered to be asked for their opinions, and they won't mind giving you a few minutes of their time. Few students take the time to do this, and it will make a very good impression on your teacher.


If you are doing a paper on the Gulf War, contact your local veterans' office and see if they can hook you up with a soldier who was actually there.
If you are writing about gun control laws, call or email the local chapter of the NRA and ask if they can give you a quote for your paper.
 Your teachers don't want to give you a bad grade – they would far rather have a reason to give you a better one. Ask if you can turn in an extra assignment for a few additional points.Ask your teacher if you can write a research paper, on a topic of your choosing or theirs. The other students won't be aware you're doing this, so you won't look like a teacher's pet.
Ask if you could put together a presentation on something the class is studying. Your fellow students will be aware that you're doing this project, but if you make it fun and interesting it may liven up a class period for them.
 If you have a big paper to write, don't put it off until the night before it's due. Try to at least get started early, so you will know early on if you're having trouble with it. If you absolutely can't finish a project by the due date, go to your teacher as soon as possible. You may be surprised at how willing they are to work with you., If you're having difficulty understanding something in class, don't wait until the last minute to ask for help – the longer you ignore it, the harder it will be to catch up.


Ask your teacher what you can do to improve your grades.
Ask your parents if they will hire a tutor for you if you are really struggling in a certain subject.

