 You might already know who you want to write your song for, but if you don’t, spend some time thinking about the people who are important to you. Do you have a partner, a best friend, or a parent? Is there a teacher or coach who inspires you? Is there someone you have a crush on? You can write a song for anybody, but it will be easier if you have strong feelings about them., Your country-music-fan mom probably won’t appreciate a rap song as much as your boyfriend who listens to hip-hop all day. You don’t have to write your song in a style you don’t like or don’t know much about, but writing it in a genre your recipient likes is a good way to make sure they like your song!, Writing a song will be much easier if you know what you want to say to them. You don’t have to start writing lyrics right away, but take a few minutes to write down your favorite things about them, how they make you feel, and why you want to write them a song., You can just sing your song a cappella if you want, but if you want to include instruments, choose which ones you’ll use before you start writing. If you plan to use multiple instruments, you’ll need to either find other musicians to play with or make sure you have access to recording software that can layer each instrument together.
 Most pop songs have three different verses, each followed by a chorus that is usually louder and faster, and usually remains the same throughout the song. You can also include a bridge, which is a section between the verse and the chorus to make the transition sound better. If you want your song to be longer or more complex, you can include a middle 8, which can be a different set of lyrics or even a music solo. Remember, your song structure is entirely up to you!, Writing a melody first is the best way to write a song--it’s much easier to write lyrics to fit a melody than the opposite. What kind of melody you write depends on your preferences, but there are some general tips.Repetition is important, but don’t be too repetitive! Your melody should regularly repeat the same sounds to give the song some structure, but don’t overdo it--too much repetition can be annoying.
Up-and-down melodies tend to be very pleasing. Don’t just make your song go up in tone, bring it down and then up again.
Make sure your melody flows. If you want to go from a very low note to a very high note, put a few medium-tone notes in between--jumping around can make your melody sound jarring.
 The chorus should be short--about four lines or chords is a good guideline. It should be catchy and memorable, so keep it simple and fun. If you aren’t sure what to write in the chorus, think of the most important things you want to say--that’s where they belong., Your verses lead up to and support your chorus. They can be longer, have more detail, and be more personal than the chorus. For example, if your chorus is about how you wish your crush would notice you, write verses that talk about why you like them and how being apart from them makes you feel.

A good rule of thumb is that a verse should be about twice as long as your chorus.
 Don’t expect to write the perfect song on your first try. It’s okay to write several drafts of a song--in fact, it will make your song even better!, Don’t immediately get up from writing and play your finished song at your recipient’s party. Practice it a few times on your own so you know it well. This is especially important if you plan to perform it live!, Let someone else hear the song before the person you wrote it for. If your song would hurt or embarrass the recipient, is inadvertently copied from a popular song, or needs some more work, it’s best to find out before showing it to everyone., If you want, you can perform your song live for the person you wrote it for. If you do this, try to make it special--wear something that adds to your performance, and make sure you’ve practiced first!

, If you want to make a recording of your song, you have several options.Have someone take a video of you performing. If you do this, make sure they have a high-quality camera--a cell phone won’t look or sound as good.
Use recording software at home. You can buy a program or use a free online-based recording site.
Go to a professional studio. You can hire a pro to record your song too--smaller record labels often rent studio time, and some areas even have walk-in studios.
 You can send a music file or a link to a streaming song, or give a physical copy like a CD, cassette, or record. The format you choose will determine the process for finalizing it--sending a file can be done very quickly, but pressing a vinyl record may take a few weeks.
 Make sure your recording is high quality before you give it as a gift. Check for static, skipping, cut off lyrics, or poor sound quality. Make sure you listen to the entire recording--there might be a mistake at the very end! If you’re giving a CD, make sure it’s compatible with car and computer stereos., If you are sending them a file or posting it to a website, write a message about how much they mean to you. If it’s for a specific event, like a birthday, send your best wishes. If you’re giving a physical recording, like a CD or a vinyl record, design a nice cover or label for it., In the United States and many other countries, the writer of a song automatically has a copyright. But if you want, you can take the extra step of formally registering your song by contacting your country’s copyright office in person, via mail, or online.