 If your dog has pancreatitis it is likely to experience problems digesting its food. Symptoms related to digestive distress include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.If your dog throws up once or has one incident of diarrhea then you should just keep an eye on the dog to make sure the problems clear up. If your dog has repeated incidents of throwing up and diarrhea, then this could signal pancreatitis.;
, When your dog is sick with pancreatitis the discomfort of the condition can impact your dog's behavior. Symptoms that can show up in your dog's behavior that are related to pancreatitis include lethargy, decreased appetite, and depression.


Pay attention to changes in your dog's personality. If it is unusually withdrawn or sullen, then that could signal a health problem.
Pancreatitis can also cause your dog to be low in energy. If it usually loves to play or go for a walk and it is currently resistant to any activity, this could signal a health problem.
 A dog having an attack of pancreatitis may have a hunched back due to abdominal pain. This is sometimes called a "praying position," with your dog's tail end up in the air while its front end is lowered onto the ground.The dog gets into this posture in response to the pain caused by pancreatitis, as this posture reduces the pain.
 Fever is one symptom of pancreatitis. If you can take your dog's temperature, do it. A dog's temperature is usually between 99.5 and 102.5F.If your dog has an elevated temperature, that is another sign that your dog may have pancreatitis.


To check your dog's temperature, you can use either a rectal or ear thermometer.
 It is more likely that your dog has pancreatitis if it has some of the risk factors associated with the condition. These include:Obesity
Hypothyroidism
Blunt trauma on the area of the pancreas
Diabetes
Family history of pancreatitis
Eating a very high-fat meal
Taking certain medications

, If you suspect that your dog has pancreatitis, you should get it looked at by a veterinarian. When meeting with the veterinarian tell him or her about your dog's symptoms, including when they started and how often they occur.


If your veterinary office is not open when you notice the symptoms of pancreatitis you should take your dog to an emergency medical hospital., Your veterinarian will attempt to get a definitive diagnosis for your dog's illness. If the veterinarian suspects pancreatitis, they are likely to do a physical examination and then measure the amount of pancreas enzyme in the dog's blood. This enzyme is known as pancreatic lipase.There are a variety of reasons your dog may have pancreatitis. These include: trauma to the pancreas, a side effect from medication, hypertriglyceridemia, eating an excessively high-fat meal, or due to another disease. However, in many cases of pancreatitis the cause cannot be identified., Depending on the severity of the pancreatitis, the treatment will vary. For very mild pancreatitis, the treatment is usually just supportive, meaning that you allow the dog's body to recover naturally. However, the pancreas may need to be "shut down" temporarily to allow it to recover. This will require all food and liquids to be withheld so that the dog's pancreas doesn't secrete any enzymes.If food is withheld, the dog will need to be given intravenous fluids and electrolytes. This will keep its fluid levels stable and help it recover from any diarrhea or vomiting it has experienced.
Additionally, the dog may be given medications to control its diarrhea and vomiting, as well as pain. If the veterinarian suspects an additional infection, your dog may also be prescribed antibiotics.
 As your dog recovers from pancreatitis it will need to have food slowly reintroduced. Your veterinarian will give you directions for feeding your dog but that will usually include very small meals or a bland diet.


A bland diet that works well for dogs recovering from pancreatitis is cooked white rice and cooked boneless skinless chicken breasts. These foods are very easy for the dog to digest.