 Centipedes are very strong and can sneak through small spaces, so it’s important to find a habitat that is difficult to escape from. An aquarium or a large plastic container with a heavily secured top could.An aquarium can be a great place for your centipede. For a large centipede, choose a 20-gallon tank, and a 10-gallon tank for a small centipede. In both cases, make sure you have a screen lid with securing clips.You can also use a large plastic container to house your centipede. A 9-10-inch plastic tub with a secured lid and perforated top could work. However, be warned that it is possible for centipedes to chew through these tubs.;
, Most centipedes can be kept at a safe temperature of roughly 80 degrees or higher. Additionally, centipedes need a humid environment of roughly 75%-85% humidity.You can use a heating pad, night bulbs or ceramic heaters to make sure their habitat is warm enough. You should also worry about keeping the humidity up for your centipede, however, since each of these methods could dry out your cage.
You can use a dish filled with water to keep their habitat humid enough. It will need to be regularly filled to maintain proper humidity.
 Centipedes are nocturnal creatures, so they do not require special lighting. If you want to observe the centipede during the evening, you can get a nocturnal light, like those used for amphibians.Your centipede’s habitat should not be brightly lit. During the evening hours, their cage should be kept in a dimly lit area.
To observe your centipede during the evening, get a nocturnal light that gives off heat without much light. You can see the centipede, but it will still think it’s night in the habitat., Centipedes like to burrow during the day. It’s important to have substrate that is deep enough for your centipede to burrow underneath.The substrate should be at least as deep as the centipede is long. They prefer to be hidden away during the daytime hours.
You can use a variety of materials for your substrate. It should be able to retain moisture and tolerate the centipede’s burrowing. You can potting compost, peat moss, or soil for the substrate. Peat moss is the best since it prevents mold growth due to the habitat’s high humidity.

