 Each strip needs to be 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) wide and 36 inches (91.44 centimeters) long. Make sure that the fabric you are using is stretchy, such as jersey or t-shirt.
 Fold both strips in half, lengthwise, with the right sides facing in. Sew along the long edge and one of the short ones using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Do this for both strips of fabric., Clip the corners between both of the sewn edges first. Next, turn the tube inside out. You can do this by scrunching it up into a disk, placing the sewn end over a dowel, and then rolling it back down--sort of like putting on a pair of tights., Use a dowel to push the stuffing into each tube.Try to get the stuffing as even as possible, or your tube will end up lumpy. When you are done, tie a rubber band around the open ends.

If your tubes are too lumpy, roll them across a table with your palms from end to end.
You will eventually remove the rubber bands. They are there simply to keep the stuffing in place while you work.
 Set both tubes down side-by-side, vertically. Loop both ends towards the left to form a "4" shape at the bottom. The tubes sticking out on the right side should be much longer than the ones sticking out at the bottom.You will treat both tubes as a single tube.
Keep the tubes flat and side-by-side.
 Pull the tubes back up. Bring them over the top of first loop, then pull them back down. They should be to the left of first, vertical strands. You should now have all four strands sticking out of the bottom., You should now have all four strands sticking out of the bottom. Pull the bottom (short) ends over the top (long) ends., Bring both of the long ends up. Point them to the left, towards the loops. Weave them through the loops: over and under, over and under, until they come out on the other side., Pull the ends downward, and give them a gently tug. This should tighten the knot. If you need to, give the other two ends (the shorter ones) a tug as well. This ends the semi-Turk's Head knot.The real Turk's Head knot is a bit more complex. This is a simplified one.
 Remove the rubber bands first, then fold the ends of the tubes until they touch each other. Tuck the sewn other tube into the open outer tube. Repeat with the inner tubes., Fold the cut edges of the open tubes in by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) first. Sew around the seam with a needle and a matching thread color. You can also secure the seams using fabric glue or hot glue instead.

If you are using fabric glue, use safety pins to hold the tubes together until the glue dries. This should only take about 15 minutes or so.

