 Curling your hair will be much easier if you prepare your hair by using volumizing products, especially if your hair is naturally straight. These products will give your hair a boost of volume and enhance your hair's texture., Adding volumizing products to your hair will help it hold the curl and bounce that you'll get from using a hot air brush. Texturizing spray, volumizing spray, and amplifying gel are all great options to create volume in your hair. Adding these products to your roots while your hair is still wet will allow the products to set while your hair dries.Spritz several pumps of hair product, being careful to distribute it evenly in your hair. To use a volumizing gel or mousse, start with a dime- or quarter-sized amount depending on the length of your hair. Rub it between your palms and then carefully distribute evenly throughout your hair.
 If your hair dries fairly quickly, or if you're not in a rush, allow your hair to air-dry until it's about 80% dry. Letting your hair air-dry is actually the healthiest method of drying your hair, as you're not applying unnecessary heat to it. While your hair air-dries, you can make your morning coffee, put on your make-up for the day, etc.Using a hot air brush works best if your hair is about 80% dry. Your hair should look fairly dry, but still feel damp.
 If you're in a hurry, or if you want to create additional volume by blow-drying your hair, then use a blowdryer. Flip your head upside-down when you blow-dry your hair, as this will add some lift to your roots. Don't blow-dry your hair completely, as it should be about 80% dry when you use your hot air brush. It should appear dry, but still feel a bit damp.If you use a blowdryer, consider applying a heat protectant to your hair to prevent possible heat damage.
 You'll want to detangle your hair before brushing through it, as knots will make the hot air brush much harder to use. Be sure to comb through each section of hair before you brush it with a hot air brush., It shouldn't take more than a few minutes, but it's important that your brush is heated before you use it. If you use your hot air brush before it heats up, your hair will not curl.
 Diving your hair into sections will make the curling process much easier. Divide your hair into a top half and bottom half, separating the sections at ear level. Pin or tie the top section of your hair out of the way so that you can start by curling the bottom section of your hair.


Once you finish the bottom section of your hair, you'll move on to the top section of your hair.