 Lemon juice can be used as a natural skin-lightening agent. Put freshly-squeezed lemon juice on a cotton ball or a cotton swab and then dab it onto your dark spots.Let the juice dry for about ten minutes. Without rinsing the lemon off, apply a moisturizing oil on top of it. You can use almond, castor, jojoba, or argan oil.
Repeat every night.
Don’t expose your skin to the sun, or to a tanning bed, while you have the lemon juice on your skin. This can make the dark spots even worse.
If your skin is very sensitive, for instance it gets dry or irritated easily, mix the lemon juice with an equal part of moisturizing oil before you apply it.
You can also use lime juice or apple cider vinegar;
, Both honey and yogurt have properties that may help your dark spots.Mix two teaspoons of plain yogurt with 1 teaspoon of honey. The honey should be local and raw, but it doesn’t have to be.


Use a Q-tip or cotton ball to apply to any spots, or just use as an overall facial mask. Leave on for 15-20 minutes, then rinse with warm water and pat dry.
Apply a moisturizer after the treatment.
 A serum made with vitamin C can help heal the skin.Crush a 250 mg vitamin C tablet and mix it with one tablespoon of almond, castor, jojoba, or argan oil. Use a cotton swab or cotton ball to apply to any spots, or just use as a facial mask.


Leave the mixture on for 15-20 minutes. Remove it with warm water and then pat dry.
Apply moisturizer after treatment.
 Crush two 325 mg aspirin tablets. Mix the crushed tablets with about two tablespoons of honey. Add enough water to make a smooth paste and apply to the dark spots using either a Q-tip or a cotton ball. Leave it on for 15-20 minutes, rinse with warm water and pat dry-- don’t forget to apply a moisturizer.
 The astringent properties of cucumber can be helpful in lightening dark spots.Cut a cucumber into thin slices and place them over the dark spots. Allow the cucumber to rest on the dark spots for 15-20 minutes. When done, rinse the skin with warm water, pat dry, and apply a moisturizer.


You can use a potato to substitute for the cucumber
Alternatively, use either the slice of cucumber or potato to gently rub the dark spots. Use gentle, circular motions. Repeat with at least four to five slices of either the cucumber or the potato. When you are done, rinse with warm water and apply a moisturizer

, Snip off the top of a caplet containing about 40 IU of vitamin E. Apply directly to the dark spot with your fingertip, cotton ball, or cotton swab. Leave the vitamin E on overnight.


You do not need to apply additional moisturizer after this treatment because vitamin E is a moisturizer.

