 You will receive a letter notifying you of both the time and place to report for service. Make sure that you are prompt, by arriving at least 15 minutes early. When you arrive late, it demonstrates that you don’t respect others’ time and that you are unreliable.The trial cannot start without you if you are late because all jurors must hear the evidence.If you are late, find the number on the jury letter and phone the court immediately. You may be fined if you don’t have a valid excuse.
 Choose “business casual” clothing to demonstrate professionalism, responsibility, and a respect for the process.For men, business casual includes button down shirts, blazers, khakis, slacks and dress shoes.Women should opt for covered dresses, khakis or slacks, polos, cardigans or button downs, and a comfortable shoe like a ballet flat or heel.Your shoulders should be covered at all times, so avoid wearing tank tops, crop tops, or pieces with spaghetti straps.Shorts, for men and women, are considered too casual. As a rule of thumb, keep the legs covered with pants or tights (for women).
Jeans are acceptable if they are a darker wash and have no holes or tears.
Avoid showing your toes. Men and women should avoid flip flops and sandals. Instead, opt for closed-toe shoes such as boots, flats, or pumps (women should avoid stilettos).
 Do not openly grin, audibly gasp or sigh, visibly check your watch, or get out of your seat. Raise your hand to grab the attention of your attendant if you must use the restroom or ask a question. You should be alert, courteous, and honest about your opinions throughout the trial.


Remember, the judge is the boss of the courtroom. Always listen intently when he or she speaks, and always follow their directives.
Many jurors get frustrated because of the amount of time spent waiting. Be respectful of the process and avoid showing your frustration. Instead, bring reading material to keep you occupied., Jury duty can last anywhere from a few hours to numerous months. Because you will be surrounded by the same group of people each day, it’s important to learn to get along with them. Be both welcoming and positive without coming off as fake.If you don’t consider yourself a naturally friendly person, try exercises to cue your brain to be more positive. For example, remember being with a loved one, recall a time when someone was genuinely friendly towards you, or think about a time when you were friendly towards someone else.
Being friendly is especially important in deliberation when jurors may have differences of opinion. Remember to listen to each person and allow everyone a chance to voice their opinion, even if it differs from yours.

