 Before writing a conclusion, reread your letter and decide whether you are satisfied with the message you have written. Did you communicate your message clearly? Will it have the effect you want it to have on the recipient?


If you're writing a cover letter or a business letter, make sure you've covered all of your bases before getting to the conclusion. The body of the letter should make the case that you're a good candidate for the job; the conclusion serves only to wrap things up, so don't save the most important information for last.
No matter what kind of letter you're writing, make sure it is written in such a way that the intent is understood. Letters, unlike some other forms of communication, have an element of permanency. Once you write something down it's hard to take it back. Review the body of your letter with this in mind before moving to the ending. 
;
, Write an ending in keeping with the tone of the rest of the letter. Did you write a brief, to-the-point letter, or was it a longer profession of love? Think of the last paragraph of your letter as a conclusion, in which you have the chance to restate the major themes of the message and leave your recipient with just the right feeling. For example:


"My experience working at the Humane Society and leading the Paws for Peace group at my university will make me an excellent candidate for an internship at Boston Animal Hospital."
"Celebrating Steve's promotion, welcoming a new grandchild to the family and vacationing in Australia have made 2013 a year to remember for our family. We hope your family's year has been equally well blessed."
"I know I'll smile every time I think about your visit. Our daytime excursions, long dinners and wild nights won't soon be forgotten. I can't wait until next time!"


, The very last sentence in a personal letter is a chance to wish the recipient well or request for him or her to write back. Make sure the last sentence matches your overall tone and hits just the right note.


If you want to thank the recipient for taking the time to meet with you in a professional setting, consider "Thank you for taking the time to meet with me on Tuesday" or "Thank you for your time and consideration."
If you'd like the recipient to write a letter back, "Write back soon!" or "I'm looking forward to hearing from you" are both good choices.
If you're writing a loved one, you might want to tell them "I love you," "I'm thinking about you" or "I miss you."
If you're writing the letter to suit a particular occasion, like a birthday or holiday, reiterate your well wishing. For example, write "Again, have a wonderful Thanksgiving!"


