 Being cool is, first and foremost, about being independent. People admire those that seem self-assured, willing to fight or stand up for their own ideas, and don't seem to need anyone else to be happy. Being cool is, in large part, about beating your own drum. You are rejecting the expectations put on you by parents, teachers, and even peer pressure because you're confident enough to make it work on your own.


Think about what you want in life. What are your personal hopes and dreams, and how can you pursue them?
Stick to your own personal "code." If you're constantly changing your ideals and morals with every new friend you make, people will eventually see you as untrustworthy and uncool.;
, Being cool is not something that is easily defined. More importantly, defining cool is often the easiest way to kill it. Being cool isn't about adopting a formula, finding the "secret," or analyzing why some people are cool and others aren't. Being cool is much more relaxed and elusive. It is about being your own person, rejecting other people's authority or ideas for how you should live your life. But it is also about being friendly and open to new experiences. You should ask yourself:


Who do I admire, and why?
Who do I see as cool, and why?
What are the attitudes, not the hobbies, fashion, or upbringings, of the people I find cool? Notice how the hobbies are wide-ranging, but the attitudes are not., Talent and skill, in almost any field, breeds coolness. If you're the best musician in the room, can fix your friend's computer troubles with ease, or stay late to work on the best slapshot in the state, you will gain the respect and admiration of all around you. Remember that being cool is about being confident, and the easiest way to gain confidence is to work hard at something. The pride and self-respect earned by succeeding will rub off on other people, attracting them to you and your success.


Using your skills to help others out or teach newbies will get people to look up to you, fostering an atmosphere of cool that is impossible to fake.
 If you don't want to do something someone tells you, don't. But you also don't want to waver back and forth, showing that you feel swayed but aren't sure what to do. Be confident in your decision. People respect someone who sticks to their guns, even if they are disagreeing about something. If someone tries to bully you into something, or puts you down for something you did or someone you talked to, keep your response quick, honest, and to the point. If people keep pushing you, you can even jokingly note that "You'll need a better reason to convince me than peer pressure." Remember — be your own person, not someone's follower.


"No thanks, it's not for me. I'll catch up later."
"Don't you have better things to worry about than me?"

, Anyone who pays attention to fashion will tell you that it is almost impossible to predict what will be "trendy." But appearing cool isn't about wearing the right clothes, it is about wearing the clothes confidently. Care about your appearance and about your clothes. They don't have to be expensive, they just have to look nice. Have your own unique style, and don't try to dress like anyone else unless you want to. Some good ways to cultivate a cool style include:


Check out fashion magazines or blogs for ideas on pairing clothing and current trends. You can gain inspiration from anywhere.
Keep it simple and effortless if you aren't into fashion. The little black dress is always in style, as is a simple button-down and a pair of jeans. Simplicity is easier to manage, and looking like you aren't trying hard to be fashionable is much cooler than going all out every day and wearing something silly.
Keep accessories to a minimum, but use them to give a flair of uniqueness. 1-2 simple pieces of jewelry, a nice watch, or a pair of sunglasses is all you need to take a simple, tasteful outfit into the next level of cool.

