 Add your yeast and sugar to the water (it should feel warm to the touch, but not warm enough to burn you) and lightly stir it. Let it sit for 6-7 minutes, until you see small bubbles forming at the surface of the water.


Activating the yeast is feeding it -- it eats the sugar and drinks the water. The bubbles are carbon dioxide made when the yeast "breathes.";
, Pour the flour in a little bit at a time, adding more as it absorbs the water and yeast. Use one hand to add the flour and the other to mix it.
 This keeps the dough from sticking to the bowl or your hands and keeps moisture in. Keep mixing until the dough is glossy and tacky, but not sticky. Pinch a small amount and stretch it thin enough so light passes through. If the dough doesn't rip, it's ready to kneed.
 With the dough still in the bowl, use one hand to gather the dough together, then press firmly into the center of the dough with the heel of your hand.


Fold the far edge of the dough upwards and towards you, press your hand in again, and repeat. Continue the "press-fold-turn" for 3-4 minutes, or until your dough holds its shape without you touching it.

If the dough is moist or sticky, sprinkle additional flour over the top and on your hands.
 If you need more time, you can put the dough in the refrigerator, where it takes 4-5 hours to rise. The dough will be roughly twice as big when it finishes rising as when it started.
 Sprinkle two or three tablespoons of flour on a cutting board out counter to prevent the dough from sticking. If you are making two smaller pizzas, cut the dough ball in half.
 Use your palm to push the dough ball into a disc, then use your fingers to push and pull the dough flat. This process takes some practice, but go slowly and use your fingers to massage the pizza into your desired crust shape. When done, fold 1/2 inch of the edge back over to create the crust.


Work from the center of the dough outward to avoid ripping the dough.
 While you can make great crusts without the famous "pizza toss," there is something satisfying about prepping your crust like the experts.


Make a fist and drape the flattened dough over it.
Make a fist of the other hand and slip it under the dough next to your other fist.
Carefully move your fists apart stretching the dough more.
Shift your fists (left towards your face, right away) so the dough rotates while stretching.
When the dough has reached about 8 inches (20cm) in diameter, you can quickly move your left fist in an arc that goes backwards towards your face. Do this while twisting your right fist forward away from your face. If you give a a little push upwards with your right fist the dough will spin like a Frisbee. Practice how it feels to balance the force of the twists equally.
Be sure to catch the falling, dough as gently as you can by lowering your fists as the pizza falls.
If you notice that the dough is tearing, combine, kneed it again for 30 seconds, and start over.

