 These are the basics that you must own.


Denim Skirt
Denim Romper
Belts
Graphic T-Shirts
Baseball Caps
Patterned Sweaters
Rash Guards
Shell/Shark Tooth Necklaces
Tank Tops
Distressed Skinny Jeans
Skinny Jeans
Vans
Converse
Knee Socks
Flannel Shirts
Patterned Pants
Beanies
Skateboard
Wet Suit (optional)
Bikinis
Zip Vests
Denim Shirt
Graphic Tees
Cropped Jackets
Coveralls
Large Cross Body Bag
Denim Vests
Solid Colored Jacket
Solid Colored Short Shorts
Denim Short Shorts
Graphic Sweatshirt
Button Down Shirts
Bermuda Shorts
Flip Flops
String Bracelets
Wristbands;
, PacSun is probably the best store to go to because it has all of the surfer and skater brands with a Cali feel. The best brands are Billabong, Converse, Hurley, DKNY, dELiA's, Tilly's, Nike, Rainbow, O'Neill, Reef, Rip Curl, Roxy, Vans, Hollister, and Zumies.
 The best hair is wavy and highlighted. This is because of all the time in the sun and water, and because they just don't care. To achieve the perfect hair, spray your hair with a homemade spray. Mix lemon juice with a couple tablespoons of sea salt to get the best hair. Remember to deep condition at least once a week and use a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner. You can put it in a loose bun, loose ponytail, loose braid(s), half up, or just leave it down.
 You should go tanning at least every other week to keep that tan. Use plenty of sunscreen and a good lotion so you don't crisp up too bad. Drink lots of water, eat healthy, and exercise. Wash your whole body with a good quality soap/shower gel. Rinse with really cold water. Shave your legs and armpits, and if you want your arms. Cleanse, tone, and moisturize your face. Do a facial every week. Exfoliate once a week also.
 Starting with a clean base, apply clear mascara to your eyes. Then, apply some lip balm. If you want, use a little blush. Amp up your eyebrows with a waterproof eyebrow filler or eye shadow. Comb through thoroughly.
 Make sure to eat plenty of protein, fruits, veggies, and whole grains. If you want, go vegetarian. Exercise plenty. Do Pilates, yoga, and meditation to stay in shape year round. Also do a sport.
 You should do skateboarding and/or surfing. Also do swimming, volleyball, dancing, cycling, and/or running. These sports give off a surfer/skater vibe and prepare you for your other sports. Choose only 2-3 sports and really excel in them.
 Be relaxed. Don't stress about little things. Get excellent grades, preferably straight A's. Don't get in trouble very often at all. Be open about your life. Always be happy. Be a beach babe. Have a healthy social life. Most of all, just be you. If you are a weirdo, embrace it!

