 Most cupcakes taste good with any kind of icing, but there are classic flavor combinations that just seem to work well together. Consider these options when you're planning what kind of cupcakes to make:


Yellow cupcakes with chocolate icing: This is the ultimate birthday cupcake combination.
Chocolate cupcakes with vanilla icing: The sweet icing balances the deep chocolate taste.
Red velvet cupcakes with cream cheese icing is another party favorite.
Carrot cake or spice cake are also usually paired with cream cheese icing.;
, Depending on your level of knowledge, you can make them from a cookbook recipe or from a box mix.
 If you try to ice cupcakes while they are still warm, the icing will get runny and won't look as neat.
 Make your icing from scratch using your favorite recipe, or if you're using store-bought icing, use a spoon to stir it up.
 Place them on a flat surface so you'll have room to ice them.


If you want to serve your cupcakes in their wrappers, leave them on. You can also opt to remove the wrappers at this stage and serve the cupcakes without them.
If you decide to remove the wrappers, be careful not to tear off chunks of the cupcakes.
 Gently slide it over the cupcake's surface. Create a layer of icing that covers the entire surface of the cupcake. Add as much icing as you like.


Different icing textures will have different end results. Store-bought icing is usually slightly gooey and easy to spread. Homemade icing can be stiffer. When you're spreading it around, be careful not to pull up crumbs from the cake.
You can purchase different icing colors from the grocery store if you'd like to write on the cupcakes or make colorful designs. This may include your initials, age, favorite color, or favorite team.
 Use sprinkles or other sugar decorations to add a final touch to your cupcakes.
 Place the cupcakes in an airtight storage container. If you won't be eating them for a few days, put them in the refrigerator. This will prevent the icing from getting too soft.

