 If you feel as though you need a cigarette, tell yourself to wait for 10 or 15 minutes. Often this works better than the immediate thought of denying yourself a cigarette. In the meantime, begin an activity that will occupy your time. Use a timer if necessary and repeat the process.;
, Most indoor facilities do not allow smoking. Take a trip to the mall, a museum, a restaurant or a library.
 These could include drinking alcohol or coffee, smoking after a meal, or being in situations where others are smoking, such as at a party or a bar.



Eliminate spicy foods and sugar, which tend to increase cravings for cigarettes. This is due mainly to the fact that your blood sugar levels become slightly altered, which trigger you to supplement with nicotine so you will not eat any more.
Make your meals last longer. Try to stretch out the time it takes to eat, and chew slowly in order to digest your meal properly. This will leave you with a satisfied feeling, and lessen your craving for nicotine.
Eat a piece of fruit for dessert to enhance the feeling of satisfaction.
Snack frequently on foods that are healthy and low in calories, such as carrots or apples. This will allow you to use your hands and put something in your mouth instead of smoking.
 Throw away any hidden packs of cigarettes and get rid of all ashtrays.
 Replace cigarette smoking with an activity you enjoy, such as jogging, playing tennis or riding your bike. Daily activity will increase your endorphins, which will leave you feeling better and less likely to need a cigarette.
 Try yoga or meditation, which both require breathing exercises. If your body becomes relaxed through calm thought and breathing, you can avoid stress, which is a major mental trigger that may cause you to pick up a cigarette.
 Nicotine patches, lozenges and gum all help to alleviate the physical symptoms of nicotine, which in turn calm your mental cravings.
 Outline the reasons you need to quit smoking, including your health and the health of those around you.
 The ingestion of nicotine will only trigger your body to need more, putting you at the risk of smoking more than 1 cigarette.
 Talk to others who are trying to quit, get the support of your family, or quit with a friend. Join a support group, such as Nicotine Anonymous, which will allow you to talk to others who are battling nicotine addiction.

