 For the screen you should use a special screen cleaner. For the rest of the laptop, all you should need is a bowl, some soap (if you wish to clean your laptop with the keys removed), a can of compressed air, and some isopropyl alcohol.;
, Don't risk shocking yourself or ruining your machine during the cleaning process.
 They will only get in the way.
 Do not hold the can upside down; simply tilt it and spray. If you are having trouble spraying you can always tilt your laptop, just try not to damage it in the process. Continue spraying until you have removed as much debris as you can.
 Be careful when taking them out so that you do not damage the keys, the connectors, or yourself


Before prying keys off, make sure you understand how to replace them. Some laptop keys are harder to reassemble than others. If you're not sure, try popping off one key and replacing it before you pop them all off.
 Place the keys from the keyboard inside of the bowl and let them sit for as long as necessary to loosen the gunk. You may need to scrub the keys lightly by hand to finish the job.
 Dip a lint-free cloth in the new cleaning solution. Wring out the cloth to avoid dripping water. Wipe clean the inside of the keyboard, as well as the sides and the other faces of your laptop.
 Use the compressed air again (remember to keep the can upright). Spray all of the connector ports until they are nice and clean.
 Do not shut the lid. If you removed the keys from your keyboard, you can set them out on the counter or table or wipe them with a dry cloth.
, Spray some onto a microfiber cloth and gently wipe it over the screen. Shake out the cloth to get rid of dust and grit, then apply more cleaning solution to a clean part of the cloth and go over the screen gently. Do not use a lot of pressure while cleaning the screen.


Do this last, so that your screen is free of any debris you generated when cleaning the rest of the laptop. Do not use normal soap, as it can damage your screen or decrease its performance.

