 There are no federal laws governing laser hair removal, so each state has their own regulations. Make sure that you know what those regulations are and find a school which will give you a certification recognized by the state where you intend to work.Some states, beginning with Arizona, will require a certain number of training hours, around 40 hours of class time.
About 24 hours of hands on training could also be required.
In some states, like Georgia, you will need additional licenses, like cosmetology or aesthetician licenses.
Check for updates in requirements as legislative groups develop and meet in your state to set new regulations.;
, Each state offers accredited schools for training as a Laser Hair Technician. Research the schools available in your area to find the best fit. Consider asking if they offer job placement assistance upon graduation for that extra push once you have finished your training.
 Learning the skills to be a technician and getting your certification can be costly. Be sure that you have balanced your budget and have the savings, scholarships or grants to afford your education. While, in many states, it is not necessary to have a degree or certification, you will need training from a cosmetic laser technician training program to learn the process and proper use of the equipment involved.Training at a laser college or institute costs somewhere in the range of $4250-$6000.
Beauty professionals who add laser removal to their skill set can spend between $1000-$6000 to attend seminars or training courses. To have become a professional, they will likely have spent around $13,000-$20,000 on an associates degree from a community college or trade school.
You may be eligible for financial aid up to $4000 from the National Laser Institute. Two-year associates degrees can cost around $13,000-$20,000.
 You want to be comfortable in the classroom before you put your training into practice. Technicians need to be familiar with the process as well as safety precautions and machine maintenance.Know the appropriate safety equipment and understand cooling systems.
Be familiar with wavelength settings on the Fitzpatrick scale.
Learn procedures for pre- and post- care.
Learn how to maintain the equipment you will be using.
 Be sure to practice in a clinic before applying for a job and working on clients. Work in this safe space until you are confident in your skills without an instructor on hand., Even if your state does not have minimum requirements for training hours, continue learning and training until you are confident in your abilities. The better you are at the required skills, the more likely you will be hired and have returning clients.Make sure that you know the proper techniques for laser hair removal.
Learn all of the necessary safety procedures.
 Once you have completed your training, create a resume listing your goals, training and relevant experience. You will also want to list your contact information, so employers can reach you if they are interested in setting up an interview.Keep the font simple and professional.
Your resume should all fit on one page.
Use templates and resume building websites to help you format your resume.
Include past work experience as well as relevant volunteer work.
Proofread your resume for spelling errors and have a friend give you feedback.
 Several online resources will list job openings in your area. Search on some of the larger job boards like Indeed, Monster, and Career Builder. You can also search for jobs in your particular region., Compile a list of the salons in your area which offer laser hair removal. Visit each salon to inquire if they are hiring. Be sure to have a copy of your resume on hand in case they are looking for employees, and offer to leave a resume with them for future reference if they are not currently hiring.
 Some salons may already have a built in client base, but it is helpful to know how to increase your number of clients and build your own client base. The more clients you have, the more work you will have. The better work you do, the more likely you will be able to maintain your client base as well as expand it.Create marketing materials like business cards and post cards. You can give these to potential clients, as well as offering them to your existing clients to share with their friends.
Network with local businesses and share in marketing by exchanging business cards and trading promotional material to be made available at each other’s businesses. Seek partners with similarities to your business, like hair or nail salons which do not offer laser hair removal.
Promote yourself on social media. Create a professional page to explain what you do. You can promote special offers as well as encourage clients to share their experience on your page.

