 If your blanket needs a thorough washing, always follow the manufacturer’s recommendations. Bring it to the dry cleaner if the care label says, “Dry Clean Only.” Otherwise, move on to the appropriate method if it says it’s okay to hand- or machine-wash.Washing a “dry clean only” blanket can cause it to shrink and become more abrasive.
 Add a drop of mild laundry detergent or two to your bathtub. Fill it with enough cold water to cover your blanket. Wait to see if any suds form before placing your blanket in the water. If they do, drain and repeat with less detergent. Then place your blanket in the water and let it soak for 15 minutes or longer.Scrubbing or otherwise manhandling the blanket in the water can ruin the fibers, so “hand-washing” shouldn’t be taken too literally. Just let it soak so the water and soap do their thing and dislodge the dirt on their own.
Too much detergent can remove the fibers’ natural oils, which means they won’t repel dirt as well anymore. This is why you don’t want to see any suds forming when you add water to the tub.
If the blanket’s still dirty no matter how long it soaks, it will need to be dry-cleaned.
 As with hand-washing, you don’t want to rough the blanket up too much, so don’t put your blanket in for a full wash cycle. Add just a drop or two of mild laundry detergent to the basin and fill it with cold water. If no suds appear, place your blanket inside. If they do, drain the basin and try again with less detergent. Then, once you place the blanket inside:Give it 15 minutes to soak in the soapy water.
Start the washer’s “gentle” or “delicate” cycle.
Stop the cycle after two minutes.
Switch the cycle to “rinse.”
Run the full “rinse” cycle.
 Regardless of which method you chose to wash your blanket, never use a machine to dry it. Hang it up for the air to dry it instead. Avoid doing so in direct sunlight, however, since this can fade your blanket and damage the fibers.Additionally, don’t wring any excess water out of your blanket when you remove it from the water or washer. This can ruin its shape and can cause permanent wrinkles.If you’re worried about it dripping everywhere as you move it from one place to another, roll it up inside a large beach towel.

