 Spotify Offline--the feature that allows you to download and listen to music without wifi--is for Premium members only, which means you'll have to pay for the service. If you don't already have an account with Spotify, you'll need to navigate to their website and click "Get Spotify Premium" on their front page. Follow the site's instructions to create a Premium account.If you already have a free account with Spotify, log in and click the "Premium" tab in the upper right-hand area of the screen. Follow Spotify's on-screen instructions to upgrade.Instead of signing up with an email account and specifically entering your personal information, you can simply click the "Sign up with Facebook" option to use your Facebook account.
 After you've created an account with Spotify, click on the "Download" tab in the upper right-hand area of their website to download the Spotify program installer. Though the download should initiate automatically, you can click the "restart the download" link in the middle of the page if it doesn't.


You can access this set-up file in your default "downloads" location.
 Double-click the Spotify set-up you just downloaded and let the installer do its job. Once installation is complete, sign in using your account information.


Make sure you have a reliable internet connection during this process, since Spotify needs internet access to load its databases.
 Once you've logged into Spotify, you can browse by genre, new releases, and playlists. Add specific tracks or whole playlists to your personal account by clicking the white plus sign next to tracks and playlist names. You can also view these items by clicking on any of the links under the "YOUR MUSIC" heading on the left-hand side of the interface.
 In the lower left-hand corner of your interface, click the white plus sign next to "New Playlist" to create your own playlist. Add tracks as you see fit by clicking and dragging songs, artists, or albums into this file.
 Click the "Available Offline" option at the top of the playlist when you finish. It should turn green, and the tracks in your playlist will begin downloading to your Spotify program.While your tracks are downloading, there will be a circular arrow rotating on the left-hand side of the track's information. Once the process is complete, a green downward-facing arrow will take the circular arrow's place.
 In the menu bar, click on "File", then click the "Offline Mode" option. You should now be using Spotify's Listen Offline feature! Keep in mind that you'll only be able to listen to tracks for which you've actively selected "Available Offline" and downloaded fully.


Spotify will automatically switch over to Offline Mode if you suddenly lose your wifi signal.

