 Features to look for are:


Comfortable back and hip straps are a necessity. Try it on to check.
Zipper pockets that can be secured with a small lock.
A backpack on the light side that provides about 20% of space for maneuvering.;
,


Experienced backpackers tell you to gather everything you think you'll need and then get rid of half of it.
Whether you're going to backpack Europe, Asia, or South America, an important question that determines what makes the list to pack a backpack with is "can I buy it local."

, Jeans are bulky and take up a lot of room. If you think you can't live without them, wear them on the plane trips. If you backpack Europe, you'll notice the only time you see people in shorts are if they're American tourists or you're at a beach. If you must bring shorts, consider pants with zip-off legs.
Two to three shirts, including one long-sleeve shirt when you pack a backpack. If you bring a t-shirt and polo, you can wear them together when the temperature drops.
Females might want to replace one pair of pants with a longish skirt in order to be admitted into historical churches that have dress codes and to limit unwanted attention for showing too much skin in many Asian locations.






Take 3-to-6 pairs of underwear for an international backpacking trip. Fast drying moisture-wicking brands like Under Armour make it easy to wash out underwear at night.
Socks.
A small clothesline and sewing kit can be lifesavers on an international backpacking trip.



Light trail-running shoes make good walking shoes for a backpacking trip.
If you're going to a warm location, take flip flops for relaxing and wearing into public showers.
Some people prefer to relax with slippers on cold international backpacking trips.



If there's a possibility of rain, go with a hooded water-resistant windbreaker. Backpackers who plan on sleeping on the ground may prefer a poncho that can double as something to sleep on. A collapsible umbrella is another option.
Pack lightweight Microfleece for cool days or nights. But, for the most part, you'll want to layer clothing for warmth.
 They keep your pack organized and packed tightly.
 Don't forget:


Soap. Not all hotels provide soap.
Tissue packets in case you end up somewhere without toilet paper.
Shampoo, deodorant, toothpaste and razors are all available whether you backpack Europe or other locations.
 Check with camping or swimming outlets.



Make copies or rip out pages that you need. Then staple or bind the pages. This allows much more room than taking an entire guidebook or two.
,


Keep repellent in a separate pocket or in a plastic bag to keep it from leaking onto clothes.
Pack a compact mosquito net if international backpacking takes you to sub-Saharan Africa.
, Some items you might want to consider are:


Lightweight sleeping bag.
Fork/spoon tool combination.
Bowl.
 Experienced backpackers suggest:


Small LED flashlight.
Adapter if an international backpacking trip takes you to locations with different electrical currents and outlets.
Trip journal.
Tiny lock for locking backpack zippers shut. If you check your backpack at the airport, make certain the lock is approved by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) so they can inspect your backpack without damaging it.
