 Preheat the oven to 350° Fahrenheit or 176° Celsius. Line a cupcake tray with 24 paper liners in each case.;
, In a large bowl, cream the butter and vanilla sugar using a hand or electric blend. Blend for about 2-3 minutes, until the butter is light and fluffy.
 Crack in the eggs and add the vanilla extract into the creamed butter. Blend again until fully combined an there are no egg streaks.
 In a separate medium-sized bowl combine the all-purpose flour, nutmeg, baking soda, and fine salt. Use a wooden spoon to mix the dry ingredients together until well-combined.
 Pour only half of the dry ingredients into the creamed butter an blend on low speed for about two minutes. Then add the rest of the dry ingredients, along with the sour cream. Blend for about three minutes until the cupcake batter forms and there are no more flour streaks.
 Add the chopped apple chunks into the cupcake batter. Slowly fold the apples in on medium speed for about thirty seconds.
 Using a mini ice cream scoop, scoop the cupcake batter into the cupcake tray. Repeat with all of the cupcake cases.
 Place the cupcakes in the oven to bake. Have the cupcakes bake for about 20 minutes, until they rise and the edges are lightly browned.


To test if the cupcakes are fully baked, poke a toothpick in the middle of one of the cupcakes. If it comes out dry the cupcakes are done baking.
 Remove the cupcake tray out of the oven. Place the tray on a wire rack. Have the cupcakes cool for about ten minutes, until they are cool enough to touch.
 In a medium-sized bowl, cream the butter and cream cheese until fluffy. Add the powdered sugar, one cup at a time, blending slowly to avoid the powdered sugar spilling. Add the lemon juice and vanilla extract and blend again. Set aside.
 Place apple butter in a frosting pipe. Pipe about a tablespoon of apple butter in the middle of all the cupcakes.
 Using the frosting you made before, frost the cupcakes using a frosting pipe or butter knife. Spread enough frosting on all of the cupcakes.
 Get a cupcake and place it on a serving plate. Sprinkle cinnamon or extra chopped apples on top of the cupcakes if desired. Enjoy!

