 Bicep curls can help to tone your biceps and make your arm muscles appear more defined. Do bicep curls seated in a comfortable straight backed chair or on a sturdy exercise ball. Keep your feet flat on the floor and hold a 5-10 pound dumbbell in each hand.Pull your navel toward your spine to help keep your lower back straight and keep your shoulder blades down on your back. Inhale as you curl the dumbbell toward your shoulder, keeping your elbows stationary. Lower the dumbbell and bend the other arm for one rep. One rep equals a curl with both arms.
Do 1-2 sets of 10 reps. Make sure you inhale with each curl and exhale with each lowering of the dumbbell. Rest for one minute between sets.
As you get later into your pregnancy, sit further back in the chair and put a pillow behind your lower back from support.;
, Tone your triceps with this exercise. Make sure you sit on a chair or an exercise ball with your feet flat on the floor. Hold an 8-10 pound dumbbell vertically between your thumbs and forefingers. Place it behind your head with your elbows bent and pointed toward the ceiling. Keep your navel towards your spine and squeeze your shoulder blades down.Hold your elbows still as you inhale. Straighten your arms and lift the dumbbell toward the ceiling.
Exhale and lower your arms to the starting position. Then, repeat the extension again, doing two sets of 10 reps. Rest for one minute between sets.
You can do this exercise standing in your first trimester of pregnancy. In your last trimester, make sure you do this exercise sitting with a pillow behind your back for support.
 Lateral raises will help to strengthen your upper back muscles and help you to maintain proper posture while pregnant. Do this exercise with 3-8 pound dumbbells. Make sure you stand with your feet hip-width apart and keep your knees slightly bent. Hold a dumbbell in each hand with your palms facing your body and let your arms hang by your sides. Keep your navel into your spine and squeeze your shoulder blades back and down.Lift your arms out to shoulder height as you inhale. Then, exhale as you slowly lower your arms. Do 1-2 sets of 10 reps. Make sure you rest for one minute between sets.
When doing this exercise during your third trimester, make sure you are seated and place a pillow behind your lower back for support.
 Squats are great for toning your thigh muscles. They are also good to practice if you plan to give birth while in a squatting position. You can do this exercise standing with your feet shoulder-width apart and your feet facing forward. Keep your back straight and always bend at the knees. Inhale as you slowly lower yourself as close to the ground as you can, keeping your heels flat on the ground. Move your feet further apart to make this easier.Hold the squat for ten to 30 seconds and then exhale as you come back to the starting position. Do five squats at a time, resting for one minute between each set.
Do not bend your knees too deeply in this position, as your joints are more prone to injury when you are pregnant.
In your last trimester, you may want to avoid doing this exercise as you do not want to stand on your feet for prolonged periods of time.
 Leg lifts are a great way to tone your thigh muscles using your own body weight. You can do leg lifts lying on your side, supporting yourself by holding your head with your arm and placing your other arm in front of you. Keep your shoulders, hips, and knees aligned, with your hips stacked on top of each other.Inhale as you lift your top leg as high as you can. Then, exhale as you lower it back down.
Do 10 reps on one side. Then, switch sides and repeat.
 Pelvic tilts are a great way to strengthen your abdominal muscles, improve your posture, and help your body prepare for labor. You can do this exercise standing with your back flat against a wall. Keep your spine relaxed. Inhale as you press your lower back against the wall. Then, exhale and release. Repeat the pelvic tilt regularly throughout the day or throughout your workout.You can also do pelvic tilts on all fours. Rock your pelvis back and forth on all fours to stretch this area.
Do not do pelvic tilts lying on your back while pregnant as this can lead to blood circulation issues.
 This exercise is great for strengthening your core and for keeping your pelvis muscles strong. Do this exercise on an exercise or stability ball. Sit tall on the ball with your back straight and your feet flat on the floor. Place your hands on either side of the ball for balance.Exhale as you lift one foot off the floor and raise the opposite arm over your head. Hold this position for two to three seconds, or two to three breaths.
Return to the starting position and repeat the movements with the other leg and the other arm. Do 1-2 sets of 8 reps total or 4 on each side.
 Side plank is great for strengthening your external oblique muscles, which will help to support your growing uterus. You can do this exercise lying down on one side with your elbow directly under your shoulder. Bend your knees and stack them one on top of the other with your hips stacked as well.Inhale as you gently squeeze your butt and bring your hips forward until your body comes off the floor. Hold this position for 20 to 30 seconds, breathing in and out. Then, exhale as you lower back down on the floor.
Repeat the side plank on the other side.
 Make sure you drink several glasses of water before you exercise. You can also have a water bottle close by so you can take small sips of water while you exercise. Then, have several more glasses of water after you are done exercising to ensure you stay hydrated.If you experience any signs of dehydration such as dizziness, a racing heart, and urine that is dark yellow while working out, drink water right away.
If you aren’t into drinking plain water, add fresh lemon or lime slices to your water to help you drink more of it. You may also add cucumber slices to give the water more natural flavor.
 Your breasts should be well supported when you exercise while pregnant. Make sure you wear a supportive sports bra that fits well. You should also wear breathable, loose fitting clothing when exercising to ensure you are comfortable and do not get too hot while you exercise.Make sure you wear supportive exercise shoes while doing exercise. This will ensure your weight is equally distributed when you stand and do toning exercises.
 Try not to over exercise while you are pregnant, especially if you are new to exercising. Get in the habit of taking one to two minute rest breaks between sets or between exercises during your workout. If you start to feel light headed while exercising, always take a break by sitting down and drinking water.You should also make sure you are breathing deeply during your workout to prevent lightheadedness and fatigue. If you start to feel weak during your workout, take a rest break where you sit and do deep breathing.
 To avoid injury, you should always start your workouts with light stretching for five to ten minutes. You can do side stretches standing up or while seated. You can also do chest opening stretches to get your body warmed up.Always end your workouts with light stretching for five to ten minutes. Repeat the same stretches that you do at the beginning of your workout.
 Make sure you are eating well so you have enough energy to exercise while pregnant. Have lots of fresh fruits, vegetables, and healthy sources of protein. Make sure you are getting enough nutrients and vitamins from your meals.You should also consume enough calories a day to sustain your body while pregnant. Often, this means eating at least 300 more calories a day than usual.
Try to eat up to one hour before you exercise so your body is not too full and you can workout without any digestive issues.

