 There are laws in the U.S. that protect you from being required to disclose your disability status, sexual orientation, and other identifiers at places like school, work and so on. If you have a stigma because of a hidden disability or another reason, you should not feel forced to disclose anything at all if you choose not to.


For example, when you are applying for a job, you do not need to disclose any disability or stigma. If you choose to do so, your information is required to be treated confidentially and respectfully., If you feel comfortable doing so, you can talk with people in your life about your visible stigmas. Visible stigmas are those that are immediately noticeable to other people such as being in a wheelchair or being blind. Often visible stigmas require strategies that relate to managing the conversation about the stigma. In this way, you can facilitate a safe yet open discussion.


Start with people closest to you in order to become more comfortable talking about such issues in your preferred manner. Then, if you feel like you want to talk with acquaintances or strangers about the stigma, you have some experience with the types of questions that people may ask.
Don’t feel pressured to talk about your stigma. It is a personal decision that should be made by you and you alone.
Talking about visible stigma can sometimes be pretty complex. This is due to the immediate social awkwardness that can accompany another person’s prejudices., When you experience stigma around something invisible, such as sexual orientation or having a non-visible health condition, think about how you want to talk with other people about it. Managing invisible stigma is an ongoing process. But it’s best for any stigmatized person to persistently experiment with different ways of talking about or ignoring their unique conditions in order to find a comfortable zone of personal disclosure with others. , When figuring out how much you want to share with someone else, consider what you hope to achieve with talking about it. Do you want the other person to stop making comments about depression, for example? Do you want the other person to be more understanding of gay people?

, Once you’ve considered your goals and how much information you want to share, think about how you might actually share. Experiment with different communication techniques and mediums in order to achieve these goals in different cases.


For example, your goal is simply to inform another person of your traditionally stigmatized situation. But you hope to avoid any possible negative consequences that might result from such a disclosure. It might be best to send an email or written letter that describes the details of the situation. In this way, you can share information while producing a minimal amount of psychological stress.
 Being able to throw out statistics can defuse a sticky situation. For example, if someone you know is spouting off about how depression "isn't real,” let them know that depression is the leading cause of disability in the U.S. for ages 15-44. If education on mood disorders were available for people like them, suicide rates might be lower.

