 Politely tell them that you’re diabetic. Give them a few examples of what you can and can’t eat. Inform them about how much of certain foods you’ll need.

Reassure them that they don’t have to go out of their way. Shoot for bonus points by offering to bring a dish or buy some diabetic-friendly ingredients for them to cook.;
, If you take insulin, remember that heat causes it to absorb more quickly into the injection site. This could cause your blood sugar to drop suddenly. Keep active, but take regular breaks from sun exposure. Stay hydrated. Make sure you test your glucose levels more often than usual., Designate a small bag or purse. You’ll need enough room to fit all the supplies you require throughout the day. Because high temperatures can damage your supplies, ask the host if you can leave your bag in the house. Your bag should include your:

Glucose meter, testing strips, and lancets
Insulin or pills
Syringes or insulin pump supplies
Cold pack to keep preserve your insulinEmergency glucose tablets

, The scheduled start time of the meal might force you to eat lunch or dinner later than usual. This can trigger a drop in blood sugar and a delay in your scheduled insulin dose. Pack a snack with carbohydrates to keep your glucose levels stable.You could bring:

A small apple and an individual snack cup of peanut butter
A protein bar
Crackers and cheese

, Give yourself a minute or two to look over the choices on the table or grill. Make a note of which options to take smaller portions of, which ones you can take larger portions of, and which ones to avoid completely. After that, start to fill your plate!, Fill half of your plate with non-starchy veggies. Dedicate one quarter to lean protein. Choose starchy food for the final quarter. If you have room, add a handful of healthy snacks on the side. Make sure your food pile doesn’t grow more than 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) tall.Some examples from each group are:

Vegetables: grilled eggplant, bell peppers, or summer squash; lettuce, tomato, and cucumber salad with vinaigrette dressing, broccoli, cauliflower, or Brussels sprouts.
Lean protein: black bean (or other veggie) patty, tofu kebobs, grilled lean white or red meat (includes fish and poultry) without sauce.
Starchy foods: plain mashed potatoes, sweet potatoes/yams, bean salad, whole grain burger bun.
Healthy snacks: a handful of baked tortilla chips, a handful of pita chips, 1/4 cups (59.15 g) of unsalted nuts.
Healthy dips: 2 tbsp (29.6 g) hummus, black bean dip, light ranch dip., These foods are usually high in sugar and high fructose corn syrup, which can raise your blood glucose to dangerous levels. Processed foods are also high in sodium, which increases your risk of hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome (HHS).Consider these examples banned from your plate:

Processed meats like hot dogs, deli meats, and high-fat beef burgers
Processed salty snacks like pretzels, potato chips, or fried tortilla chips
Traditional potato salad, macaroni salad, or coleslaw (made with heavy mayonnaise)
Heavy dips like traditional ranch, artichoke, or French onion
Traditional condiments like ketchup, mustard, and barbecue sauce
Baked goods like cookies, cake, or pie

, Avoid the temptation to indulge in sweet baked goods. Go for fresh fruits or fruit-based desserts. Keep your portion sizes small.Some good choices are:

One small apple, orange, or pear
1/2 banana
1/2 cup (118.29 g) barbecued fruit1/2 cup (118.29 g) fruit salad
1 cup (236.59 g) berries or chopped melon, Choose hydrating beverages like water or unsweetened iced tea. Add a slice of lemon or orange for some natural sweetness and added Vitamin C.Stay away from drinks with high fructose corn syrup.
Alcohol interacts with diabetes medication, which can cause unpredictable rises and falls of blood sugar. This can potentially lead to a medical emergency.
 High temperatures put everyone at risk for dehydration. For diabetics, the risk is even greater when your blood sugar level rises. Before, during, and after the meal, take regular sips of cool caffeine-free beverages like water, lemonade, and unsweetened ice tea. Limit or avoid alcoholic beverages., If you suffer from neuropathy, you might not feel sunburn occurring on your hands and feet. Apply sunscreen to your hands regularly, especially after you wash your hands. Put it on your feet if you’re wearing sandals or flip-flops.Never go barefoot! Stubbing your toe could cause a foot ulcer. Diabetes also causes wounds to heal slowly, putting you at risk for infection if you step on a sharp object., Many factors at barbecues can make your blood sugar fluctuate. Heat and exercise can both cause your numbers to drop. This is why you need to test often. Keep your monitor and testing strips safe from the heat but within easy reach if you need to test in a pinch.The stress of an outing or get together can also cause your blood sugar to increase. The stress causes the body to release adrenaline which causes the liver to release more glucose and cortisol into the bloodstream.
 Regular exercise is good for everyone, including those with diabetes. As long as you can recognize signs of fluctuating blood sugar, there’s no reason you shouldn’t enjoy that game of volleyball or time in the pool. Again, take caution that high outdoor temperatures and the kind of activity you’re engaging in can cause your numbers to drop.Take precautions such as eating a snack before exercising and testing your blood sugar before and after exercise.
 Barbecues are just as much about socializing as eating. Once you’ve filled your plate, sit far away from the food. This way, you won’t be tempted to overeat or neglect your loved ones. Just be alert that too much inactivity can cause your blood sugar to rise, especially if you’re used to regular activity.To reduce your risk of fluctuations, ask your companions if they’d like to take an after-meal walk with you.
 A medical alert bracelet or necklace has the power to speak for you when you can’t speak for yourself.If something causes your blood sugar to change drastically and you pass out or have a seizure, your bracelet will reveal that you have diabetes to medical professionals and others around you. This will help them know how to treat you.

Tell those around you that you are diabetic if they do not know. Don’t be shy about this; everyone has something medically that they are dealing with and a little bit of knowledge can save a life.

