 This will save you time when you arrive at the park - you won't have to wait in any queues at the ticket offices!;
, Try previewing each ride on YouTube, or take a peek at the ride through photos from others. Learn from what others see. This can help decide which rides and attractions will take priority during your visit.
 Food and water are expensive at the park, and easy snacks like graonla bars can fit into even the smallest section of your bag.
 You are usually allowed in through the barriers before opening, however you won't have access to most rides unless you are staying at a Universal Resort hotel. (Guests staying at Universal Resort hotels have Early Park Admission privileges at different times throughout the year.) Getting through the barriers early will give you time to pick up a park map and plan your route to the first ride of the day.
 Discuss some of your other options that exist for the other nearby Universal Resort area which include Islands of Adventure and CityWalk. If you'd like, you can also visit Walt Disney World with it's 4 parks or local attractions in the area including. Epcot, the Disney (Hollywood/MGM) Studios, the Magic Kingdom and Disney's Animal Kingdom. There's also SeaWorld Orlando and the Aquatica water park to choose from., The address to the Universal Studios Orlando is located at 6000 Universal Blvd, Orlando, FL 32819 .The cost to park your car at the Universal Orlando resort will run you about $17 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle).
, This area with the park globe and theatre area gate is what gives this park it's "remembered" appearance. If you have other members of your group, consider stopping here to take a picture, as this is a fun photo opportunity.
, This park is divided into about seven lands spread sporadically behind the world-famous entrance. These lands include Production Central, New York, San Francisco, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter-Diagon Alley, World Expo, Hollywoodand Woody Woodpecker's Kidzone .., This motion simulator animated adventure, if you like the movie Despicable Me will have your heart pumping. Hit this ride right when you enter the park, as wait times will most likely be super long throughout the entire day.
 This experience is similar to "Despicable Me Minion Mayhem", and often has very short wait times, so this one is a good one to do if someone in your party doesn't enjoy minions, or right after the ride is over.
 With a really steep incline towards the beginning, this ride can be terrifying but really fun. It's located in between the Despicable Me and former home of the Nickelodeon Studios building.
 Strap on a pair of 3D glasses the movie provides and you'll be in for a thrill of your life.
 The 20 minute show (at the Aquos Theatre in Universal Studios) that is put on there will have you in awe of wanting more Blue Man Group than what you'll see during this visit.
,, This comical show will have you laughing non-stop for a few hours thereafter.
 This live show is rather entertaining and, in non-Halloween times, is rather interesting to watch.
,, Talk to the interactive shrunken head who is able to hear every word you say. Few people ever gather around, so there's little chance that you'll ever been more than a minute or two away from talking with the driver. The Knight Bus is across the walkway from the rest of the section near the far right corner of the park, and the entrance to this section is through the gate straight ahead of the front of the bus.
 You'll find this train station just to your left as you enter into this land. Look out the rather-fake looking windows to watch the Harry Potter journey, or watch out the entryway door as you see people gather and talk about your journey. However, unless you have a park-to-park ticket, that allows you to cross into the other park, try not to even enter this attraction, as the other park is outside of Universal Studios

,,, It's gruesome to watch for some, but if you don't mind seeing other people try to face their fears, this attraction can be interesting to watch.
 Similar to Buzz Lightyear's Space Ranger Spin, this ride is rather funny if you have someone playing next to you. Challenge the other player or challenge yourself to beat previous scores, if you've been at this ride before.
, Much like it's Disney counterpart Dumbo The Flying Elephant Ride at Walt Disney World but with different ride design vehicles, this ride doesn't do much but twirl around a center pole in an endless fashion.
 Even if you are an adult, this funny and comical show gets everyone to have a great time.
 In this indoor show, you'll spend some time with Barney the big purple dinosaur. So whether you are trying to remind yourself of some of the moments you've missed in songs that Barney uses or something else associated to Barney, most of it is here., Although designed for kids to roam around, most often parents participate in the play and watch the kids play closer. This little village features several buildings housing things devoted to some of the Curious George stories over the years.
,,,,,, This informative show is creative and popular, so expect to arrive at it early. It's viewing area is near the entrance to the Hollywood Blvd and KidZone areas of the park.
