 Ask your family doctor for a referral for a dermatologist that specializes in treating combination skin. You can also look up dermatologists in your area on the American Academy of Dermatology. Look at the background, expertise, and rates for each dermatologist and set up an initial consultation to see if the dermatologist is right for you.Ask about different treatment options for acne: topical ointments, oral antibiotics, chemical peels, and light and laser treatments are a few examples.
Ask your dermatologist for recommendations for cleansers, moisturizers, exfoliants, toners, and sunscreen.
You can also ask friends or family for a recommendation. Check how long they have been seeing their dermatologist, how they feel the staff treats the patients at the office, and how accessible they felt information on procedures or treatments for combination skin issues was through the dermatologist.
 If over the counter products are not helping with your acne, your dermatologist may give you a prescription for a topical medication for your skin issues. There are three main types:Retinoids: These drugs can come in the form of a lotion, a gel, or a cream. Your dermatologist will likely instruct you to apply the medication at night, three times a week, and then daily as your skin gets used to the drug. Retinoids are derived from vitamin A and plug your hair follicles, stopping the build up of oil, and acne.
Antibiotics: Your dermatologist will likely prescribe a retinoid and an antibiotic (applied topically or taken orally) for the first several months of your treatment. You will apply the antibiotic in the morning and the retinoid in the evening. Antibiotics work by eliminating extra skin bacteria and reducing inflammation on your skin. These are often combined with benzoyl peroxide to help prevent the bacteria from becoming resistant to the antibiotics.
Dapsone (Aczone): This treatment comes in the form of a gel and is often prescribed with a topical retinoid. If you use this treatment, you may experience side effects like skin dryness and redness.
 To perform a chemical peel, your dermatologist will apply a chemical solution like salicylic acid to your skin for repeated treatments. You may be advised to combine a chemical peel with other acne treatments.However, you should not use oral retinoids while you are doing chemical peel treatments. Taking these two medications together can cause skin irritation.
Possible side effects of chemical peels include severe redness, blistering and scaling, and a permanent discoloration of your skin. These side effects are rare when chemical peels are performed by trained physicians or aestheticians.

