 Crate training works with a dog’s natural denning instinct and is not meant as a punishment, though it can help to curb restless or disruptive behavior. Your dog’s crate should become its refuge, a place to feel safe and comfortable in and to call its own. With this in mind, purchase a crate that will accommodate your puppy when it reaches adult size. While it is still a puppy, use a divider to block off part of the crate, allowing it enough space to stand up, lie down and turn around comfortably in.For a list of dog breeds and the sizes of crate that are appropriate for them, visit the Association of Professional Dog Trainers website at https://apdt.com/pet-owners/crate-size/.
 Line the crate with a blanket and a few toys and leave it open to be explored at your puppy’s will. Feed it treats while it is inside and encourage it to take naps in the crate by leading it there when it is sleepy. Start feeding your puppy meals inside the crate to increase its comfort and positive associations with it., Start closing the door with your puppy inside of it for a few seconds at a time while your puppy is eating. Remain near the crate until your puppy seems comfortable with being inside with the door closed (i.e. doesn’t whine to be let out). Try leaving the room for a few minutes while your puppy is inside, then rewarding it with praise and treats once you return and let it out.As your puppy grows more comfortable with this happening, leave the room for longer periods of time.
 Once your puppy is comfortable with being left in its crate for up to 30 minutes, try leaving the house with it inside. Crating your puppy while you are out can reduce its anxiety about being on its own in a big space. Crate your puppy for about 15-20 minutes before you step out to avoid having it associate the crate with you leaving. Keep your departure and arrival home low-key to avoid getting your dog overexcited.Continue crating your puppy while you are home as well, in short periods – puppies younger than 6 months old should not be left in their crate for more than 3-4 hours at a time since they need to relieve themselves more often than older dogs.
 If your puppy is older than 6 months and restless at night, try crating it overnight. Start by keeping the crate in your bedroom, so that you can let your puppy out if it needs to relieve itself during the night. As your puppy grows more comfortable with sleeping in there, try moving it out of your room to a location you prefer.