 Since your cabinets are probably stocked to the brim, you'll probably need other methods to house what's left over (the decorative doodads and the like). For this, you have two options:


Floating shelves. If you have walls (and you probably do), you can install floating shelves with ease. They will also draw the eye upward, so if your kitchen is small, it will distract from the cramped-ness of the rest of the room.
Cubed shelving. This is turning a wall into a series of boxes. They are artistic and utilitarian. For an added touch, decorate each box (or some of the boxes) with different types of shelf paper.Tada, kitchen innovation.
 A kitchen does not need too much going on, so sticking to black and white and other neutral tones are your best bet. Nevertheless, take that monochrome look and spice it up with a specific accent color. Maybe bright yellow or bright blue? Suddenly, the eyes aren't concerned with the size and immediately focus on your great pieces.


Think of accents in your art, towels, and dishware. But remember: it's an accent color. Too much of an accent color makes it an accent color no more. If you overdo it, you'll lose the effect. Stick to 4 or 5 pieces.
Three words: Paint. The. Ceiling.
 Whether it's cabinets or drawers, think about removing the doors. Sure, this means everything on the inside will need to be organized, but that can easily be overcome with cute storage containers and pretty glass and textured bins. And more opportunities to show off your decorating side!


The idea here is that you're opening everything up -- literally. The more open it is, the more room the eye will see. The more room the eye sees, the larger the room will seem., Just because you're in a kitchen doesn't mean you can't do whatever the heck you want. And since you probably know that mirrors open rooms, why not put one in your kitchen?! It doesn't have to scream "I'm a mirror!" either -- simply place it underneath your cabinetry for a is-it-there-is-it-not-there look.


Mirrors (with frames) also make for good trays. Slap some felt on the back and boom -- automatic DIY success.
 A room's color helps it feel warm or relaxing, so decorate your kitchen by adding a fresh coat of paint to the walls or cabinets. White is a popular choice, but you can opt for a light shade of blue or yellow if an all-white room isn't appealing.


Use a variety of neutral tones. While using white, cream, and gray may seem drab, when you mix up various neutral tones, it adds depth and sophistication, while staying classic and simple. Turn boring into brilliant by just using a few shades.
Add a focus. Paint three walls one color, and the fourth wall a color that pops. The eye will move to it without even realizing it. If you have a great window or area of the room that's eye-catching, amp it up with a focus color.
 If you are committed to white walls (either against your will or not), you may feel like your kitchen is a little lacking. Get around this by adding a backsplash -- that is a panel behind the sink or stove that protects the wall from splashes. And the panel can be any style you like!


It's easiest to stick to a solid color to add an accent, but consider tiles and patterns, too. Tiles can add extra texture to an otherwise smooth wall.

If you already have tile, think about buying tile stickers. A super (couldn't be easier) easy way to jazz up that backsplash in seconds., You have more options here than you probably realize. Depending on your electrical system, lighting can take on several different sources. Each one can vamp up your kitchen, rejuvenating it with life.


Play around with table lamps. Those work on counters, too! It adds a homey, unexpected feel to any area. If you are feeling extra creative, make a "lamp" out of a string of Christmas lights in a clear, glass jar.
Put lights in (and under) your cabinets. Not only will your pieces be lit up (and they'll look fantastic), it can serve as dim lighting when the full guns aren't necessary. In other words, romantic and functional.
Get a great hanging lamp. Even if you don't have much space, a great hanging lamp with an eccentric drum shade can be so much fun you won't notice anything else. Or get several small ones for more lighting options.
Go for sconces. If you don't have room for a big hanging shade or lamps on your countertops, a sconce is an easy way to go. Some are incredibly easy to attach and can provide much more light than their size would allow.
 Decorating a kitchen can become overwhelming if you try to change everything at once. Give yourself one decorating project, like painting or buying new dishes, and stay with that project until it's completed. You can move on to others later if you feel your kitchen needs more decorating.


This well help you know when to stop and when (and how) to keep going. Sometimes adding a focal point or changing your dishware can put a new twist on your kitchen that may be the small tweak that it needed. Create a priority list of things you want to add/change and slowly move down it as necessary.

