 It's easy to let your thoughts spin out of control when you're anxious. If you, say, hear a strange noise, your mind may jump to the worse case scenario. Remember, your mind tends to play tricks on you when you're anxious. Try to be aware of what you're thinking, and take control of troublesome thoughts.Your brain can make you believe a lot of irrational things when you're anxious. Most of them are not true. When you start to get nervous, think to yourself, "This is just my brain playing a trick on me."
Many people get nervous over strange sounds when home alone. When you hear a strange noise, look for a logical explanations instead of assuming there's an intruder in the house. For example, think something like, "I think that is an intruder, but that's my anxiety talking. I know I locked the doors. The cat probably knocked something over upstairs.", You should question any thoughts you have that don't seem rational when you're home alone. When you start to get scared over a particular scenario, stop and ask yourself something like, "Honestly, what is the worst thing that can happen here?"For example, you may get more nervous as it gets dark out. You may think something like, "I'm going to have a heart attack I'm so scared."
Stop and question this. Ask yourself something like, "Am I really going to have a heart attack? What is the worst thing that could actually happen?"
In reality, you know you won't have a heart attack just from being nervous. Say something to yourself like, "The worst thing that can happen is that I'll feel scared for a few hours. Feeling scared sucks, but it won't actually hurt me."

, Simply breathing can help release tension and ground you in reality. If you start to get nervous home alone, do some simple deep breathing exercises to calm down and return your mind to the present.Inhale through your nose. Make sure to direct your breath in such a way that your diaphragm rises while your chest remains relatively still. Hold the breath for a count of four.
Exhale through your mouth. Try to spend seven seconds exhaling.
Repeat deep breathing a few times. You should feel significantly calmer.
 Your imagination can really run wild when you're upset. Instead of letting your imagination scare you, redirect it. Envision a calming scenario when your thoughts start to spiral towards anxiety.When you start to feel nervous, go on a mental vacation. Imagine yourself somewhere relaxing where you can unwind.
For example, picture yourself lying on a beach somewhere. Engage with all your senses. What does this scene look like, feel like, taste like? Close your eyes and imagine until you being to feel calm.

