 Some signs may begin to emerge as early as 6 to 12 months. Specialists tend to hold off giving a definite diagnosis until approximately 18 months. This is due to the patterns of autistic symptoms in early development. Some of the symptoms may fade in, and fade back out again.This spiking and diminishing of symptoms can occur up until approximately 24 months. Symptoms should be taken seriously, but some children show delays and then catch up developmentally by the time they're 24 months old.;
, The following are some signs that may point to autism in children between 12 and 24 months old. Remember, if you're in doubt, visit your local doctor. They will be able to refer you to the right specialist. Take note if your child:


Does not make eye contact.
Sleeps in an awkward position.
May be highly sensitive to certain sensory stimuli.
Talks in an unusual tone or pitch, this may be displayed though an unusual babble.
Carries around specific items for extended periods of time.
Makes repetitive movements with their body or hands (stimming), especially to express emotion or calm down.
Plays with toys in an abnormal fashion.
May appear under-active, or disinterested.
May be hard to soothe, not liking to be cuddled.
Shows signs of being highly fussy.
 Some symptoms only present themselves when your child reaches a certain age. If you are concerned your child may have autism, look for the symptoms listed in the previous step, and keep in mind how quickly your baby develops relative to his/her peers. Here are some symptoms of a definite delay::


Before 6 months: No big smiles or joyful expressions
Before 9 months: No mutual sharing of sounds, smiles or other expressions.
Before 12 months: Lack of response to his or her name, no gestures like waving, pointing or reaching in response to your own gestures.
Before 16 months: No spoken words.
Before 24 months: No original two-word phrases. May rely on echolalia. This does not include imitation.
 If your child is in school, ask their teacher about any motor skill issues.


Examples of fine motor skill problems include being unable to color correctly, or difficulty using scissors to cut paper.
A child with gross motor skills may take a long time to pack up books or put on jackets, and be the last one out to recess.
 You know your child better than anyone else in the world, which means that you are more likely to notice changes that a doctor can. If you truly have a gut feeling that something is abnormal, it does not hurt to visit a specialist or psychologist.


If you have any concerns, talk to a doctor who specializes in autism, rather than your normal medical provider.
Keep in mind that the abnormalities may be due to something else, such as ADHD, Sensory Processing Disorder, or anxiety.

