 Navy blue lipstick is flattering on almost everyone. It is also the most popular and easy to find color. If you are new to blue lipstick, then a navy shade might be the best place to start.Navy lipsticks are usually matte, but you can apply a clear gloss over the lipstick if you prefer a shiny lip look.
You can find navy blue lipsticks in different shades, from lighter shades to navy blues that look almost black.;
, Denim shades are more complex and may not work with all skin tones. Try pairing a denim shade with a light smoky eye or a little bronze eyeshadow. This is a great shade to wear on a night out.Denim shades are more of a true or royal blue color.
 If you are feeling extra bold and adventurous, then you might consider wearing an electric blue lipstick. This shade is lighter and brighter than a navy or denim lip, so it will definitely make a statement.Electric blue lipsticks might work best for a spring or summer look, since they are light and bright.
You can wear electric blue lipstick with bare skin or amp up the drama with a bold cat eye look.
 Depending on what shade you choose, you may have the choice of a liquid or creamy formula lipstick. Each of these formulas will give you a different result. The liquid lipstick may create a wet or shiny look, while the creamy formula may give you more of a matte look.


Keep in mind that some liquid lipsticks will provide a matte look as well. Be sure to check the tube for details about the lipstick, such as whether it is matte or shiny.
 Start by lining your lips with an eyeliner or lip liner in a color that is similar to your blue lipstick. For example, you can use an eggplant lip liner if you are planning to wear a navy lipstick. Or, you can just use a navy blue eyeliner as a lip liner.Line your lips along the outer edge of your lips, but keep it on your lips. Don’t apply the liner outside of your lip line.
 Next, apply the lipstick evenly. Be sure to stay inside the lines. Depending on the lipstick, you may need to apply two coats to ensure even coverage.Press your lips together after applying the lipstick to distribute the color on your lips.
 Blue lipstick looks best when it is bold and even, so it is important to touch it up regularly. Plan to touch it up once every hour or so, and after eating or drinking anything.Keep a compact mirror handy so you can touch up on the go.
 Blue eyeshadow can add some extra shimmer and dimension to a blue lip look, which can be a nice touch. If you want to add some shimmer to your blue lip look, then choose a blue eyeshadow that has some shimmer to it. Use your fingertip to dab some of the eyeshadow onto the center of your lips.Apply a layer of clear lip balm over the eyeshadow to keep it in place.
Don’t apply blue eyeshadow if you are going for a matte look.
 Wearing too much eye makeup with blue lipstick can look too dramatic. Unless dramatic is what you are going for, keep your eye makeup simple with a thin line of black liner on your top lash or a swipe of some shimmery gold or silver eyeshadow. Then, finish your eye makeup with a couple of coats of mascara.You can experiment with bold eye makeup looks while wearing blue lipstick, but keep in mind that the blue lipstick is already quite bold. You don’t need to do too much.
 Too much foundation can also be detrimental for a blue lip look. It may cause you to look overdone since the blue lipstick is already so bold. Try wearing a light layer of your usual foundation or use a light coverage foundation, such as a BB cream.If you wear powder foundation, then just sweep on a light layer. Don’t apply multiple layers.
 Wearing such a dark color may cause your skin tone to appear lighter than usual. To avoid looking washed out or pale, contour your face with some bronzer and highlight in a few areas as well, such as on your cheekbones and forehead.Skip on the blush while you are wearing blue lipstick. It’s best to avoid adding too much color to your face because it will compete with the blue lipstick.

