 Someone who is addicted to praise generally doesn’t notice if he or she receives too much praise. If you are addicted to praise, you always want praise and can never get enough of it. Everything you do may be so you can get praise.It may help to ask yourself questions. Do you ever feel you’ve received too much praise? Or do you always want more?
Do you start to question the amount of praise you get? Do you feel suspicious that someone is just flattering you and not being honest? If you feel uncomfortable sometimes if you receive too much praise, you may not be as addicted as you believed.
 People who are addicted to praise keep people around them who feed their addiction. These friends might constantly feed a person’s ego, showering him with praise all day every day.Think about your friends. Do your friends continuously talk about how great you are? Do they refuse to tell you the truth about your life choices in favor or praising you?
Will your friends tell you the truth if you ask them? Do you ever ask your friends for the truth?
Do you find yourself going to your friends, seeking praise and reassurance?

, Many times, people who are addicted to praise were rewarded profusely during their childhood. These people often were given incentives for doing chores, getting good grades, eating their vegetables, behaving correctly, or participating in sports.Ask yourself: Did your parents reward you with positive things, like money, treats, gold stars, or presents, if you did well?
Did you get better rewards the better you performed?

, People who are addicted to praise often hate being criticized. This extends to constructive criticism or helpful feedback. Receiving any response that is not praise causes distress.Do you get angry, depressed, or upset if someone responds with anything less than praise?
Do you feel like a failure if you receive constructive criticism?
Do you get defensive easily when you receive feedback?

, Talk to your family and friends about your concerns. Ask them if they think you have a praise addiction. Tell them to be honest with you, and listen to them, even if they criticize you.


If you are uncomfortable asking, pay attention to your interactions with your family and friends. Do they always give you compliments? Do they ever disagree with you? Do they just shower you with empty praise?
See a therapist if you believe this might be a problem. A therapist might be able to help you fine tune your problem, discover the root, and deal with it.

