 One of the best ways to reduce excessive shedding in dogs is to start with a healthy diet. Cheap dog food is made mostly of fillers that dogs have difficulty digesting, such as corn and grains. Look instead for a dog food that lists meat as the main ingredient.Better quality foods cost a bit more upfront, but they're better for your dog for a variety of reasons. The nutrients in meat-rich dog foods are more easily digested and absorbed, so they promote better pup health overall and help control shedding and dry skin.Keep in mind that better nutrition can help reduce shedding, but it won't eliminate shedding completely.


Dogs with food allergies or sensitivities are particularly prone to diet-related shedding. You may need to experiment with a few different foods before you find one that's right for your dog; consult your veterinarian for advice and recommendations.Do not feed your dog additional vitamin supplements unless recommended by your vet. "Hypervitaminosis," or vitamin poisoning due to excess consumption, can result in serious health issues for your dog.;
, One teaspoon (5 mL) per 10 pounds (4.5 kg) of body weight is a good place to start.These oils contain omega-3 fatty acids that help calm inflamed skin, decrease dandruff, and improve overall coat texture.


Many pet stores also sell omega-3 dietary supplements in capsule or powder form. Check with your vet to find the best choice for your dog.
You can also increase your dog's omega-3 fatty acid intake by feeding it salmon, tuna, or other fish rich in these fatty acids.Fish skins are also good, but never give your dog fish bones, as these can splinter and form a choking hazard., Sliced apples (without seeds, which contain traces of cyanide that can build up in your dog's system), bananas, and cucumbers, as well as cooked lean meats (no bones) are all moisture-rich foods that help your dog stay hydrated. They also contain healthy nutrients that help your dog's coat stay smooth and shiny and help reduce shedding. Remember, though, that only 5-10% of your dog's daily food intake should be treats of any kind -- the rest should be a high-quality dog food.Many human foods are acceptable, even healthy, for dogs. Nevertheless, there are some foods you should never give your dog. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has a complete list, which includes such foods as avocado, chocolate, grapes, milk products, onions, and -- surprisingly, perhaps -- raw meat., Dehydration can lead to dry skin, which can cause excessive shedding and even illness. Make sure your dog always has access to as much clean, fresh water as it wants to drink.You can also up the water intake for your dog by incorporating moist foods into its diet. Wet dog food contains up to 78% moisture, compared to 10% for dry food, and can be a good way to make sure your dog stays hydrated.