 Make sure you choose a cleanser that is gentle, and that it doesn't have any excess oil. If your cleanser is too harsh, then it may dry out your skin and cause you to age more quickly. Make sure the cleanser is meant for your age group, not for teenagers, and that it is said to be moisturizing and gentle for your skin. You should use the cleanser before you wear any makeup.If you don't use facial cleanser, then you should get in the habit of using one, especially if you are older. Cleanser removes the traces of chemicals from your environment, as well as any makeup that can cause aging if you leave it on your skin for too long.;
, It's just as important to moisturize your skin to keep it looking fresh and clean, as it is to cleanse it of harmful materials. Find a moisturizer that is made for "anti-aging" and which has deep moisturizing effects. Men can benefit from this product just as much as women can, even if they're not used to using moisturizer or anything on their faces.
 Sunblock isn't just for the beach. If you really want to look ten years younger, then you have to make sure to wear sun protection any time you step out into the sun. You can find a moisturizer that already contains SPF, which can keep your face from drying up while protecting it from the sun as well. Damage from the sun is one of the things that can make you age prematurely, so make sure you wear at least a SPF of 15 every day. Otherwise, you may end up with wrinkles, brown spots, and a complexion that is duller than you want it to be.Don't just put the sunscreen on your face. Put it on the tops of your hands, your arms, your chest, or any other part of your body that will be exposed to the sun, too. That will keep you from having those age spots on your hands and your chest.
 Exfoliating is another practice you should get used to if you want your skin to start looking younger. It'll make your skin feel softer and will make it look brighter, while leaving you feeling refreshed. Again, make sure you pick the right cream that is meant for people in your age bracket, so that it is as gentle as it needs to be. Make a habit of making exfoliation part of your daily routine.
 Here's what both men and women should do with their facial hair to look ten years younger:


Women should aim to keep their eyebrows pretty and thick. You may think that super thin eyebrows make you look sexy, but they'll actually make you look older. As you age and your eyebrows thin out a bit, choose a pencil the same size as your brows to fill out your brows to keep your face looking youthful. Having thicker brows will keep your face looking young and full.
Men should keep their face shaved or trimmed; having more scruffy facial hair makes them look older than they really are. You'll be surprised by how much younger you'll instantly look if you just trim or shave that facial hair.
 There are countless tricks that can help you make yourself look younger just by applying makeup the right way. The best use of makeup not only hides your blemishes, but it also emphasizes your best features, bringing your face to life. Here are a few tricks that you should try:


Use creamy concealer. Waxy concealer can cake around your wrinkles and will make you look older than you really are. When it comes to concealer, wearing less of it can actually make you look younger; if you wear too much, it'll emphasize your wrinkles instead of covering up your imperfections.Use blush correctly. Just a dab at the height of your cheekbones will do the trick. Putting it in the hollows of your cheeks will actually make you look even older. This is because your face tends to thin out as you get older, and using blush this way will make your face look even thinner.Substitute your black eyeliner for brown. Black will start to look too harsh on your face as you get older, so choose the more subtle brown colors to frame your eyes. Smudging your eyeliner can also give you a more natural, and younger look.
Emphasize your lashes. Try thickening mascara, curling your lashes, or even trying thickening agents on your lashes to make yourself look younger. As you age, your lashes will thin out, and you can work on counteracting this.
Wear simple lipstick. Just a nice light shade of pink can do the trick; if you line and color your lips too much, it'll look like you're trying too hard. Your lips will naturally thin out as you age, so you can thicken them out a bit, but if you overdo it, you won't be getting the look you really want. Any woman can also look for the perfect shade of red to emphasize her lips; brick or tomato colors can be the way to go for a more dramatic, but not too dramatic look around your lips., Though many people think gray hair is sexy and stylish on both men and women, if you're on this page, then you're probably okay with covering up some of that natural beauty, right? If you're up for it, then see a stylist about dying your hair to achieve a natural, younger look. You can also dye your hair yourself or with a trusted friend if you're up for the risk of an at-home kit. You'll be surprised by how big a difference returning your hair to its natural color will make.


However, you should remember that dying your hair is actually damaging for it, and that, while eliminating your grays may help you look younger, your damaged hair may counteract some of that. It's up to you to make the call.
Women who dye their hair should also consider getting highlights so they can add a softer look to their hair.
 You may be feeling the effects of aging because you've had the same hairstyle since the 80s. It's time to get a younger, sleeker, and trendier hairstyle to show off your beautiful face. Look online or at magazines to see what styles people are rocking to get inspired, or ask your stylist for advice. You don't have to get the chicest, most not-you hairstyle out there, but making a change in this department can instantly make you look ten years younger. Here are some things that both men and women can try:


Women can think about getting bangs if they would be flattering for their faces; people with larger foreheads tend to do better with bangs. Bangs are hip and trendy and can make women look younger. Layers can also make women look younger, giving their hair more volume and bounce. If you're one of those women with super long hair, you can consider chopping it off so it frames your face and falls just above your shoulders.
Men should grow their hair out so their features don't look so stark. Just a few inches is fine -- if it's too shaggy, then it'll make them look older and more tired. Find the right balance. Men who are balding should think about shaving their heads. This makes a statement, and will make them look younger and will be more flattering them having thinning hair or a bald spot.
 Bright, straight, clean-looking teeth can go a long way in making you look younger. On the same token, yellowed, crooked, or rotting teeth can make you look older than you really are. If you have dental problems you've been putting off, now is the time to address them; see a dentist if necessary. If you don't have serious problems in that department but don't pay enough attention to your teeth, then it may be time to make sure you brush your teeth at least twice a day and that you floss regularly. You can look into whitening toothpaste or whitening strips, as long as you make sure you use them safely and effectively.
 It's important to wear flattering clothes that make you look thinner and more up-to-date. As long as you don't try to wear something the people half your age typically wear, you'll be able to use your dress to your advantage. Dressing for your age and body type can make a huge difference in how old you look. Here are some things to try:


Women should wear flattering shirts without trying to show too much cleavage. Doing so can actually make them look older.
Both men and women can benefit from a wardrobe update. If you haven't gone shopping in the last few years or the last decade, it may be time to go on a shopping spree with a trendy friend to see what all the latest shoppers are up to. Though you can maintain your style, you should try to update your look at the same time.
Don't wear clothes that are super tight to try to look younger; instead, pick flattering clothes that make the most of your best features.
Wear bright colors. Dark browns, grays, and blacks will actually make you look older and more drab. Brighter colors, such as blues, reds, greens, or pinks, can make you give off a more fun and vibrant vibe. Though darker colors may be more slimming, they may also make you look older. To avoid ditching the darker look entirely, mix up your darker clothes with lighter-colored clothes or jewelry; black pants can go great with a bright top, for example.
Women should also make sure to wear the right accessories. Matching necklace and earring sets tend to make them look older; instead, wear bright rings, cute studded earrings, and trendier, less bulky jewelry.
 You should always drink at least ten 8 oz. glasses of water a day to keep your skin looking fresh, and to make sure that your body feels healthy. Drink a glass or two of water with every meal as well as throughout the day. You don't have to be thirsty to reach for a glass, either. If you've exercised, drink even more water than you normally would afterwards to make sure to replenish. This will keep you looking -- and feeling -- young and can take years off the way you look and feel., Make sure to get at least thirty minutes of exercise a day, whether it means taking a vigorous walk, a short yoga class, or going for a jog in the morning. You may feel that you're too busy to exercise, or that you're too unhealthy, but there is a form of exercise that can help almost anybody. It'll also give you energy and will make you feel even younger and more energetic. If you commit to a regular workout routine, it'll help you look younger in no time.


Of course, you should avoid that sinewy no-fat look by eating healthy meals each day, or you can end up looking older if you don't give your body the nutrients it needs while exercising.Older people should try yoga. It's a low-impact form of exercise that can help you get toned and feel more energetic. Biking, walking, and Pilates are also great for this.
If exercise is making you sore, that's just part of the process! But getting massages can also help you relax and look and feel younger, especially after a busy week filled with great workouts.
 Eating three healthy meals a day, along with healthy snacks and plenty of water, can help you look and feel younger. If you're only eating processed foods or are constantly overeating, then you're bound to look older than you really are. Foods that are rich in Vitamin C, like broccoli and oranges, can help you look and feel younger, and antioxidants such as berries can help keep your skin fresh. Carrots and sweet potatoes are also great for your skin, and low-fat yogurt can help keep your teeth strong.


Pretty much any fruit or vegetable or natural food can have benefits in terms of making you look younger. Cut out the processed, fatty foods, and you are bound to look younger than you ever have before.
 Sure, "don't worry, be happy" sounds clichéd, but it basically means try to live life stress free. The less stress in your life, the less wear and tear you will have mentally, which will in translate into less wear and tear on you physically. Have you ever seen a friend go through a rough time and they look weathered and aged beyond their years? We all go through tough times but how we handle them makes all the difference. Try to always get enough sleep and relaxation. If life seems overwhelming try meditating and clear your mind, most troubles are only temporary.


Doing yoga is a fantastic way to reduce stress, live in the moment, and take care of your body.
Unfortunately, some things will always be bound to stress you out. You can't avoid stress completely. But working on having a positive attitude and a foolproof game plan for tackling stress can go a long way in helping you deal with it.
Laugh as much as you can. Adding laughter to your life can help you reduce stress and to look and feel younger.
 Keep your back straight and your head up, and not only will you feel better and more ready to tackle your day, but you'll also look younger in the process. The next time you feel like slouching over or hunching over, think about how much older that will make you look and feel. It's all in the attitude -- if you're maintaining great posture, you will look more energetic and ready to tackle your day, and you will start to look and feel younger in no time!


This goes for sitting down, too. You should keep your spine straight whether you're sitting or standing.
 Though every person needs a different amount of sleep, sleeping for at least 7-8 hours a night should begin to give you the rest you need to feel alert and to look rested. You don't want your face to look puffy or your skin to look saggy because you've barely slept. Not getting enough rest will make you want to hunch over, and to be less likely to maintain other healthy habits. As you get older, your body will show signs of tiredness more easily, so you should make sure to find the amount of sleep you really need and to stick to it.


It's true that, as you get older, you may need more or less sleep. Listen to what your body is telling you and follow through with it.
 Not only is smoking terrible for your health, but it also makes you look much older than you really are -- and fast. If you're a smoker, you should drop this habit so that you can keep your lips from getting thinner, your skin from being super dry and filled with wrinkles, and so you can restore some shine to your hair. Smoking also makes your hands and nails discolored, which is another way to make you look older than you really are. You'd be surprised by how quickly dropping this habit will make you look younger.
 It's okay to drink and have fun with your friends once in a while, and you shouldn't quit drinking completely if you like to have a good time with your friends on occasion; after all, you want to feel fun and vigorous too, don't you? But drinking alcohol regularly has been proven to make your skin look puffier and more dry, and this is something you should avoid if you want to look ten years younger.


Of course, part of looking young is feeling young and having fun. And for some people, alcohol is a fun social lubricant. So, if you like to get crazy and have a few martinis now and again, don't cut the drinking out of your life completely.
 While you can take many steps to reduce how old you look, you should be proud of the years you have earned instead of trying to cover up who you really are. You must have achieved great things in your life, and you shouldn't really want to look like you're in your twenties or thirties again. If you keep up a young attitude and are proud of who you are and how you look, then you'll actually look much younger than someone who is desperately trying to cover up every little sign of aging.


Feeling positive about who you are and how you look can go a long way in making you look and feel younger! You should try it, some time.

