 In general, women need to consume around 46 g daily and men need to consume around 56 g daily.Keep track of your protein intake throughout the day. You can use a journal or food tracker app on your phone to see how much more you need to eat as you progress through the day.
Some people may need more protein than others. If you're performing moderate to intense exercise for more than 45 minutes daily or trying to lose weight, the total amount of protein you should consume maybe be greater. ;
, Combining certain plant-based proteins will give you a complete protein.Aim to consume a variety of whole grains, nuts and legumes – these foods together will provide all the essential amino acids your body needs to make a complete protein.


Combine legumes and whole grains for a complete protein. Examples include: rice and beans, lentils and barley, bulgur with beans or peanut butter on 100% whole wheat bread.
Combing legumes with nuts and seeds also provides a complete protein.
 Whole grains provide an essential component to preparing complete proteins. Include a variety of whole grains each week to ensure you're eating a diverse diet. Eating 100% whole grains increases your chances of getting complete proteins in your diet.


Whole grains are unprocessed and contain all the parts of the grain – the germ, endosperm and bran. They are typically higher in nutrients like fiber and protein compared to processed grains like white flour or white rice.Examples of whole grains include: oats or oatmeal, 100% whole wheat pasta, bulgur, buckwheat, millet, quinoa or brown rice.
 Other key food groups that make up complete protein are legumes and nuts. Again, choose a variety to eat each week.


Examples of legumes include: beans, lentils, peanuts and peas. Examples of nuts/seeds includes: walnuts, almonds, cashews, pumpkin seeds, sesame seeds, pistachios or pecans.
Nuts are also a great source of healthy fats. This is important to consider especially if you're following a vegetarian or vegan diet and have a limited intake of some healthy fats., There are a few plant-based proteins that are already considered a complete protein. Soy, quinoa, hemp seeds or buckwheat are great sources of complete proteins.Keep cooked quinoa or buckwheat in your refrigerator or freezer for a quick grain side dish or the base of your main dish.
Hemp seeds can be added to smoothies, sprinkled on salads or added to your morning yogurt. They also are a good source of healthy fats., It was once thought that you needed to consume a whole grain and legume at each meal in order to benefit from a complete protein. Studies have now shown that as you long as you consume both foods throughout the day, your body will be able to obtain all the amino acids needed.Food journals, apps or meal plans can help you see how you can include a variety of plant-based proteins throughout the day. Keep track to make sure you include a wide variety of proteins.
Legumes are a cornerstone of a vegetarian or vegan diet due to the lack of animal proteins consumed.
 A well-thought-out meal plan will help make sure you're eating a healthful, protein rich diet each day. When food choices are limited, you need to take extra care to ensure you are not falling short. This is especially useful if you're busy and don't have time to consider each protein source you consume each day.


Take an hour or two during your free time and develop a weekly meal plan. Make sure you account for complete proteins and include a wide variety of plant-based proteins each day.
Write up the corresponding grocery list to your meal plan so you have a list ready-to-go and you buy only what you need in the store.

