


Navigate to the Runtastic Six Pack Abs application on your iPhone’s home screen.

The application looks like a blue shield.
Touch the app to launch.


After launching, you will be shown some basic information on how to use the app. Just slide your finger to the left to move the presentation along.;
,


It will ask you to log in.

You can either log in by connecting to your Facebook account, or by entering your username and password.
If you do not already have an account, press the “Join now” button and fill out the basic information required to register.


After you log in, you will be asked to select a computer trainer.
 Once you have selected a computer trainer you will have the option of choosing between three different levels. Slide your finger to the left to see each level, and once you have found you like, tap on it.



Level 1: recommended for beginners, this level lasts for 10 days and introduces basic exercises to strengthen your core.

Level 2: the next step up, this level lasts for 15 days.

Level 3: the final level available - lasts for 25 days and engages in more intensive ab work outs.
 As previously mentioned, you are asked to choose a trainer when first launching the application. If you would like to change your trainer, however, follow the next steps.
 You will find an icon composed of three horizontal white bars in the upper left corner of the screen. Tap on this icon - it will then open up a side bar to showcase the application's menu.
 Find the settings option - accompanied by a gear icon - and tap to open.


To confirm you are in settings look at the top of your screen and make sure it reads "Settings" in the light blue bar.
 Tap on the option titled "Select your Trainer." From there you can tap on either Daniel or Angie.
 You also have the option of having an accompanying voice coach to help you with your work outs.


You will have to once more navigate to the settings menu in the side bar of the application.
 Directly beneath the "Select your Trainer" option is a "Voice Coach" option.
 You can choose from a limited amount of languages and/or genders. To turn off the voice coach option see the next step.
 Tap on the toggle button in the upper right hand corner. When switched to off all of the voice coach language/gender options will disappear from the screen, and the toggle button will go grey. To turn back on merely tap the white button and the list will reappear on the screen.
 You have the option of listening to music during your training. To confirm you are viewing your training plan, check to make sure the top of the screen reads "runtastic Six Pack" in the light blue bar. If you are not on this page, click the three horizontal bars on the left hand corner of the page to access the app's menu; Training Plan will be the first option, tap on it.
 The Training Plan will showcase the level you are on, the progress of your workout, images of the planned reps for that day, and the playlist confirmed for the training. This playlist will be listed directly under the images of the reps, and titled "Music Pack" with an icon of a musical note to the left.
 This first option allows you to select a playlist from your personal iTunes library on your phone. Simply click "Select a Playlist" at the top of your screen, and you will be led to a list of your playlists. Tap the one you would like to play. If you want to shuffle the songs, tap the toggle button (on is green) directly above your personal playlists.
 This option allows you to pick a playlist provided by the application. The app itself comes with one free track titled "Motivation." The other tracks underneath require purchasing to use. Tap on the one you would like to use for your workout. Actual playlists can be purchased through the music store.


If you don't want any music, tap the option titled "No Music."

, You can purchase a track when directly picking music for your work out. When you tap on a track to be purchased, a preview of the music will play. To purchase, tap buy and enter your iTunes store information.
 You can also purchase a playlist by accessing the music store in the main menu of the application. Tap on the three horizontal white bars in the upper left hand corner of the screen. Find the music store option in the grey sidebar, accompanied by a musical note. Tap on it to access the music options. A list of tracks, followed by playlists will appear. As mentioned before, tap on the playlist you want to purchase to hear a preview. Tap buy and enter your iTunes information.
 You'll be able to open it by accessing the applications main menu (three horizontal white bars in upper left hand corner). Tap on the training plan option. The light blue header at the top of page should read "runtastic Six Pack."

, A video will commence with instructions - follow the directions given.
 You can pause your training by tapping the pause button in the lower left hand corner.
 To leave your work out tap on the white x in the upper right hand corner. A message will pop up asking whether or not you would like to save the progress of your work out. Tap on the option that best suits you.