


ArmA focuses on realistic combat. This means that your tactics from Call Of Duty will not work.
When in a war zone in ArmA, it is always a good idea to remain as close to the ground as possible, this makes you a smaller target to hit. It also means that when you do get into a fight, your accuracy is significantly improved.
When under fire, your priority is to get to cover before thinking about where to shoot. When behind cover, take the time to check your surroundings and get an idea as to your situation. This means having to know the terrain, a rough enemy headcount and the exact location of the target attacking you. But don't take too long, there is a very high chance you are being flanked (attacked from the sides).
Newton's first law of motion States that an object in motion stays in its current state unless acted upon by an outside force, this applies to bullets as well. Bullets in ArmA are affected by gravity, and will drop over distance, and will keep travelling until it hits something, either your target or something else. Take this into account when dealing with enemies at long range. The sniper rifles in ArmA are suited for this, the range can be adjusted and bullet hits on the ground can be useful to show if you are above or below range. When below range, angle the rifle slightly above the target, when above range, aim slightly above, try to aim for COM (Centre Of Mass) with your shots.
Know your role in the team. This is not like Team Fortress where any role can do most duties. You have to actually abide by what your role requires. There is no role more important then the other other then the medic. The medic is there to heal team mates when they are wounded, other then that he is like any other infantryman. Scouts can be used to coordinate an entire battle, relaying information to artillery, to infantry and to air strikes, the scout is also then sniper. Snipers, however, act in groups of two, a spotter and a shooter. The spotter detects wind speed, wind direction and target distance. The shooter is the one who shoots. Infantrymen are the men who can take out buildings, artillery, aircraft and infantry, they are the backbone of the army. The team leader is in charge of the squad, he is the navigator and is responsible for the lives of many, his communication skills have to be clear and concise.
Learn to use vehicles if you can. They don't have infinite fuel and ammo, but usually have enough for the battle at hand. Humvees are good for scouting, providing light escort and performing hit and run attacks. Quad bikes are only good for sniper teams due to no armour and covering terrain quickly. Armed APCs are good anti-infantry, and can act as tanks if armed with the right weapons. MBTs (Main Battle Tanks) are the best used in a team of three, driver, gunner and commander, they are good for destroying all ground vehicles and buildings. Planes are useful for taking out other aircraft, buildings, infantry and vehicles, and are good at acting as an early warning system. Helicopters can provide a more precise air cover, can take out other helicopters, all ground vehicles and buildings and can even act as an early warning system and as an evacuation vehicle.
The teachings of Sun Tzu in his texts, the art of war, are a very handy thing to help you in ArmA. According to Sun Tzu if you know yourself and your enemy then you can win a hundred battles without loss. This means gather as much information as possible, and communicate clearly with your team and others around you. Know where best to apply them. this also means knowing what your enemy can counter and what they can't. If you have mortar teams, and know where your enemy bases are, soften them up with mortars, your enemy will be demoralised by the time you send in troops. Same goes for artillery barrages and air strikes. Always know what units are a priority. If your enemy has AA units, take them out first, then move down to AT units and AI units.
Learn to read a map properly on paper and by your own eyes. The best way to do this is to note down marker points such as a house or a forest, if you can recognise what you note down you can find your way. Always be aware of your bearings and learn to read a map grid and compass. When giving out your location, be clear and precise, you don't want to end up being a friendly fire statistic.;
,


Warfare is an ArmA 2 scenario with 3 factions: East, West and Resistance. East and West are playable, with NPCs as Resistance.
 Each town provides supply points which enable your team to build more bases and buy upgrades.
 Towns are initially controlled by the NPC resistance faction. Wiping out the resistance in each town enables your team to build up the amount of supply points each town contributes to your teams supply coffers. The same amount of points are also given to each player in $; from which a player can buy weapons, vehicles and men.



Command: A commander is voted for at the beginning of the game. If no commander is voted for successfully, AI will command – and will build very obvious bases.

The commander is in charge of the HQ vehicle (MHQ). The MHQ is not to be driven by anyone other than the commander. The MHQ can be converted into an immobile base. An option menu then allows the commander to select the bases to build. An experienced commander will employ complex strategies when building and upgrading bases.Often the key to a teams success will rely on the commanders decisions throughout the game.


Towns: Towns consist of a central depo and 2-4 bunkers. Capturing bunkers enables players to buy weapons and to spawn at the bunkers should a player be killed in combat.

To capture a town or bunker, a player must wait in the building for the energy bar to deplete to zero, at which time the bar will replenish and change colour to green. Once the town is captured vehicles can be bought from the town depo using the options menu by clicking on the spanners 'X' icon. The town supply will increase from a low value eg. 10/50 to 50/50; either gradually (if the pre-game auto supply parameter was selected) or in increments of 10 if supplied by supply trucks from the commanders base.
When a town is captured, friendly AI units will inhabit the town providing protection from hostile forces. The higher the supply value of the town the greater the force provided to guard it.


Weapons: Each player can equip a rifle and pistol and a secondary weapon like a missile launcher; as well as a limited range of grenades and smoke canisters. In the early stages of the game players prefer to use unguided launchers like the SMAW and RPG as these weapons enable tanks and APCs to be disabled rather than destroyed.
Disabled vehicles can then be repaired and used against the enemy in neighbouring towns. Although guided launchers provide better armour penetration and targeting ability, more experienced players tend to remain with unguided launchers due to their versatility on the battlefield. In the later stages of the game players will have access to tanks and aircraft and will therefore find most of the enemies' vehicles redundant, particularly as enemy vehicles cannot be entered by a players AI squad.
Tactics: A player should travel from town to town capturing the towns as they go. If a player dies without capturing a bunker at an enemy town they will have to spawn at a base. Scrolling out using the mouse wheel and selecting a yellow-circled base will spawn a player at that base. Light Factories(L) are the most commonly selected spawn as transport is available there for purchase. Once Heavy Factories(H) are available, towns become significantly easier to capture, as a single tank can take a town in a few minutes with the player driving.
 This is best done away from bases as only the commander should be in charge of a bases defences. Defences must be manned by your personal AI men if they are further than 200m from a barracks.
,
Capture a towns central depot to capture the town and to buy vehicles.
Buy weapons at barracks, vehicles at L H or A factories.

To win: Capture all towns or Find and destroy all enemy bases.





