 The Soothe Bell is an item that was introduced in Generation III. Having the Soothe Bell will give Eevee an additional 2 point boost every time you perform a Friendship-raising action. You'll need to raise Eevee's Friendship to 220 or above, so this will help speed up the process. You can get the Soothe Bell from the Pokémon Fan Club., Eevee will gain 1 Friendship point (3 with the Soothe Bell) every 256 steps that you take., Vitamins are items that you can give Eevee that also give a small Friendship boost (between 2-5, depending on your current Friendship level).

HP Up
Protein
Iron
Calcium
Carbos
PP Up
Rare Candy
Zinc
PP Max

, Leveling up Eevee when it has less than 100 Friendship will give it a 5 point boost. If its Friendship is over 100, you'll get a 3 point boost. If it's over 200, you'll get a 2 point boost., EV-Lowering berries are designed for intense trainers who want to maximize their Pokemon's stats. Giving your Eevee berries that lower certain EV values will give you a 2 point boost:

Pomeg
Kelpsy
Qualot
Hondew
Grepa
Tamato

, If Eevee faints while fighting another Pokemon, it will lose 1 Friendship point. Switch it out with another Pokémon before it faints to prevent losing any points. Don't give it any healing items either (see the next step)., Healing items have a huge negative effect on Eevee's Friendship level. Avoid all of the following items, and do your healing at a Pokémon Center instead:

Energy Powder: -5 points
Heal Powder: -5 points
Energy Root: -10 points
Revival Herb: -15 points

, Put Eevee at the front of your party and head to Verdanturf Town. Talk to the lady in the house in the bottom-left corner of town. The phrase she says will give you an idea as to what Eevee's Friendship rating is:

50 - 99: "It's not very used to you yet. It neither loves nor hates you."
100 - 149: "It's getting used to you. It seems to believe in you."
150 - 199: "It likes you quite a lot. It seems to want to be babied a little."
200 - 254: "It seems to be very happy. It obviously likes you a whole lot."
255: "It adores you. It can't possibly love you any more. I even feel happy seeing it."

, Once you think that Eevee has reached 220, level it up during the day to get Espeon or at the night to get Umbreon. If Eevee doesn't evolve, it's Friendship is not high enough. You can use a Rare Candy or level Eevee up in a battle.

Day time is 12:00 PM - 11:59 PM.
Night time is 12:00 AM - 11:59 AM

