 Locate and write down the model and version numbers located on the underside of the router. The required information will be located near the Linksys logo on the bottom of the router.;
, Navigate to the Linksys manufacturer's main website and click the link labeled "Get Linksys Support." Select your model from the list of products in the center column of the page. If your router does not appear in the list, try entering the product information in the search field located near the top center of the page.


Scroll down to locate the downloads tab near the center of the page and click the link. Click the pointer arrow next to the field labeled "Select hardware version." Select the version 1 option, the only option in the list, to bring up the download links.
Select the first link, labeled "Ver.1.0.01 (Build 10)." PC and Mac users will use the same link for updating the firmware of their Linksys routers. Click "OK" to save the file when prompted, and the download will be completed in a few minutes or less. The firmware update has been downloaded and saved to the system's hard drive.
 You will need to locate the router's default gateway in order to access the router's web interface. From the start menu, enter "cmd" into the search field. With the command screen open, type "ip/config/all." The default gateway will be listed among the IP configuration information.
 Now select "Internet and Wireless" from the Network menu.


Click the "Advanced" button in the Network dialogue box and open the TCP/IP tab. The default gateway address will be listed under "Network." Write down the gate default gateway information and exit the dialogue box.
Type "ip/config/all" with the command screen open. The default gateway will be listed among the IP configuration information. The default gateway information has been obtained from Mac OS X.
 Use the default gateway number to access the web interface for your Linksys router. Type the default gateway address into the address bar of your Internet browser. Press enter if you are not immediately directed to your router's web interface. The web interface for your Linksys router will appear in your web browser window.
 Click the "Administration" tab and select the "Configuration Management" option from the pull-down menu. From the Configuration Management dialogue box, select the "Back Up" option and save the file (Config.bin) to your hard drive.
 Click the "Administration" tab and select the "Firmware Upgrade" option from the pull-down menu. Click the Browse button in the dialogue box and locate the firmware update file you just downloaded from the manufacturer's website. Click "Upgrade" and wait for the firmware update process to complete. The router's firmware has been updated to the latest version.

