 Some dogs naturally have more energy than others. Border Collies, Australian Shepherds, Jack Russell terriers, and Chihuahuas are all high energy dogs that can become destructive and hyper when they’re bored.Before you begin grooming your dog, try to assess why they are full of energy. Your dog may be naturally high energy, or their hyperactivity could be because they need to be exercised or they are stressed.


They may need to be exercised so they can burn off their excess energy.
They may be wound up because they are very excited for grooming or some other reason.;
, A tired dog is much more easily groomed than a hyper dog. This is especially true with working breed dogs, since they naturally have higher levels of energy and need a significant amount of exercise to keep them relatively calm. An hour or two before you groom your dog, make sure they get plenty of exercise. Depending on your dog’s preferences, you could play a rigorous game of fetch, go for a run, or take them to the dog park.Let hyper dogs wear themselves out with exercise.
This is a great way to calm your dog if you do not want to use a sedative or calming medication.
 There are a number of different medications available that can help calm down hyper dogs. These medicines can help calm a dog's anxiety and stress levels, and act as a mild sedative. You should always consult your veterinarian before giving your dog any over the counter or herbal remedies. They are able to identify any potential side effects or risks associated with the medicine.


You can also talk to them about herbal and natural remedies. Ask about products that contain valerian root, chamomile, and ginger root. Never give your dog an herbal calming product without consulting your veterinarian., Exercise should be helpful in calming your dog down before grooming. However, some extremely hyper dogs may need a sedative or calming medication to settle them down enough that you can safely groom them. After talking to your veterinarian, you may use an over the counter medication in the prescribed amount. One of the most common medications that they prescribe is Benadryl. This is an over the counter antihistamine that is also known as diphenhydramine.Your veterinarian may recommend melatonin, which has a mild sedative effect that is safe for dogs, or acepromazine. Acepromazine is usually recommended if melatonin and Benadryl don’t work since it is a stronger sedative.
 Beyond over the counter medication, there are several other products available that may help to soothe your dog. The most commonly used product is the Thundershirt. The shirt helps to reduce anxiety in your dog by making them feel more secure and comfortable in stressful situations, like grooming.


Thundershirts are essentially compression shirts that are used to ease anxiety and hyperactivity in dogs.While the shirt cannot be used during bathing, you may use them while you’re clipping your dog’s nails, cleaning their ears, or brushing their teeth.
There are also DAP collars that release a calming “Dog Appeasing Pheromone” that some owners find helpful in calming their hyper pets., You want to administer the sedative or calming medication prior to grooming so the active ingredients have a chance to become effective. You should read the manufacturer’s directions about the length of time these medications take to become effective, but in general you should expect to give it to them at least thirty to sixty minutes prior to grooming.


You can hide the pill in a smelly and tasty food that your dog loves, like peanut butter, canned food, or liverwurst.