 The single best thing you can do for your lungs is to quit smoking or (better yet) never start. Cigarette smoking in particular is a major cause of lung cancer and COPD. Smokers have a 20 times higher risk of developing lung cancer and COPD than non-smokers.Lung cancer is when cells grow out of control and form tumors in the lungs. These tumors interfere with normal lung functioning, such as breathing. If the cancer metastasizes, then it may affect other organs and tissues, such as the breasts.COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) causes excess mucus, difficulty breathing, wheezing, coughing, and chest tightness. This disease worsens over time.While cigarette smoking receives the most negative attention, keep in mind that no form of smoking is safe. You should also avoid pipes, cigars, marijuana smoking, etc.;
, While not smoking is a great start, you should also avoid all contact with sources or secondhand smoke, such as in bars, casinos, and other socially acceptable environments for smoking. Nonsmokers who frequently inhale secondhand smoke have a 20 percent higher risk of developing lung cancer than nonsmokers who never encounter it.Though studies are new, many experts believe that people, especially babies and children, should also stay away from third hand smoke. This is the residual toxins and chemical compounds that stick to clothing, hair, carpet, walls, etc. even after a cigarette has been extinguished.The lingering smell of a cigarette even after cigarette smoke has dissipated is the telltale sign of secondhand smoke.
 While avoiding all exposure to carbon dioxide and other common air pollutants is virtually impossible, you can take steps to reduce your exposure. AirNow is a government-run website that provides realtime updates regarding air quality all across the United States.You can check this to determine the air quality in your city before planning to spend time outside.


Ozone is another common air pollutant, and stagnant summertime weather systems can often trap ozone and other pollutants around a city. Be especially aware of the air quality in your area from late spring into the warmest summer months due to this phenomenon., Air pollution isn’t just an outdoor concern. Fireplaces, wood-burning stoves, pet dander, and mold are all common sources of indoor air pollution.By eliminating these sources, cleaning regularly, and changing the air filters in your home often, you can reduce indoor air pollution considerably.


Consider getting an air purifier for your home to help filter out indoor air pollution, such as smoke, mold, and pet dander.
Chemicals from home cleaning supplies, paint, and other common household items can also irritate your lungs or trigger conditions such as asthma. Always carefully read and follow the instructions for using these products in areas with proper ventilation.
You can find more information on improving the indoor air quality in your home via the EPA.
Radon is a naturally occurring element present in some homes that effects indoor air quality. It is associated with increased risks of lung cancer.You can find radon detectors at most home improvement stores if you want to test the levels present in your own home.
 Many of those who work in mining, labs, or industrial settings commonly come into contact with large quantities of carcinogenic (cancer-causing) chemicals and other pollutants. Always take the proper workplace precautions in situations that call for respirators, fume hoods, and other safety devices.


Asbestos, arsenic, nickel, and chromium are just a few of the workplace chemicals associated with lung cancer and other lung complications.Lung cancer and COPD may also develop as a result of exposure to these substances.
 Human lungs simply aren’t meant to inhale a wide array of substances. Cover your mouth and nose whenever you’re working with or in the same space as any small particles you may potentially inhale. Additionally, never suppress a cough in the presence of a foreign substance since this is your body’s way of expelling it. These particles include:


Talcum or baby powder: these have microscopic crushed rocks that become trapped in your lungs. Use a corn starch-based baby powder instead.
Fiberglass: Fiberglass can make tiny cuts in your lungs if inhaled.

