 Pull on the middle of a wire coat hanger so that it looks like a diamond. Continue to flatten out both sides so that they run vertically. Once your done doing that, bend the hanger over itself to create a stand that your car model can hang on while you work on it. The hanger should look like the letter C. Attach the end of the hanger to the inside of your model using a strong masking tape.Once you're done taping your model to your stand, test its stability by pressing your fingers on the front and back of the model.
Attaching your model to a hanger will allow you to spray paint the entirety of the car, including the bottom and interior.;
, Purchase a model-specific primer or a general primer to lay an opaque base coat for your model. You can purchase a protective primer at most arts and crafts stores. Apply pressure to the trigger of the primer and try to get an even coat across the surface and interior of the model. Once you're done, remove the tape and spray primer in the areas that were covered up by the tape. Keep your model in a well-aerated area while it dries. If you are using a primer specifically made for model building, you don't need to apply a base primer, though it could add to the overall consistency of your paint job.
Use a gray or off-white primer for your model car.
Primer will also act as an adhesive for other layers of paint.
A layer of primer is necessary if you want to use real automotive paint because it contains solvents that are harmful to the plastic model.
The primer will take anywhere from two to four hours to dry., Take the model off of the stand and use a 1200-1500 sandpaper to smooth out the car's surfaces. When sanding, make sure not to sand off the protective primer that you applied. If you notice that you do, go back to the area and spot paint with your spray can. The goal is to get your model smooth and ready for painting., Wash your car with a damp rag and a drop of mild dish soap. There will probably be primer residue left over from sanding that you should remove. If there is dust on the surface of your car before you paint it, it will be trapped in the paint job. Pat your car dry once you're done.
 Reattach the car to your painting stand and shake your spray paint can. Point the spray paint can on your car and administer pressure to the trigger while slowly sweeping the can horizontally to apply even coats of paint across the surface of your car. Once you're done, allow the paint to dry overnight before applying another coat of paint. Continue to do this until the color reaches the deepness and richness that you desire.Before you paint your model, it's smart to practice using the spray can on a piece of newspaper.
Spray can handles are add-on mechanisms that you can add to any can to make it easier to spray.
Enamel paint dries slowly and hardens to a shiny finish.
Acrylic paint dries quickly and is easier to clean up., Once you've painted your car to the desired hue, you'll most likely want to remove the bumps and imperfections in the dried paint. Sand the surface of your car with a very fine 3600 grit sandpaper. Once the surface of the car looks smooth and even, wash the car with cold water and a drop of mild dish soap.