 Before you report the violation, organize your thoughts so you can repeat details accurately.


Depending on what transpired, you may forget details of the incident as time passes. Keep in mind it may be several weeks before you actually are able to talk to the person's probation officer and tell him or her what happened.
Conditions on probation may not necessarily be criminal activity. However, the conditions may be different depending on the crime for which the person was convicted, his or her prior criminal record, and other factors. Don't assume that just because something was a probation violation for one person, it will be a violation for someone else.Some conditions you may know about through your dealings with the probationer. For example, you may be the probationer's employer and know that maintaining employment is a condition of his probation. If he doesn't show up to work three days in a row without calling in, you may want to contact his probation officer and report the violation.;
, If you believe the person has committed a crime, you should file a police report rather than attempting to track down his or her probation officer – particularly if innocent people are being hurt by the activity.


When the police search records for the individual, they will learn that he or she was on probation. If he or she is arrested for a new crime, probation revocation proceedings probably will take place soon after prosecution for the new charges is complete.If the activity in question does lead to prosecution for a new crime, the individual faces punishment both for the criminal offense and for the probation violation., Generally, you need to know someone's full legal name to find his or her probation officer.


Keep in mind that the name by which you know the person might not be his or her legal name. It may be a nickname or other alias. If you know other people who associate with the individual, you might ask them.
The person's employer also typically will have a full legal name on file.
If you aren't able to find the person's full legal name, the probation office should be able to figure out the probationer you mean if you have enough information, such as an address or a commonly used nick name., Typically a person's probation officer will be located in the same city or county where the probationer resides.


When you call the probation office, tell the person who answers the phone that you want to speak to a particular probation officer. He or she typically will ask you what case you're calling about, and you can give them the probationer's name.The identity of someone's probation officer typically is considered a matter of public record, so you shouldn't encounter any difficulty trying to find the correct person., Once you've found the correct probation officer, let him or her know what you've found out about the probationer's violation.


You can relate the material from your notes, and answer any questions the probation officer may have for you. Make sure your answers are complete and honest. If you don't understand a question, ask for clarification.Since it's not uncommon for people to report probation violations out of spite, or because they're seeking revenge on the probationer, the probation officer may want to know why you've chosen to report the violation.Keep in mind probation officers have broad discretion regarding whether to require a probationer appear in court for a revocation hearing or simply issue a warning. If the probationer has done well for the most part, and has a good relationship with his or her probation officer, the officer may choose not to pursue probation revocation.Although you can report a violation, you have no control over whether the person's probation is revoked as a result of the violation. Whether he or she must attend a hearing will depend on the discretion of the probation officer and the prosecuting attorney., The prosecuting attorney will decide how to proceed at the probation revocation hearing and whether the state wants or needs to call witnesses.


As with a criminal trial, the prosecuting attorney has broad discretion regarding what happens at the hearing and how in-depth the prosecution will be. However, unlike a criminal trial, the prosecutor only must prove it was more likely than not that the violation occurred – a standard of proof much lower than the criminal standard of "beyond a reasonable doubt."For this reason, prosecutors often don't call any witnesses other than the probation officer. However, you may be called as a witness if the probation officer relied on your report to enter the violation.
If the prosecuting attorney intends to call you as a witness, he or she will let you know the date and time of the probation revocation hearing. Typically, you'll be issued a subpoena to appear in court. The subpoena means you are legally obligated to appear and testify.
 Arrive to the courthouse at least 30 minutes early so you have time to go through security and figure out where you need to be.


The prosecuting attorney also may arrange to meet you in the lobby or an office before the hearing to go over your testimony.
Dress in clean, professional clothing and be polite and courteous to court staff. While in the courtroom, don't speak unless you are asked a question.
After the hearing begins, the prosecuting attorney will present his or her case. Listen for your name to be called, so you can take the stand to testify.
 You'll be sworn in, then the prosecutor will ask you questions designed to elicit your testimony regarding what you know about the probation violation.Speak loudly and clearly so everyone in the room can hear you, and answer the prosecutor's questions directly and honestly. If the prosecutor asks you a question and the probationer objects to the question, don't start your answer until the judge has ruled on the objection.The judge also may ask you questions or request clarification of an answer you've given. Wait until the judge has finished speaking before you start – don't interrupt him or her., If the prosecution calls you as a witness, the probationer (or his attorney) has the right to ask you questions as well through the process of cross-examination.When being asked questions by the other side, it's important to answer directly and honestly. At the same time, keep your answers short and to the point, and don't volunteer any additional information beyond the direct answer to the question itself.
For example, if you are asked a yes-or-no question, simply answering "yes" or "no" is a sufficient answer. You don't have to go into detail or explain your answer. If the probationer wants an explanation for your answer, he will have to ask another question.
Part of the point of cross-examination is to cast doubt on your testimony or make you seem like a less than reliable witness. For this reason, keep your answers succinct and direct, and maintain confidence in your answers., After you've completed your testimony there may be little reason for you to stay for the rest of the hearing, so you may need to call the prosecuting attorney to find out if the person's probation was revoked.


Keep in mind that just because the person's probation is revoked, that doesn't mean he or she automatically will be sent to jail. Revocation of probation only revokes the previous deal, but the judge may impose a longer probation term with stiffer conditions. However, the judge also may send the person back to jail to serve the remainder of the sentence he or she had left when released on probation.What the judge decides to do will depend on many factors, including the gravity of the original offense and the character of the probation violation.