 If the paint spill is relatively fresh, you might be able to get rid of a good amount of it by flushing the spill with hot water. Use a detachable shower head (if you have one) or a separate container to pour the hot water over the spill so that the runoff flows in the direction of the drain. If you simply turn on the tub’s faucet and let it fill, the paint may mix with the water and stain other areas of the tub.If a lot of paint has been spilled, it might be safest to first wipe up as much as you can using paper towels, rinsing immediately afterward. This way, there will be less chance for the paint to mix with the water.
Never use cold water when cleaning, soaking or rinsing your tub. This can actually cause grime and stains to set in faster, whereas warm or hot water will keep messes from taking hold on the tub’s surface.;
, Fill the tub a few inches deep with hot water and pour in a liberal amount of liquid laundry detergent. Unlike most powdered laundry soaps, liquid detergent does not contain abrasives that might take the finish off your tub. The detergent will spread evenly throughout the water and create a concentrated sudsy solution. Let the spot soak in the solution for a few hours, or overnight, if the stain has dried and set in.Laundry detergent is designed to cut through stubborn dirt and stains while acting gently on clothing fibers, making it ideal to treat an easily-damaged material like acrylic.
2-3 ounces of detergent per inch of water in the tub should result in a solution of sufficient cleaning strength.
 Using a washcloth or soft sponge, go over the stain vigorously. Drain the tub first, or leave the detergent solution in it to act on the stain as you scrub. Softer scrubbers are preferable for use on acrylic because scouring with abrasive items like steel wool or stiff-bristled brushes might permanently scratch the tub.Since a washcloth won’t have the scouring efficiency of an abrasive scrubber, you might have to scrub the area long and hard. The detergent should have dissolved enough of the stain to allow you get the worst of it out by hand.

