 Try to think about things that interest you as a person. Chances are, there is at least one major centered around a particular interest of yours. When it comes to selecting a major, start by evaluating your own interests.Think about how you took to high school. Were there any subjects you really looked forward to? For example, maybe you loved your history, philosophy, and political science courses. A political science degree could be great for you.
You don't just have to think scholastically either. Pay attention to what you're interested in outside the classroom. For example, maybe you always loved animals and volunteered at your local animal shelter all through high school. A degree like Zoology may benefit you.;
, When it comes to passion, happiness is key. If you want to pick a major you feel passionate about, evaluate when and where you feel the happiest. Try to pick a major that you think will bring you happiness.Make a list of things that make you happy. If you see items on that list that include things like reading, writing, and watching movies, a degree in something like English or film studies may benefit you.
You should also look into research regarding the happiest majors. Some studies indicate those in STEM fields, which stands for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, tend to be the happiest after graduation.
 If you want a major you're passionate about, think about when you feel enthusiastic. Think about the classes you were fully engaged in during high school. Think about what activities excite you. Enthusiasm is very linked to a sense of passion.Maybe certain courses always demanded your full attention. You may have gotten a thrill out of solving difficult equations in math or chemistry classes. You may love studying something like mathematics or chemistry.
Think about what you're enthusiastic about outside the classroom. If you love watching historical documentaries and reading books about history, you may love being a history major.
 If you have a wide range of interests and passions, it can be tough to nail down one major. Talk to your college's career counseling center and see if they often any assessment tools. Many schools have questionnaires you can fill out that will help direct you to relevant areas of study for you.You can also make an appointment with a career counselor at your school. They can help you pinpoint a major that's relevant to your personal interests and passions.

