 Wash the leaves of the herbs as soon as you're ready to freeze them. Pull the leaves off the stems individually and start placing them in a pile for chopping up and freezing.


This method doesn't require you to dry the herbs at all. If they're a little damp, that'll be to your advantage.
This method generally works best with leafy herbs like parsley, basil, mint, and cilantro.
 On a cutting board, chop up your herbs finely, to the consistency you would if you were going to cook with them. Depending on what herbs you're freezing, you can chop them according to your taste, or what you plan on using them for in the future.


Remove leafy herbs from their stems and roll them on the board in loose little "cigar" shapes, then chop them into thin strips, then chop them across the mince.
Roughly chop hearty herbs like sage and dill before freezing them.
Pull heartier small-leaf herbs like thyme or tarragon from their stems and freeze them directly without chopping., Rinse out an empty ice tray and wipe it dry, then start piling your fresh chopped herbs into the individual ice wells of the tray. Fill them as full as possible, so it'll be easy to remove them when the herbs are frozen.
 To make certain the herbs stick together, cover them with just a small amount of clean filtered water. You don't need to soak them, just pour a little on to get them to form solid cubes.


For an added treat, consider using a liquid other than water. You can make lemonade-basil cubes, or rosemary-simple-syrup cubes if you want. Get creative.
Sometimes, you won't need to do this at all, and herbs will freeze normally without any added water. It's good to use a little for a precaution, though. The cubes tend to look a little better in the end.
 Place the tray in the freezer and allow the herbs to freeze in their small blocks until solid. This will usually take several hours, so it's best to leave them overnight. If you notice a bit of frost on the top of the herbs, they're probably solid.
 Since you probably need your ice trays to make actual ice, it's best to remove the cubes from the trays, then store them in Ziplock freezer bags. When you need to use a portion of herbs, you can pop them directly into a soup, or into a stir-fry, and they'll defrost on the spot. Instant fresh herbs.

