 Depending on the details surrounding your child's suicide attempt, he may have been admitted into the emergency room or hospital for acute care. In some states, a mandatory overnight or three-day stay is required for suicidal patients. The primary focus at first is in stabilizing your child's medical condition. After that occurs, a full psychiatric evaluation is performed and your child is closely observed for reattempt. The evaluation is geared towards:Determining your child's medical history (i.e. any medical conditions, medications, history of substance use, head injuries, etc.)
Performing a mental status exam
Getting labs ordered (i.e. toxicology screenings, blood glucose, complete blood count, etc.)
Assessing your child for common mental disorders that accompany suicide attempts, such as depression or alcohol abuse
Evaluating his support system
Evaluating his coping resources
Assessing for the likelihood of a second attempt;
, Know that, after this first attempt, your child is at an increased risk of later dying by suicide. As much as 20% of those who attempt actually go on to successfully complete a suicide. To give your child the best chances, do not allow your child to be released from the hospital without a plan for moving forward.Be certain that you have a referral or appointment scheduled for an outpatient psychologist, psychiatrist, or counselor. Make sure you have any prescriptions in hand so that you can get them filled as soon as possible.
 Ensure that both your child and your family is equipped with the knowledge and resources to identify suicidal ideation and get help in the future. Your child's medical provider should sit down and have your child complete a paper form safety plan.This form outlines coping strategies your child can apply on her own when she feels suicidal, such as exercising, praying, listening to music, or journal writing. The plan also lists your child's support network like friends, family members, and spiritual advisors that your child can reach out to for help. In addition, contact numbers for mental health providers and suicide hotlines are provided.
The plan will also discuss what means your child has for committing suicide and ways she can reduce her access to these potential weapons. Your child will be asked about the likelihood of following the safety plan and the importance of compliance will be emphasized.
 Your child's safety plan is useless unless he or she knows and understands the warning signs for suicide. Your child must be able to thoroughly examine his or her own thoughts and behaviors to decide when the resources in the plan must be put to use. The warning signs may include, but are not limited to:


depression or particularly low mood for an extended period of time
loss of interest in normally pleasurable activities
feelings of guilt, worthlessness, or hopelessness
remarkable change in personality
substance use
withdrawal from family, friends, and regular activities
giving away possessions
talking or writing about death or suicide
decline in performance in school or work

, As your child regularly reviews his safety plan and attends outpatient or group psychotherapy, it may also be helpful to participate in a local support group for suicide attempt survivors. Such a group may help your child to forge connections with others who have endured a similar journey, help them to assimilate their mental disorder or suicide attempt into their self-concept or identity, and give them support to cope with suicidal ideation or depression.Support groups are also available to guide families through the difficult time of coping with a loved one who has attempted suicide.
 Family conflict, abuse, and communication blocks may contribute to adolescent suicidal ideation. Most traditional treatment methods are directed at helping the adolescent develop coping strategies and problem-solving skills. However, research has shown that the influence of family can be integral to reduced depressive and suicidal symptoms in adolescents.One type of family therapy, called Attachment-Based Family Therapy (ABFT), has been proven to be effective in improving the functioning and relationships of the family after a suicide attempt.
This form of therapy strives to get adolescents and their families working together to problem-solve and increase communication. Adolescents are seen one-on-one to identify barriers in the family that prevent communication and develop skills to overcome those barriers. Then, parents are seen one-on-one to learn healthier parenting strategies and how to be more loving and supporting with the children. Finally, everyone meets together to build skills that improve functioning and communication.
During this time it is important to work on your relationship with all of your children. The other siblings may be emotionally neglected after one child has attempted suicide. Some of these issues may be addressed in family therapy. Still, make an effort to talk to each of your children about how they are coping during this trying time.
 Your reaction after a child attempts suicide varies. You might be intensely angry. You might be tempted to never let your child out of your sight again. You might feel guilty. You might feel irritated because you think your child is just acting out. Whatever you feel, keep these emotions in check around your child. Regardless if the attempt was a "cry for help" or something more, your child obviously really needs you if the only way he knew how to deal with what he was feeling was to take his own life.Immediately after, resist the urge to ask "why?" or assign blame. The details will eventually come out in the following days and weeks. The important thing right now is that your child is alive. You need to express love, concern, and appreciation that he or she is still here with you, that you have a second chance.
Use "I" statements and openly tell your child how scared and upset you were. Prompts for talking with your child may include:

I feel terrible that you did not feel you could come to me with a problem. I am here now.
I want you to know that I love you and, no matter what, we will get through this as a family.
I understand you must be hurting. Tell me how I can help you.
 Caring for a child who has attempted to commit suicide can be an emotionally draining job. Remember, you can't give to anyone if your own cup is empty. Look after yourself, too.Panicking, punishing, blaming and criticizing will not help your child or your family right now. If you have the urge to do these things, take time away for yourself. Ask a friend or family member to supervise your child and get some alone time. Write down your thoughts. Pray. Meditate. Listen to relaxing music. Go for a walk. If you must, cry your eyes out.
 Enlist the help of close friends and relatives to help you and your family as you cope with the aftermath. Don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it. Lean on a supportive friend, family member or co-worker. Do not give in to the pervasive stigma about suicide and mental illness. Talking to someone else about what you and your family are going through can help you gain encouragement and come to terms with your feelings about the situation. Plus, sharing your story might help another person identify suicidal behavior in an adolescent, and maybe save a life.If you are having difficulty coming to terms with what's happened, if you cannot control your anger or hurt feelings, or if you constantly blame yourself and your parenting skills for your child's suicide attempt, you should see a counselor. Reach out to a support group or one of your child's mental health providers for a referral to a professional who can help you sort through these feelings.
 Having someone you can confide in or speaking with a mental health provider will be significant in the coming weeks. You can expect to learn some devastating information about your child and his or her health and well-being. Chances are, you might learn some information about your child or his life that you did not know previously. Expect this and, regardless of your opinion, try to be supportive anyway.For example, your child may have tried to take his life because he is being bullied or as a result of sexual molestation or assault. Your child may also be struggling with his sexual identity or a drug or alcohol problem. Adolescents who identify as homosexual are two to three times more likely to make a lethal attempt. Substance abusers are also at high risk of suicide.
 Before your child even comes home from the hospital, you should perform a thorough sweep of each bedroom, the bathroom, the kitchen, and any other rooms such as storage closets or garages for potential weapons. Your child will discuss means in the safety plan with their provider. Nonetheless, to minimize possible of reattempt, remove guns, knives, rope, sharp objects, and medications from the home. If medications must be kept in the home, keep them locked up or available in limited amounts., Talk to your entire family openly about suicide. Refrain from acting like it's a shameful secret that should be pushed under the rug. Emphasize that all of you will get through this by sticking together. Speak to each family member separately and either delegate tasks or ask what each person can do to help out during the current situation. For instance, an older sibling might volunteer to watch a younger sibling (not the attempt survivor who should be under adult supervision as much as possible) while the parents take the other sibling to therapy or support groups.Do what you can to minimize arguing and keep the emotional climate of the household calm and encouraging. Plan fun family activities like game nights or movie night to stimulate bonding.
 Remind your child of his or her importance in your life and in the family. When your child finally feels up to talking to you, listen without judgment. Periodically check in with your child to monitor progress in treatment and to ask how he or she has been coping. These constant check-ins may help you notice those warning signs in advance if your child tries to attempt suicide again.In the younger years, kids are "open books". However, once they are in elementary school, they start to become tight-lipped. Avoid asking close-ended questions if you want to get your child talking. Also, refrain from using "why" in a question as it can lead to them clamming up or becoming defensive.
Instead, use open-ended questions that require a more lengthy answer beyond "yes" or "no". For example, "What was good about your day today?" is more likely to get your child to open up rather than "How was your day?", which could lead to a one-word response such as "fine" or "good" that is a conversation ender.
It may also be a good idea to start a dialogue with your entire family. Get everyone comfortable talking about their day-to-day interactions at school or work. Doing so can make it easier for your children to discuss potential problem areas, such as problems at school, bullying, or their sexual orientations, which will aid immensely in preventing future suicide attempts.
 Recovery after a suicide attempt can be a long, arduous process. When you notice your child exhibiting signs of depression or suicidal ideation, motivate him or her to get out and do some exercise. Physical activity can serve as a distraction from negative thought patterns. Plus, getting active provides your child with much-needed endorphins, which are feel-good chemicals produced in the body after exercise. These chemicals help alleviate stress, anxiety, and depression. They also improve your child's outlook.


New research shows that bullied students demonstrate a 23% decrease in suicidal ideation or attempts when they engage in physical activity at least four days per week., Journaling has a multitude of mental health benefits from relieving stress and lowering depression to helping the writer identify triggers and negative thought patterns. Talking about her problems - or writing them down on paper - can be cathartic and actually help reduce suicidal thoughts and symptoms.