 Debt can hang over you and leave you emotionally distressed. Collectors rely on the shame and guilt you might feel and the desire to be over with the whole ordeal. They can create false urgency and try to persuade you to settle your debt. Remember that collecting even a portion of the original debt helps the collector's bottom line and they know that the chance of being paid in full are small.


Never pay on first contact. Ask for information on the debt and say you will call back to discuss.
Get the facts. Debt can be sold from the original creditor to a third party, and then resold again and again. There can be errors in the record keeping about how much is owed, or even who owes it. This can work in your favor when challenging the debt.
Request a validation letter which should include details on the debt, the collections company, and how to challenge the debt.Gather your own records on the debt, the original creditor, and any history of payments.
 As mentioned before, the FDCPA is your friend. This law protects you from shady tactics on the part of collectors. The more you know and understand this law, the better position you will be for standing up and asserting yourself. A few important things to know:


You can request how and when collectors can contact you. Be it by phone, or mail, you have the right to decide.
Collectors cannot mislead you as to who they are, how much money you owe, or the legal repercussions you may face for not paying.
You can challenge the debt. If you dispute the debt within 30 days of initial contact, the collector cannot ask for payment until the dispute is settled. You can still dispute after 30 days, but the collector can ask for money while the dispute is ongoing.If a collector breaks these or other consumer protection laws laid out by the FDCPA or local governments, you may be able to sue them for monetary damages.
 After you have exhausted your options of challenging the debts, you will eventually need to repay them. If you and the collector can settle on a fair payment plan, then you can begin making payment to pay down the debt.


Negotiate the amount. The collector will pressure you to pay the full amount at once. A better strategy is to tell them what you can afford to pay, and then settle on a payment plan. Be sure to get this in writing, so there is no dispute later.
Be wary of fees. When you and the original creditor signed a contract, you agreed on an interest rate a collector can charge you. If the amount the collector wants differs significantly from the original credit, they may have overinflated the debt. If you believe that to be the case, reach out to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which might be able to resolve the issue.
Know the time limits. Creditors cannot sue you for debt after a certain amount of time, typically 3-6 years. Collectors can still call you about it, but they cannot threaten a lawsuit.
Do not pay old debts. Debt that is past the statute of limitations can be made fresh again if you make a payment on it, or even admit that the debt is yours.