 There are numerous deterrents you can try, and in conjunction with other efforts, these might prove successful. Bright sensor lights that turn on with movement can scare off deer (and burglars) at night, while shiny objects such as CDs and strips of metallic sheets blowing in the wind can reflect light uncomfortably for deer during the day. For noise, you could consider using noisemakers, gas guns (these are not cheap and are usually used to guard vineyards and crops), radio noise (hook it up to trigger when deer trigger the motion lights), whistles, and firecrackers.
 These can include fences, invisible fishing line and sprinklers that suddenly turn on when tripped. Unfortunately for your wallet, the fence needs to be at least 8 feet (2.4 m) high or sprinkled with obstacles to prevent jumping such as branches or netting, otherwise some deer can jump this with no problems.To save money, fence off plants that matter rather than the perimeter of your property. An electric fence with a small charge tends to work well if you don't mind having and maintaining such a fence.


Keep some plants in a greenhouse to keep the deer from getting to them. Be sure to keep the door shut at all times though.
Ask your hardware store for a mesh product that can be placed over plants, such as Deer Guard.
 Fencing is the only truly effective way to keep deer out of areas you wish to protect.


Install an eight foot high fence. Deer can easily jump clear over anything lower than four feet high, and a six foot fence risks entangling the animal and injuring it (and an injured deer is eventually a dead deer).
Add a fence about 4 foot (1.2 m) high (simple lattice) with chicken wire (1" size) (about 2' high) angled toward the outside. It can be angled to the inside; it seems to work either way. However, it must be angled like 45 degrees. Deer, raccoon, cats, squirrels, moose and bears do not even try to go over. Birds too are reluctant to come inside such a fenced area either. The size should not be too large and should be close to the house.

