 If you aren't or haven't already, get involved in your school's band program or other local and community music organizations.;
, The more varied your experience the better. Choirs and band programs are easily accessible and will all help to provide you with a well rounded growth experience, both musically and personally.
 You'll need to be proficient on at least one traditional band instrument .
, Although it stinks, if you ever want to have any hope of becoming a band director that's worth his salt you must practice. You will have off days, and even weeks at some point. Times where you just don't feel like practicing, or are too discouraged to practice. Times like these are normal and you can't always force yourself to play. However, for every day that you don't practice, you lose 2 days of muscle memory and strength. This is especially true on brass instruments. The more you play the better your embouchure (lip placement and musculature) will become, and the better your tone, breathing, dexterity (finger speed), and muscle memory will become. SO even on those down days... try practicing at least once for 20 minutes or so if nothing else. 20 minutes - it's less than a TV show. Focus on learning your scales, producing a good tone using proper breathing, and your articulation (how you separate each note).
, Musical compositions are just pieces of scales anyway.. but mixed up to make a melody. GET AN INSTRUCTOR if you can... although most school band programs provide at least some form of formal teaching.. however with the state of music education programs in the U.S. today.. school may not always be the best place to get ALL of your instruction from. Still.. keep at it. It's YOUR practice that counts anyway.
 Learn how to read, and sight read music. Sight reading is playing a piece that you've never seen before after looking at it for a minute and a half or less. This is a standard audition requirement. You'll need this skill.. and although you'll probably be Horrible at it for the first year or even three of learning your instrument.. if you practice consistently at least 4 to 5 days a week then you will recognize rhythms and notes so easily that sight reading music becomes as easy or easier than "sight reading" a book. Buy a basic music theory book to learn these skills. "Notespeller" is one good way to do this. However you won't be able to learn properly without taking lessons or having a good band director or other musically trained individual teach you.
 With lots of hard work, confidence, and the continued desire to become a band director, you'll eventually earn your degree and be properly trained to take the helm at your new school band program shortly after graduation .
:
Use these helpful websites to learn more about band and band directing in general. Try looking at high school and middle school band websites also. E-mail directors and see if you get a response....



http://www.menc.org,

http://www.banddirector.com,

http://www.marching.com,

http://www.dci.org,

