 Layer a couple sheets of newspaper on top of the table or surface you are working on. The newspaper will protect your work surface from Mod Podge and food coloring spills., You must do this if you are re-using an old mason jar. Wipe the inside and outside of the jar with a cotton swab soaked in rubbing alcohol. Then wash the jar with soap and water. Use a clean, dry towel to dry the jar.If you are using new, unused mason jars, then just rinse the jars with water, and dry them with a clean towel.
 Pour 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of Mod Podge onto a paper plate. Then mix in 2 tablespoons (15 ml) of water. Using a plastic spoon (or a popsicle stick), mix the Mod Podge and water together until they are well-combined., Use a color of your choice; it could be blue, red, green, purple or yellow. Use your spoon to mix the food coloring into the mixture. Mix until the food coloring is well-combined, or until all of the specks of color are completely gone.The color may look pastel at this point. Don’t worry, however, because once it dries, it will be a regular, non-pastel color.
If you want a lighter shade, then only use 2 to 3 drops of food coloring. If you want a darker shade, then use more than 5 drops of food coloring.
 Pour the mixture into the jar. Using your hand, tilt the jar from left to right. Do this until the entire surface inside of the jar is coated with the mixture. As you coat the inside, make sure the mixture does not drip out.Alternatively, hold the jar with both of your hands. Roll the jar from one hand to the other until the entire surface is coated inside the jar.
Avoid using a paintbrush to coat the inside of the jar. This will result in a streaky look (unless that is what you are going for).
 Do this once the entire inside surface of the jar is coated. Pour the excess mixture out onto a paper plate. As you pour out the mixture, make sure to coat the mouth of the jar. Then place the jar upside down on a paper plate for a couple minutes. This way you can make sure all of the excess mixture is removed.To ensure an even color, let the mixture drain until only a thin layer is left on the inside of the jar.
Make sure to wipe away any excess mixture from the jar’s rim.
 After the excess mixture has drained completely, use a paper towel to wipe away any excess from the jar’s rim. Then place the jar right side up on top of a clean paper plate or newspaper. Let the jar air dry for 24 to 48 hours., Use the oven if you want to speed up the drying process. Line a cookie sheet with wax paper. Place your jar upside down on the cookie sheet. Put the jar in a pre-heated, 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius) oven for three minutes. Remove the jar from the oven and place it right side up on the cookie sheet. Use a paper towel to wipe away any mixture from the jar’s rim. Place the jar back in the oven for 30 to 40 minutes.