 A few colleges and universities offer an undergraduate degree in ergonomics. Most ergonomics degrees are earned at the masters and doctoral levels, allowing a wide variety of choices for an undergraduate major. Common undergraduate degree choices are psychology and systems engineering. Other undergraduate degree options might include: aviation, biology, computer science, kinesiology, mechanical engineering, occupational therapy, physical therapy, physiology, software engineering and sports medicine. As an undergraduate become very involved in research at your college or university. Try to attend at least one meeting of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society (HFES)or one of its local chapters as an undergraduate if you live in the USA. If you live in a country outside of the USA check out the International Ergonomics Association (IEA) website to find the contact information for the ergonomics organization in your country.;
, A listing of the graduate schools offering programs in ergonomics is available on the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society (HFES)web site.
 While in graduate school be sure to complete one or two internships and become involved in meaningful research.
 While certification is not mandatory in the field, may practitioners have chosen to complete examinations and have their work reviewed by colleagues to earn certification. One of the leading certification organizations in the US is the Board of Certification in Professional Ergonomics (BCPE). If you plan to work on becoming certified be sure that you complete the requisite coursework in graduate school.
 You may chose to work in academics, business, consulting, government, or industry. Throughout your time in school network with ergonomists by attending professional meetings, participating in internet discussions and completing internships. This network, in addition to reading formal job postings will help you to secure a great position. Ultimately, you may decide to open your own consulting business, but normally this would only be done after having years of experience.

