 There are tens of thousands of children looking for a permanent home. If you want to adopt a child, then you should consider adopting a foster child.


Many parents who adopt foster children qualify for adoption assistance. This can make the adoption inexpensive or even free if you adopt through your public agency.You might qualify for financial assistance to care for the child. For example, an adopted child may qualify for state medical assistance. Also, the child might qualify for a “special needs” subsidy which averages around $800 a month., Your state has an agency that oversees the adoption process. It is called the Department of Family and Protective Services or something similar.In many states, you can also work with a private agency which will partner with your state’s agency.


You can also contact AdoptUSKids at 1-888-200-4005. They will transfer you to a public agency or contracted private provider in your state., The adoption process will differ slightly, depending on your state. However, many states will ask you to attend an orientation held for foster or adoptive parents.At the information session you can ask questions.


Because a foster child might stay with you as you wait for the adoption to go through, you should think about getting licensed to be a foster parent at the same time as you get licensed for an adoption.
In some states, all adoptive parents must also be licensed as foster care providers., Your agency or private provider will probably require that you complete an application, either at the orientation or afterwards. Completing the application allows you to move forward with the adoption.
 Usually, states require adoptive families to take a series of trainings to help them understand the needs of adopted foster children and to further the child’s integration into the family. Each state has different training requirements, but generally you will need to complete four to ten sessions.Trainings will help you in the following ways:


Prepare you for the adoption.
Allow you to form relationships with child welfare staff who will assist you throughout the adoption process.
Answer any questions you have.
 Your state will have other requirements which you must satisfy before you can go through with the adoption. Depending on your state, you will probably have to complete the following:Obtain a medical clearance. Your doctor will probably have to complete a form to provide information about your medical history, a recent physical, and general health.Undergo a criminal background check. Most states will check to make sure that no adult in your home has a felony conviction or a conviction for child abuse or neglect.
Get letters of reference. You typically also need to provide the agency with several letters of reference from people who know you, such as neighbors, friends, or employers.The agency may have a form that you can give to your references to complete.
 A social worker performs a homestudy, and it is a key part of the adoption process. The purpose of a homestudy is for the social worker to understand whether you are prepared for adoption. One of the meetings will be held at your home, and your social worker will inspect it.Every member of the family should be present for the social worker’s visit to your home. The social worker will need to talk to everyone.
 You can begin the search for a child after you complete the homestudy.You will work with your social worker to identify your preferences in children to adopt. For example, you may have a preference for certain children depending on certain characteristics:gender
age
race
physical health or disability
mental health or disability

, After you have made a match, the agency will probably allow you to begin visiting the child.Eventually, the child should begin staying with you for extended periods of time.


If you are certified as a foster family, then the child may live with you permanently until the adoption goes through.
 You start the formal adoption process by filing a petition with the court. Your state agency should help you find a lawyer who can draft and then file the petition in court. The process from filing to adoption generally takes six to eight months (in some cases longer).The agency will continue to remain involved as you wait for the court to finalize the adoption.

