 Any organizations you have joined or networking you have done will likely help you meet potential significant others. Try and focus on meeting other people first, as you get to know them or as you find someone that you like, you'll be able to begin to determine their orientation and if they are single or in a relationship.


If you'd like to be a little more overt, try dating applications like the BRO app.Be careful with any interaction involving dating online, especially if you are underage, and make sure you are thinking of your safety first.
 At events or organizations, you may meet someone you really like and are interested in. Pay attention to the body language both yours and his for signals of interest. If someone is interested in you or you are interested in them, the body may react in the following ways.Stomach gets pulled in to look sleeker or slimmer.
The chest puffs out in order to look bigger or more muscular.
The head will lift, to make the person appear taller.
The jaw juts out as a way to look more dominant.
 Whether they are old friends, new LGBTQ friends, or guys that you have recently met, if you are ready, ask your friends for help. Tell you friends that you are looking to date and ask them if they know any single guys that might be a good match for you.Make sure it is a friend who knows you well and who cares about you. You want to make sure whoever you are asking will set you up with a quality guy and that they are basing it off what they know about the two of you.
 There are some subtle and not so subtle ways to figure out if a guy you are interested in is also interested in men. Be careful not to assume orientation based on stereotypes or appearances alone. Your best bet to determining their orientation is to talk to them and get to know them. If you would like some hints, here's what you can do for:


Look at his eyes. Do the pupils dilate when they look at you? Pupil dilation is a sign of sexual interest, and indicates that he finds you attractive.While you are talking, mention that you are interested in men, and see how he reacts. Mentioning your orientation may make him feel more comfortable and give him an opening to tell you about his.
Ask him. Try and be nonchalant and unassuming about it. "Hey, I don't want to assume anything, but I like you. I was wondering if you were interested in going out with me sometime?", Another great way to meet a potential boyfriend, is to meet by getting involved in events or activities that you like. If you meet a potential boyfriend there, you already know you have a common interest, and being involved with events or organizations will give you a built-in excuse or reason to see them again. You could also try joining the activities of someone you like or are interested in.


It is best if you get involved in events or activities that you like.This way you are being true to yourself, and you won't have to pretend to be interested in or like something you do not just to keep seeing someone.
 Most importantly, as you are going through this part of the process, be your awesome self. You may feel a lot of pressure to find a special someone, but don't give up parts of yourself just to win someone's attention.You want to find someone to be with, and you are going to want that person to accept you for who you are, so be you!

