 Your EIN is a nine-digit number listed as follows: 00-0000000. You can apply for the number online at the IRS website: https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/apply-for-an-employer-identification-number-ein-online.


Once you obtain an EIN, you will be automatically enrolled in the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS), which is how you will deposit your federal taxes.
If you already have an EIN but haven’t been enrolled in EFTPS, then call 1-800-555-4477 or visit eftps.gov.You’ll need to provide them with your tax ID number.
 The IRS has two schedules for depositing withheld income, Social Security, and Medicare taxes: monthly and semiweekly. You’ll determine your deposit schedule based on your total tax liability.


Look back to the previous year, which begins on July 1st and ends on June 30th (e.g., July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016). For most people, you will file monthly if you reported $50,000 or less in taxes. If you reported more than $50,000, then you’ll deposit semiweekly., All federal deposits must be made by EFTPS. Log into your account or call 1-800-555-4477. Deposits are due only on business days, which exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. If a deposit is due on a holiday, then it will be due the next business day. To be on time, you must deposit by 8:00 pm Eastern Time the day before your deposit is due.


If you deposit semiweekly, then you have three business days following the close of the semiweekly period. For example, if your payday falls on Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday, then you deposit taxes by the following Wednesday.If you deposit monthly, then deposit taxes on the 15th of the following month. For example, taxes for July will be deposited on August 15.
 Deposit using the EFT system. You deposit your FUTA taxes on the last day of the month that follows an end of the quarter:January-February-March quarter: deposit by April 30
April-May-June quarter: deposit by July 31
July-August-September quarter: deposit by October 31
October-November-December quarter: deposit by January 31.
 Follow the procedure outlined by your state’s Department of Revenue. Many states allow you to deposit electronically through a website. Call your state’s department if you have questions.

