 One of the most recommended books that can teach you to read Egyptian hieroglyphics is How to Read Egyptian Hieroglyphs: A Step-by-Step Guide to Teach Yourself by Mark Collier and Bill Manley. The most recent version was published in 2003 and is available at a variety of online booksellers.If you go to any online bookseller (e.g. Amazon, Book Depository, etc.) and search for “Egyptian Hieroglyphs” you’ll be presented with a large number of options.
Read through the reviews on a bookseller’s website or on Goodreads to determine which book may meet your specific needs.
Make sure the book can be returned, or try to get a look inside the book before you buy it, just in case it isn’t what you wanted.
 The Apple Store has a number of Egyptian-related apps that can be downloaded to either an iPhone or an iPad. One specific app, called Egyptian Hieroglyphs, was designed specifically to help teach the user how to read glyphs. The same developer also has an app that can turn a QWERTY keyboard into an Egyptian hieroglyphs keyboard.Most of these are paid apps, but the costs are fairly low.
Keep in mind that these apps will have a decent variety of glyphs to learn from, but will not be complete.
 The ROM’s website (https://www.rom.on.ca/en/learn/activities/classroom/write-your-name-in-egyptian-hieroglyphs) contains step-by-step instructions on how to write your name in Egyptian hieroglyphs. The website contains all the info required to complete this simple task, but doesn’t go into detail about more complicated hieroglyphs.


The ROM also has an extensive Ancient Egyptian gallery with a number of artifacts on display. It may be worth the visit (if you’re in the area) in order to get an idea of what actual hieroglyphs looked like when carved into stone and other materials.
 JSesh is an open source ancient Egyptian hieroglyphic editor that is free to download from the program’s website at http://jsesh.qenherkhopeshef.org.


The website also contains complete documentation and tutorials on how to use the software.
Technically, JSesh is designed for people who already know something about hieroglyphics, but can still be a useful tool while you’re learning or if you want to challenge yourself.
 There are many in-class and online courses available on topics related to Ancient Egypt and Egyptology. For example:


The University of Cambridge’s has a workshop called Learn to read ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs. If you aren’t able to attend the course in-person, download the course syllabus in PDF format. The syllabus contains a number of other helpful resources that you may find useful.Coursera has an online course called Ancient Egypt: A history in six objects, which is available for free for anyone who has internet access. While it doesn’t teach hieroglyphics specifically, it does talk about Ancient Egypt by using actual artifacts from the time period.The University of Manchester has both a certificate and diploma program in Egyptology, all available online. They also have courses available that can be taken on their own, for those who are interested. While the programs are online, the ability to go to specific museums and libraries may be useful.