 Anger and criticism lead to “flooding,” a stress explosion in which the heart beats more rapidly, blood pressure soars and adrenaline surges. The whole body tenses up as fear, confusion and then more anger take over. Flooding actually triggers the fight or flight response, and when you can't run you fight. Reason goes out the window. In experimental studies of conflict, even when couples are asked to calm down, men simply aren’t able to while women can. Biologically speaking, men are wired to react more quickly and for a longer time period, probably for vigilance and safety reasons. So that’s why it’s best to start an interaction that could become a fight in a soft, sweet, or affectionate way with Positive Shaping Talk, also known as Non-Violent Communication. While a man can often be triggered by mere criticism, it usually takes contempt or strong denigration to flood a woman. Loving couples tend to avoid flooding and practice Positive Shaping Talk with each other. They keep anger levels down, and learn to choose words carefully. And if anger swirls out of control they may use breathing, time out, humor or other Fight Club Rules to defuse the situation.;
, A healthy couple agrees to disagree, discussing differences with respect and self control. They often show each other that they understand the other’s point of view. The partners realize that ultimately they both want the same thing: closeness and a sense of shared love. If they feel heard and understood, like their opinion matters, they can often let go of the issue, back down and reenter into an intimate connection. In loving couples, who is right and who is wrong matters much less. In fact, these couples operate out of a fundamental paradox: “I accept you as you are,” on the one hand and on the other, “Now will you please change.” This paradox is so well known, that it became the title of a long-running Off-Broadway show written by a long-term couple called, I Love You, You’re Perfect, Now Change.
 There are several ways you can help end conflict on a positive note. Use the “Take Two” technique. Either of them is able to call out “Take Two” when a fight erupted and they would start their “scene” all over again, but from a loving place with the right to establish rules. Couples do this naturally when one of them says something like, “Can we talk about this in a different way?” Or perhaps one partner affectionately teases or soothes the other who is in the midst of flooding and the fight is over then and there. Or they might compromise. The couple may follow a rule, such as: don’t let the sun rise on your wrath. Of course, one key to ending a fight is that a partner realizes they are wrong, apologizes and/or makes it up to their beloved.
In general healthy couples fight, but their fighting is less out of control and ends on a sweet note that carries them back to laughter, closeness and intimacy. If, for example, Gina, describes how she uses Fight Club Rules with her husband: "He gets so wounded and growls a lot if he thinks I am criticizing him." She says that she brings stuff up when they are lying in bed, feeling close, with their feet touching. It’s funny, but doing it this way means we fight a whole lot less.
 In the midst of a disagreement, take a break, breathe, soothe or calm yourself and try on the other person’s point of view. Ask yourself honestly, do you need to back down or make an apology to your partner? When you are fighting, which is more important, being right, or being close? And if your spouse gets flooded with anger, practice using humor, giving them space or soothing them in some way so that they can calm down.

