 The center pane will display the various calendar template options.


In Microsoft Publisher 2003, this option can be found in the Popular Template Categories task pane. (A task pane is a window that displays the commands you're likely to use most often.);
, You can select from the options Full Page, Wallet Size or Blank Sizes that appear just under "Calendars," or you can display any of the calendar options under "Classic Designs" (Full Page or Wallet Size) or "Blank Sizes" (generic sizes or sizes by brands of specialty calendar papers). Click once on a calendar option to see an enlarged sample of what the calendar page will look like in the upper right corner of the Publisher screen. Double-click an option to select it and open a work screen.


Calendars are displayed in tree fashion, with subcategories displayed with a box to the left displaying either a plus or minus sign. Click either the category name or the box to show or hide the available options. (When the options are hidden, the box displays a plus sign; when they're shown, it displays a minus sign.) Click the option representing the calendar you want to create.
 Choose these options from the Customize task pane. (This task pane is displayed on the right side of the main Publisher window and in the Format Publication window on the left side of the work screen.) You can either choose one of the pre-made schemes from the Color Scheme or Font Scheme lists or create your own by choosing the "Create New" option.


If the calendar you're making is a business calendar, you can add your business information to it by selecting "Create New" from the "Business information" option list. Enter your information in the fields of the "Create New Business Information Set" dialog, give it a name and click "Save." You can then select this name from the option list when creating subsequent calendars.
 Use the options in the Options task pane (called "Calendar Options" in Publisher 2003) to determine whether the calendar is laid out in Portrait (vertical) or Landscape (horizontal) format, whether all 12 months are displayed on a single page or each month gets its own page, what the starting and ending month and year are and whether the calendar includes a schedule of events.


The Options task pane is not available if you choose a blank size for your calendar. In addition, if you choose a blank size first for your calendar, you will then have to add a template from the Calendar Options section of the Format Publication pane in the work screen to see a calendar.
You can change the page size of your calendar by clicking "Change Page Size" in the Publication Options section of the Format Publication pane. The selection of Blank Page Sizes will show how your calendar will look on that page layout. (If the layout shows your calendar overlapping the sides of the page, you can still select that option and then manually adjust the calendar elements.)

