 Not only will Epsom salt whiten your teeth it will also help in the fight against periodontal disease.


Combine one part Epsom salt with one part water. Make sure you mix well and fully integrate salt into the water.
Dip toothbrush into mixture and brush well. Gargle with salty mixture and then spit. Rinse mouth with clean, cool water.;
, An Epsom salt bath will also help minimize corns or painful tendinitis.


Fill a small bucket or personal pedicure system with warm water. Consider filling it with boiling water and then allowing it to cool until you can comfortably place feet in water.
Add one to two cups of Epsom salt to the water and swish with your feet. Rub your feet along the salt grains to break it down and get it into sore or painful areas.
Sit with feet in the salt bath until water cools. If you want to continue your soak, consider adding a few cups of hot water and mix.



Combine two parts olive oil to one part Epsom salt in a small dish. If possible, heat the oil slightly so it is warm during application.
Using clean hands, apply the oil scrub to your face and rub using a circular motion. Perform this step over the sink as the oil will drip off your face.
Rinse with warm water and mild face soap. Pat skin dry with a clean towel.
 Instead of squeezing or using other harsh methods, remove blackheads naturally using only a few household ingredients.


Combine ½ cup of boiling water with 3 drops of iodine and 1 tsp. Epsom salt.
Stir and allow mixture to cool to touch. You want the mixture to be warm enough to loosen stubborn blackheads without scalding or harming the skin.
Dip a cotton ball into the mixture and apply to the blackhead. Gently dab on blackhead and leave overnight.
 Physicians know that it is difficult to get a sufficient amount of magnesium through our daily diet, but it is readily absorbed other ways. Soak three times a week for the optimal amount.


Add a cup of Epsom salt to a warm bath and soak for up to 30 minutes or until water cools.
Consider using the natural olive oil/Epsom salt scrub while you are soaking in the tub for added effect.

