 Lay them down so that the long side of the paper is facing you.You may want find a flat surface on which to work to make folding your papers easier.;
, This will make the shorter side of your paper half the length. Smooth the fold to get the paper as flat as possible. Try to keep the edges as closely aligned as possible to create the best origami.
 Go the same direction as the previous fold. Take the top edge of the paper and bring it to the bottom. Smooth the fold so the paper stays flat.
 Continue folding in the same direction. You should end up with a long strip of folded paper. Place the first sheet down so the long side of the paper is facing you and retrieve the other sheet of paper.
 Make the same folds in the previous steps so that you end up with two long folded paper strips. One of the strips will be used to form the barrel and the other piece will create the handle.
 Go from left to right. This will make the longer side of your paper half the length that it was.
 Fold both ends of the strip down at slightly less than a 90 degree angle.When you're done, the paper should somewhat resemble the number seven.
 Undo the last two folds so you have a long strip again. You should be able to see the crease marks from your previous folds. There will be one in the center, and another on each side, halfway to the edge of the paper.
 Fold the ends of the strip along the previous fold lines. You will end up with a crease in the center and a strip at each end that is folded downward. It should almost look like a shirt collar at this point.
 Take the left side and fold it along the center crease so that it is aligned with the right side. You should once again have a piece that resembles a 7 shape. You should now see a loop-like opening where you will be able to slide the other piece of paper. This will form the handle of your paper gun.
 Go from left to right. This will make this piece half as long. This piece will form the barrel of your paper gun once you insert it through the opening of the handle.
 Hold the handle piece by the open end at the base with the loops facing away from you. Take one folded side of the barrel piece and slide it over the bottom segment of the handle and under the top segment. Take the other folded side of the barrel and slide it over the bottom of the handle and under the top segment as well.
 This will help adjust the gun to the proper shape. Don’t make it too tight or the slide won’t function. You don’t want your gun to jam.

