 First and foremost, choose a size of HDD that matters to you. Whether it be for working on, storing videos and/or music or simply for drawing terrible pictures using MS Paint™, a HDD is only as good as the amount it can store. And all manufacturers sell a wide range of them. 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024 & 2048GB. So choose the space that suits your motivations and computer usage.;
, You have your original disk drive with several actual DISKs inside that spin all the time, reading and writing via a tiny needle point (sort of like a gramophone), and the most recent creation, which is Solid State, a system of chips and boards that reduces the movement and vibration of the drive itself, making for better performance. Your choices are very critical because SSD have not advanced into the 500GB overcharge yet, so you'd have to give them some time before they can catch up with the 2 Terabyte levels that HDD have got. If you prefer quality over quantity, I'd recommend the Solid State Drives. However, if you need vast spaces to store numerous files without worry for how long it takes, the Hard Disk Drives are a fine choice.
 The speed of devices is a downright chance these days. You can put as much power into a HDD or SSD as you like and in the end, the performance of these devices falls squarely upon the performance of your PC. Over-clock your PC and the drives will work like wonders, but if your PC is under specification, the drives will not be so brilliant. Naturally though, if your PC is just right, your focus should be, for HDD, the RPM that it can run at. This, along with the L2 and L3 caches, will determine how fast the disk can be written and wiped at. The lower the RPM, naturally, the longer it'll take to update the disk. SSD don't use spinning as they are just chips, so their measurement is based purely on the performance of your machine, so the faster your machine, the better the data access.
 There are a lot of manufacturers out there that supply internal and external hard drives. Each of these manufacturers also have their own solid state service as well, so you're spoiled for choice in what you want to choose from. In the end, the reviews people give genuinely let you know which one to root for more than the others. And although all these models can come with primarily SATA connections, they still do the old 4-pin connections too. So it's kind of hard to decide. In the end, the reviews of the items you wish to buy determine the best you can get from the market.
 When it comes to buying certain types of HDD, you're more inclined to spend less, and get more. This isn't always the case and sometimes it gets harder to get what you're looking for. But in the end, your ultimate choice should be a combination of what you want from your hard drive and you can estimate its worth from there. Most hard drives can be calculated between £60 and £120 for a decent size, speed and make.

