 Some essential oils may make you sick or may even be fatal when ingested, so you should not eat or drink any essential oils. You can apply the oils to your skin safely, but most oils need to be diluted first., Essential oils can be applied along with a carrier oil, diluted in water to use as a spray, or mixed with other agents such as bath salts. Identify the way that you plan to use the essential oil before you decide how to dilute it.
 Sweet almond oil, apricot kernel oil, grapeseed oil, jojoba oil, and avocado oil all work well as carriers for essential oils. These carrier oils do not have a strong smell of their own so they will not overpower or conflict with the essential oils. You can also use water as a carrier. Before you prepare you essential oil solution, make sure that you consider how you plan to use it.


For an essential oil solution that will be applied to a concentrated area of an adult’s body, prepare a 3-5% solution. Add 3-5 drops of essential oil for every teaspoon of carrier oil or water that you use. This dilution is ideal for applying a small amount of essential oil to your temples or wrists.
For an essential oil solution that will be applied to a large area of an adult’s body, prepare a 1% solution. Add 1 drop of essential oil for every teaspoon of carrier oil or water that you use. This dilution is ideal for massage oil mixtures and body sprays.
If you plan to use essential oil on a baby, you should prepare a much weaker solution of 0.25%. To prepare a 0.25% solution, add one drop of essential oil to every 4 teaspoons of carrier oil or water.To use essential oils in the bath, add 3-5 drops to your bath salts or to a teaspoon of carrier oil. Then add the mixture to your bathwater. Mixing essential oils with a carrier before adding them to the bathwater will help prevent direct contact of the essential oil with your skin, which may cause irritation.
 Some sources argue that you should never apply essential oils to you skin without diluting it in a carrier oil first because of the risk of sensitization and irritation.But there have been some studies that have shown that neat applications can be helpful in some cases. For example, one study showed that a twice daily neat application of tea tree oil was effective against fungal infections on nails.Therefore, you may want to consult an experienced aromatherapist before deciding to use neat applications of essential oils.

