 If you’re new to playing football (or soccer), learning the basics should be your top priority. Browse some articles on the Internet and make sure you're familiar with the soccer guidelines before you try your hand at the game.


Though FIFA 13 is a video game, the game rules and regulations are based on real ones. Watch a few matches or ask someone you know who’s a fan of the sport for some explanation on rules that you may not understand immediately.;
, FIFA 13 is not a fighting game, and playing it like one won’t do much help. Every push of a button you do affects how your players play on the field.


Since FIFA 13 can be played on various platforms like PS3, Xbox, or Wii, learning which buttons does what can be a great help to you.
One way you can go over the controls is by playing the tutorial mode, accessible from the main menu.
 Hours of play time will get you where you want to be in terms of mastering the game. Just keep on playing matches, regardless whether you win or lose, to make you familiar with the entire game and its rules.


By the time you face other players online, you can attack and defend using only your instincts and familiarity with the controls.
 Take advantage of your team’s offensive strength. If you have great strikers like William José on your team, use plays that will emphasize and make openings for your striker to score a goal.
 On the other hand, if your team specializes on defense, create plays that can stop the other team from scoring a goal.


Having goalkeepers like Nicola Leali on your team will definitely strengthen its defensive plays. Also, defending in FIFA 13 is one of the game’s failing points, simply because it’s really hard to do in the game.
Don’t take on the opposing team’s players one-on-one. Instead, control your players to work as a team and defend as a group rather than individually.
 Keep on tackling players that has the ball. Majority of the teams in FIFA 13 only have a few technical players and those average ones will easily lose control of the ball once pressured, giving you the possession. Use plays that will make your players trail on whoever is carrying the ball.


Be mindful of fouls since you’ll most likely commit one as you pressure the other team.
 Practice ball rotation. The football field is very wide and very easy to find an opening. If your player carrying the ball gets cornered, don’t hesitate to pass the ball to another member of your team.


Quickly passing the ball around the field is also an effective way to disrupt the opposing team’s defense formation.
 Patience is one of the tools you’d surely need when playing FIFA 13. Don’t be in a hurry to get across the field and score a goal. Plan your attack or defense carefully and study how the opposing team is moving about the playing field. With good timing, you can easily steal the ball or score a goal flawlessly.

