 Create or buy a set of picture flashcards with Turkish words printed on them. Learn to associate the Turkish words with the images to ingrain them on your memory.


Write out lists of common vocabulary terms in Turkish.
Speak the words out loud as you are looking at your flashcards or writing lists.
 Grow your ability to read in Turkish by studying novels and other writings written in Turkish.


Children's books can be a great way to start reading in a new language because their stories are usually simple and easy to follow. You can find several children's books in Turkish online by searching Google for "cocuk hikayeleri" (children's stories).Turkey produces quite a few comic books and graphic novels as well, which can be a great way into a new language. Check out work by Oğuz Aral, Bülent Arabacıoğlu, and Servet Gürbüz.Read with a dictionary nearby to look up words when you get stuck.
 Hearing a language consistently is one of the best ways to understand it. Find online broadcasts of Turkish language news or entertainment shows and listen to them on a daily basis. You will begin to recognize and understand more words as you study., Hearing the language spoken will help you understand the flow of the language. Look for movies that you have seen before that have been dubbed into Turkish.


Turn on subtitles in Turkish while you are watching the movie to see the words in writing.
Rent or download movies in Turkish.
 After you have developed a basic Turkish vocabulary and are comfortable with a few phrases, try speaking with native Turkish speakers. Ask the native speakers for tips on how to pronounce words or for helpful colloquial phrases.


Don't worry about speaking perfectly. Most people are happy to help you practice your language skills and won't judge your pronunciation.
 Turkish food is becoming a popular fare worldwide. Search for a nearby restaurant and ask if the waiter speaks Turkish. Practice ordering your food using Turkish phrases:


English: Excuse me, waiter. Turkish: bakar mısınız? (ba kar mis in izz)
English: Can I look at the menu, please? Turkish: Menüye bakabilir miyim?
English: May I please have a glass of water? Turkish: Bir bardak su alabilir miyim?
English: I'd like chicken. Turkish: Tavuk istiyorum. (tah-vook is-tiy-o-rum)
English: I'd like bread. Turkish: Ekmek istiyorum.
 Visit a local college or look online for a class in Turkish. Sign up to take the class to get direct instruction and practice from professors.


UCLA runs a free online Turkish class, Turkish Tutor.You can watch clips from Turkish sitcoms and enhance your language skills at your own pace.