 You'll find the items needed listed below.;
, For best results, choose two different pieces of colored paper and tape them together at the edges. Having these pieces of paper will help you keep your surface clean and will allow you to reuse any glitter than you don't use the first time. Make sure the papers are big enough to fit your entire hand on top of and that they aren't torn or textured.
 Open the clear nail polish and the glitter and set them on one of the pieces of paper. If the glitter is not in a round tub, pour a small pile of it to the side. Because the rest of the steps must be done in quick succession, setting up and opening the materials in advance will allow you to move faster and keeps the nail polish from drying out before you apply the glitter.
 Drip the nail polish carefully onto the second piece of paper. You can use the corner of the brush or a toothpick to spread the nail polish out and create a nail-shaped drop of nail polish that is the same size or larger than your nails. It doesn't matter if it's bigger, you can cut it to the shape of your nail after applying.


For a fun touch, you can use neon nail polish. In this method, sprinkle the glitter more lightly to allow the neon color to be seen through it.
 Use a small spoon to apply loose glitter to the entire surface of the wet nail polish. Make sure that the entire surface has been covered. Sprinkle slowly and lightly to make sure that the weight of the glitter doesn't mess up the form of the nail shaped polish.
 Make sure that you let the paint dry completely before touching it. Because the paint is so much thicker than when you apply a single coat to your nails, it will take a much longer time to dry completely. Once you're absolutely sure the polish is completely dry, tip the paper on its side and shake the excess glitter onto the first piece of paper.
 Pay attention to the shape of each nail as you shape it so that it fits like a custom nail to the shape of your nails. Do not create ten polish nails and then apply the glitter. Do the glitter as soon as you finish shaping each individual nail, so that the surface of the polish doesn't become too hard to absorb the glitter.
 Once you have let the polish dry completely, the polish and the glitter will have bonded together and will form a thick, hard, nail-shaped blob on the paper. Let the nails dry completely before touching them. You can gently poke them after at least three minutes with a toothpick, to see if they're hard yet. If they give at all, give them another three minutes before trying again.
 Slide the edge of the toothpick under the edge of the nail to remove it from the paper. Do not pick it up. Leave all the nails on the paper.
 This coat is going to act as a binder for your new glitter nails. Make sure you don't let it dry completely before completing the next step, and consider applying a slightly thicker coat.
 If you do this correctly, the glitter nail should stick onto the layer of polish you have applied to your nails and not fall off, providing that you do not use your nails for any purpose until they have dried completely.
 Because each individual piece of glitter is so small, they may come off easily. Prevent this by applying a tough, long lasting top coat on top of your nails to seal in your design and give it a nice shine.
