 Many trucks have adjustable torsion bars, which will allow you to make adjustments to the ride height in the front of the vehicle, raising it to match a lift in the rear, or lowering it to keep it level if the rear springs are being taxed, rendering that 'saggy bottom' look.


Check your owners manual for adjustment procedures or better yet, since you will need a re-alignment after adjusting your ride height, just take it in and let your alignment specialist do it for you.
Torsion bar adjustment in the front along with leaf spring helpers in the back, and heavy duty shocks all the way around, and you can keep your truck level, or hike it up, or even give it a fancy aggressive 'rake'.
Keep in mind that torsion bar adjustments do not increase your travel range; only the clearance of your wheel well over your tire, which for our purposes should be plenty.
 Use your best judgment when it comes to using a lift kit. Lift kits can be found that provide an inch, two inches, three inches and so on, until you are replacing every single component of your suspension from sway bars to tie rods just to keep up with your hunger for more clearance and ride height.


Don't get carried away. Just a couple of inches can make a dramatic difference, and every time you add to your clearance height, you have to get new shocks to match, and at some point you're just sacrificing stability and reliability, as well as making it harder to get into your trunk or truck bed.
If you want to go full mud-bogger monster truck, you'll find instructions for that elsewhere. For now, consider this to be the last resort for keeping your cushy old Chevy from scraping wheels and dragging your trailer tongue every time the road gets a little bumpy.
 You've already got spring helpers and better shocks in place, and you are still riding low in the back. Go for a 2" (or even a 1.5") lift kit.


For coil springs this is usually another polyurethane insert, that just lowers the point where your spring connects to the chassis. For leaf springs this is just a shim that goes where your springs come into contact with your axle, and sometimes with shackles to adjust where they connect on the chassis side.
If you are very lucky, you can boost up the rear end (again, matching heavy duty shocks, of a length that reflects your lift) and just use torsion bars to compensate and level your front ride height.
In some cases (where there are no adjustable torsion bars) you'll need a lift kit that covers all four wheels, unless you are okay with having your rear end sitting higher than your front when your vehicle is unloaded.
 More complete, well rounded lift kits can be found which actually include longer springs and shocks and peripheral hardware.


If you really want or need a couple of extra inches, these present a trade off, removing some doubts and calculations for getting everything to match up, but require some serious work to install. If you have the resources, consider a professional installation.
In any case, once you are lifted, be mindful of your alignment, and make adjustments, or better yet, take it in and have your alignment professionally dialed in.

