 Nobody expects you to be able to diagnose low bone density in your child (that's what doctors are for), but there are some telltale signs and symptoms that may indicate a problem.A history of frequent broken bones is a common giveaway, although sometimes stress or hairline fractures are not obvious to detect without x-rays.


Indications that your child may have a stress fracture(s) include: deep achy pain that lasts for more than a week, bones that a very tender to touch, local swelling or puffiness and local redness and/or bruising.
Risk factors for low bone density include a variety of diseases and conditions (see below) and taking certain medications, such as corticosteroids, anti-convulsants (for seizures) and immunosuppressive drugs.;
, Low bone density in kids isn't usually suspected by parents until a history of broken bones, especially without significant trauma, is seen in their children.As such, if your child has a history of a few different bone fractures (or more) despite not being especially "rough and tumble" in sports or other activities, then talk to your doctor about getting tested for low bone density.


The diagnosis of osteoporosis in kids is a little different than for adults. Children need to have a history of bone fractures and low bone mineral density to be diagnosed with osteoporosis.Before any testing, your doctor will review your child's medical history, medications and likely ask about your family medical history, as some causes of low bone density are genetic and inherited.
 Most cases of low bone density in kids are discovered when they're taken to a doctor because of a bone fracture, typically in their legs, arms or spine. So chances are pretty good that when your kid gets his broken arm or leg x-rayed, the doctor will notice that the bones look a little brittle or porous on the film; however, regular x-rays of fractures are not highly reliable to understand the quality or density of the bones.An x-ray is just a starting point to gather information that may lead to a diagnosis of low bone density. Other testing is needed to confirm the diagnosis.
Healthy bones should look mostly white on x-ray, especially their outer borders called cortical bone. With osteoporosis, the bones look grainier and darker on film because they contain fewer minerals, such as calcium, phosphorus and magnesium.
Mild thinning of bone tissue without evidence of any fractures in kids is usually termed osteopenia instead of osteoporosis.
 If the history of fractures and x-rays look suggestive of low bone density, your doctor will order blood and urine tests for your child to try and confirm (or rule out) the diagnosis. These tests are ordered to primarily look at calcium, alkaline phosphatase, vitamin D and thyroid/parathyroid hormone levels, which are indicative of the common causes of low bone density in both children and adults.Calcium absorption is important because it's the primary mineral in bone. High levels in the blood might mean your child isn't utilizing it properly. Low levels might mean she's not getting enough dietary calcium or is losing it too quickly.
Vitamin D acts a lot like a hormone and is needed for the absorption of calcium in the intestines. Vitamin D is made in the skin in response to certain strong frequencies of sunshine.
Thyroid and parathyroid gland hormones are important for regulating bone growth and remodeling. Issues (diseases or injury) to these glands can trigger reduced bone mineral density in kids and adults.
 If laboratory blood and urine tests are also suggestive of low bone density or osteoporosis, then a DXA scan is ordered to take a closer look at the mineral density in various bones. For a DXA scan, the radiologist uses two x-ray beams of differing energy to image a site, then the special image is compared to an "ideal standard" based on the kid's age and gender.The kid is then assigned a Bone Mass Density (BMD) value relative to children of the same age with healthy normal bones.


For kids, the sites most often imaged are the spine and pelvis, which are thought to yield the most useful and reliable information regarding bone density.
Obtaining BMD values from comparing DXA scans is not regarded as completely reliable because children's bones are naturally less dense than adults and display more variability.
In general, DXA scans and BMD values can significantly underestimate low bone mineral density in kids. In other words, they can be told they're "normal" when they're not.
 A pQCT scan tends to be more helpful than a DXA scan because it distinguishes between the inner spongy bone (termed intramedullary) and and the harder, outer cortical bone, which is much denser.These pQCT scans are also quick and usually taken at the wrist or tibia (shin bone). They're considered to be better to diagnose low bone density, although they're not as commonly done as DXA scans.


Ideally, you can get both a DXA and pQCT scan done if there is some confusion as to whether your child has abnormally low bone mineral density or not.
At this time, most pQCT scans are done for research purposes, so it may be difficult getting one for your child in your area. Ask your doctor.
 Some causes of low bone density in children are preventable, but many causes are not. For example, being born premature increases the likelihood of a kid later developing weaker more fragile bones, as does cerebral palsy, Crohn's disease, osteogenesis imperfecta, malabsorption syndromes, metabolic conditions (homocystinuria and lysosomal disease), liver and kidney diseases, type 1 diabetes, some types of cancer and hyperparathyroidism.The key is to research any condition and disease your child has and understand all the possible side effects, such as low bone density, so you can anticipate future problems.
Sometimes hairline or stress bone fractures are not always obvious; however, be suspicious if your kid complains of deep achy pain that lasts for more than a few days, especially if there is no obvious surface injury.
 Although in many cases low bone mineral density in kids is not preventable, there is a growing number of cases directly related to a sedentary lifestyle, particularly among urban kids in big cities.Compared to previous generations, modern kids are far less physically active, which negatively impacts their bones and muscles.


Set limits on how much time your child can spend in front of a computer and television while at home.
Encourage your child to play physically active games with his friends, as well as cycling, swimming and yard work.
Indoor activity is fine, but playing outside is better because the sunshine triggers vitamin D production within his skin — at least during summer months.
If your child needs bed rest to recover from some disease or condition, their risk of osteoporosis is significantly increased, so always encourage some movement with the doctor's permission.
 Poor or inadequate nutrition is another growing cause of low bone mineral density in American kids and adults.Dietary deficiency in calcium and vitamin D are the two most important nutrients linked to low bone density, but not enough magnesium and boron are also factors. Discourage eating at fast food restaurants and serve less prepackaged food with lots of preservatives. Instead, cook more homemade meals from fresh ingredients.


Rich dietary sources of calcium include dairy products (milk, cheese, yogurt), fish (salmon, sardines), most green leafy veggies (spinach, kale, collard greens, broccoli), beans, peas and most nuts and seeds.
Rich dietary sources of vitamin D are harder to come by, but include: fish oils, fatty fish (herring, salmon, trout), egg yolks, beef liver, some hard cheeses and fortified orange juice and soy milk.
Try to limit the amount of soda your child drinks. There appears to be a connection between drinking cola and low bone density — possibly because drinking more cola means the person is probably drinking less milk and other beverages that promote bone health., Research indicates that tobacco use is a risk factor for for low bone density.If your teen is using tobacco — smoking cigarettes or using it in other forms, such as chewing tobacco — encourage him to quit.


Don't use punishment or ultimatums, as these rarely work. Instead, try talking to him about why he started using tobacco, and explain how much you want him to quit.Your teen probably knows about the obvious risks of tobacco use — cancer, heart attack, stroke. Try calling his attention to other negative side effects of tobacco use, such as having bad breath, yellowed teeth and fingers, developing wrinkles, having less energy, not to mention how expensive the habit has become.Offer to help your teen quit in any way you can. Have him write down all the reasons to quit and write down his intention to quit. Help him set a date to quit. Support him through cravings — have gum, straws, or toothpicks available for him to occupy his mouth when a craving strikes.Secondhand smoke may also increase risk of low bone mass. If you or another member of your household smokes, make sure you do not expose your child to secondhand smoke. Go outside or, better yet, set the example and quit smoking., Although the first line of treatment is dealing with any underlying conditions that are causing the lower bone density, then making sure the nutrition is adequate, there are medications for osteoporosis called bisphosphonate drugs.Common bisphosphonates include zoledronic acid, pamidronate, risedronate and alendronate — they work by slowing down cells (osteoclasts) that break down bone.


Bisphosphonates essentially slow down bone loss and allow the bone building cells (called osteoblasts) to work more effectively.
Bisphosphonates are usually more appropriate for adults because the side effects can be problematic and can include nausea, abdominal pain, difficulty swallowing and esophageal ulcers., Another form of treatment for low bone density that's likely much safer for kids is supplementation with minerals and vitamins, particularly calcium and vitamin D.Supplementation is a good alternative if you're finding it difficult to get the amount of nutrients your child needs through eating food in order to combat osteoporosis.


Keep in mind the recommended amount of daily calcium is 800 mg between the ages of four to eight years, but it increases to 1,300 mg from the ages of nine to 18 years.Between dietary and supplemental sources, you should always keep the daily dosage of calcium under 2,500 mg to prevent constipation and stomach cramps.
Vitamin D can be gotten from summer sunshine, but liquid D3 drops are the best for supplementation. Aim for at least 400 IU of vitamin D3 per day, although up to 1,000 IU is safe for children.
Using high SPF sunscreens reduces your body's ability to make Vitamin D, but is important to prevent skin cancer. Talk to your child's doctor about how to get a safe amount of sun.
 If you're finding it difficult to get your kid off the computer, out of the house and exercising in order to strengthen their muscles and bones, then get a referral from your doctor to an exercise physiologist or physiotherapist.The physical therapist can evaluate your child and recommend weight bearing exercises, such as vigorous walking, jumping rope, doing the stair climber and lifting light weights.


Weight bearing exercises are important for osteoporosis because when muscles contract and pull on bone via tendons, it stimulates bone growth and makes them stronger.
Swimming and cycling are great cardiovascular exercises for your child, but not as effective for combating juvenile osteoporosis because they're not as weight bearing.
Learning about exercising and stretching in a professional setting may promote a more active lifestyle in your child that lasts a lifetime.

