 If the girl that you like says yes and you do get to go on a date with her, make sure that you do all that you can to make sure that she wants to go out again sometime. Little gestures like opening doors, helping her put her coat on or take it off, and paying for dinner can be very impressive to some girls. If you really want to wow her, show up at her door with flowers, take her somewhere fancy, and impress her with your food recommendations at the restaurant.To impress her even more on your first date, find out what she likes through casual conversation and plan a date that incorporates those likes. For example, if she is a big fan of horror movies, take her to see the latest horror flick. If she is a Chinese food fanatic, take her to a Chinese restaurant for dinner. If she loves to play mini golf, take her to play some mini golf!, When you first pick up or meet up with the girl for your date, make sure that you pay her a sincere, specific compliment. You can say something simple like, “You look amazing in that dress!” or, “Your hair looks really pretty.” Whatever you choose, just make sure that you deliver the compliment in a direct way and look her in the eye as you say it.Keep the compliments coming as you continue to date and get to know each other. Don’t just compliment her appearance either. Make sure that you also compliment her intelligence, her sense of humor, and her other talents as you learn about them. For example, you can say something like, “I really admire your talent at track and field.”

, When you are first getting to know a girl that you like, you should be careful not to delve too deeply into personal issues. Stick to things that won’t get her feeling uncomfortable or vulnerable For example, you can ask about her favorite music, movies she’s seen recently, or her hobbies.Avoid discussing topics that might be uncomfortable for her such as your ex-girlfriends, family conflicts, or your religion. Instead, focus on questions that help you get to know her better. Ask her about her likes and dislikes, her friends and family, her interests, etc.
 It is important to have fun while you are getting to know a girl, so make sure that you also ask questions that reveal her personality. By now you should know a bit more about her likes and dislikes, so you can probe a bit further into those topics as well.For example, if she told you what her favorite movie was on your last date, ask her what she likes about that movie, how many times she has seen it, who her favorite character is, etc. She will be impressed by your memory of what she said and your sincere interest in something she enjoys.
 Getting to know someone can take a long time and it may be a while before she falls for you. But don’t get discouraged or impatient. Just keep trying your best to show her a good time and get to know her. Try to look at each time that you go out or spend time together as an opportunity to find out more and show her what makes you worthy of her love.

