 Most parties and events will have a certain theme to them. If the party or even does not have a theme, you might want to come up with a theme for your gift. This can help you come up with ideas for decorating materials. For example:

If the party has a nautical theme, you might want to use shells, ropes, and sand.
If you want to go with a shabby-chic or vintage theme, you might want to use softer, faded colors (such as rose and ivory), velvet, and lace. Your designs might have lots of scrolls and roses in them.
 Is it a child? And adult? What are his or her interests? If the gift is for a young child, you might want to use lots of bright colors to appeal to his or her senses. If the gift is for a cat lover, you could always make the gift box cat themed., Is the gift for Valentines Day? Halloween? Is the occasion taking place during Spring or Fall? Sometimes, knowing the season or holiday can help you decide on what colors to use. For example:

If this is for a Valentine's Day gift, consider using pinks, reds, and whites.
If this is for a Halloween gift, consider using lots of black and orange.
If you are giving the gift during the spring time, consider using lighter colors, such as: pink, yellow, light blue, light green, or light purple. White is also a great spring color.
If you are giving the gift during fall, try to use earth tones, such as: gold, orange, red, or brown.
 Is the gift for a wedding, baby shower, or graduation party? The event itself may help you decide how to decorate the box. For example:

If the gift is for a wedding, take the wedding colors into consideration. Try to use those colors when decorating your gift box. For example, if the colors are red and gold, you could paint the box red and stencil designs onto it using gold paint.
If the gift is for a graduation party, you could use the school's colors in your gift box. You could also use common graduation party colors: black, silver/gold.
If the gift is for a baby shower, consider using blue for a baby boy and pink for a baby girl. If you know the theme of the baby shower, try to use that in your design.

