 Begin by opening up a new document in Word by clicking on “New” from the File menu. Once you have opened up the new document menu, you will be able to choose from a large number of templates that are included with the Word software. Click on “Templates” and then select one of the resume templates you see on the page.


In Word 2007 you will have to click on “installed templates.”
In Word 2010 it will be “sample templates.”
In Word 2011 it will be “new from template.”In Word 2013 the templates will be displayed when you click on “New.”

, Word comes with a number of pre-installed templates for you to use, but there is a larger choice available through Office Online. It is straightforward to search for resumes templates on this database and download one that you like. Open up a new document and search for “resumes” in the Microsoft Office Online section.


In Word 2013, after clicking on “New” you will see a number of templates and a search bar which says “search for online templates.”
After searching you will see a number of different resume templates to try out.
 You can view and download templates directly on Office Online without going through Word. Just visit the official website at https://templates.office.com/ and click on the resumes and cover letters section. You will see this section as one of those listed in the module on the left-hand side of the screen that says “Browse by Category.”


Here you will be able to look through a number of templates for resumes and cover letters that you can download for free and edit in Word.
You may have to sign in with your Microsoft online account to use these templates., Once you have decided on a template that looks professional and is appropriate for the kind of work you are looking for, you can delete the default text and add your personal information. Format, layout and presentation are essential for a good resume, but they cannot disguise bad writing, spelling and grammar mistakes.Be sure to look carefully at the detail of your resume and proofread it thoroughly.
All of the versions of Word from 2003 to 2013 all come with some pre-installed templates for resumes.
 If you are using Word 2003 you will also have the option of the using the wizard that was included in the software. The wizard will guide you through the process of writing and formatting your resume. Start by selecting "New" from the File menu. This displays the New Document task pane. You should then select “My Computer" from the Templates section on the left side of the task pane.


Click on the “Other Documents” tab, and then select “Resume Wizard.”
Follow the wizard's instructions. The wizard will walk you through the resume creation process step-by-step
If you do not see this option, it was not installed when you installed Word, and you will need to run the installation program again to install it.

