 Avoiding accidents is your number one priority as a cab driver, because accidents endanger you and your passengers and cost you money.Follow all traffic laws.
Do not speed.
Take care when changing lanes. Do not weave through traffic.
Do not drive when tired or otherwise impaired.
Immediately report any accidents.
 Accidents are not the only danger a cabbie faces. There are also your passengers. Taxi drivers carry cash and operate alone, often late at night, making them vulnerable to assault. To protect yourself:Radio the dispatcher whenever picking up a client.
Keep your windows rolled up and doors locked between fares.
Be wary of passengers that give vague instructions.
Do not let single passengers sit directly behind you. Use an excuse – company policy or car balance – and politely ask them to move.
Do not drive into back alleys.
Do not resist robberies. Instead, memorize the suspect’s description and contact the police as soon as possible.
 Driving a taxi is a bit like fishing: you need to know where to get bites. When first starting out, experiment with different locations at different times until you find the right mix. Some places to consider include:


Airports in the mid morning
Business districts during lunch
Suburban rail or subway stops during rush hour
Out of the way restaurants during the evening
Clubs late at night

, If you're an independent taxi driver, you'll have to work long hours in order to pay for the lease on the car and make enough money for your salary. Giving out cards can boost your business by creating repeat customers.
 Yes, navigation systems allow anybody to get from point A to B, but really good taxi drivers know not only how to get where they are going, but the fasted routes for any time of day. More than that, they are able to offer recommendations on dining, lodgings, and nightlife.
 The difference between getting 5% and 10% on a tip can be huge. The better service you provide, the more money you will make. To give your passengers the best service possible:Keep your car clean.
Always call passengers 30 minutes prior to pick-up if they have pre-booked. This will keep them from worrying about whether you will show up.
Have snacks on hand for airport passengers. A bottle of water and a granola bar will be greatly appreciated by hungry passengers.
Do not talk on the phone while driving passengers. It makes you a less safe driver, and it leaves you unavailable to answer questions.
Stay calm. Do not curse at other drivers or traffic.
Be courteous and thankful. “Good morning,” “good afternoon,” or “good evening” are a must when your passenger enters the car. Always thank your passenger when he or she leaves.

