 This is very important because cross country can be dangerous if you take a fall, or your horse could injure himself. Look in the "Things You'll Need" section to check out what you must wear for cross country, and what to equip your horse with. Research the equipment needed if you've never heard of them before. They must be fitted.;
, This is important because you need to have a fit horse to take you round such a big course of jumps. Work on the basics: schooling, controlling your horse on trail rides, road work/ hill work, jumping etc.


Try to ride as much as you can and get your horse fit. It's best to give your horse at least one day off work a week, and also a day of trail riding so your horse can relax and have fun. Road work can also strengthen their legs for jumping, as well as hill work, which can also strengthen their hind quarters. Create a training schedule for your horse.
You can also practise going over fallen logs and natural objects on trails.
 For example, small logs, log piles, tyre jumps and wooden cross rails. This will allow your horse to get the idea of it, and if you start off by going around a big course of advanced jumps, you could injure yourselves.


Practise a smaller course of jumps first; don't try jumping everything the first time.
 You need to work with your horse to make you both comfortable as you start cross-country riding.


Go into two-point position when cantering/galloping to enable him a free, forward and relaxed pace. You don't want him to feel like there's a bag of potatoes on his back.
Don't hold your reins so tight! Keep your hands firm but soft, and give your horse enough room for his neck to stretch over.
 Have someone with you as you practise riding and start cross country. A trainer would be ideal. They know how you ride and will be able to give you a lot of advice.
 If your horse doesn't like the look of one of the jumps, eg. water jumps, then work with them. Don't start getting frustrated. It will come in time, and patience. Slowly introduce a scary jump to them and take it in steps, instead of forcing him to go over it. We wouldn't want to be forced to do something that we were terrified of, so the horses shouldn't have to either.
 If your horse feels like he's going to run out, keep your leg on and give him a tap with the whip on his neck on the side he's trying to run out on. Keep your leg on and use your voice.


Your horse may get over excited/ scared and bolt- keep still and deep in the saddle, don't start tugging on the reins or he'll get even more spooked. If it's safe to, just let him keep galloping, and stop him when he's gotten a bit further, so it's like you've just taken him for a gallop. If it's necessary, turn him into a circle to slow him down.
 If you fall, roll out of the way of your horse and keep your head tucked in.


To help avoid falls, check the cross country jump hasn't been knocked and damaged before you jump. It could be boggy on the other side, which could result in injury.
 Trust your horse; otherwise he'll lack confidence. Use your leg and create energy, and encourage him to go forward in a nice steady pace.
 Cross country is very fun for both you and your horse, so be positive and confident.

