 You should plan accordingly when the weather is either very cold or very hot. Dress your kids for their activities – this means a coat or snowsuit, mittens, scarf, hat, and boots for snow play, layered clothing for intermediate temperatures, and light clothing when it's hot.


The key to dressing for cold weather is layering. Active kids will get hot outdoors, even when it’s cold. The problem is that they will sweat, and this dampness can be uncomfortable and actually make them lose body heat more quickly – this is a risk for hypothermia. Dress them in layers so that, for example, they can remove their heavy coat if they overheat.Try three layers: an inner level that keeps dabs moisture and keeps it away from most of the body (polyester and modern materials are good; cotton is not). A middle layer is for insulation. This can consist of wool or fleece and even be in several layers. Finally, an outer layer is for the usual wind, water, and ice clothing – coat with hood, hat, snow pants, etc., A child who is too hot or too cold will show signs to look for. If you recognize any of these signs, take steps to get him inside to either cool down or warm up. If your child's symptoms do not go away within a few minutes, then call your child's doctor. Call 911 or emergency services if symptoms are severe.

Exposure to excessive heat can lead to muscle cramps, for example, and also fainting. These may be signs of heat exhaustion or heat stroke. Dizziness, weakness, nausea, or lack of coordination are indications that something is seriously wrong. Dark colored urine is a sign that the child is dehydrated. Children who are too cold may or may not say anything. Believe a child if she says she is too cold. Shivering, for example, though minor, is the first symptom of hypothermia. More serious signs include dizziness, hunger, nausea, fatigue, rapid breathing, and lack of coordination., One of the best things you can do to avoid heat-related illnesses in children is to make sure that they drink enough fluids. As said above, proper clothing will control over-heating, which will in turn lessen sweating and loss of fluids. Make sure you wear clothing appropriate to the environment. Clothes that are too thick or too warm can quickly cause a person to become overheated.


Children sweat less and have less evaporative cooling than adults. Let them exercise at their preferred level; do not urge them to exercise harder or play a strenuous sport in hot conditions.
Don’t rely on your children telling you that they are thirst as a guide to their hydration. Thirst is actually a poor indicator.Have water and other beverages available to kids in hot and cold weather. In times of high fluid loss or significant sweating, be sure to replace your child's electrolytes as well by giving your child a sports drink or an oral electrolyte solution like Pedialyte.
 Avoiding the sun is not just about keeping kids cool. It is also about keeping their skin safe from harmful UV rays and avoiding sunburn, which can be particularly bad for young children.Have your kids apply sunscreen all year round, even in winter, as one way to protect them from the sun. Use a screen with an SPF of at least 30.
Avoid the strongest rays of the day – these occur at the same times of peak temperatures, between 10 am and 3 pm. Also, utilize shade strategically, either natural shade of trees of with an umbrella.

