 Many herbs have been as emmenagogues for centuries. People often believe herbs to be harmless, but they can have side effects that are just as significant as any other type of medication. If you want to try using herbs to bring on your period, it is best to speak with your doctor first. Conduct research and make sure you take no more than the recommended dosage, as some herbs are poisonous at high levels.Some emmenagogues are also abortifacients, meaning they could cause your body to miscarry if you are pregnant. If there is any chance that pregnancy is the reason your period hasn't come, do not attempt to terminate the pregnancy using herbs.This can be extremely dangerous.Be especially careful if you already have a medical condition. Herbs could exacerbate your condition or cause dangerous side effects.;
, This is another word for a substance that helps induce your period. Vitamin C is supposed to help increase the amount of lining in the uterus, helping to increase your chances of getting your period. Some find that taking vitamin C supplements or eating food high in vitamin C makes the uterus contract, bringing on a period.The recommended daily value of vitamin C is 60 mg. If you decide to take supplements, be sure not to exceed the recommended dosage.
Try eating plenty of papaya, bell peppers, broccoli, kiwi, citrus fruits, leafy greens, and tomatoes.
 According to folklore, parsley can be used to induce a period. Flat and curly-leaf parsley contain apiol and myristicin, substances that are thought to cause the uterus to contract slightly. No scientific research backs this claim, but some women have found drinking parsley tea to be helpful.To enjoy parsley tea,


Wash and chop 1/4 cup of fresh parsley. The fresh variety contains more nutrients than dried parsley, and it makes better-tasting tea.Boil a cup of water.
Pour the water over the parsley and let it steep for five minutes.
Strain out the parsley and drink the tea.
 Turmeric is thought to relieve menstrual pain and promote period regulation. Turmeric is a flavorful root that is often used as a cooking spice. It can also be made into a healthful drink. Scientists have not confirmed that it can help bring on a period, but it may be worth a try if your period is late.Sprinkle turmeric over rice, steamed vegetables and other dishes you cook during times when you want to induce your period.
To make it into a drink, add 1 teaspoon turmeric to a cup of water. Flavor it with lemon and honey, then pour over ice.
 Several herbal supplements are thought to stimulate menstruation. Because supplements are not regulated by the FDA, they should be taken with caution. Speak with your doctor before incorporating supplements into your lifestyle. Read the instructions on the packaging and take no more than the recommended dosage.These supplements are thought to be beneficial for inducing your period:Dong Quai. The number one herbal remedy for this issue, Dong Quai promotes blood flow to the pelvis where it will stimulate an absent or irregular period.
Black Cohosh. Used for hundreds of years to help bring on menstrual bleeding, black cohosh promotes the regulation of the entire menstrual cycle and contributes specifically to the shedding of the uterine lining.
Motherwort. Motherwort has been found to mildly stimulate the uterus and help it work efficiently thereby contributing to the onset of menstruation.
White Peony. White peony moves the blood in the pelvic area, an antidote to uterine "stagnation" during the absence of a period.

