 You will need to use a vacuum to clean out the length of the vent and, unless you have access to an industrial vacuum, it is unlikely that you’ll be able to do this from the roof. Before climbing up to the roof, get behind the dryer to vacuum out the vent.There should be clamps that connect the exhaust pipe of the dryer to the vent. Use a screwdriver to release these so that you can vacuum.
You can put the tube of the vacuum directly up the vent. However, there are special attachments that can be clamped onto the end of the tube that are designed to pick up lint from a vent. These can help vacuum the vent.;
, Once you have safely ascended onto the roof, examine the area around the vent guard. If any shingles are covering the vent, or the screws that attach to the guard, peel back the shingles. If they are held in place with tar, use a utility knife to cut around the shingles and secure access to the vent., When you get on the roof, you should find that the vent is covered by a guard. If you can, remove it. You might find that there are gobs of lint stuck on in. You can remove some of this with your hands.If the guard is secured in place by nails, place a cat’s paw pry bar under the head of the nail and hit the pry bar with a hammer to release the nails. After you have removed the nails, hold on to them so that you can reinstall them later.After the nails have been removed, pull up on the guard to remove it. You might need to twist it as you pull to dislodge it.
 You can purchase a vent trap cleaner separately or a kit with attachments to your vacuum. Use it to gently remove lint from the guard and other exterior surfaces., Push the brush inside the vent and then twist it. This will get lint trapped in the brush. Then pull the brush out to remove the lint. Repeat until you are no longer picking up lint.Because much of the lint concentrates near the ends of the vent tube, this basic cleaning and the vacuuming on the ground floor should remove most of the lint. If you can see significant amounts of lint that remain beyond your reach, call a professional.
 If you removed the guard, put it back into place. Be sure that it is intact so that no animals or debris can enter the vent.


If you find that the guard is not intact, call a professional to have it replaced. Debris falling into the vent could seriously compromise your dryer.