 You probably have all sorts of questions coming to mind every day-- try your best to get them answered! Your questions might annoy adults, but you're at an age when your brain is flexible enough to learn things easily. When you get older, it'll be tougher. So go ahead! Ask about leaves, cows, books, dinosaurs, buildings, anything!


To learn new things, have new experiences. Try playing a sport, hanging out with the new kid, or trying a new food.;
, It's natural for people to feel more comfortable around people similar to them. However, this can sometimes lead to distrust and suspicion of "outsiders." Stay away from groups that exclude people! You have so many potential friends out there. Why hang out with a group that will chase them away?

, You'll hear this a lot in life, but it's a good rule to follow. The world wouldn't be interesting if everyone acted, dressed, and looked the same-- and people would be miserable in keeping up the act. Let your true self shine and you'll be much happier for it.
 No excuses! Sometimes school seems like a chore, yes, but it's helping you grow and preparing you for your future. Now's the time to create good study habits-- things will get really tough in a few years! Do your best and never sell yourself short for any reason.
 Everyone has a different point of view on a lot of things, but there's no need to fight about it. Listen carefully to others and you may learn a lot about them-- and maybe yourself, too!

, Talking is the first step to new relationships, whether they're friendships or romantic. It's also a great way to learn from people-- try talking to a foreign exchange student or an elder. You never know what you might learn!

, Having friends is healthy. Try to grow at least one close friendship, where you can tell each other secrets and have serious conversations.


As demonstrated by the many wikiHow "Popularity" articles, lots of people desire a large group of friends, and that might be true of you. Keep in mind, though, that you only have so much time that you can dedicate to friends; in spreading out this time between friends, you might not have enough time to really bond. If you have a small friend group, there's plenty of time to bond with each.
Choose your friends carefully. The most important things to look for in a friend are trust, respect, loyalty, cooperation, and accountability.

Examples of each: Feeling safe in telling your friend secrets is trust. Knowing your friend treats you well and equally is respect. Knowing your friend will stand up for you is loyalty. Getting along well is cooperation. Knowing they will make good on any promises is accountability.
 Discrimination means avoiding or mistreating someone just because they're from a certain group. You might run into discrimination against women, racial minorities, non-straight people, disabled people, poor people, the elderly, and heavy people. None of these are okay. Surely you're annoyed when someone ignores or makes fun of you for being a kid. How would you feel if you had to deal with that your whole life? Well, that's similar to how people feel when they face discrimination. Keep that feeling in mind.
 You never know how a situation could get out of hand, so it's best to play it safe. Avoid drugs, alcohol, and gangs. These are all things you will always regret in the end.


If you are faced with the "chicken" taunt, explain that you're not scared; you're just smart enough to avoid asking for trouble.

