 Some types of letters make a point of requesting a response from the recipient. In situations like these, a small, usually pre-addressed reply envelope is often included inside the outer envelope. If you're mailing a letter like this, it's worth noting that the outer and inner envelopes are usually addressed slightly differently when the recipient is an entire family. To start, address the outer envelope (the one in which the contents of the letter and the second envelope are contained) with only the names of the parents or heads of the household.


For the outer envelope, write the parents' names as described in the section above. For example, if you're inviting the entire Jones family to your wedding, for the outer envelope, you would only write the names of the parents: Mr. and Mrs. Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Tim Jones, or Tim and Janet Jones.
 For the inner return envelope, the rules differ somewhat. If you're requesting a response for every member of the family (for instance, if you're inviting the entire family to your wedding), write the parents' names on the first line of the address and the children's names underneath on the second line. If, however, you're only requesting a response from the parents, you would only write their names on the first line of the address, then proceed to the street address and so on.


Note that the directions for the inner envelope refer to its return address. Obviously, the main address that tells where the envelope is being sent will be your own (or that of a relevant agency, business, PO box, etc.) so that their reply will be sent to the correct place.
In our wedding invitation example, if we're inviting the entire family, the return address of the inner envelope would have the parents' names on the first line followed by the names of the children on the second. The first two lines of the inner envelope's return address would look something like this:





Mr. and Mrs. Jones
Emma and Peter







, Regardless of who specifically you're requesting a response from, it's always a sign of courtesy to pre-stamp your letter's return envelope. Stamps are relatively cheap, so including a stamp on the return envelope is more a sign of respect and care than it is actual financial aid. Still, it's usually best to avoid a minor faux pas by taking the time to give your letter's return envelope a stamp


As above, you should send separate letters to children who are over 18 (or are considered independent adults according to some other standard). In situations where you're sending letters with included return envelopes, this means that you'll need to address and stamp each return envelope with the name of the over-18 child in the return address as well.

