 You might wish to spend time visiting car factories in the industrial city of Munich. Or perhaps you want to travel to the castles in the lakes region. Many libraries offer excellent travel books, or you could pick one up fairly cheaply at a bookstore. It's also possible to download travel books to a smart phone, and carry all that information with you as you travel.;
, Leave yourself plenty of time to get your documents up to date. If you live in Europe, you may benefit from relaxed requirements in this regard, Germany being part of the Schengen Area. This is a group of countries in Europe that have agreed to let citizens of other nearby countries into their territory with minimal or no border controls. Check for the latest configuration of the Schengen Area if you think you live in a country which is part of this reciprocal agreement.
 Try the colorful DuoLingo, an app available for mobile devices, or for more intensive language listening practice, use something LingQ.com, a web based service which makes it easy to teach yourself a variety of languages. You will need to communicate with other people in Germany, and knowing a little of the language will help. However, you may also find that English is widely spoken. At the very least, when you choose a travel book, look for one with a bit of a glossary of basic terms, or buy a phrase book. It is also worth learning something about German etiquette and tipping, which again, will be covered in your tourbook.
 Book your tickets, or make your reservations, in advance. Online services are available to help.
 Hotels are available, or you might want to try a service where you can rent space in someone's home, or rent an entire apartment.
 Watch the exchange rate as you plan your trip, and you will have a pretty good idea of how many Euros your currency is going to buy you. Take a couple of credit cards with you, but don't plan on using those for cash advances. Instead, get cash while there, by use of your ATM card at banks. Take at least two different ATM cards in case you lose one, or in case a bank machine grabs or mangles one. Note that the German post office has offered no fee ATM withdrawals. Check to see if this is still the case when you travel, as the post office may be your best deal for ATM withdrawals.
 Pickpocketing is a major problem in the busier tourist areas.
 Be sure to bring a camera, that you have practiced with ahead of time.
 Take care not to leave your luggage behind on any part of the journey, or you're up the creek without a paddle.
