 If you're just laying in bed and tossing and turning, it's better to get up than to keep fighting and letting your mind go nuts. Don't just lay there and get more and more frustrated. It'll only make it worse. Instead, get up after 20 minutes of restlessness and try to do something actively to make you more drowsy.


Don't eat anything. A lot of people think a midnight snack can be a good idea, but digesting food while you sleep will affect the quality of rest you're able to achieve.Whatever you do, stop watching the clock. The worst thing you can do is sit in bed and watch the hands tick by. This will only keep your mind occupied and anxious., One of the best ways to fall back to sleep quickly is to read something complicated, dull, or just otherwise uninteresting. Pull out your old history textbook, or flip open your copy of Ulysses. Time to pass out.


Reading helps to tire your eyes and still your mind, keeping yourself focused on reading the words instead of letting your mind wander and stress.Very successful people often make reading before bed a habit.
Keep the lights very low while you read. Don't watch television, or use a mobile device if you're trying to get to sleep. Some studies show that the high contrast light displays will actually affect your body's internal sleep clock, making it confused. Bright lights late at night make it more difficult to fall asleep and stay asleep.
 If you can't quit thinking about all the stuff you've got to do tomorrow, or the million things you left undone today, it can be very relaxing and calming to write them down before you go to bed. Just the act of writing things down in a list can give you a sense of accomplishment, helping you feel that you've gotten part of the task done. And that can help you get back to bed., If your mind won't calm down, try forcing it to calm down by repeating a mantra, or a small phrase repeatedly. This will force your mind to focus on something, but not something that will be complicated or force you to spin off into anxiety and other worrisome thoughts.It doesn't have to be complex, or fancy. Just repeating your own name, or "Go to sleep" or "Everything is fine, I am relaxed" is a great way of calming yourself. You don't have to say this out loud, just think it to yourself.
 In much the same way a repetitive phrase can calm your mind, so too can a repetitive sound. The low hum of static, or the sound of crashing waves, or the sound of a crackling fireplace, or the sound of a fan blowing gently can help lots of people get to sleep and stay asleep.


White noise generators are commonly sold at novelty stores and housewares departments. They're also common YouTube videos and widely available on the Internet.
 Visualization helps some types of insomniacs get to sleep quickly. If you find yourself restless and with an anxious mind, try picturing yourself in a relaxing and calm location, and make yourself do specific tasks around the room. Don't just be in the room, do some task.


Picture yourself at your grandmother's house at Christmas, kneading dough for Christmas bread. Or picture yourself with your partner in a calm and quiet meadow, rubbing their shoulders after a walk. Make it easy, calm, and quiet.

