 First-aid can be administered to help third-degree burns while waiting for medical attention, but such severe burns always require treatment by a medical professional. Call emergency services, such as 9-1-1 in the US, and let them know a severe burn needs treatment.Be prepared to tell the dispatcher your location, what happened to cause the burn, and about the severity of the burn.
Request an ambulance be sent immediately. It is not advisable for untrained individuals to transport someone suffering from a severe burn unless absolutely necessary.
 Loosely cover the burn with a sterile, non-stick bandage such as gauze or a burn dressing. If the individual has sustained a large burn, a clean, lint-free sheet or other non-linting fabric may be used.Use a sterile dressing to separate burned fingers and toes in addition to any other dressings being applied to the burn.
Do not soak or cool the burn prior to dressing it, and do not use any ointments or topical treatments on the burn. These may lead to infection.
Do not remove any clothing or other material stuck to the burn area.
 Lay the person down flat and elevate the legs slightly and the burned area to above the level of the heart, if possible. Use props to help them keep this position without exerting great effort. Do not move the person if they have sustained additional injury to their head, neck, or spine.Cover the person with a blanket or jacket once they are in position.
Monitor the person’s heart rate either on their wrist or on their neck, if possible, and watch for a rising and falling chest to indicate breathing. Do this until emergency help arrives.
 Emergency services should bring the burn victim to a local hospital. There, doctors can treat the burn and additional injuries, as well as provide fluids and oxygen as necessary.Once the individual has been treated, ask the doctor about what is expected for aftercare, as well as follow-up visits. Try asking, 'What kind of aftercare will be required to make sure the burn heals properly? When will the burn need to be seen by a doctor again?"
Stick to the doctor’s prescribed aftercare routine and medicines as precisely as possible. Keep all follow-up appointments during recovery.

