 Many people keep beloved—and half-used—cosmetics in a drawer, cabinet, or makeup bag. But that favorite blush or lip gloss may be years old and a goopy, bacteria-laden mess. Most cosmetics have a specific shelf life based on if it comes in liquid or powder form. Understanding that each of your products expires at some point can prevent infections, keep them performing well on your face, and help streamline your routine.Your makeup may have gone bad if:


You’ve had a recent eye infection or cold sore - the germs could have touched your makeup applicators
It smells different, in some cases like stale oil
Its color has changed
Its texture has changed
It feels different on your face;
, Each type of cosmetics has a general expiration date. After this, they may dry out and harbor oil and bacteria. These can cause infections as well as promote melting makeup during the day.Throw away the following products if they seem bad or at their general expiration dates:Foundations, tinted moisturizers, cream blushes, BB and CC creams: six months
Facial powder: two years
Mascara: three months
Liquid eyeliner: three months
Cream eye shadow: six months
Pencil eyeliner and powder eye shadow: two years
Lipstick, lip gloss, and lip liner: two years

, A common scenario that many individuals who use cosmetics have is “discovering” that cool new product they used once and then forgot. If you have these moments, get rid of the product. Throw any lightly used cosmetics you never apply in the trash. You can also donate unopened cosmetics packages to organizations that help women and men who don’t have as many cosmetics.Ask yourself the following questions when considering what to throw away:


When did I purchase this?
How many times have I used it?
Is it for special occasions only?
Do I still like how it looks on me?
Could this serve someone else better than me?

, If you’re like many people, you find yourself buying jazzy new cosmetics when you see sales and free gifts. This can lead to product overload in your cosmetics bag or organizer. Consider throwing away one product for every new one you purchase. If notice that a new product you bought looks like another you already own, return it to the store unused. This can help keep your cosmetics from going bad and your makeup process streamlined.


Think about donating sample-sized products, including soaps and perfumes, to organizations that provide them to needy persons.Give your child cosmetics you don’t use often. These can provide fun during playtime alone or with friends. Make sure to not give your child any expired products, which may lead to infections on a child’s delicate skin.

