 The 'Sloane Ranger' originated in Chelsea, London so I would advise you to commute there, check out the local boutiques and get a sense of the atmosphere. If you live too far away, you can simply do some research over the Internet, and see some photos or read some articles on Sloanes.;
, To dress like a Sloane you are going to need a fair amount of money, so I suggest starting a savings account or putting your money in a money box. Saving your money will allow you to prioritize what you need, and teaches restraint so start saving!

, Once you've saved up some money, Hit the high-street and spend those pounds. Teenage Sloanes usually shop at Jack Wills, Hollister, Abercrombie and Fitch,Lacoste, UGG Australia & Hunter. You also want to buy a pashmina scarf, no Sloane is ever seen without one! These stores are rather pricey, but the quality is good and you'll have to spend a little extra to achieve that Sloane look.
 During the day, a typical Sloane girl would be seen in a Jack Wills hoodie, paired with some skinny jeans from Abercrombie and Fitch and a pair of Uggs. Gilets from Jack Wills are also a must for the winter months and a pashmina. A big leather bag is also ideal to carry your stuff.
 A Sloane girl usually sports a messy bun with a 'comb over' style fringe to add volume. Hair should be kept poker straight or use some mousse and a 1 inch (2.5 cm) curling iron to add some beachy waves. Makeup should also be as neutral as possible using warm tones on the eyes and a powder to control shine on the T zone area. Lips should always be kept a light nude pink colour and maybe a berry colour in the night. NO eyeliner should be used unless it's brown, Sloane girls are known to keep their faces looking as natural as possible.
 Sloanes are not known to smell so don't. Shower once a day and wash your hair every other day. Use deodorant, and body spray during the day to stay fresh, and spritz some perfume. I would recommend Miss Dior Cherie or Chanel Chance for the night, and Lacoste touch of pink for the day time, as it is a light preppy scent that is appropriate for school.
 Try to be as cultured as possible, go to art exhibits read about different cultures and nations, and if possible TRAVEL. Learning another language is also vital such as French. A Sloane is always known to be smart so study, and get good grades in exams.
 Just because you're a Sloane doesn't mean you have to brag about your clothing. Remain humble and answer to compliments with a healthy ' Thank you'. This will not only give you a good image, but will give you a good reputation amongst other Sloanes.
 Go out! go to parties and socialize. If someone doesn't particularly like you, be the bigger person and don't make a scene or start a fight as that is not lady-like, but stay out of their way it's there loss! Be kind, use humour when appropriate and flirt! who knows you might just get a Sloane boyfriend.

