 ABKC shows are held all over the country. You can find a list of events at http://theabkcdogs.org/events/. The date, time, and location of each events is listed on the ABKC page.If you have questions about a particular event, use the contact information provided on the ABKC event page to contact the organizers.;
, Each show has its own organizers, and the ABKC enforces certain general rules of all events. Check the ABKC website for general requirements. Generally, all dogs at the show must have an assigned ABKC registration number. Additionally, all dogs in ABKC shows must have proof of current vaccinations, including rabies vaccination.Contact the event organizers for more specific requirements for a particular show. Contact information for specific events can be found online at http://theabkcdogs.org/events.
 You will need to contact individual organizers for details on how to submit your registration. You can find contact information on the ABKC event page.Most events cost $15 if you register in advance, and $20 if you register on the day of the show.
You will need to provide proof of your dog’s ABKC registration.
 Your dog must be a bulldog or a breed accepted for competition by the ABKC. For instance, you might enter an English Bulldog, a French Bulldog, an American Pit Bull Terrier, a Shorty Bull, or, of course, an American Bulldog. If your dog’s breed has not been verified by a registration organization, you can check for certain characteristics that will determine if your dog potentially qualifies as an American Bully.Go to the ABKC website at http://theabkcdogs.org/home/breeds/ for a complete list.
 Each dog entered in an ABKC competition must meet certain qualifications regarding its head. Every breed has its own unique specification standards. For instance, an American Bulldog should have a head that is heavy, large, and broad, with chiseled features and distinct cheek muscles. The ears should be high and either natural or cropped. The eyes can be any color other than blue, or pinkish red.Some breeds that qualify to compete in ABKC competitions do not have their ideal head specifications listed online. If your dog does not have its ideal head specifications listed, contact the ABKC to find out what sort of head they expect your dog to have.
 Each dog entered in an ABKC competition must meet certain qualifications regarding its neck. Every breed has its own unique specification standards. For instance, an American Bulldog’s neck should be muscular and slightly arched, with minimal loose skin. A thin or weak-looking neck will not meet the standards of the ABKC show.Some breeds that qualify to compete in ABKC competitions do not have their ideal neck specifications listed online. If your dog does not have its ideal neck specifications listed, contact the ABKC to find out what sort of neck they expect your dog to have.
 Each dog entered in an ABKC competition must meet certain qualifications regarding its body. Every breed has its own unique specification standards. For instance, an American Bulldog’s body should have broad, muscular shoulders. The upper arms should be joined at an angle of 35 to 45 degrees. The body should be heavily muscled, with massive bulk. The ribs should be well-rounded, resulting in a barrel chest appearance.Some breeds that qualify to compete in ABKC competitions do not have their ideal body specifications listed online. If your dog does not have its ideal body specifications listed, contact the ABKC to find out what sort of body they expect your dog to have.
 There are a few physical and behavioral characteristics that will automatically disqualify your dog from inclusion in the breed. These characteristics vary from breed to breed. Check the information on your particular breed for more information.For instance, in an American Bulldog, aggressive behavior towards humans, albinism, Merle pattern, the absence of one or both testicles, deafness in one or both ears, and a screwed, bobbed, or docked tail are among disqualifying characteristics.
If you cannot find disqualifying criteria about your dog’s breed online, contact the ABKC to find out what features would disqualify your dog.
 Registration forms are available in English, Spanish, and French. There is also an international form for owners who live outside the United States. Download and fill out the appropriate form. For instance, if you speak Spanish, download and complete, the Spanish dog registration form.All forms require similar information. Your name, address, email, and phone number are required.
Your dog’s name, date of birth, color, gender, breed, and lineage are required. You may include your dog’s microchip and DNA numbers, if you have them.
Use your best handwriting, or fill the form out on your computer.
 You must include a side view of your dog and a front view of your dog. Use a paper clip to attach these pictures to your pedigree certificate., Along with your registration form, you must include a copy of the front and inside of your dog’s Pedigree Certificate. The Pedigree Certificate includes information pertaining to your dog’s ancestry. It must show at least three generations of your dog’s family history – in other words, all your dog’s ancestors going back to its great-grandparents.If you don’t have a Pedigree Certificate, you’ll have to buy one from the United Kennel Club, the Bull Breeds Coalition Association, the American Dog Breeder Association, the American Kennel Club, the World Bulldog Alliance, the International Olde English Bulldogge Association, or the National Kennel Club.
Simply visit the website of the affiliated kennel club of your choice, register with the organization, and fill out the form requesting a Pedigree Certificate.
There is usually a cost of about $20 associated with obtaining the certificate. Follow payment directions when submitting your certificate application.
 If you live in the U.S., you will have to pay a $20 registration fee. If you live abroad, you will have to pay a $25 registration fee. In either case, you can make personal checks, cashier’s checks, and money orders out to American Bully Kennel Club.Mail payment to: American Bully Kennel Club Registration Dept., P.O. Box 2677, Spotsylvania VA, 22553.
Alternately, you could send your registration fee via PayPal to the address theabkc@gmail.com.

