 In most cases, if you are being asked to provide a proof of funds letter, then you are working as a lending officer or other senior personnel at a bank, credit union, or other financial institution. The first step, before you begin to write the letter, is to verify that the client does indeed have the requested funds. You will need to check your bank’s records to ascertain this information., Depending on the client’s needs, you may need to verify more than one account. You should check with the client to determine which accounts may be considered. For example, the client may have savings, checking, money market or other accounts with your institution, but may only want to consider the funds in one particular account. You should fully understand which account or accounts the client wants you to verify., A proof of funds letter generally should be something more than just a statement of the current account balance. You should check with the client to determine the level of funding that is to be represented in the proof of funds letter. Then limit the language of the letter only to that amount. For the client’s privacy, you should not provide more information than is requested.For example, the client may have $2,136,942.27 in a particular account. But at this time, the client only needs to verify proof of funds up to $100,000. Your letter should simply say that the client has “at least $100,000” available. That will serve the purpose but not disclose more of the client’s information than necessary.
 A proof of funds letter needs to appear official. You should use the official stationery of your institution. This should be on letterhead, providing the name of the institution and its address. If the institution has several branch locations, you should make clear which location is providing the letter., This seems like a mere obvious formality, but it is extremely important. You should not only provide a date as part of the heading of the letter but also provide a statement in the body of the letter as to the timing of the proof of funds verification.For example, your letter should say, “As of October 15, 2016, our client John Smith has access to at least $____ in his account at ABC Bank.”
Providing the date allows the seller to consider the validity of the proof of funds letter. For example, if you write the letter on October 15, 2016, but the client does not present it until the following April, the seller may have concerns as to whether the funds are still available. In that instance, the seller may require a new proof of funds letter.
 You must be explicit in the proof of funds letter as to the name of the account holder. If there is any discrepancy between the name of the individual requesting the letter and the name or names on the account, you should speak to the client about this. You should provide a clear statement in the proof of funds letter regarding the name or names on the account and the client who is requesting the letter.For example, if Mr. John Smith requests a proof of funds letter, and the account is a joint account between Mr. and Mrs. Smith, your letter may say, “As of October 15, 2016, Mr. John Smith has access to at least $____ in an account at ABC Bank. Said account is held jointly in the names of Mr. John Smith and Mrs. Alice Smith.” The seller can then review your letter and make its own determination about whether to proceed with the transaction.
 In some cases, a proof of funds letter may be written for a single specific purpose. If this is the case, you should specify any such limitations within the text of your letter. For example, if your client requests a proof of funds letter to attend an auction, your letter might say, “This proof of funds letter applies only to the client’s registration to bid at VanDerKellen Auction House on November 15, 2016. For any other purposes, you should contact the bank for more information.”, For the proof of funds letter to be accepted, it must be signed by an authorized representative of the institution. If you are not authorized to provide such information but are just drafting the letter, then you will need to obtain the signature of someone with sufficient authorization., The signature should be accompanied by the official title of the person signing the letter. This may be something like “Assistant Vice President” or “Loan Administrator.” It should be evident that you have the authority to provide the information contained in the proof of funds letter., In most cases, a notarized letter will not be required, as long as the letter meets all the other formalities. However, in some cases, a notarized signature might be required by the seller. You should ask the client if this is a requirement for this particular transaction., In many cases, a proof of funds letter needs to be completed and delivered quickly, because the client may be working on a time-sensitive transaction. You should find out from the customer if the letter should be held at your office to be picked up, or delivered to a particular address. The client may ask you to deliver the letter by special messenger or overnight delivery, if time is of the essence. In any case, it is up to you to know what is required.

