 Creditors look for bank accounts as a sign of stability. A savings or money market account improves your standing with lenders. They assume that if you have a savings or money market account that you are making an effort to build your savings. The existence of these accounts makes lenders comfortable because they know you have a source of extra money for paying bills. This is especially important in the event of an unexpected major expense., Your credit score improves if you are using a smaller percentage of the credit available to you. Increasing your credit limit on existing credit cards but not using that credit may improve your credit score. Requesting a credit limit increase is not the same as applying for new credit, so it does not have a negative effect on your credit score.Before asking for a credit limit increase, bring any of your delinquencies current, make regular payments for several months or more, and pay down the balance by paying more than the minimum payment each month.
 Add information to your credit report that shows stability. You can send a letter to the credit reporting agencies to ask them to add items to your credit report. Enclose any documentation that verifies the information you want to add to your credit report, such as copies of your driver’s license, cancelled checks and paystubs that show your employer’s name and address. Keep copies of all of your correspondence with the credit reporting agencies.Ask to have your current employment put on your credit report. Include your employer’s name and address and your job title. If you have been at your current job for less than two years, ask to have your previous employment added to your report.
Add your current residence, and if you have been there for less than two years, add previous residences to your credit report.
Include your telephone number in your credit report. This gives lenders a way to get in touch with you, even if your number is unlisted.
Ask to have positive account histories added to your credit report if the lender just doesn’t report them or if they only report them to one of the credit reporting agencies.

