 New York can be overwhelming, especially if you’ve never lived there before. Give yourself a primer on the city and what it has to offer by visiting different areas, or at the very least researching them in depth. There are many factors to consider when choosing a general location, like the local culture, population makeup and average cost of living. New York City is divided into individual neighborhoods, or boroughs, which include Manhattan, The Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. Each of these places may be worth visiting if your resources are flexible.
Spend some time touring the city in the weeks or months before you plan on moving. That way, you can learn to find your way around and familiarize yourself with your surroundings firsthand.;
, Rather than focusing your attention on one specific section of the city, expand your search to include outlying areas. A one bedroom apartment in Manhattan might be out of your price range, for instance, whereas similar units in nearby Brooklyn or Queens may be more plentiful and affordable.


Consider what your commute would be like in each location. Would your workplace and other be within walking distance? Is there a subway entrance on the block? How easy is it to get a taxi?
Be sure to check out online listings as well through sites like NYBits, StreetEasy or even Craigslist., When a listing grabs your attention, start digging a little deeper. Scan reviews posted on real estate websites like The Listings Project or Zillow to get an idea of what previous tenants thought about the place. Doing your homework will help you uncover potential problems or reinforce your decision to move forward with a rental.Check listings against New York Department of Buildings records. There, you can find out about any complaints or violations filed against the property that might raise a red flag.Take note of the kinds of services and amenities that are nearby, like restaurants, convenience stores and laundromats. These places will likely play a big part in your daily routine., Write down the address of each listing and make time to drop by in person to investigate. This will give you a chance to lay eyes on the property for the first time, get a feel for the area and scope out your prospective neighbors.If you happen to spot the property manager or landlord, don’t hesitate to ask them any specific questions you might have about a listing.
It’s not recommended that you commit to renting a place without first seeing it yourself.
 Since availability changes so rapidly, you’ll want to have a concrete date in mind for when you intend to move. Planning ahead will give you ample time to start looking seriously. Keep in mind that more units tend to open up at the beginning and end of each month as tenants move out.


Give yourself at least four or six weeks to view multiple listings and get your finances in order.
It never hurts to have a backup plan in case you’re unable to find a place to live by your projected timeframe.
 Sit down and calculate how much you’d be willing and able to spend for your new lodgings. With an estimated budget in place, you’ll be able to narrow down your options to include only the listings that you can realistically afford. For the sake of financial security, try not to spend more than about 30 percent of your total income on rent.Don’t forget to factor in other expenses that you’ll be shelling out for, like utilities, food, transportation and other basic necessities.
Most landlords will only accept renters who make more than 40 times the cost of rent annually., Before you’re handed the keys, you’ll be asked to supply a valid photo ID, recent bank statements, and a check for at least the first month’s rent, along with a security deposit. Get these items together at a moment’s notice in order to beat out the competition. Don’t wait until you’ve agreed on an offer to start printing off copies.In addition to the usual documents, you might be asked to provide things like recent pay stubs, tax returns, your criminal record or even a letter of referral from an employer or previous landlord.One smart strategy is to scan the paperwork you need and email it to yourself. When the time comes, all you’ll have to do is forward the attachments to the leasing agent.
 Be ready to make a move as soon as you decide that a place meets your criteria. When it comes to locking down a good living space in New York, time is not on your side—too often renters will sleep on their decision, only to find that someone else has come along and signed a lease in a matter of hours.If possible, set up a walkthrough or interview for the same day. This will show that you’re serious about the property and minimize the chances of someone else snatching it out from under you.
 Property owners will sometimes offer a little wiggle room on the price in order to fill open units. After touring a listing, act like you’re interested but aren’t sure you can come up with what they’re asking. If you’re lucky, you may be able to convince them to reduce the rate by a couple hundred dollars.Suggest a specific amount by using phrases like "$1,900 is a little steep for me, but I could make $1,750 work."
Try splitting the difference to land a better bargain. If an apartment is going for $2,200 and your target price is $2,000, they’ll be more likely to meet you in the middle if you offer $1,800.Even if your negotiation attempts don’t pay off, they’re worth a shot if it means saving you expenses.
 You won’t always be able to talk the seller down. Just because they refuse to budge, however, doesn’t mean you shouldn’t take the offer, especially if it’s in a good location, has all the features you need and is available immediately. More often than not, you should be prepared to pay what’s being asked and not a penny less.In some cases, market values may even continue to go up over time as demand for housing in the area increases.
Think twice before dismissing a property that’s only a few hundred dollars more than what you’re looking to spend. Being stubborn will only cause you to end up without a place to live.
 If you’re worried that you might not be able to afford the full rent on your own, consider moving in with a roommate to help you subsidize the cost of living. By sharing the financial responsibility with another person, you stand to cut your expenses in half, which can be a huge relief when it comes to living comfortably.Interview potential roommates beforehand to determine whether or not you think the arrangement would work.
Make sure your roommate(s) is also financially secure and has the proper documentation to move forward on a lease right away., Most people tend to move in the summer. As a result, this is when list prices will be highest. Waiting until the slow season when demand drops off is surefire way to score a more attractive offer. If you can hold out until the winter months, your patience will be rewarded with lower rates.Start browsing new accommodations as early as May or June to get ahead of the game.
One downside of waiting until winter to search for an apartment is that turnover is typically lower, which means fewer properties will be available.