 Many of us who are first generation college students have been told, both directly and indirectly, that we are not college material. It’s simply not true. If you have the desire to go back to school and get a college education, and if you are determined to make it happen, then you are definitely college material. Your first step toward a college degree is to believe in yourself and your ability to succeed.;
, Everyone needs support to make it through college. Traditionally, college was reserved for the elite, who were taught all they needed to know about higher education by their families and the exclusive secondary schools they attended. Students from high schools in wealthier neighborhoods are far better prepared than students from non-privileged inner city and rural schools. That does not mean that you can’t succeed if you did not come from a well-educated and wealthy family. It does mean that you will need to seek out resources and create your own support network.
 Start by avoiding people who are negative about your goals and surround yourself with people who are supportive of your aspirations. If that means moving several miles away (or even several hundred miles away) do it! You’ll have enough on your plate just combating the voice in your head that replays the negative messages you’ve received prior to this decision. You don’t need to hear negativity anymore. You need to fill your life with people who encourage and inspire you. Schools do want you to be successful, because if you aren’t successful you will drop out and they will lose funding. Also, they have to report their retention rates, and low retention rates cause them to have lower ratings among their peers which further affects funding and enrollment. Therefore, colleges and universities have created numerous resources to help you succeed right on campus. Go check them out. Women’s centers, cultural centers, LGBTQ centers, writing centers, math centers, learning centers, counseling centers, financial aid offices, etc. are all committed to helping you succeed. These centers are great places to start your journey to higher education and to building a support network.
 You’ll want to make sure these centers are staffed with people who greet you warmly, recognize you as an individual, and are knowledgeable about other resources on campus (even if that means telling you, “I don’t know, but I’ll be happy to look into it and get back to you”).


Don’t just go to one center; go in and at least check out ALL of them. Create relationships with the people who staff these centers. They are likely to be your strongest and most reliable supporters. If you don’t find that the campus you’ve visited has centers like the ones described go to a different campus. There will come a time when you will hit a wall, and you will be much more likely to find solutions if you have already established relationships with individuals on campus who are trained to keep up on all of the college and community resources available to students. Centers such as these are packed with people who are eager to help.
 Take every available assessment and find out what career fields are best suited to your interests, personality, and preferences. You can always gain skills. Make sure the education and skills you are working to build will lead to a career you will LOVE! Once you have an idea of where you might like to work, schedule a working interview and a job shadow. Arrange to volunteer. Get some hands on experience that will let you know for sure what the day-in and day-out duties are. Ask people who hire for that position what you need to do to become an excellent candidate. Is there a particular practicum or internship (essentially the same thing) that will look better on a resume? Are there classes, clubs, organizations that will help you? Plan all of this out in advance. After all, no matter how much you love to learn, you want the education so that you can get into a career field you will love, right?

, The people in these offices can help you with letters of intent and applications for grants and scholarships. Do your best with forms you need to fill out and letters or essays you need to write, then go to the appropriate office and ask them to proof-read it for you. Their assistance can help you pull together a solid application. Be sure to ask if there is anything else you should include.
 It is always okay to ask who else might be knowledgeable about your concern. There is always someone who has more information. Even if you think you have good answers, it doesn’t hurt to ask for a second opinion. You may be surprised by the amount of useful advice is available. If you find that most of the people you talk with at a particular college or university are not particularly helpful, look elsewhere. The importance of attending an institution that is responsive to your needs cannot be overstated. Are you beginning to notice a theme?

, These classes will help you in every other class you take. Take them early and take them even if you think you don’t need them. There are always new ideas that will help you study more efficiently, design more effective visuals for a presentation, or write a better paper. If you only get one tip out of a 10 week course that helps you knock two hours’ worth of study time off each of the dozens of research papers that are in your future, then it was well worth sitting through the rest of the course.
 They are your lifelines for each course you take. Do not just glance at it and throw it away. A good syllabus will tell you exactly how to get an A in the class. Follow it closely and refer to it often.
 In your first week, take all of your syllabi out and look at the assignments that will be due over the course of the term. Now plot them on your calendar. Do three of your four classes require weekly reflection papers? Make time for them and spread them out over the course of the week. If they are all due on Fridays, don’t try to get them all done on Thursday night. You might do all of your readings and reflection paper for one class on Saturday, another on Sunday and the third by Wednesday. When you give yourself an extra day for each assignment that is due, you won’t have to freak out when life happens and you aren’t able to read a single page on Thursday. If you are a working adult with kids, you know these setbacks are sure to happen on a regular basis. Plan a cushion into your schedule whenever possible so that you can prove yourself as a reliable student. That way, when something big comes up (like a death in the family or an extended illness) your instructors will be willing to work with you, knowing that you are not frequently asking for extensions.
 Research papers should be written over the course of the term, not in the last week. If your calendar looks to full for comfort, cut back NOW! It is much better to take 6 credits and do well, than to take 12 credits and barely get by. Everything will suffer if you take on too much. As long as you keep taking classes you WILL graduate. Even if you can only take one class per term you will make progress.
 As you read the syllabi, look for the emphasis each instructor places on various aspects of your grade. A good syllabus will let you know if the instructor is more concerned with punctuation or critical thinking, participation or number of pages written, quality of academic sources or specific citation formats. Take notes. Remind yourself on every assignment what this particular instructor is basing your grade on. Make sure you adjust your priorities to match theirs. Then take your completed work to the writing center for revisions before submitting them in class. Again, this will take planning. You will need to give yourself time to make an appointment and do a revision. Ideally, find a student who has done well in the course you are taking (from the same instructor) and ask them to review your work.
 Always write a first draft as soon as possible. Set it aside and work on something else (preferably something completely different). Come back to it at least a day later. You’ll be surprised at how many mistakes you catch, or awkward phrases you decide to revise. Once you’ve revised your rough draft, ask a colleague to proof-read it (someone who is familiar with the class and the instructor’s requirements). Then go to the writing center for further revisions. Your chances for an A will dramatically improve by following this schedule.
 Study groups can be wonderful support networks. Just talking about a course with a group of friends can help you to internalize course concepts and prepare you to speak and write about them more articulately. A study group can also serve as proof-readers for those written assignments that should NEVER be turned in without revisions. If you do serve as proof-readers for each other, try to make it so that every person proofs at least three papers. That way you will each have feedback from three classmates. Drill each other on facts. Support each other by keeping the focus on the course (you can gossip/flirt/talk about the game later if you wish), and by celebrating each other’s triumphs. Meet regularly (perhaps each week before or after class).
 Most instructors are happy to make time for you and disappointed that so few students come to them during office hours. Showing up to introduce yourself at the beginning of the term, asking for clarification on assignments, and even asking your instructor to review an assignment are all ways to let your instructor know that you are serious about your education. Besides being a great way to ensure you understand what is expected of you, this will go a long way if you get a poor grade on an assignment. Often, your instructor will allow you to revise and resubmit if they have already witnessed your level of dedication and enthusiasm for the course.
 Give yourself incentives for all of the little steps along the way to celebrate small accomplishments. Make these incentives as healthy as possible and try to make them fun! Keep a list of small and large rewards for a variety of celebrations. Just finished an hour of studying flashcards? Reward yourself with a walk in the park. Completed a difficult term? Spend a day at the beach. Earned your B.A.? Go to Jamaica! Get the picture? It is easy to lose sight of all the little things we do, but if we learn to celebrate little accomplishments it energizes us and propels us forward so that we can celebrate big accomplishments.

