 No matter what the person's sign, never make assumptions about what she wants based on that alone. Instead of trying to guess what she is comfortable with, have a candid conversation about sexual preferences. If the woman is a reserved Virgo, you may not be getting physical until later in the relationship, but once that is on the table, it is important you have this talk, even if she is shy. Avoid ruining your chances by forcing a physical relationship before she is ready.


Bear in mind that Virgos are typically more interested in your potential as a long-term partner, rather than a quick fling., If you are both open to it, you may want to initiate physical intimacy with a Virgo. Improve your chances by waiting for a private moment, since Virgos may be reluctant to display too much affection in front of others.
 Take a page from your Virgo and be meticulous in your planning. Make an event of it with plenty of build-up, such as: a fine bottle of wine; a bouquet of flowers or rose petals on the bed or couch; dimmed lights and lighted candles.Take some of the uncertainty out of the equation by announcing your intentions without backing her into a corner. At the same time, demonstrate your confidence to her by setting the stage for your hoped-for outcome.


If she chooses not to be physical, respect that and back off. Don't try to talk her into it or convince her otherwise.
 Remember that Virgos criticize themselves more than anyone. If she does something that turns you off, resist the urge to chastise her for it, which might cause her to lose confidence and retreat. Instead of telling her to not do something, encourage her to do something else. Continue to show your enthusiasm in order to assure her that you’re into it. Be patient and trust her inherent desire to perfect her skills in all areas of life., To take things to the next level or spice things up, tell her what you’re thinking. Don’t mistake her hesitancy for a lack of desire or adventure. Instead, appreciate that it takes Virgos some time to grow completely comfortable with a partner. Share your fantasies to probe her own. Chances are that if she shares them, she will be more than willing to raise your game!