 It can be large in length and height, but will need to be cut to size.;
,, The Amazon Kindle used in this demonstration is 7.5" x 5" (19cm x 12.5cm), so the cover was cut so that each panel measured 8.5" x 6" (21.5cm x 15cm), not including the spine.
 This will also help give the cut edges a smooth finish. If your book is already sized properly, you can still reinforce the edges using this step.
 This is used to cover your 'book'. It doesn't need to be very neat on the inside of the cover as these edges will all be covered up. Try to refrain from leaving lumps of fabric on the inside of the cover and you'll be fine. Hot glue works well to secure the fabric.
 These will be visible.
 (Something with a sturdiness like a cereal box or other product box will work well; standard cardboard will be too thick for this.) The Amazon Kindle used in this demonstration is 7.5" x 5" (19cm x 12.5cm), so the two inside panels are 8" x 5.5" (21.5cm x 12.5cm).
 These will provide your eReader with some padding and protection.
 No need to be too tidy with the backsides.
 You'll want to use elastic that is approximately 4 inches (10cm) or so in length to each corner of the panel that will be used for the inside of the back cover. Lay the piece of elastic across the corner approx. 1" (2.5cm) in and wrap the excess elastic behind the panel (as seen in the step above). You can use a sewing machine to attach the elastic or hot glue. Repeat this at all four corners. (This will hold the eReader in place.)


Use the elastic to add loop closure for your case. You can do that now by placing a piece of looped elastic in the middle of the right side of the inner back panel. You can also add a button or other item to loop it over to the front of your cover.
 The panel with the elastic will go on the right. Allow the cover to sit overnight or up to 24 hours to be sure that all of the glue has fully dried.
 You'll have the wonderful feeling of holding a book in your hand and even nicer, this cover can fold backwards while you're reading, should you so choose.

