 Know how it is pronounced. If you know phonetics, it will be easy for you to get the right pronunciation. Then, get its meaning - not only one definition but also look for the other definitions. Like when we say "object", it could mean a tangible thing, or a goal, or "to object" as in to oppose.


Choose words that you think you will use often for your daily activities in school, work, and so forth.
Choose the words that you usually hear from other people or from TV and movies that you don't know the meaning.
 Don't murmur. Say it loud. Let it come out of your mouth that it's like you already knew it. By this way, you can easily remember the sound of the word and you'll be familiar.
 After knowing the definition of a specific word, visualize an image that resembles the meaning of the word. This will help you remember the word. For example, we have the word "hurtle." It means to throw or rush swiftly and violently. So imagine a man throwing a "turtle" swiftly and violent towards you.
 Challenge yourself to have a new word for each day. Have a notebook and list down the words. This is really effective. You can remember the word after knowing its definition, saying it out loud, and writing it down.

If you don't like having a notebook, you may make a list on your phone.
 If you think bringing a pocket dictionary will make you look like a nerd or a geek, install dictionary apps on your phone. Phones are handy. There is a free dictionary app in iTunes; it has a blue icon. Moreover, the app provides a "Word of the Day."

, Reading is fun! In reading, you will encounter words that are new to you. The more you read the more new words you’ll discover. When you encounter new words, underline those using pencil and check for their definition in the dictionary.


Novels are indeed long and can take time to finish. If you feel overwhelmed, start with short stories then move to longer ones.
 You can learn new words and expressions in watching English movies. Take note, Watching is a combination of seeing and listening. However, avoid watching English movies exposing too much slang and too many inappropriate expressions.

