 You can choose spandex (Under Armour is good but there are less expensive brands out there), long underwear, or even a thermal (waffle fabric) top and/or leggings if it's really cold. Make sure whatever you put on top has long sleeves. If you don't have any of these things on hand (like if you live in a southern state that rarely has extremely cold weather), at least wear a thick long-sleeved shirt.;
, You can choose to wear jeans, but they're not as warm as sweatpants and they aren't as comfortable for marching. If you have sweatpants with scrunched ankle cuffs, those are great. Make sure your pants are not too long, or you might step on them while marching.
 A turtleneck might be a good choice, if you don't feel too choked by it, since it keeps your neck warmer and helps trap more heat. Top it off with a thick sweatshirt or jacket.
 Scarves are cute and keep your neck and even chin from getting too cold. However, keep in mind that they can become a hazard, especially if it's windy... having your scarf wrapped around your clarinet while marching is not a good situation to be in.
 Beanies are your best bet, since they're warm and fit to your head without obstructing you or anyone else. If you're in a really cold area, get a fuzzy hat with ear flaps. Remember, you can always wear earmuffs in place of or with your beanie hat. Don't assume the hood on your jacket will suffice, because those can blow off and don't keep your ears very warm, and most directors either frown upon or absolutely don't allow them, since they get in the way of your peripheral vision. "It's cold outside" is not a valid excuse to march in crooked lines.
 Look for some really warm socks (SmartWool or similar) that will fit under your band shoes. Do not wear fuzzy socks or slipper-socks, as they will not keep you as warm as you think they will. If you aren't required to wear specific shoes to practice, Ugg boots or something of the kind can work. If it's not cold to the point where you are at risk for frostbite, a pair of thick knee socks might be enough. Also, consider getting inserts for your band shoes to keep your feet more comfortable during long rehearsals.
 Really thick knit ones are best. If you play percussion, clarinet, or have an open-holed flute, your directors may not want you to wear gloves, or have specific rules as to what kinds you can wear. Some bands allow fingerless gloves, which can be fairly warm. If you have no other options, you can at least buy a pair of marching gloves to wear (they're better than nothing), or cut the fingers out of the cheap knit ones sold at stores like Walmart. They'll unravel eventually, but they work in the meantime.
 You can find these at your local Target or drugstore. Some stay warm as long as 7 hours. You can stuff them in your gloves or pockets, and you will quickly become the most popular person in your section if you give them away.

