 Also called a solder wick, this tool is a braid made from fine copper wires. Choose a braid the same size or smaller than the solder pad on your circuit board, and slightly wider than the tip of your soldering iron. If the braid is too large, it could burn the board or take too long to heat up.This approach works best on through-hole attachments, or to clean up excess solder after you have finished removing a component using a pump or other method.You can try it on surface-mounted components in a pinch, but it may be difficult or time-consuming to desolder many pins.
 Most desoldering braids already have powdered flux distributed on the fine copper wires, in order to wick the solder up into the braid. You can brush a little liquid flux onto the end of the braid as well to make it more effective., Once you have plugged in and heated your soldering iron, it’s helpful to melt a tiny bit of extra soldering wire onto the terminal.This will help the old, hard solder melt. Withdraw the iron once you've done this.
 Place the end of the braid over the terminal you are desoldering.
 Let the iron rest on the braid without additional pressure, to avoid pushing the solder pad out of place.Wait a few seconds for the heat to pass through the braid and melt the solder. Once the solder has melted, the braid should wick it up and absorb it.


Hold the braid by the bobbin it is wound around. The braid may get too hot to touch.If the solder isn't melted, too much heat could be dissipating up the braid. Try cutting off the end of the braid and using that instead, holding it in place with the soldering iron.
 The braid will change color as the flux coating is used up and solder is absorbed. Spool out more of the braid and continue on to the next terminal.Apply more liquid flux to the braid if needed.


Even on a through-hole attachment, you may need to remove the solder around the component. If you plan to reuse the component, keep the braid and soldering iron away from the component to avoid heat damage.
 Once all the solder is removed, give the area about thirty seconds to cool, then remove it by hand.

