 Parents typically snoop because they are worried that you are not telling them enough about your personal life. If you sense your parents are worried about you, try to have open conversations with them. This doesn’t mean you have to tell them everything but, rather, that you should be truthful and open with them. In this way, you can make sure your parents don't have a reason to snoop in your bedroom.Initiate conversations with your parents about your school or work day so that they feel included in your life. For example, if your mom asks, "how was your day?" you might share an anecdote or a story that you heard in class.
If your parents ask you about a new club or sport you are involved in, try not to shrug off the question and instead tell them something about it. For example, if they ask about your new soccer team, you might say, "soccer practice was exhausting but I learned some new stuff about defence," and tell them what you learned in some detail. This will make them feel more a part of your life, and decrease their desire to snoop around your room.;
, By asking in a respectful and direct tone, you can hopefully get a straightforward response to your question. If your parents have not been snooping in your room, you have nothing to worry about. If they have been snooping, you can move forward with the conversation.


For instance, you can ask, "have you been looking around in my room?" If they say "yes," you will know you need to move forward with requesting some privacy. If they say "no," you might want to look into other explanations such as someone else snooping in your room or the possibility that a pet dog or cat has been in the room.
 By initiating open and clear communication, your parents will know about your need for privacy and will therefore be more likely to respect it.You might explain, "I need my bedroom space to be private so that I can work on my projects in peace and have some space and time for myself. I am sure you can understand this need. It would be great if you could stop snooping around in my room so that I can keep this space to myself."

, You might ask your parents to knock before entering your room, so that you can be prepared for their entrance. You might also ask your parents to seek permission before looking into your personal items, such as a gym or school bag.
 For instance, you might offer a specific example of a school project or hobby you are working on that cannot be disturbed for some reason.
 Place the sign on the outside of your bedroom door handle. This will remind visitors of the need to knock before entering.If you search 'knock before entering' in google images, you will find lots of possible design ideas for your sign.