 Not every marketing method is appropriate for your ideal customer, so only choose the ones that will get the word out to those who will buy the art. A trendy new gallery, with affordable art, may want to attract young professionals, where a fine art gallery would appreciate an older, art collector, crowd.;
, A graphic designer can design web banners, flyers, posters, emails and more. A promoter should be chosen based on their experience because they can get the word out through local contacts.
 This should be 1 paragraph or less explaining your event in an exciting way in order to intrigue your customers. Include the name, artists, work, date, time, address and links to your gallery or works of art.


The language that you use in your elevator speech should speak directly to your demographic. If you want to encourage a fun, jovial, youthful atmosphere, then don't use technical artistic terminology. If you want to encourage collectors, then be somewhat technical and include any awards or famous collectors of the artists' work. If you want to encourage other artists to come and bring their friends, then use technical terms about the artist's vision and creative style.
 This should be based on a mixture of print and online campaigns executed between 6 months and a few days before the event. If you hold shows regularly, and your plan is successful, then you can execute a similar marketing plan each time you have an art gallery event.
 The following are ways that you can get other businesses to help promote your art show for you:


Choose an alcohol distributor that agrees to pay for some promotion of the event. This is especially beneficial with charity events, because companies like positive cross-promotion and social responsibility.
Ask neighboring or local businesses to cross-promote with you. Choose a local caterer who will post your flyer or give you a neighborly discount. Ask other businesses to post or hand out flyers and stay open later to take advantage of sales. They can also have a sidewalk sale or block party to draw attention to the whole area.
Plan your art show on the same night as another art event, such as "First Friday." In many towns, galleries stay open and invite patrons to view new art on the first Friday of a new month.

