 It may seem obvious, but the first step in meeting women is putting yourself out there. Even in the world of online dating, you'll need to meet in person at some point. That means being willing to go out to social places where singles often meet: bars, restaurants, night clubs, or even more social events like shared-interest clubs, organized social outings, or simply getting together with a larger group of friends.Find social activities online, or try going to a social place near your home where you feel comfortable. And when you get there, make a point of talking to people. That doesn't mean being aggressively flirtatious, but it does mean approaching people and starting a conversation., Some people think that the best way to engage a woman in conversation is by using a pickup line. Pickup lines (occasionally) work in movies, which creates the illusion that pickup lines may work in real life. The truth, however, is that most women find pickup lines cheesy, annoying, or downright repulsive. Women simply don't want to hear pickup lines because they're unoriginal and often insulting to a woman's intelligence. Find something more creative and engaging to say, and you may end up initiating a meaningful and memorable conversation.Rather than using a pickup line to approach a woman, try simply saying "hi" or "hello" and introducing yourself. If the woman seems receptive, ask her about herself, or start a conversation about an interest she might share., If you approach a woman, or if she approaches you, and you've managed to avoid using a cheesy pickup line, you'll need to engage in a real conversation. That is the only thing that will keep the dialogue going, and potentially further her interest in you (and vice versa). The key to a meaningful conversation is to create a real dialogue, rather than a monologue. Engage with one another, and see where the conversation leads you.Minimize the time you "control" the conversation. Don't make it all about you and your interests. If she asks about you, then certainly tell her a little about yourself, but don't dominate the conversational space with your own interests. Let her speak, and let the things she says determine where the conversation moves.Ask open-ended questions to follow-up the things she says. For example, instead of saying "You must love animals, since you became a veterinarian," ask an open-ended question, such as, "What made you want to become a veterinarian?" or "When did you know you had a passion for animals?"Listen without reacting. Don't judge the things she says, and avoid trying to insert your own ideas or values into the context of what she says.Don't assume that she thinks, sees, and feels the same way you think, see, and feel (and vice versa)., If you're trying to have a pleasant conversation with someone you've just met, use respectful and engaging body language to let her know that you're interested in what she's saying. For example, try to maintain a warm eye contact, face the woman while you're conversing (rather than standing at an angle or turned away from her), and try to keep your arms open instead of crossed.That doesn't necessarily mean use flirtatious body language, just maintaining a respectful and open posture to convey your interest in continuing the conversation.


Maintain a confident posture. That means a straight back, shoulders broad (not hunched or slouched), and keeping your chin around 90 degrees (rather than looking down at the floor, which may convey insecurity).Smile warmly, but not in a forced, salesman-like manner. Give a sincere, kind smile, and it will make you highly approachable.Don't stare, but make eye contact during conversation for a long-enough period that it shows an interest.Don't talk too fast or act jittery. Some studies suggest that a relatively slow pace conveys confidence and self-assurance.Wait a second or so before responding when the other person has finished speaking. That shows that you are being respectful and calmly processing what she's said, while also allowing her a moment in case she wants to add to anything she's finished saying., While physical attraction is certainly a component of many relationships, it is not the only component. Having a desirable personality is often at the top of many people's ideal traits. That means being positive, pleasant, friendly, and fun to be around. Attraction may get a woman to approach you, but it's an enjoyable personality that will decide whether she'll continue to carry on a conversation with you.Some positive traits that women often desire include being optimistic, thoughtful, sympathetic, well-behaved, and entertaining., Some people are naturally more funny than others. But even if you don't have a history of performing standup comedy, you probably still have a sense of humor. Whether your style of humor is observational, conversational, self-depreciating, or simple joke-telling, you may want to consider letting your funny side out while courting a woman. Studies have shown that many women find a sense of humor to be tremendously attractive, and are more likely to engage in conversation with someone who is funny or otherwise entertaining.Using humor doesn't mean you need to be a laugh machine. Trying too hard to be funny may be a turnoff for some women. So don't try to be all laughs all the time, but by all means let yourself be amusing and entertaining, if that's the kind of person you are deep down.
Even if you're not comfortable being funny, studies suggest that simply smiling at someone you're interested in may be enough to catch their interest. If you want to catch a woman's eye and your instinct is to be funny, then go for it. But if humor's not your thing, try to smile to make yourself appear more fun and approachable., It may sound strange, but studies have shown that both men and women are deeply attracted to people who wear the color red. That's because red has subconscious associations with sexuality, fertility, health, and social status.Some psychologists therefore recommend wearing an article of clothing that is red in order to send visual cues that you are a suitable partner.If you're dressing elegantly for an occasion, wear a red tie (if you're a man) or a red dress (if you're a woman) to impress the women you meet. If you're going to a more casual occasion, wear a red shirt or blouse to catch a woman's eye.