 For this use black spray paint from Games Workshop. However you can paint it on by hand, just be careful to keep it to a thin layer to ensure no detail is lost. It's important to use black for these as we will need it for the shadows.;
, It is important in this stage to not get any paint in the cracks, as doing so will take away the intended shadow effect that we are looking for. Do this by using a method of dry brushing over the cracks and filling in the rest to give an even coat. If you do get some paint in the cracks don't worry to much as we will go over it with black ink later on.
 Do this in three layers. First a base coat of Games Workshops 'Dwarf Bronze' (again try not to get paint into the cracks). Then a layer of 'Shining Gold' on top, and finally a dry brush of 'Burnished Gold'. This will build up shade.
 Start off with a layer of 'Bronzed Flesh', then a dry brush of 'Breached Bone'.
 Paint the storm bolter and the handle of his nemesis weapon first a base coat of 'Regal Blue', then a dry brush with 'Enchanted Blue'. Next, paint the blade of his nemesis weapon 'Boltgun Metal', then dry brush over it with 'Mithril Silver'. Paint all the bolts that are holding the storm bolter together 'Mithril silver'.
 Carefully paint a base layer of 'Red Gore', then paint a tiny dot of 'Blood Red' at the front of the eye to give an impression of where he might be looking.
 There are some going to the storm bolter and some in the backpack as shown below. Paint them a variety of bright colours such as blue, orange and green. Try to ensure that you don't have too much paint on the brush as you want to leave the little gaps on the wires black. If you do get paint in them paint into the gap with some black ink or black paint thinned down to the consistency of water.
 These are not too expensive, and you can get them from art and drawing shops. Ideally I would like one a bit smaller than the one shown below, it's a European size three and can be a bit big for this purpose.
 For example parts that are shaded by his arms. This will really make the armour stand out, and really improves the model.
 First paint it 'Codex Gray'. Be careful not to go into the cracks as it will remove the shadow effect. Then apply a layer of black ink (or black paint thinned down to the consistency of water, see, then finally a dry brush of 'Fortress Gray'.
 To do this first paint over the whole base with 'Scorched Brown'. Then paint over the top of the base with PVA glue, and sprinkle sand and gravel onto it. This can be bought from model or craft shops, although sometimes you can find materials perfect for this job outside. After that has dried paint brown ink over it (or brown paint thinned down to the consistency of water). After that has dried dry brush a layer of 'Bestial Brown' over it. Finally apply a few spots of PVA glue and sprinkled some modelling grass over it. Then varnished it with matte varnish.

