 If you just have a “gut feeling” that something isn’t completely true about the person is telling you, you’re probably right., If the person has lied to you in the past, be cautious of anything he or she says. Unfortunately, lying can be a habit for some people.For example, if the past three times your friend said he was staying in for the night, you saw him posting selfies from a nightclub; you might not want to believe him when he says he’s staying in tonight.
 If what they are telling you sounds unbelievable or too good to be true, it probably is. If their story just doesn’t make sense, then it’s most likely a lie.Often when people have to come up with a quick lie, they will say the first thing that comes to mind, even if it isn’t logical or reasonable. Even people that have time to craft their lie sometimes add in details that don’t make sense.Also,their reaction to the question might tell you more than their answer. For example, do they get extremely defensive or start behaving differently after you ask?

, Will it keep them out of trouble? Will it get them something they want? People may lie out of fear (of punishment, for example), in order to manipulate or even just out of habit.If they have a good reason to lie to you, it’s reasonable to think that they just might do so.
 For example, what time were they there; who did they go with; when did they leave? Liars often haven’t worked out the details of their story, and can get nervous or trip themselves up when they try to flesh it out., For example, you might say, “Wait…I’m confused, what did you say happened again?" Especially when making up the story as they go along, liars can't always keep track of what they have said. If you ask them to repeat the story, they may not remember exactly what they told you before and you may reveal that they are lying., For example, first you might ask, “How long were you there”. Then, a few minutes later you might ask, “So you stayed there about how long”. This technique is often used on surveys to check for consistency, and can be used in the same way when trying to determine if someone is lying.,


Ask who, what, when, where, why, and how questions. For example, you might ask, “Who did you see there?”; “When are you getting here?”; “Where did you find it?”, etc.
Vary the pace of your questioning in order to keep them off-balance. Ask a few questions back-to-back, without really giving them a chance to completely answer. Then slow down, and wait a few seconds between their answers and the next question. Then pick up the pace again.
Try not to ask rhetorical questions like “Do you think I’m dumb?” or “Do you really expect me to believe that?” Questions like this can make people become immediately defensive

, While most people will answer “no”, regardless of whether they are actually lying or not, many people feel bad about lying and may admit it when gently confronted.For example, you might try saying, "I feel like you're not quite telling me everything" or "I think there might be more you want to tell me".Also, their reaction to the question might tell you more than their answer. For example, do they get extremely defensive or start behaving differently after you ask?

, Also, consider how they are saying things. People often have both obvious and subtle changes in their speech patterns when they are lying. Do they take a long time to respond to your questions? This might mean that they are thinking up an excuse or a lie.
Do they answer your questions with questions? For example, if you ask where they were, do they ask “why” instead of giving you an answer? They may be stalling to think up an answer or trying to steer the conversation somewhere else.
Sentences with contractions are more likely to be truthful. Liars use contractions less frequently and also use more unnecessary words than people who are being honest.Do they refrain from saying "I" a lot? Liars often try to distance themselves from the lie by speaking passively rather than actively.For example, rather than saying "I dropped the glass", they might say,"The glass dropped on the floor".
 Try to see if their voice is strained, in a lower or higher pitch than normal, or just sounds plain weird for some reason., Liars will often want to get out of the subject as fast as possible. To do this, they may try to quickly change the topic or end the conversation.Skilled liars are good at subtly shifting the focus of the conversation to something they are more comfortable with, while inexperienced liars may be more obvious about it.
 Paying attention to what a person’s body movements (or lack of movement) are telling you can often reveal more to you than what they are actually saying.Look for behavior and body language that is different from what they normally do.Is their body shaking or obviously tense? This is usually a sign of nervousness and nervousness is common when people lie.
Liars sometimes try to make very little movement with their body in effort to control their “tells”. This also gives away the fact that they are lying, because usually they are unnaturally still.
Are they sweating? This is a nervous reaction people cannot control. So, if they are sweating for no reason, it might be because they are lying.
 This is often something children do. Fidgeting (tapping fingers, playing with hair, etc.) can often be a sign or “tell” that someone is lying. Wringing or clasping and unclasping their hands may also be an indicator of lying.
 Small eye movements such as slight narrowing or widening, darting around, and even closing (for longer than a blink) can be indications that someone is lying to you.


If someone immediately and quickly looks away when they begin to tell you something or when you ask them a tough question, they might be lying. Especially young children are often not able to make normal eye contact when they are lying.
However, skilled liars have no problem making eye contact. People normally glance away a bit when talking. A person who's making a point of keeping eye contact is more likely to be lying as they're probably trying to convince you and themselves that they aren't lying.
 Things like jaw clinching, lip biting, forehead wrinkling, etc. can all be small signs that the person isn't being completely honest with you.


Expressions on a person’s face, especially skilled liars, can often be limited to their mouth instead of the whole face, particularly when they are trying to control their expressions.Is their nose red or are they scratching it? Called "The Pinocchio Effect", blood rushes to the nose when a person is nervous, such as when they are lying.