 Triggers for self harm in teenagers include:


relationship problems






friendship problems






peer pressure, academics






joblessness






family problems






taking drugs and consumption of alcohol






having personality traits such as being sensitive or being a perfectionist






having a mental illness






bullying






having an intellectual or physical disability





;
, Saying things like 'They're so emo' and 'Just get over it, you big baby' aren't helpful at all.


It's both discriminating and offensive to make a negative remark on someone's self harm habits as self harm has been classed as a serious mental disability. Telling someone to just get over it shows that you don't understand their problem at all as self harm is an outlet for mental pain that they are holding. It's a distraction.
 Don't just assume that anyone who looks upset a lot,wears black clothing and dark makeup or has really pale skin self harms, Making an assumption like that will just make you look ignorant and insensitive, as well as offending the other person.


Think of emo as an artistic style, rather than a diagnosis.
 If you find out someone does self harm don't be the one to yell out 'stop being so emo'. Step up and be someone who matters and make a difference. Approach them privately and ask them how they are feeling, how their life is, if they are having any problems then kindly ask them if they self harm.


'I've been really worried about you. You've seemed kind of listless lately and there are cuts on your arms. If you want to talk about it, I'm here for you.'
'You seem upset. Let me know if there's anything I can do, of if you'd like to talk.'

, Asking questions like: 'are you emo', 'are you depressed', 'do you cut' or 'why are you so sad' are usually unhelpful. Bringing up stereotypes (even unintentionally) may cause them to feel misunderstood and out of place.
 If they don't seem open to discussing it, just tell them you care about them, and then leave them alone. One of the most important things about talking to a person with self harm is showing that you care about them; one person really can make a difference.
 Don't go saying anything to someone you wouldn't want them to say to you. Unwanted remarks, teasing or name calling is classed as bullying and you can face severe legal consequences such as jail time and criminal charges if the person were to do something that has seriously harmed them or put them at risk of harm because of bullying.
 Suicide is the act of killing oneself, while self harm is harming your body intentionally. Self harm is sometimes even a way that people feel that can keep them from committing suicide. People who self harm are at greater risk for suicide, because the same pain that causes them to hurt themselves may later cause them to feel that life is too painful to keep living.


Someone who self harms may later attempt suicide if things get worse. However, not all people who self harm are suicidal, and self harm should not be automatically seen as a suicide attempt.
Self harm is a way to cope with pain; suicide is an attempt to end it because it is too overwhelming.

