 The entire bow should be perpendicular to the ground. The stick portion of the bow should appear horizontal, as well as perpendicular to your body, and the strings should line up with the stick on a vertical plane.


The longbow varies from the recurve and compound bow in that the wrist grip needs to be positioned a bit lower in order to maintain adequate balance. You will ultimately apply more pressure with the heel of your hand, and the pivot point will be further away from the arrow.
 Position the bow grip in your non-dominant hand so that the primary point of contact lies roughly on the the base of your thumb. More precisely, the bow should rest just outside of the thumb joint, at the fleshy part of your hand just below the pocket of your thumb.


The "pocket" refers to the portion of your hand in between your thumb and palm. As long as your hand is relaxed, you should easily find this natural space composed mostly of flesh.
Unlike a recurve or compound bow, the point of contact you have with a long bow should be at the lowest part of this pocket rather than at the center. The force must ultimately rest on the heel of the hand and below the thumb joint, so this should be where your primary point of contact is.Be careful as you grip your bow. If your grip is too near the thumb, you will have poor aim and will ultimately end up stressing your thumb joint. If your grip is too near the palm, the bow will be highly unstable.
 You may need to play around with finger placement in order to find something both firm and comfortable, but as with other bow types, most of the control will come from the thumb and index finger.


The thumb should wrap around the back of the bow. The knuckle may end up resting toward the inside edge of the grip, but only slightly and not in a dramatic manner.
The index finger will usually wrap around the front of the bow and meet the thumb from the other side. Note, however, that you should only just barely allow these two fingers to meet. If they are pressed together, you are likely gripping the bow too tight or strangling it. This can cause serious pain to your hand, and it may also slow the flight of the arrow when you shoot.
The remaining three fingers should wrap around the front of the bow. Keep them relaxed and natural, but firm. The pinky finger can move around some and is not a crucial element of the grip, but usually, you will still want it to curve around the front of the bow.
 The pressure should rest on the ball of your thumb as you shoot, and the wrist should remain as straight as possible.When you draw the bow string back, your elbow will need to be level with your shoulder in order to maintain this balance in your hand. Your wrist should never be forced to flex during the process, and you should keep as much pressure as possible out of your arm muscles.
