 It sometimes tells you the distance between two cities, including distances between two cities in chart-form.


You may have to travel to a bookstore first to buy a road atlas and/or map of your intended destination first.
Look at the paper-map's scale. Normally, a paper-map's scale, should be your very first option, when the two cities are in the same state. They are very useful, when it comes to judging distances. It takes a while to get to understand how to read one, though. Use a piece of scrap paper and a pen to calculate this distance.
Some paper maps even give a chart that tells the difference between most of the bigger cities on the same map.;
, Several websites and programs give approximate mileage between your cities, and even an intended course of travel.


If the originating destination is not within the same country as the resultant destination, you'll probably want to consult other places.
Some of these places include (but are not limited to): Google Earth, Google Maps, MapQuest, Bing Maps, and Yahoo Travel.
 Type into Bing's search box "distance between (location 1) and (location 2)", but make sure to include your state's abbreviation if traveling between two states.


Sometimes this works. Sometimes it doesn't. It used to display within their site's applications this distance. However, now this has been replaced and you have to briefly skim through the listings, to see if anything close matches what you've searched.
 GPS systems use satellites to mark the exact place on the map.


Some cellphones have GPS chips in them, and, although that helps for these people, it many times, wears down the batteries even more than when making what a cellphone is supposed to be used for (making calls), thereby passing off other calls.
 Use your car (or have someone drive you) to the other town. Reset the trip odometer in the initial location and read the final mileage of the trip odometer at the destination.
 They can SOMETIMES tell you other routes to take in finding this information. Some may even find the distance and tell you what it is, within your call.
 As like contacting your travel agent, your flight company may even be able to tell you how far it is between your two points.
 The bill may even list the distance.


It may even appear, before the purchase is actually made, but after the research has been completed in almost it's entirety.
 Some other websites have information that calculate the distance, without an intended route. Although they are harder to find, some are relatively easy to find when looking in the right spot.

