 You only need to prevent anemia if you are at risk of developing anemia. There are a number of risk factors for anemia. Some anemias that are preventable while others, such as the hereditary or genetic anemias, cannot be prevented. Risk factors for anemia include nutritional deficiencies that arise from a diet lacking in the vitamins and minerals needed by the bone marrow. The bone marrow produces red blood cells and a deficiency of necessary vitamins and minerals for the bone marrow causes the production of red blood cells to decrease. The major vitamins and minerals needed are vitamin C, riboflavin, B12, folate, iron, and copper. A deficiency anemia can also arise if you are overweight or obese.Intestinal conditions, such as Crohn’s and celiac disease, irritable bowel syndrome, irritable bowel disease, and leaky gut syndrome, as well as other chronic diseases can prevent the absorption of nutrients and put you at risk for anemia. Women are at risk during their menstrual cycles and pregnancy because of the significant loss of blood or a lack of absorption of iron during these high stress times.If you have chronic blood loss because of a bleeding ulcer or if you use certain medications, such as high-dose aspirin or other NSAIDs like Naprosyn, Advil and others, you may be more susceptible to anemia.Your medical background can play a part. A number of anemias are passed down in families and cannot be prevented. You can also get anemia if you have a personal history of alcoholism, certain viral infections, liver disease, exposure to toxic chemicals, or a history of certain medications. , Even if you try your best to prevent it, you should know the symptoms just in case you start to develop them. This way, you can increase your preventative measures to reverse the early stages of anemia. The symptoms of anemia can vary depending on the specific form you have. However, there are some symptoms that are general to most cases. These include fatigue, general feelings of weakness, pale skin, rapid or irregular heartbeat, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, chest pain, dizziness, confusion, memory loss, cold hands and feet, and headaches.


If you are experiencing any of these symptoms, make an appointment to see your physician to determine the cause. The symptoms of anemia can apply to many other conditions as well. To get the proper treatment, you need to get a medical diagnosis., Despite your best efforts of preventing anemia, there may come a time when you need medical attention to help prevent, reverse, or deal with your anemia. The treatment for anemia depends on the type, cause, and severity of the anemia. Vitamin and mineral deficiency anemias are treated with dietary changes and supplementation. In the case of pernicious anemia, vitamin B12 is replaced by intramuscular injection. For anemias due to blood loss during menstruation, hormone treatments may be considered. For anemias due to autoimmune disorders, immunosuppressant drugs may be used.


Blood transfusions or a bone marrow transplant may be performed in severe and rare cases of anemia. If the anemia is due to internal bleeding, surgery may be required to stop the bleeding.
Sickle cell anemia is treated with oxygen, pain-relieving drugs, blood transfusions, or supplements. Antibiotics are also prescribed to treat concurrent infections which may set off a sickle cell crisis.