 Nipple irritation, drying, and cracking is common with breastfeeding mothers. Use purified lanolin on cracked nipples after you feed your baby.You can also dab some of your own breastmilk onto sore nipples, which can be soothing.


Gently pat wet nipples dry. Rubbing them can cause further irritation. You can also dry them with a hair dryer on the cool setting.
 Blocked ducts usually cause a firm, swollen mass in the breast tissue and cause the skin over it to redden slightly. Blocks usually resolve on their own in a day or two, but do what you can to resolve them quickly to minimize discomfort.Use a heating pad or hot water bottle on the area to soothe it.


Try to unblock the duct by continuing to feed from that breast – get a good latch, and gently squeeze around the duct with your hand as your baby suckles. You can also massage the lump towards the nipple. This may help the breast drain better.
Take lecithin supplement (1200mg, 4 times daily) to help prevent blocked ducts., Mastitis is an infection in the breast that usually occurs due to bacteria getting in through a cracked nipple. You will have a warm, swollen, painful lump in the breast, and probably a fever of 101°F (38.3°C) or higher. If you suspect that you may have mastitis, then call your doctor right away for antibiotic treatment.You do not have to stop breastfeeding when you have mastitis. In fact, continue to feed from the affected side. This can help to clear the infection, and causes no harm to your baby.A blocked duct can lead to mastitis.
Make mastitis more comfortable by placing hot compresses or water bottles over the tender area.
 Tongue-tie, or ankyloglossia, occurs when the thin tissue connecting your baby’s tongue to the bottom of their mouth is unusually short. This makes it more difficult for them to move their tongue, and can increase the pain of breastfeeding. Check whether your baby’s tongue is shaped like a heart at the tip, or ask your doctor to check at your next visit.Tongue-tie is easily fixed with a simple procedure.

