 If you're continuing to not get enough sleep or work excessive hours, it will take your body longer to get rid of the infection. If at all possible, try to have a full 24 hour period of complete rest.








Try to sleep with your head elevated. This will help promote drainage and reduce congestion., Staying hydrated will help thin the mucus and reduce the feeling of blockage.Water is the best option, but non-caffeinated tea, sports drinks containing electrolytes, and clear broths are also good options.









Men should drink at least 13 cups (3 liters) of fluids per day. Women should drink at least 9 cups (2.2 liters) of fluids per day. If you’re sick, you may need even more.Avoid alcohol. It can actually make the swelling in your sinuses worse.Caffeine may dehydrate you, which could make the mucus thicker., Flushing your sinuses (also known as “irrigating” them) can help clear out built-up mucus naturally. You can do this several times a day with minimal side effects.








Use a sterile saline solution in the pot or syringe. You can buy a prepared solution or make your own using distilled, boiled, or sterile water.
Tilt your head at about a 45-degree angle. You will want to do this over a sink or in the shower, to make cleanup easier.Place the spout of the Neti pot (or the tip of the syringe) into your top nostril. Gently pour the solution into your nostril. It should run out the other nostril.
Repeat on the other side.
 Steam will help keep your sinuses moist and may make it easier for you to breathe. Take a hot shower or inhale the steam from a bowl.Using a mentholated “shower bomb” can help.









To use a bowl, carefully pour boiling hot water into a temperature-safe bowl. (Do not inhale steam from water that is still on the stove!) Put the bowl on a table or at a comfortable height so you can lean over it.Lean your head over the bowl. Do not get so close that the water or steam burns your face.
Cover your head and the bowl with a light towel. Inhale the steam for 10 minutes.
If desired, you can add 2-3 drops of eucalyptus oil or other decongesting oil to the water.
Use 2-4 times per day.If using this method with children, use extreme caution around the hot water and do not leave children unattended with the hot water treatment.
 Dry, hot air irritates sinus passages, so running a humidifier while you sleep will help make breathing easier. A warm or cool mist humidifier should work equally well. You can also add a few drops of essential oils like eucalyptus into the water in the humidifier, which will help further reduce congestion (but check the humidifier’s user manual before adding anything to the water).








Watch for mold. If the air is too humid, mold may begin to grow on or around your humidifier. Clean the humidifier regularly to keep it sanitary.
 To ease facial pressure and pain, apply a warm compress to the affected areas.









Moisten a small towel and microwave it for about 30 seconds. The towel should be quite warm, but not hot enough to be uncomfortable.
Place the compress on your nose, cheeks, or near the eyes to reduce your pain. Leave on for 5-10 minutes., Some research suggests that spicy foods, such as hot peppers or horseradish may help clear your sinuses.








The capsaicin in peppers and spicy foods may help thin mucus and promote drainage.Other “spicy” foods such as ginger may also help you feel better.
 Hot, non-caffeinated tea may help soothe a sore throat, especially if it contains ginger and honey. This can also help reduce coughing. However, you should avoid teas with too much caffeine, as these may dehydrate you or cause you to lose sleep.









You can make a simple ginger tea at home. Grate about 1 ounce of fresh ginger per cup of boiling water and allow to steep for at least 10 minutes.
One traditional herbal tea, “Throat Coat,” has been shown to significantly relieve sore throat pain vs. a placebo tea.Benifuuki green tea may help reduce nasal and allergic symptoms when drunk regularly., Often, a sinus infection will be accompanied by a cough. To ease your discomfort and the inconvenience of a cough, you should stay well hydrated, drink warm liquids such as herbal tea, and take honey (only for individuals over the age of 1).
 Cigarette smoke, even secondhand smoke, causes irritation of the sinus lining and promotes sinus infections.Secondhand smoke contributes to as many as 40% of the chronic sinusitis cases in the United States each year. You should stop smoking and avoid secondhand smoke while you have a sinus infection.









To prevent future sinus infections and promote better overall health, stop smoking entirely. Smoking harms basically every organ in your body and can take years off your life expectancy.