 Focus on the reason why you came to college: getting a degree. Spend extra time going to tutoring, office hours, and review sessions. Use all of the academic resources you have, such as the library and the writing center. Make sure you understand what’s going on in all of your classes and are getting the most out of the classes you’re taking.


If you’re struggling in a class, ask your TA or professor what kinds of resources you can use.
Make sure to do all of the reading for your classes! Even if it seems like a lot, it will pay off in the end.
When you get an assessment back, be sure to look not just at the grade but also at the comments written on it and the specific places where you made mistakes.;
, A great way to meet people, build on your skills, and do something for a cause you love is to join a student group. Whether you want to do intramural soccer or write for a literary magazine, student groups can be really fun and rewarding. Many of them let in everyone who wants to join, but they also have leadership positions available for people who show commitment and responsibility. Here are some kinds of student groups you can look into joining:


Political groups
Club or intramural sports teams
Women’s groups
LGTBQIA+ groups
Community service groups
Fraternities and sororities

, College is a great time to build up your resume so that you’re prepared when it’s time to look for a job. In particular, building different experiences will strengthen your resume. Here are some activities you can do at college that will strengthen your resume:Leadership of any sort
Sports teams
Student groups
Student government
Volunteer activities
Part-time jobs
Research assistant jobs
Entrepreneurial endeavors

, College is a great time to meet a lot of new, interesting people. Just because you don't want to commit yourself to a relationship doesn't mean that you should stop yourself from dating entirely. You can meet potential dates at parties, dances, in classes, or at the campus coffee shop. Whether you ask someone out or they ask you out, feel free to date casually.


However, you should be clear from the beginning that you don't want a relationship. You can say something like, "I've been having a great time with you, but I'm really not looking for a relationship right now." You could also say, "I'm happy to go on a date with you, but I just want to be honest about the fact that I am not interested in a relationship."
Fun places for casual dates include coffee dates, lunch dates, mini golf, and parties or dances. Someone you're casually dating can also hang out with you and your friends. No matter what, though, be clear that you are not looking for a relationship.

