 As soon as you spawn you MUST gather wood. In Minecraft, wood is by far the most important material out there. It is used to make crafting tables, wood planks, tools, torches, doors and practically all the things you need when you start! Even if you are in the desert, you must find wood. Travel halfway across the map if you need to but it is essential!;
, Try to collect wood all morning but when it's midday move onto making a shelter (you can check the time by looking up at the sun: when it is directly above you, it's midday).


The easiest way to do this is to break into a cliff. It only has to be two blocks high but make a cave like area and add a door. Also, you MUST light it up with torches: if you have already found some coal then make them using that; if not smelt a block of wood (NOT wood planks) in a furnace to make charcoal. Light up your new house with these so no unwanted visitors spawn there in the night. If the sun isn't already setting, go out and collect more wood until then.
 Now you are safe and sound in your shelter, make use of this time by starting a mine inside. Make some ladders out of your wood and dig down into the ground (Note: never dig straight down! You might fall into lava if you do!) place the ladders on the wall as you go down. Make sure you light up your mine too or monsters will spawn down there also. Hopefully by morning you will have plenty of cobblestone to make better tools and you may even have collected some coal if you were lucky.
 Congratulations! You have survived your first night! But by now, hunger will be setting in and you need to find food. Look around the area, making sure you don't stray too far from your shelter, and kill any animals you see. Here is what each animal will give you: cows - 0-3 leather, 0-2 raw beef; sheep - 0-3 wool; pigs - 0-3 raw porkchops; chickens - 0-2 feathers, 0-2 raw chicken. Cows are probably the most useful as beef gives you a lot of food points and you can make armour out of the leather. However, make sure you get AT LEAST 3 WOOL as you can make a bed out of this.
 It is important to cook your food as you can become ill if you have raw meat. You can also make a bed now so place that in your shelter. Eat any food you need now.
 Depending on how many resources you have go out and collect any of those materials you think you need most.
 Tonight continue mining inside and try to go down a little further. If you are really lucky, you might find some iron ore. Iron ore is another very useful material that will make life a lot easier. It is a good idea to use it to make some good iron tools and some shears. The tools will last longer than wood or stone and the shears will allow you to cut the wool off sheep so you won't have to kill them. Keeping it alive is beneficial: more wool will be awarded and it will grow back soon. If you don't find any iron, don't worry, you will probably find some soon if you keep mining every night.
 Farming wheat is a very easy, renewable way to collect food. To make a farm, dig out a 1 block deep row every other block. Use an iron bucket to fill the holes with water. Then, use a hoe to till the blocks next to the water and plant wheat seeds. You can find wheat seeds by destroying long grass and can be found in villages. Then, when the wheat is fully grown harvest it and make bread. Bread is a very good food as it restores a good amount of health points.
 This will allow you to keep a good source of food nearby. Craft some fences (and a fence gate) and make a pen for your animals to go in. Make sure it isn't more than 20 blocks x 20 blocks or the animals will despawn. Then, collect some wheat and hold it in your hand. Approach an animal and it should follow you (but chickens will follow wheat seeds and pigs will follow carrots) so make them follow you into the pen. Breed the animals too by feeding two of the same species the food they follow. The two animals should then briefly kiss and a baby animal will appear, aww!

, It is important to keep mining and going deeper and deeper underground so you can find more and more materials that each have their own advantages and uses. Emeralds, for example, you can trade for other items with villagers.
 It is extremely productive to explore your world and seek the hidden treasures. Travel to new biomes, go caving, stay out one night and fight zombies or maybe even move to another shelter. There are endless opportunities in Minecraft and everyone plays it differently so go and do what you like. Now that you have survived the first few nights and collected the bare essentials, you are free to go do whatever you please!

