 You may want to just start working, thinking that making a list will slow you down. However, lists are key for most people when they have a lot to get done. Make a list and create a system to know what each item’s level of priority is. Some people use a “A – F” system similar to a school grading system. Choose a system that will work for you.Your system may want to include the amount of time you think each task will take. For example, if one item will take half an hour but another will take several months, there should be a way to notate that on the list. Break down the big, long-term tasks into steps and make lists for the coming days/weeks.;
, Don't get off-track by doing easy things first, or things that are more appealing first. There is a difference between importance and urgency. Most people who are great at time management are able to make this distinction and act accordingly. When you do things based on a sense of urgency, you allow your time to be controlled by the needs of others rather than by your own needs. Instead, assess how important a given task is, based on your personal goals.Remember that the carelessness of others does not constitute an emergency on your part. They will need to learn to stay on top of their own responsibilities.
Urgency is sometimes used as an excuse to put off doing something that’s more important but also more difficult.
If you see yourself prioritizing something unimportant, ask yourself if the current task is bringing you closer to your actual goal and vision.
 Don’t get bogged down by trying to do every single thing yourself. Find aspects of a project or task that you can outsource or delegate to coworkers or employees whom you trust. The more you delegate, the more time you’ll have for other things.Delegate tasks that can easily be done without your involvement. Think about what your skills and gifts are and how they’re best used. For example, can you send someone else out to pick up the copies while you do the skilled work of editing the presentation?
If you have a hard time letting go, create systems so that you can maintain oversight. For example, make sure you’re cc’ed on emails or have a weekly meeting to check in on work that was done in your absence.
 It’s great to challenge yourself and to take on things that feel like healthy stretches. However, many people say yes to things when they don’t actually have the capacity to complete them to the best of their ability. Learn to say no when you need to.Also, if able, learn to say no to things you don't like. Being passionate about your responsibilities makes you more likely to get them done, and done on time and well.

Setting boundaries is important because it shows others that you can’t simply become their safety net when they’ve taken on too much themselves.
If you fail to set boundaries, others will likely keep piling work onto you, which will make keeping on top of time management even more difficult.

