 This can be difficult when you have pain throbbing up and down your spine, as it may seem to come from every part of the back; however, with an injury there should be one main focal area. Press gently along your spine with your fingers, starting with the lower back and moving upwards. You may need someone to help you do this; some areas of the spine are difficult to get to.


Assess the quality of the pain — note whether it is dull and achy, sharp and stabbing, burning, or whatever other "descriptors" you would use for your pain. Keep a record of this for a few days after your injury to see how the pain progresses.
To get a good baseline, rate your pain on a scale of one to 10, with 10 being the worst pain you’ve ever had. After a few days, rate it again. You can do this every three to four days to see if you are improving. Research shows that this is a valid way to monitor your current pain.If you do end up needing to see a doctor for your back injury, having information regarding the quality of the pain, and the progression of the pain (improving or worsening following the injury), can be very helpful in establishing a diagnosis and treatment plan.;
, If you are in so much pain that you cannot walk or are finding it hard to feel your legs, get somebody to take you to the hospital. Do not try to take yourself there; if your back worsens and you find you cannot move you may end up stuck somewhere on the way, and you possibly may end up in danger. You may also want to seek immediate medical attention if you develop the following symptoms:A feeling of numbness in the pelvis or lower back, and the area surrounding it.
Shooting pains down one or both legs.
Feeling weak or unsteady when you try to stand, or your legs suddenly giving way beneath you either when you are standing normally or bending.
Problems with controlling your bowels or bladder.
 Assuming your back injury is not severe enough to warrant going to the hospital, allow yourself some rest time at home to see if your back pain improves. You may wish to spend the first few days in bed until the pain becomes more comfortable. Watch some DVDs or some TV, read a few good books, and keep yourself entertained. Do not spend too long in bed though, because this can make your back stiff, which can slow the healing process.


Note that while rest is important initially after an injury, lying in bed for too long can delay recovery. It’s best to only rest for 24 hours. If you can, make sure you get out of bed, even if only for a few minutes every hour. Becoming active sooner can reduce a delay in recovery.
 Especially during the initial stages of your injury, it is important to take it easy and to not do anything that worsens your back pain or could possibly further the injury. Take time off work if needed, and file a workers compensation claim if the injury was sustained at the workplace. Or, if you cannot take a "leave" from work, perhaps ask your boss if you can have alternate duties such as a desk job for a while as you recover (if your usual job consisted of heavy lifting or other manual labor).


As you recover, avoid standing or sitting in the same position over prolonged periods of time if this exacerbates your back pain.Also avoid sports or physical activity that risk further damage to your back. See a physician for guidelines on when and how to return to activity in the safest manner possible.
 If you are in a good deal of pain while you are healing, you could try applying ice or heat. Ice will help control inflammation, and is especially effective right after the incident (for an acute injury). Heat should not be used until around three days after the injury has been sustained, as it can contribute to inflammation during this time. After those three days however it is effective in relaxing painful muscle spasms and relieving tension in the ligaments and muscles.


To ice your back, wrap a cold pack, bag of ice, or even a bag of frozen vegetables in a thin towel and apply it to your injury for 15 – 20 minutes. Allow your skin to return to normal temperature before you begin to ice again. Never apply ice directly to your back.If you still have pain after three days or if your back pain is chronic, you can apply heat. Try a heating pad, a hot water bottle, or a heat pack.Again, the heat should not be applied directly to your skin – use a thin towel or even a t-shirt to wrap the heat source and protect your skin.
 There are two types of back pain: acute and chronic. Acute is a type of injury that is there for a few days and then goes away, best described as "coming and going." Symptoms are often reasonably intense and heal in around four to six weeks. Chronic pain is more of a persistent pain that lasts between three to six months, or longer.


Particularly if your back pain is not improving, it is important to see a doctor sooner rather than later. Medical studies have shown that faster intervention from your doctor can help to prevent an acute (short-term) injury from becoming a chronic (long-term) one.
 You may receive some coverage for these if it is a work-related injury.
 Seeing a chiropractor or an osteopath for an assessment is an excellent idea if you find that your back pain is not getting better on its own.
 If you are suffering from ongoing back pain, it might be worthwhile to consider buying a new mattress (if you are finding your current one uncomfortable).Another option to consider is sleeping with a pillow between your legs. For some back injuries, this can diminish the stress put on your back while sleeping and thus reduce pain.
 Once you begin resuming basic activities of daily living, make sure that you are paying attention to proper posture. Keep your back straight when sitting, making sure you take frequent breaks and move around at least once every 30 to 60 minutes. When getting out of bed, make sure you practice proper techniques. To start off, lie on your back and keep your knees bent and feet flat. Then roll to the side, slowly moving your legs over the bed. From this position, use your arm that is against the bed to help slowly push you up into a sitting position. When lifting, make sure you use your legs. If you are going to lift an object, make sure you keep it close to your body at all times.
 The most important thing when recovering from back pain is to have a "slow and steady" approach - in other words, not to rush back to work or to activities, as you do not want to cause further damage. Speak to your doctor and/or physiotherapist or other healthcare professional about a gradual return to work and to activities.
 If you injured your back "on the job," you may be eligible for financial compensation that can help to cover lost time at work, as well as any medical treatments, medications, and physiotherapy sessions. It is definitely worth looking into as it can significantly cut back on the costs of treatment.

