 Always start the head outline sketch by drawing a circle. This way you can identify how big or small, at this point, Tinker Bell's forehead should be.;
, Continue making the outline of the head by adding another circle that is intersecting the outline for the forehead. This time it is the outline sketch for the lower part of the head.
 The facial feature outlines consist of one vertical line and four horizontal lines. The vertical line is the guideline for the nose. The horizontal lines are for the eyebrows, eyes, nose and lips.
 The guideline for drawing the ears is the beginnings or ends of the second and third horizontal facial feature outlines.
 Start drawing the actual lines for the eyebrows, nose and the lips. Use the outline sketches as guidelines.
 Draw two slanted acorn-shaped lines for her almond eyes.
, Since the eyes are the highlight of the face, we must take it one step at a time. To finish drawing the eyes, make sure that the eyelashes are shown as well. Cartoons have a different technique in drawing so you always have to keep in mind that the lines are limited. In drawing a cartoon character, one of the indications that you are drawing a girl is to add the eyelashes. You can put around 3-6 eyelashes each eye.
 Next is the outline sketch of the body. When you are drawing Tinker Bell, you should always keep in mind that she is a feminine character that has a girly, childish attitude. So make sure that she has girly features and poise. Draw an 8-shaped line for her body and continue the outline sketches for her arms and feet, just the way you wanted her pose to be.
 This time, draw the outlines that almost show the actual lines of Tinker Bell.
 To show that she is Tinker Bell, make sure that you are drawing her character style. Most of the cartoon characters have the same outfits so make sure that you get to know the outfits that Tinker Bell always wears. Her outfit is a green mini dress with a zigzag hemline and a pair of green doll shoes with little white pom-poms on top of them.
, To continue being in character, add Tink’s hair bun.
, If you can try to exclude the lines where the dress should be located, or you can simply erase it if necessary.
,, Erase the outline sketches completely once you have drawn the fairy wings.
, Pink is preferable

,, To finish drawing Tinker Bell, add light strokes of darker colors on the shadows. And then, add light strokes on the highlights.

