 They will likely have at least a few things that they'd appreciate for a gift, from clothing to toys and maybe even furniture. If you're not keen to ask them, be observant. Listen to anything the parents mention about wanting or notice whether the baby is missing certain needed items whenever you visit.;
, This could include some baby grooming products, a few onesies, pairs of baby socks, a baby-proof book and a rattle, for example. Add to it whatever you consider is appropriate.


Wrap in clear cellophane with a pretty big bow for presentation. This looks professionally finished.
 This is a great Christmas gift idea to ease their constant cleaning and lets them spend more time with the baby instead of the washing machine.


Choose a service that has a good reputation for reliability and cleanliness.
 This could be organic, jar or frozen food, depending on what you know the parents prefer. This is a great way to give them some more free time with the baby.


Make it yourself. See How to make and freeze baby food for details. You'll need to transport it quickly in a frozen food receptacle and warn the parents that it needs to go straight into the freezer on your arrival. Package with good labels that explain what is inside and the date produced and a suggested use-by date (base the use-by date on whatever the product is and its recommended freezing time, but err on earlier use for the sake of freshness.)

, Here's a great excuse to spend time with the baby and give the parents a well deserved break. This is a great one if you're a godparent or family member who is itching to have more one-on-one time with the baby.
 Print it off and choose a sweet frame that will look good in the parent's house. This is a lovely gift that they'll probably keep on display for years to come.
 This might be new rattles, blocks, a soft toy or some sort of safe and fun baby furniture that lets them bounce, crawl or play.
 Reading can never begin too early with a baby. It's something the baby can hold onto and chew, while you can read the stories to the baby in the coming months.
 For example, perhaps they love bananas; make a plateful of banana slices formed into the shape of an animal. Or, turn the bananas into mini muffins for baby's first muffins.
 There are always things to be done. Let yourself put all those chores to one side and just spend time at baby's eye level on the floor, hanging together and playing together.
 Love, kisses, cuddles and fun together are likely to be of more lasting value than any single gift item.

