 Keep in mind that your dog will likely encounter other animals and people on your trip. Consider how well it responds to and interacts with strangers at home and on your walks together. If it tends to treat everything as a threat, choose a campground where individual camp sites are spread far apart from each other. Avoid ones where they're clustered together so your dog isn't constantly spooked by other campers.The dog’s breed can be a huge factor in this. Some breeds are natural guardians, others are hunters, while still others are more prone to barking, acting skittish, or wandering off.
If you’re unsure of your dog’s breed or natural traits, check out http://dogtime.com/dog-breeds/characteristics.;
, Take your dog’s physical abilities, age, and size into account. Don’t force your dog to do more than it’s capable of. If it tires easily, has issues like joint problems, or is built pretty low to the ground, favor campgrounds where: Trails are short and/or close to your campsite so you won't have a long walk back.
The ground is relatively level, with fewer hills to climb and descend.
The terrain is relatively smooth and soft (i.e. grass or dirt trails rather than rocky ones).
 If you have a specific camping ground in mind, call their office or visit their website. Confirm that pets are allowed before you show up with yours. Be aware that not all sites allow dogs, and those that do may have specific rules for them., Even if your dog is already well trained, spend extra time reinforcing its obedience. Reward it with treats each time it obeys so that it associates obedience with good things. Focus on the essential commands (or your personal variation of them):Stop
Stay
Come
Leave it
Relax

, Depending on how far you have to travel and how much walking you’ll be doing while camping, start building up your dog’s endurance. Take it for longer car rides if it isn’t used to being confined in the car for very long. Also take it for longer walks so it can grow accustomed to the exertion and tire less quickly.Doing so will also help you plan your trip. For instance, you can gain a sense of how often you’ll need to take breaks while driving or hiking.
If you have woods, parks, or trails nearby, take your dog for walks there so it can grow used to the same stimuli that it will encounter later on.
 Before you go, set your tent up in the backyard. Spend time with your dog in and around it so it associates it with home and safety. Do the same with anything else that you’re going to bring if it isn’t used to it already. For instance:If you plan on crating your dog at any point on your trip, start training it to enter and stay inside (with plenty of treats as rewards) if it isn't already accustomed to a crate.
If you're bringing a canoe or other boat along, spend time with your dog onboard while it's docked or on its trailer before taking it out on the water.
If your dog isn't used to camp fires, build one in your backyard or spend time in front of a fireplace so it grows used to the sight, smells, and sounds without getting spooked.
 Keep in mind that dogs grow very accustomed to set schedules. Expect them to behave differently when those schedules are upset. Before you introduce it to strange environments and different routines, test its ability to adapt to them by:Feeding it at different times than normal.
Going to places it’s never been before.
Spending more time outside than it’s accustomed to.
Upsetting its sleep schedule.
 Bring it in for a checkup to confirm that it’s up to the challenge. If your dog is due for any recommended vaccinations, have it done now. Also ask your vet if they recommend any additional vaccinations or medications for your specific trip. Particular concerns for dogs include:Fleas
Heartworm
Lyme Disease
Rabies
Ticks

, First, bring enough water for both you and your dog for the car ride there. Also contact the campground and find out if it offers a clean water source. If not, bring enough to last the whole trip. Don’t let your dog drink from any bodies of water onsite, especially if it’s standing water, since this could lead to illness.Play it safe and bring more than you think you’ll need in case of emergencies.
 First, be sure to pack one or more dishes for your dog to eat and drink out of so it doesn’t end up eating something on the ground that it shouldn’t ingest. Additionally, if you intend on leaving your personal campsite for extended periods of time, pick up some water bottles to fill up for both you and the dog so you don't dehydrate while hiking or doing other activities., Expect a switch-up in diet to possibly stress out your dog. Keep it happy by packing the same food and treats that it eats at home. As with the water, err on the side of bringing too much just in case you end up needing it., First, pick up a regular first-aid kit for yourself, as well as a pet-specific kit for your dog. Also purchase a book on first-aid instructions for pets. Follow its recommendations regarding any other emergency supplies that you should to pack for your dog if they aren't already included in its first-aid kit., Even if your dog behaves itself off-leash, bring one anyway to keep control in unforeseen circumstances. Also keep in mind that the campground may require all dogs to be leashed. Additionally, bring along a muzzle, or something that you can fashion into a makeshift one, like a bandanna or cloth napkin. You may not think you need one, and you could very well be right, but play it safe and assume you will., First, update its tags and microchip profile, if needed. If it doesn’t have either, at the very least have one or more tags listing its name, major medical concerns, and your phone number. Also fill out and laminate a card with the following information for backup:Both of your names.
All of your contact information.
Your dog’s medical history and vaccination records.
 Keep in mind that your dog is probably accustomed to sleeping on something softer than the ground. Bring a cushioned sleeping pad or something similar for it to curl up on at night. Ensure that it sleeps comfortably so it won't be all achy for the next morning's activities., Whatever activities you have planned, keep your dog’s needs in mind, too. This will depend entirely on where, when, and what you plan to do, but for example:If you’re camping in cold weather, bring blankets, coats, and jackets for your dog.
If rain is likely, bring towels and waterproof jackets.
If you’re going out on a boat, bring a floatation device for your dog, even if it’s a good swimmer.
 Find out what they are before you go. Once there, follow them to the letter. Don’t ruin your trip by getting kicked out. Possible rules may revolve around:Disposing of dog poop.
Dog-free zones within the campground.
Leash- and off-leash zones.
 If it’s allowed to go off-leash, don’t let it roam out of view. Supervise your dog at all times for its own safety. If necessary, leash it to prevent it from leaving your sight, even if the campground allows it to run off-leash., If your campsites are crowded together, keep your dog leashed at yours so it doesn’t wander into someone else’s site. Allow others to pass you on trails while you and your dog make room for them and wait for them to pass. Remember that other people may have no interest or even feel threatened by dogs, so always pay them deference unless they show genuine interest in interacting with your dog., Give your dog a thorough check periodically throughout each day. Definitely do so after each hike or whenever it has wandered through high vegetation. Look for and deal promptly with issues like:Thorns, burrs, or anything else that might be causing your dog pain.

Ticks and other insects.

Injuries.

