 While honeysuckle plants can tolerate partial-shade, they flourish in the sun. If possible, choose to plant your honeysuckle in a location that receives full sun. The site you choose should also have soil that retains some moisture—excess water should drain off.Without sunshine, honeysuckle plants will not flower profusely and they may shed their leaves.;
, Once you have selected the location, determine if the plant will serve as ground cover or if the honeysuckle will climb up a support structure. If you intend to use the plant as ground cover, you will not need to install a support structure. If you would like to train the honeysuckle to climb, you will either need to plant it near an existing wall or fence, or install a trellis, stakes, wall, or fence. If you are not planting your honeysuckle near an existing fence or wall, Insert the support structure into the ground prior to planting the honeysuckle.


If you install the structure after placing the plant in the ground, you may damage the root system., After the threat of frost has passed in the spring, you may plant the honeysuckle in your garden. If you are using the honeysuckle as ground cover, plant them between two to five feet apart. If you are training your honeysuckle, place each plant six to twelve inches away from the support structure and three to fifteen feet away from other plants.Dig a hole as deep as the plant’s current root system. The hole should be two to three times wider than its container.
Combine new compost into the soil you removed from the hole.
Remove the honeysuckle from its container without damaging the root system.
Loosen the plant’s soil with your fingertips before placing it in the hole.
Scoop half of the soil-compost mixture into the hole. Water the area to remove unwanted air pockets. Allow all of the water to drain.
Fill in the rest of the hole with soil-compost mix.
Water your transplanted honeysuckle thoroughly.
If you are training your honeysuckle, attach the plant to the support structure with old nylon hosiery tied in a figure eight. The crossed part of the tie should lay between the stem and the support structure., There are several actions you can take to ensure the health and prosperity of your honeysuckle plant. These include:


Immediately after planting, cover the base of the honeysuckle with a two inch layer of compost, followed by a layer of mulch. The mulch will help the soil retain water.
If your region receives less than one inch of rain per week, water the honeysuckle plant.
After your honeysuckle has flowered, prune the plant.