 Your hair should be clean and wet so that you can cut it and style it to match Justin Bieber's new 2013 haircut.
 To get the new Justin Bieber haircut, you'll need to trim the hair on the right, left, and back of your head, leaving the hair thick along the center of your head. Brush your hair forward, and trim the hair on each side of your head, as well as in the back. The hair near the bottom of your hair should be just .4 inches (1 cm) long, and it should gradually be up to .8 inches (2 cm) long toward the top of the head.Use a trimmer to trim your hair. If you'd like it to be extra short, then give it a buzzcut.
 Trim the sideburns around your ear so they're nice and short, falling just an inch (2.5 cm) below the ear.
 Comb the remaining long strands of hair over your forehead, and trim your hair so it falls just over your eyes, with the longest strands of hair in the middle. Pick up the left side of the hair -- just enough to fall comfortably between your index and middle finger, and trim half an inch off at a time with a razor comb, which both trims the hair and creates layers. The bangs should be about 4 inches long at their longest (10 cm), but that depends on the size of your head.


Hold the hair straight up the air move the comb up and down the hair quickly. Then pick up the middle of the hair, and then the right side, and repeat these steps.
Note that these bangs are similar to the bangs of Justin Bieber's old hairstyle -- this hairstyle just doesn't have much hair on the sides of the head, which makes the bangs look more dramatic and mo-hawk like.
 Blow dry your hair from below, so the bangs in the center dry straight up. Use your hands to pull up or hold up the hair while you're drying it for extra security. You can even use a round brush to help hold up the hair, but that isn't necessary.
 Place a quarter-sized amount of hair wax in your hands and then rub it around to cover your palms. Then, raise your hands and run them both sideways through your hair, so that you clasp your hands together near the base of the bangs. Then, move your hands up to give your hair volume and texture and to style it up with the wax.


Repeat this gesture at least 5-6 times, moving your clasped hands up through the top, middle, and back of the bangs until they're sticking up.
 Rub a bit more hair wax onto your fingers and grab little bits of your bangs at a time, pushing them up.
 Use a comb to brush the hair straight up and then to curve it up and away from your forehead, so the top of the bangs are curved backwards. The hair behind the top can move toward the top and can lie more flat on the head, or it can be moving straight up as well -- it depends on which Bieber look you want to achieve.
 If you really want those bangs to stay up, you can spray hair spray over your locks.

