 As the instigator of your prank, you have the power to choose a time and place for it. Some choices are better than others if you want to dip out successfully.


Go at night. People hate running at night, and are unlikely to follow you nearly as far. In addition, it is much easier to hide at night, regardless of your location.
Choose a safe target. It might be tempting to pull a prank on the crazy guy in the wheelchair who was threatening to shoot you at the supermarket yesterday, but it's not very wise. There's no way of knowing if he'll actually come out shooting, or unleash a big angry dog on you. Instead, pick people you think will be able to roll with the punches and get over what you do to them.
Preserve the element of surprise. Don't go into a situation where you or your plan will stick out like a sore thumb. Try to do things so that nobody knows what you're up to until the last possible moment.

Try a prank from a moving car. Your target won't know what hit them until you're long gone.
Don't tell anyone about your plan unless they're a part of it. You never know who your ideas will get back to.

;
, As you engage in whatever enjoyable foolishness you've decided to pursue, remember that you may need to dip at a moment's notice.


If you have an audience, gauge their reactions. If you're doing something without the target's knowledge, keep your eyes open for signs that he or she has noticed you're up to something.
Make a mental note of the landscape. Continue to scan it as you go about your “business.” Identify likely escape routes and alternates, as well as places to avoid.

If you're outside, remember to note the positions of any cars, bicycles, or other modes of transport that will beat you in a race. Plan to dip where they can't easily follow.
If the shenanigans are happening indoors, be sure to keep a clear line between you and the nearest exit. If you can't, at least have a route to the exit planned. Don't choose the wrong door or you might end up locked in a closet with half a dozen angry people pounding on the door.
 Put a few steps between yourself and the center of the action if anything seems to be happening. This will help you escape as quickly as possible.


If you're with a group of friends, they will benefit from your taking the time to find good escape routes as you lead the way.
If you bolt and it's a false alarm, don't feel embarrassed. It's better to be jumpy and get away clean than it is to laugh in the face of danger and get grounded or worse.

