 When you've moved out of the house and are supporting yourself as an adult, you can make relationship choices that your family disapproves of with less concern for their feelings on the matter.


However, even though you don’t live at home, there can still be negative consequences if your family is not accepting. For example, they may make comments about you behind your back, treat your partner unkindly at family get-togethers, or in more extreme cases, cut you off entirely or disinherit any potential children of the relationship.
On the other hand, they may need some time to adjust to the news, but eventually come around and treat your partner with love and respect.
 Because you are not living at home, you have the luxury of putting off telling your family if you want to. You can choose to make a point to tell your family sooner rather than later, or you can let them find out when it comes up naturally (for example, on Facebook or during the holidays).


If you think they are likely to overreact in a negative way, telling them upfront can spare your partner some embarrassment if they say or do something unkind.
Otherwise, letting them find out on their own has a lot of benefits: if your relationship is not serious, it prevents unneeded drama. It also sends the message that the racial issue is not a big deal to you, and thus not worth mentioning.
 As with any important news about your life, your closest family members (like your parents or siblings) might be hurt if they find out from someone more distant like your second-cousin-once-removed.


Depending on the type of relationship you have, how often you see each other, and their anticipated reaction, it is probably best not to make a big deal of your news. Don't email and say "We need to talk," which will cause them to expect something negative and prepare for the worst. Instead, drop the news in casually when you are having a normal catching-up conversation on the phone or over lunch.
 When you are discussing what's new in your life, mention your relationship. Be upbeat, and let your happiness come through. Your family members love you and want you to be happy, so when they see how happy you are with your partner, they will hopefully be happy for you too.


Say something happy but upfront, and try to include the racial element in a way that is casual but matter-of-fact: "I'm dating Mark. He's such an amazing guy and we have so much in common. We met at the gym, and we've gone out a few times, and I really like him. I want you to meet him sometime soon. He's the first Asian guy I've dated and he's so handsome!"

, Give your family member time to respond if they want, but don't force them to comment on the racial issue.


Truly they may not care at all, and forcing them to talk about it might feel uncomfortable and unnecessary.
If they do respond, be prepared to react. Don't let your family member get away with saying anything racist or uncalled for. If they start to say something rude or racist, stop them and say, "Listen, I realize you may have mixed feelings, but I don't want to hear anything like that about Mark."
They may also respond with ambivalence, not knowing what to say or feel, if they did not expect that news and aren't sure how they feel about it. Their ambivalence might come from unrecognized prejudices or a worry that there will be a significant cultural divide. Unless you know for sure, don't assume the worst.

