, There may be the plastic ones that will float in the bath or magnetically stick to the refrigerator. Play with them with your child.
 Say the names of the things, shapes, colors etc that you play with. Do this throughout your play with the child. You are "teaching" words... without ever doing a vocabulary drill!

, Vary the manner of the game.
 Then you name (or let them name them if they should know) the geometric shapes as they show them to you (squares, triangles, circles, cubes, stars, etc.) and repeat this occasionally/several times.


Let the child say the shapes/colors and use fun and teasing reminders if necessary. The child will consider it a fun "game" and not realize they are learning.
 It's simple addition and subtraction... but your child will be having too much fun playing with mom or dad to notice that they are "learning". Ask questions like: Which "family" of animals has more babies now? What will happen if the dog family sends puppy to visit grandma? How many dogs will be left at home then?

, Set out clear plastic cups in an area where spills can be cleaned up easily and put varying amounts of liquid (juice? Water?) into each. Let them experiment by pouring liquid from glass to glass. Ask them if the amount in each glass got bigger or smaller and is it more or is it less? If you want to take it a step further, use measuring cups for this activity with older kids (age 4-6) and talk about how four of the quarter cup measurements will fill the one cup measurer.

Count how many plates as you put them on the table. Count eggs to be cooked.
 Talk about 1/2 of a candy, half of a drink, etc. Ask, "Is this half?" "Are both the same? They should both be exactly the same amount."

, 1 toy and 1 toy equals two toys. Hey!

, Do not immediately volunteer the answer. Leave room for them to "figure it out", but be ready with help when you sense them getting frustrated or bored.
 You're playing a game, not giving a structured school lesson. Never pressure, criticize or insist on participating or comment on in/consistently playing. It is just a game for them... for you it is a project. Let the child decide when and if its time to play the activities, games, or do something else. You can help to set the mood of course.


Note:You see the length from above, yet the child may see the end or a corner view of the object... be aware that your perspective changes as you get lower, and your question may not then make sense to a child. Get down on their level before comparing things like length, thickness, etc.

