 The dates of your visit to Vegas may increase your chances of receiving a free room upgrade. Travel experts, however, have conflicting opinions on the “right time” to visit Vegas.


Visit during a period of low occupancy. According to some travel experts, if you want a free upgrade, reserve a room during a period of low-occupancy. For example, if the hotel is known to host businessmen and women during the week, book a stay on a weekend when there will be more suites available.Visit during a conference or event. Other travel experts insist that you are more likely to receive a free upgrade when all of the basic rooms are booked. This typically occurs during a conference or an event. Hotels may offer you a free upgrade to prevent you from switching hotels and to open up a less expensive room for a conference or event goer.;
, Some Vegas hotels and casinos are more likely to offer free upgrades than others. Before booking a hotel, conduct a quick search to determine which Vegas hotels and casinos are most likely to upgrade your room. You may wish to quickly survey friends, family, and contacts on social media.


New hotels may be more likely to upgrade your room because they want a positive review. , Hotel clerks are aware when you have reserved a room through a third party website. While booking through these sites may guarantee a better rate, it may also result in you being placed in a sub-par room with little chance of receiving a complimentary upgrade. Clerks are more willing to reward customers that book directly with the hotel.If you see a lower rate on a third party site, call the hotel and ask if they will match it., In order to receive a free room upgrade, consider spending a little more money on the initial reservation. When a guest books a mid-range room over a basic room, the hotel makes more money. The customer staying in the more expensive room automatically becomes more valuable than a customer staying in a basic room. As a result, hotel clerks are more receptive to the needs and requests of a customer that has booked a more expensive room., When you book with certain credit cards, such as American Express, you may be automatically eligible to receive a free upgrade. This perk is typically only available to centurion or platinum cardholders. If you belong to a lower card holding class, however, it never hurts to ask if you qualify for a free room upgrade.If you are unsure of the perks offered by your credit card company, call a representative for clarification, conduct a quick internet search, or read through your welcome packet information.