 If you'd prefer not to work with an improvised siphon, specialized siphon pumps are commercially available for as little as $10-$15. These pumps come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes - some are automatic, while others are hand-powered. However, the vast majority function similarly: a pump in the middle of a length of tubing creates suction which pulls liquid from one end of the tubing to the other.


These pumps allow you to safely and easily siphon gas without getting your hands dirty or risking exposure to gas fumes. As such, they're ideal choices for cautious-minded individuals.
 Like the other methods described in this article, suction only provides the initial force necessary to start the siphon. After gas begins flowing, gravity does the rest of the work. Because of this, it's crucial for the receptacles to be below the level of gas in the tank.


Note: siphon pumps have one designated end that liquid enters and another end from which liquid leaves. Ensure that the correct ends of the tubing are being used. If arranged backwards, the pump will simply push air into the gas tank.
 Because siphon pumps work in a wide variety of ways, the exact action you'll need to take here may vary. If you have a hand-operated pump, you may need to grab a plunger and push in and out or squeeze an inflatable bulb. If you have a mechanical pump, you may just need to flip a switch.


Most hand-operated pumps only require a few pumps to get liquid flowing - after this, gas should flow freely.
Automatic pumps may or may not need to be left on throughout the pumping process. Consult any instructions provided with your siphon pump for more information.
 Raising the end of the tubing to a level higher than that of the gas in the tank cause the flow of gas to reverse, so any residual gas in the pump should drain back into the engine. If using an automatic pump, you may need to turn it off at this point.
 When the tubing is free of excess gas, you may safely remove it from the gas tank. You are finished. Close the gas tank and seal the gas can, then safely disassemble and store your siphon pump.


Some siphon pumps need to be cleaned after use. Consult any provided instructions for more information - often, all that's necessary is to pump a mixture of soap and water through the device and let it air dry.

