 Your band could just be you, but you'll want to split fuel costs with someone when you start touring, right? Typically, for a rock band, you will need at least one guitarist, one bassist (although a band can go without bass), one keyboardist/pianist, and a drummer -- the lead singer can either play an instrument or not. Of course, this all depends on what type of band you plan to be, and what kind of music you will play. What feels right to you?


The internet is beginning to offer several places to find band mates such as Band-mix and Whosdoing. If you don't have mates that are excited to jump on board, use these resources.

Facebook works for just about everything, too.


Put up ads in cafes, music shops, and even in your car window if you're feeling gutsy. Where does your type hang out? Go there. Open mic nights? Yes. Pubs or clubs? Check.

Don't use just one; use as many as you can so your chances are better.


It helps if these musicians have some musical education. At the very least, someone needs to in order to provide a voice of reason that others may not be able to provide.
It is not always important to choose the "best" players. In many cases, bands of musicians who get along, are easy going, and willing to learn to play together will sound better than bands comprised of very good musicians with big egos.;
, If you can't all agree on one genre, play a bit of two (or three?) or mix together and create your own genre. Have everyone bring a mix CD of their favorite music. Listen to each one and you can get an idea of what everyone likes. All of these styles of music will influence where you record and gig as a band. If you are in a rock band then you are going to be playing very different venues to a classical music band. Does anyone have songs they've already written? Great! How does the band sound playing them?


Most importantly, pick songs you play well and that your singer sounds good singing. Try many different, simple songs in the beginning and see what fits the musicians likes and abilities.
 Now that you have your members and your genre, what's your guys' feel? What audience are you aiming for? Your look needs to be consistent and definitive across all members.


Without a certain look, it'll be harder to get gigs (and fans). Pubs will look at you and think you don't fit; clubs will look at you and think you don't fit; festivals will look at you and think you don't fit -- so pinpoint what you're going for and embrace it.

