 This is the base of your mask. The pieces should be large enough to cover the middle of your neck to the top of your head.


Place them in a pile. They should be flat but look textured.;
, Be sure to cover all the areas.









Make indentations for your eyes, brows, nose, lips, chin, and cheeks.
Curve the top to fit against your head and the bottom to rest against the start of your neck.
 This should be the where you want the top of the mask to end.









If you want a full face mask, draw a line at your hairline.
If you want a masquerade look, cut just above the brow.
 Cut around the marks. They do not have to be perfectly circular or almond-shaped at this juncture.









Cut holes to fit the design of your mask. If you want large eyes, make some serious snips. If you want snake eyes, cut two small slits.
 Following a line along your upper lip, cut the bottom jaw off the mask.









The cut should be about 2 cm (3/4 inch) below the tip of the nose
This creates a more pronounced nose and chin.
 They should be an inch (2.54 cm) below the nose. Fold in.









It should now look as if the top of the mouth is forming.
 They should be small -- their purpose is just to round out the top of the mask.









Tape the slits with the material slightly overlapping to curve the forehead.
 Cut two similar slits below the line.


These slits round out the bottom of the mask.
Overlap the slits slightly and tape together.










If you want your chin exposed or jaw fully covered, adjust accordingly.
 Tape on the front of the mask will not be visible once the mask is completed.









Tape over the eyes, giving them a rounded, symmetrical shape.










Whisk water and flour in a wide-brimmed bowl until it becomes a paste.
Tear or cut strips of newspaper about 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) wide.
Dip the paper and apply. Repeat until whole mask is covered.
Allow it to dry (or use a hairdryer to speed up the process).
Apply another layer. This time, add more layers to the mouth to give the illusion of lips.
Let dry.
 These will be used for ears (optional). Use the same size sheets of foil you used for the mask.









The extra volume creates sturdier ears. Of course, make whatever shape fits your mask.
 Place the tape on the front and back.









Apply two layers of paper mache to the ears and let dry.
If any area of the mask is left wanting, apply more paper mache now.
 These should be the same size (or slightly larger than) the newspaper but placed vertically.









Apply another layer horizontally and let dry. Your mask should start looking like a mummy!

If any section is not rounded out and even, apply another layer to minimize bumps and lines.
 Have your design and an assortment of paints ready.









Apply white acrylic paint on the mask for a base layer.

Leave it to fully dry.


Draw your design on the mask -- depending on your confidence level, this could be with pencil, pen, or paint.
Paint on your design and leave several hours to dry.
 Many mask makers use mohair, but any type of fake hair will suffice.









Use rubber cement to adhere, not hot glue!

, Thread a string or ribbon through the holes.









Tie a knot that cannot escape. Adjust to the size of the head or use a rubber band.

