 Do everything in your power to get along and be friendly with these people. They are an important part of your girlfriend's life, and you should demonstrate that you respect that. This will let your girlfriend know that you are serious when it comes to your relationship.
 This can be a fun way to spend an afternoon, and the thought and planning that goes into it will show her that you really care.


First, come up with the treasure. This can be almost anything, from a piece of jewelry to a nice dinner out, or something more personal.
Plan the hunt. Decide how long you want the hunt to be, and where you want it to take place. Common stops for romantic hunts include "the first place we met," or "our first dinner together."
Write the notes. Place the first one where you know she'll find it. Write something like "I have a little game for you to play, you can find the next note at ."
Don't make the hunt too difficult, this is supposed to be fun!

, Not only does this make for a good date, it shows that you know your way around the kitchen. Don't worry too much about messing up, the thought matters much more than the execution.


Plan your meal. Find some simple recipes that don't have too many steps. Try to time your preparations so that all the items are ready at the same time.
Make sure the meal is balanced. Include a vegetable side, and don't serve huge portions.
Pasta is usually a safe choice, as it is fairly easy to cook and most people will enjoy it.
The dining area should be cleaned before dinner. Light a candle or two and make sure that all the dinnerware is placed correctly.
If you're old enough, serve dinner with a modest bottle of wine.



The concept of the Mix CD goes way back to the days of Mix Tapes. Basically, you want to collect songs that you feel she will enjoy, as well as songs that show how you feel about her. Memory is heavily influenced by music, and a good Mix CD will be remembered for a long time.
Create the track list. You want her to be able to listen to the whole thing without getting bored or skipping tracks. Make sure that the first song grabs her attention, and that the subsequent songs flow well.
Most music software will let you burn CD's. Check here for specific instructions on how to burn the CD
If she uses a service like iTunes or Spotify, you can create a digital playlist and share it with her. This will allow you to make a playlist longer than a CD allows, but the lack of a tangible item can make the gift seem a little less special.
 Similar to cooking her a meal, planning a picnic shows that you care about her and that you think ahead.


Make sure the weather is good. Forecasts change all the time, so be ready to change plans if the day before it starts pouring down rain.
Prepare a light lunch. A picnic should be a light and airy affair, and the food should reflect that. Make sandwiches, slice up some fruit, and pack a bag of light chips. For drinks, brew some ice tea.
Take the picnic somewhere fun. Depending on your location, find a place that boasts a lot of natural beauty. Riversides, beaches, and meadows all make good picnic locations. Scout the place out ahead of time and look for secluded locations.

