 Double-click the MS Word shortcut icon on your desktop or in the Programs menu to launch it. A new, empty Word document will open.
 Creating an invitation with a blank document will allow you to be more creative, as it won’t restrict you to the graphics or art already in a template. To insert your own image file, click the Insert tab on the toolbar at the top, and from the insert options that appear, select either “Insert Clip Art” or “Insert Picture.”


If you already have the picture or graphics you want to use saved in your computer, use “Insert Picture.” A file explorer will open where you can locate the image to insert. Use “Insert Clip Art” to check out available clipart in MS Word. Double-click on a clipart to insert it into the document.
Once the image or clipart is inserted, you can move it around by dragging it to the location you want to place it, or resize it by dragging its borders to the size you want.
 There are two ways you can add text: by using the “Text Box” feature or by typing the invitation information in. The Text Box feature will restrict the text you entered within a box, while typing in will utilize the regular lines of the blank document.


To create a Text Box, click “Insert” at the top, and then “Text Box.” It’s between “Page number” and “Quick Parts.” Select a Text Box style from the drop-down menu, and then enter the information you want into the box that appears on the document.
Whether using the Text Box or just typing in the information, you can change the text font and size, as well as use boldface, italics, and underlines. You can also change the text color using the options under the Home tab at the top.
Make sure that the event information is provided in the invitation, like the event name, date, time, venue, and other details.
 Once you’re done designing the invitation, save it by clicking File --> Save As --> Word 97-2003 Document. Locate the folder where you want to save the invitation file at using the “Save As” window that pops up. Enter the invitation name as a filename, and click “Save.”


Saving as Word 97-2003 Document will make your invitation compatible with all MS Word versions. Now you can print the invitation by using your own printer at home, or save the file in a flash drive and take it to a professional printing shop.

