 Go for 70% or higher for the most nutritional value. You'll receive the most antioxidants at this level.


Studies show that chocolate and chocolate bars with 70% cacao or higher provide the highest levels of antioxidants, fiber, magnesium, and copper as well.If you're not a big fan of bitter or intense chocolate, go for 70% cacao maximum. Higher levels may not be very enjoyable to your taste buds.
In addition, if it's over 70% it's considered dairy free as there are is no milk or milk solids in this type of chocolate., The level of antioxidants present in chocolate depends on the quality of the ingredients and the processing techniques. It's better to buy organic chocolate if you're looking for the most nutritious type.Cocoa bean farming uses some highest quantities of pesticides. Cocoa beans are known as one of the highest "contaminated" products with the largest amount of pesticide residue.Look for organic labeling on your chocolate. It should say "organic" or "100% organic" on the label. Only an 100% organic label indicates that all ingredients used in the chocolate are organic., In addition to choosing organic chocolates, also consider only purchasing chocolates that have the seal of being Fairly Traded.


Cocoa farmers are often forced to sell products to middlemen for very low prices. In addition, many of these middle men have been associated with child labor.If you purchase a chocolate with the label of Fair Traded on it, it means that the company ensures that farmers receive an appropriate price for their product, are allowed to invest in farming techniques that allow for a better flavor and cocoa bean and strictly prohibits child labor.Many times the farming practices and techniques of Fair Trade chocolate make a better quality chocolate as well.
 Not all chocolates are created equal. It's important to read over the labels of any chocolate you buy so you know what it contains.


As mentioned, true chocolate should contain cocoa butter as one of the ingredients. This is what makes chocolate smooth, creamy and delicious. However, some chocolate and candy companies use other types of fats in their chocolates.
Read over the ingredient list and look for other types of fats like hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated oils.These are processed, trans-fats that have negative effects on your health.However, they're cheaper to use so companies will sometimes use these instead of the cocoa butter.

