 Knead some clay in your hands until it turns soft. Place it onto a smooth surface, then roll it out into a thin sheet using an acrylic tube. How thick or thin you roll the clay out is up to you.

If you can't find an acrylic tube, you can use another smooth, cylindrical object, such as a rolling pin or fat pen. You can also use a pasta machine.;
, You can leave the clay blank to make plain buttons. You can also make fancy buttons by adding texture. Press a stamp or texture mat on top of the clay to make an imprint, then peel it off.Background stamps with damask, scrolled, or floral designs work great for buttons.You can also use lace, doilies, or even draw your own design using a toothpick., This will give your buttons rounded, beveled edges. It will give them a more professional-looking finish. If you do not want rounded or beveled edges, you can skip this step.Be careful not to smooth your stamped designs.
 You can do this using small cookie cutters or shaped clay butters. Press the tool into the clay, right over the plastic wrap, then pull it out. You can cut as many buttons as you'd like., Discard the plastic wrap. Crumple up the excess clay, and add it back to the brick or to your scrap clay bin., Smaller buttons only need two holes, but larger ones might need four. Make sure that all of the holes are centered and spaced evenly apart. You can poke them using skewers, toothpicks, knitting needles, or even plastic coffee stir sticks.

Wiggle toothpicks and skewers around a little to widen the holes.
 Preheat your oven to the temperature specified on the clay's wrapper. Once the oven reaches the right temperature, place the buttons onto a foil-lined baking sheet. Put the baking sheet into the oven, then let the clay bake for the time specified on the label.

It does not matter how far apart or how close together the buttons are on the baking sheet.
Each brand of clay is a little different, so the baking times and temperatures will vary.
 Allow the buttons to cool first. Add some designs to the buttons using acrylic paint and a thin paintbrush. Let the paint dry, then apply some glaze using a paintbrush. Let the glaze dry completely before you use the buttons.

You can also apply glaze to unpainted buttons as well.
If you added a stamped design, consider rubbing the paint off with a paper towel. This will reveal the clay's original color along the raised areas.Thick glaze may cover up the button holes. If this happens, run a toothpick or a skewer through the holes to clear them up.

