 A stability ball or BOSU balance trainer (which is basically half a stability ball with a flat base) can increase the level of difficulty of your single-leg exercises by adding a balance element.For example, putting one foot on top of the round side of a BOSU balance trainer will increase the difficulty of a single-leg glute bridge. Your muscles are forced to work harder because the angle is much steeper than it would be if your foot was on the floor.
Stand on the flat side of a BOSU balance trainer to add a balance element to single-leg squats.
 You can incorporate boxes or step-up boards into virtually any exercise. When you increase the height, you increase the difficulty of the exercise and target your muscles more efficiently.For example, you can do single-leg box jumps using a box or step-up board that's shin- or knee-high. Keep in mind that the higher the box, the more difficult the exercise. Balance on one leg, squat slightly, then jump onto the board in a partial squat position. Step back down to the floor and repeat. Do 10 reps per set, with two to three sets for each leg.
Step-ups and calf raises are other exercises you can do with a box or step-up board. If you don't have this equipment, you can also use stairs to do the same exercises. However, avoid doing jumping exercises on stairs as this could lead to injury.
With any of these exercises, you can add dumbbells or ankle weights to increase resistance.
 When you start a single-leg exercise while standing on a raised platform, you're working "from a deficit." It increases the range of motion, meaning it takes more effort to get up to the platform level than it does to complete the exercise on flat ground.You can do any of the basic single-leg exercises, including lunges, from a deficit. Keep your weight-bearing leg on the platform.
Do 10 to 20 repetitions in a set, alternating legs after each completed movement.
Increase resistance and difficulty by adding resistance with barbells or dumbbells.
 The slide board helps you do your single-leg exercises correctly by ensuring that the leg you're not using provides as little assistance as possible to your weight-bearing leg during the exercise.To complete this exercise, start in front of the slide board facing forward with the board behind you. Your weight-bearing leg should be off the board.
Then slide your other leg back. Keep going until your knee is almost touching the floor. Use your hips and the quadriceps of your weight-bearing leg to bring the other leg back up to the starting position.
Don't over-extend your leg, or push your knee forward over your toe while doing this exercise.
Do 10 to 15 repetitions to make one set, then switch legs. You should do two or three sets with each leg.
 Jumping rope is a simple and versatile move you can do that combines conditioning and aerobic exercise. All you need is a jump rope of appropriate length and enough space to use it.Jumping rope can be done in 30-second intervals in between your other exercises to transition from one strength-training exercise to another.

