 A cheating spouse might be acting differently in a number of ways, including being physically distant or uninterested in sex; politely distant; hostile, critical or mean; or absent entirely. Pay close attention to their online activity, which might also indicate attempts at hiding something: they close internet browser windows as soon as you enter the room; they demand privacy when using the computer; they spend lots of time online after you go to bed; and they start new email accounts, among other activities., Someone who is acting distant or strange may not be cheating; they may be preoccupied with work or a family issue. They also might be engaging in other damaging activities, such as buying or selling drugs or gambling online. These are serious issues that can dramatically affect a relationship and they should be addressed by you with the help of a professional and your support network.
 Keep track of their movements as much as possible, including internet activity, travel, late nights at work, ATM withdrawals, phone calls, emails, and so on. This will help you keep track of details, which will become important if your spouse is trying to cover up something.
 Have a plan for what you will do in the event that you discover your partner is cheating. Finding out this information can ruin relationships – not just the relationship between you and your partner, but between other family members, children, and friends. It can have financial impact on you as well. Figure out where you stand regarding infidelity and where you draw the line. What level of physical involvement counts as cheating for you?


Have a confidante. Choose a close friend or family member who will be a good sounding board for you. If possible, choose someone who will not be misconstrued as a romantic partner of yours; your own relationships may undergo close scrutiny in the process.
Secure a support network of family or friends who can help you through the situation. In a situation where one person is cheating, families and friends often find themselves torn. To whom should they remain loyal? Think about who will be the most supportive people in your life.
Consult a family or matrimonial lawyer. You will also likely need the advice of a family lawyer if you are married or if you share resources or finances with your partner.
Visit a counselor or therapist. If your suspicions are correct, you might find yourself being faced needing to make life-changing decisions. This is also very emotionally traumatic and a professional can help you through. Get referrals from trusted friends to find a counselor who suits you. It may take visits with a few different counselors before you find the right fit.

