 Ruffles that travel in a horizontal line, from shoulder to shoulder, draw attention to your bust and create the illusion of fullness. On the other hand, ruffles that travel in a narrow line down your front may only make you look flatter.;
, A line of ruffles down the center of your blouse draws the eye up and down, rather than side to side, which may prevent the ruffle detailing from making your chest look any larger. You should avoid horizontal ruffles, however, since these may end up making you look top heavy.
 If you feel self-conscious about a large bust or mid-section, skip the ruffled blouse and opt for another ruffled piece, like a skirt or an accessory. Ruffles draw the eye, giving it a focal point, so any place you wear a ruffle will automatically garner extra attention.
 If you are not certain about how ruffles along your front look, opt for a safer bet and look for a blouse with small ruffles trimming the sleeves or lower hem. These details add a fun, feminine twist to your blouse without looking too fashion forward.
 The best way to wear the free-flowing ruffle is by pairing it with structured pieces. A structured jacket, like a boyfriend blazer, adds a chic amount of masculine contrast to an ultra feminine style.
 Choose a style that flatters your figure. Boot-cut and wide-legged styles may help balance out a ruffle on top, while skinny jeans and tapered trousers will make the ruffle stand out more.
 Wearing a ruffled blouse with a skirt maximizes the amount of femininity you can get from the look. A pencil skirt flatters most figures and provides just enough structure to keep free-flowing ruffles in line.
 A riding boot or edgy platform contrasts nicely against the soft look of ruffles, while a delicate heel plays into the natural sense of girlishness.
 The ruffles already act as a focal point for your outfit, and too many accessories may clash. Avoid accessories in areas near the ruffles. Skip the earrings and necklaces if you have ruffles across your shoulder, and forego the bracelets and rings if you have ruffles at your bottom hem or trimming your sleeve.

