 Going to a sushi place can be overwhelming at first. Sushi comes in several varieties with different fillings. Learning the basic terms beforehand can make ordering less of a hassle. If you have questions, the chef or the staff will be happy to help. When seated at a sushi bar, you may ask the chef directly. Otherwise, ask your server.Nigiri-zushi consists of a piece of fish, shellfish, or fish roe over a rice ball. It is the best choice for appreciating the flavor of the fish.Maki-zushi is rice and filling packed together and wrapped in seaweed. Standard rolls are called norimaki, since nori means seaweed. Futomaki are thicker rolls and hosomaki are thinner rolls.
Uramaki-zushi means an inside-out maki rolls. The seaweed is around the filling and the rice is on the outside of the roll.
Temaki-zushi are similar to maki rolls but are shaped like cones.
Oshi-zushi is sushi pressed into a rectangular shape.
Chirashi-zushi means “scattered sushi.” Raw fish and vegetables are placed over a bed of rice.
Inari-zushi is wrapped with something other than nori seaweed, such as fried tofu. It typically is filled only with rice.
Sashimi is raw, sliced fish. It is not actually sushi.
 Don’t ask the itamae (sushi chef) for what’s fresh. Instead, ask for the omakase (chef’s choice) menu, what fish is in season, or for recommendations. As long as you are polite, the itamae will be glad to guide you.


If dining at a table away from the sushi counter, allow the waiter or waitress to speak to the chef. If you prefer to place your order with the chef personally, sit at the sushi counter.
 Sashimi and nigiri are lighter since they are only fish or fish and rice. They’ll fill you up less than large rolls or dinners. When ordering multiple courses, start light. You won’t fill up as fast and will be better able to enjoy the taste of all the food.The chef may prepare the food in a certain order for you. Usually this is done deliberately. It’s best to eat the food in the order presented.
 Unless you are in Japan, it is usually okay to do this in your native language. You may also do this in Japanese. Say thank you or “arigato gozaimasu” (ah-ree-gah-toh go-zah-ee-mahs) when seated at the sushi bar. You may say “itadakimasu” (ee-tah-dah-kee-mahss) when receiving your food. After you are finished, say “gochisosama deshita,” (go-chee-so-sama-de shita) which basically means “thank you for the meal.”

Another useful word is excuse me, or “sumimasen” (su-mee-mah-sen), when asking for help.
Note that if you're outside of Japan, the employees at the restaurant may not speak a word of Japanese. Use these phrases when you know they'll be understood.
Don’t disturb the sushi chef with small talk and unrelated questions.
 The sushi chef is working with raw fish, so don’t give your money to him. Let your server handle it. Tips go in a jar or are handled also by the staff. Thank your staff and allow the chef to get back to serving other customers.In Japan, tips are included. This makes it an even better idea to treat the chef to a shot of sake to show your appreciation.

