 It is important that all surfaces you may be dealing with be clean and free of any substance that would come between the surface and the new caulk.;
,


Using a sharp knife, decide what kind of caulk is already in your tub or shower area. When you cut into the caulk, if it is soft and rubbery it is most likely silicone based; however, if the caulk is hard and crumbly then it is most likely water based, latex or PVA.
Determine the best manner of removal based on caulk type. Silicone based caulk may be removed using a razor blade scraper with a plastic handle, and the other types are removed best when warmed using an ever-moving hair dryer on a low heat temperature and then scraped using the tool.
 This will help to get rid of any remaining bits and pieces of caulk left after the scraping.
, Let this sit and take effect against the mold and mildew for at least 5 minutes before scrubbing down with fresh, clean water.
 You do not want the dampness that crept into the joints when the previous caulk was loose, or the dampness that resulted from the cleaning you have just done, to impact the ability of your new caulk to adhere and stay in place.
 PVA and acrylic latex are best with ceramic fixtures that meet tile because the caulk is hard and easily removed in the long run. Silicone based caulk is best with fiberglass fixtures meeting tile or other fiberglass surrounds because the caulk is relatively soft when it dries.
 Make sure not to make the hole in the tip too large because that will control how much caulk comes out at once, and a smaller tip will help your caulking to be a success.


Some people say to half fill the tub with water before caulking, and keep drain plugged so water remains until caulk is completely dry, in 24 hours. This allows for the flexing that happens when the tub is used after the caulk is dry.
Others argue that this may just add potential moisture in the area that can effect the caulking and so the tub should be empty. A properly installed tub moves very little so which ever method you are comfortable with will work.
, Your finger should capture any excess caulk which you can wipe off on a damp sponge.
, Your finger should capture any excess caulk which you can wipe off on a damp sponge.
, Rinse/clean before using the tub or shower area.

