 Choose a topic you are passionate about. Be specific about your subject matter. Instead of starting a blog about fitness, why not consider blogging about building your biceps or toning your thighs etc.


Pick a topic with some longevity, something that you can write about regularly. Fresh content needs to be produced on a regular basis if you want to keep your newly acquired readers and be visible in search engines. Be sure to check out your competition before settling upon a subject. You may well be passionate about the news but in reality how many news sites are there online already?;
, Wordpress is an ultra-flexible platform that is free to download and install. All you have to do is find a compatible website hosting provider.
 If you are an experienced web designer, you might choose to do design it yourself. If you've no previous experience or technical know-how then pick a set theme. There are many free options available online.
 There are many weapons available in the internet entrepreneur's arsenal, choosing the right one for you can take time. You could choose banner advertising, Google AdSense, affiliate marketing, e-book sales, product sales, sponsorships, text ads, membership sales; there really are a myriad of different ways to turn a profit online.


Balance monetization and reader enjoyment. That popup banner might make you some money, but if it irritates people enough to leave your site before they've read your content then you've missed the real opportunity.
Be careful not to under-monetize your site. Be sure to test, analyze and review your ad placements and monetization methods.
 This is the important step. Without your unique and useful content, your site is just like the other websites that launch and fail every single day around the world. Add something to the web, don't copy and paste or regurgitate. Your niche might be crowded but you can still establish a unique voice. It goes without saying that proofreading and a bit of sub-editing are key to a successful website. Spelling mistakes put off most readers almost instantly.

