 It’s a good idea to download or update to the most recent version of the app to make sure you’re able to take advantage of the latest options and features. Once you’ve got the app pulled up and you’ve logged into your account, you can make whatever changes you want all from one convenient hub.

It’s also possible to edit your account on a desktop computer by accessing the Instagram website.;
, This icon appears as a small silhouette. You’ll be able to find it in the lower righthand corner of the screen. Pressing the icon will take you to a user view of your profile.You can also access the profile editor by going through the “Settings” screen.
On your profile screen, you’ll be able to see how your bio appears to everyone else.
 Beside your profile picture (just under your follower stats) you should see the taskbar that allows you to make modify the details that are displayed publicly on your account. Tap the button, then look for the small “i” icon about halfway down the page at the bottom of the public information section. This is where you’ll input your actual bio.While you’re there, you can go ahead and make any other changes you want to your name, username, website link, email and phone number.
 Your bio can be up to 150 characters long, including letters, numbers, text symbols and alternate keyboard graphics like emojis. Write something interesting and engaging that you think will draw in visitors and make them want to follow you! When you’re finished, just tap the “Done” button in the upper righthand corner of the screen to return to your profile.Though hashtags aren’t clickable in Instagram bios, it can still be a good idea to include unique tags that are associated with you, your brand or your organization.Make sure you have your bio looking the way you want it to before saving it.
 Start with the basic details that define you. You can include things like your job title, interests, activities, field of study or personal passions. This will give the people viewing your page a quick snapshot that will tell them what they need to know. If you like to take pictures of nature, for example, you might write something like “I’m a 23 year old aspiring photographer who loves family, dogs and spontaneous camping trips. It’s my mission to seek out the beauty in the everyday.”If you’re running an Instagram account for a private business, don’t forget to include your name so that other users will know who to get in touch with if they have questions or requests.
Consider adding other details like your location to connect with more people around you., You might not feel the need to provide details on a personal profile. In these instances, you can use someone else’s words to fill in the blank. Choose a quote that resonates with you or represents your way of viewing the world. The right turn of phrase can make a bold statement about your values and personality.Find something original rather than going straight for cliché, overused quotes.
Draw inspiration from song lyrics, poems or bits of wisdom from influential figures.
A carefully selected quote can also be a good touch on a business profile, as long as it relates directly to the product or service you’re offering.
 End your bio by directing visitors to another page they can go to check out what you’re all about. For businesses, this might be a link to a webstore or special promotion. If you’re a blogger, you can make it more convenient for your followers to read your latest article. Linking to other websites can help you connect with people in a more comprehensive way.If you don’t have any other specialized content to show off, you can always stick in a link to your Facebook, Twitter or Snapchat.
Your bio is the only place on Instagram where URL links are populated, which means they won’t be clickable in your normal posts.
 Don’t be afraid to have a little fun with the format or wording of your bio. Your bio shouldn't be like anyone else's—the whole point is to produce something interesting and memorable that will attract people to your posts. Be your wacky, thoughtful, fascinating self.To space out the lines in your bio, simply hit “return” if you’re an Android user or copy and paste the text from a separate app if you’re using an iPhone.There are no rules for how to write an Instagram bio. Take your time and create something unique.
 Pick a good, clear picture to serve as a visual introduction to your profile. Headshots are good choice, especially if you’re a public figure or want to be more immediately recognizable. Like your bio, your profile picture should represent you and clue your followers in to type of content you tend to post.Displaying a photo lets other users know that there’s an actual person on the other end of the account.
Well-known companies can use a logo as their profile picture.
 This will be the first thing people will see when they open your profile. Go with the name you most often respond to, and use your first and last. You can also tack on any other defining titles or nicknames that you think will help other users have an easier time finding you.Many Instagram users make the mistake of using a name other than their real one, or omitting a name altogether. This can make it harder for other users to search for you, and may even make your account look less legitimate.
A title or nickname can help distinguish you from other users with the same name. For example, “Maria Roberts *Leadership Consultant*” or “Alex ‘Hambone’ DuPont” leaves no doubt as to which one you are.
 Instagram only gives you 150 characters to get your point across. Whatever you think up should therefore be short and sweet. Make room for important descriptive details, contact info and related links. Otherwise, let your profile speak for itself.Save longer rants and descriptions for the captions on your individual posts.
Long, rambling bios and captions tend to get passed over more often than short, punchy ones., Whether words are not your strong suit or you just want to keep things a little more playful, emojis can lend a little flair to an otherwise plain bio. Adding a simple smiley face or other symbol can break up the monotony of plain text with some much-needed color and character. It will also draw more eyes to your page, making your other content more likely to be seen.As they say, a picture is worth a thousand words. A single symbol can tell users what they need to know about your interests and pursuits, freeing that space up for other purposes.Emojis are best used sparingly to highlight certain ideas. Too many of them can quickly become distracting.

