 All of the figurative meaning that you find will lie behind these seemingly-straightforward phrases. Break the lines down into sentences, and define the meaning of each of these sentences. Try to rewrite the poem in prose form: paraphrase the lines plainly and simply, without any semblance of poetic structure.
 Identify whether the piece is written in stanzas (grouped sets of lines) or loose free verse. Decide whether the work fits into a classic poetry structure, or whether it transcends structure. Determine whether there is a rhyming pattern.Look for "turns"—often at the end of a stanza, or midway through a piece—when the poem flips upon itself and redefines its meaning.Identify the climax of the poem, where the action or pacing of the narrative reaches its most powerful point.
Study various poetry structures. Is the poem written in a classic and structured meter – perhaps an ABAB rhyming pattern? Is it written in loosely-jointed free verse, with little-to-no consistent structure? Is it a haiku, a sonnet, a villanelle, a limerick?

, Identify the "speaker" of the poem, and who he/she is speaking to. When and why is this "speaker" or narrator saying what he/she is saying? As the reader, consider your relation to the author: perhaps the speaker is addressing you directly, or speaking to someone else, or shouting indiscriminately into the void of existence., Look out for simile, metaphor, and personification. Train yourself to notice when phrases make connections between seemingly-disparate things. These connections can point to the deeper meaning of a poem: perhaps the poet is trying to shed light upon one thing by linking it to something else. Notice vivid imagery, allusion, and symbolism.A simile uses "like" or "as" to compare one thing with another thing: "Your eyes are shining like starlight."
A metaphor makes a comparison through direct comparison. It substitutes one thing for another: "Your eyes are shining with starlight."
Personification imbues an inanimate object or concept with human qualities: "The stars are winking conspiratorially."

, Think about the sort of language that the poet uses: formal or casual, abstract or concrete, vague or clear, nonsense or slang. Perhaps the poem plays with syntax (word order) to create vivid and memorable expressions; perhaps it experiments with the meaning, structure, and connotation of "regular" words.