 If you have valley fever, you may develop flu-like symptoms. Common symptoms include a fever, chills, shortness of breath, and night sweats. You may have a dry cough or a cough that produces blood. You might develop headaches and feel fatigued.Your joints or bones may start to ache, like you have arthritis.
A rash may also appear with valley fever. The rash includes red painful bumps on the lower part of your legs. The rash may also appear on the chest, arms, or back. The bumps might turn from red to a brown color. Bumps may also have heads like pimples or form blisters.
Many times, valley fever presents no symptoms., To get a diagnosis, you should visit your doctor. The symptoms are nonspecific, which means it’s difficult to figure out that you valley fever just from the symptoms. The doctor will run various tests to positively identify the presence of the valley fever fungus in your body.The doctor will either do a smear culture or a blood test. These will show that the valley fever fungus is in your body.
 Valley fever can be contracted in arid desert locations in North and South America. This includes the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. People who live in these areas are at risk of contracting the fungus. People who visit may also get it, too.Jobs that disturb the earth or have a person digging in the soil exponentially increase the risk of contracting the disease.
Recreational activities where you disturb the soil or inhale dust from the soil, such as biking or riding ATVs, may increase your risk.
 Valley fever is pretty mild in most cases. However, some people have a higher risk of the fungus turning into a worse condition or even becoming deadly. Those who are at a higher risk include those with weakened immune systems or who are already ill.


This includes those who are HIV positive, pregnant women, diabetics, and people who take medications that make the immune system weaker.
Certain ethnicities are at a higher risk: Filipinos, African Americans, Mexican Americans, and Native Americans.

