 Before you start, put on an album or playlist that you love and that gets you pumped. Music with a faster beat will help ramp you up for your cleaning project. Stay away from more mellow, relaxing music and rap or modern rap. Choose music that motivates you rather than music that makes you tired or sad. Alternatively, you could listen to the radio.;
, Just be careful not to decide on something that may distract you from your cleaning! You can also make your room cold because when you're cold you have to start moving to create body heat so making your room cold will make you move around. Keep yourself away from blankets; they'll slow you down and impede your goal of successfully cleaning your room.


Listening to natural sounds such as waterfalls, campfires, oceans, rain, and wind can act as background noise that helps you focus on the task at hand.
Try not to waste too much time changing to different music or going from album to album. Setting your iPod to shuffle will help you get the job done faster.
 Open all of your curtains or blinds to let a lot of natural light in. Consider opening the windows to give yourself some fresh air. Letting lots of light into your room will keep your spirits up and give you energy.


If you're cleaning at night, turn on all of the lights. Turning on the lights will keep you from getting drowsy during your cleaning process.
 Though this step is optional, it's still a good idea! Checking them off as you go will give you an extra burst of motivation. You can also set specific time limits for each item. That way, cleaning your room will take less time.
 Taking a break to eat, drink, and kick up your heels is often a good idea. However, don’t let yourself become too distracted during your break! Plan out a chosen amount of time that you will take a break for. It is best to take a break after you have completed an entire task rather than in the middle of it. One example could be that you plan to take a break after you have cleaned out under your bed and before you start organizing the smaller things in your room.


Don't take a break if the time of your break comes around and you feel as though you're on a roll. Use that feeling of being on a roll to get even more done!

, Decide what you are going to do after you are done cleaning. Maybe you will go hang out with your friend, watch a movie with your family, or eat a big bowl of ice cream. Having a reward to motivate you will get you through the cleaning process quicker! However, you shouldn't make your reward so tempting that you speed through cleaning without doing a very thorough job.
 If you're having trouble motivating yourself to clean your room, make the process interesting by playing a game. See how many things you can put away during ten minutes. Try to beat your "high score". Give yourself a piece of candy or five minutes of break time as a reward. For some ideas, check out the list of games at the end of this article.


There are other options besides creating a game for yourself. If you like to act and can't seem to get motivated to clean your room, try making up a scene where your character is cleaning. You'll be surprised how fast you'll start focusing on your scene while still cleaning!

, You'll need to store extra things you don't need. Just don't throw those things out unless they're broken. You can donate them to Goodwill or a different charity organization instead.
 Making your bed will give you the sensational feeling of having accomplished something already. It will also give you a flat surface to fold clothes and take breaks on. Think of your bed as your island of clean in your ocean of mess. Move all the stuff that was on your bed into a pile in one section of your room. Strip your bed bare and flip your mattress over. Flipping over your mattress will increase its lifespan. It will also make you feel great when you sleep on the side that hasn't been used very much. Make your bed again with fresh sheets and blankets.


Take the extra time to really make your bed. Make sure the bottom of your sheet is tucked under your mattress. Make the blankets straight. Fluff the pillows. Throw your dirty sheets into your hamper or washing machine.
 Put everything that's on the floor away first. That way, you'll be able to get around your room without tripping over. The objects you put away don't have to be neat--simply put them where they belong. Start with the bigger things, like books and pillows, then move onto smaller things, like pencils and other stationary.


Remove the largest items first when attacking the pile. Just a few of them and you will see a big improvement. Continue with the next largest items until you are left with the little stuff like change and pencils.
Do not let yourself become distracted by items you are putting away. You might find a photo album you haven’t looked at in a long time, but don’t look at it while you’re cleaning. If you really, really want to look at it, make it a part of the reward you will give yourself after you have finished cleaning.
 Put things you use often where it is easy to get to them and things that you don't use often in more hard-to-reach spots. You're more likely to put things away when you're done if it's nearby and easy to get to. Also, don't create too many piles of things because later it will be tiring to try and look through everything to find stuff.
 Fold clean clothes and place them in your dresser or hang them up. Fold your clothes neatly and try not to wrinkle them.


Place a laundry bin just outside your room. Placing it in the hallway is best. Place any dirty clothes you find into the laundry bin. Don’t take your dirty laundry to the washer machine until you have finished cleaning your room (you never know where you might find another dirty sock that needs washing.)

, If there is sticky liquid in a cup or bowl, take it down immediately to avoid the risk of it spilling in the hallway.


If you find anything else that goes in another room, put in a separate box and take it away after you are done cleaning your room.
 Pull everything out from under your bed. You may be surprised to find just how much junk has accumulated there, much of which is probably stuff you thought you'd lost or may have forgotten about.


Separate it into piles: trash, stuff to giveaway to charities, things to sell to second hand stores, stuff to give to your siblings (if you have any) or friends, stuff that belongs elsewhere, and stuff that stays in your room. It's probably easier to make 2 piles first (what to keep and what to get rid of), and then sort the 'stuff to get rid of' pile into subcategories. Also, sort the trash pile into things you can recycle and things you can't. Also look under the rest of your furniture like your desk, dresser, end tables, nightstands or bookshelves.
 If you have any giant piles, sort them into subcategories (clothes, shoes, books etc) before you begin to put them away.


First, the trash. Put the items that can't be recycled in the bin, then the items that can into the recycling bin.
Now, sort the 'belongs elsewhere' pile. If the items belong somewhere in the same house, take them to their places one by one. If they belong in a different house, put them somewhere that you'll remember.
Next, the 'give to siblings / friends' pile. Immediately take the siblings items to them (if you live with them, if not, put them with the 'friends' pile). Put the 'friends' pile in another place you'll remember.
Gather all the stuff you want to give to charity and the stuff to sell in two separate bags.
 Start simply by separating different categories of things (clothes, shoes, books, etc.) and putting them in their place. Again, don’t organize those specific things yet or you'll lose momentum. For example, put all the books where they're supposed to be, like on your bookshelf, but don't get caught up in organizing the bookshelf just yet. Continue putting everything away — stuffed animals, photographs, purses, shoes, and so on — until your pile is gone.


Little tasks like this give you a sense of accomplishment. While it may be frustrating not to organize every single thing at first, breaking it down into smaller, more manageable tasks will give you more motivation to finish the entire job.
If you find something that doesn't belong anywhere, consider giving it away, or make a place for it. A less cluttered room always feels really nice. If you need to continue using the object, ask your parents if they have room to store it elsewhere.
 Clean your closet by taking everything out of it and adding them to the piles you have already made for the things you found under your bed. Throw or give away items that you don’t need anymore. Once you have cleaned out your closet and decided what you are keeping, match all of your shoes and place them back in your closet, hang your clothes, and organize the stuff on the shelves in your closet (if you have shelves.)


If you find clothes that you have forgotten about, try them on. If they don’t fit, or you don’t like them anymore, put them in the ‘giveaway’ pile to make more room for clothes you do like.
Consider purchasing a shoe rack if you feel like you don’t have enough space for your shoes.
 Folding is the key. Folded clothes will open up more space in each drawer and will allow your drawers to close more easily. Organize your dresser so that each drawer contains a specific type of clothing laundry pile.


Again, try on any clothes you forgot about or think might not fit anymore. If you don’t like them, or they don’t fit, give them away or try to sell them at a second hand store.
The top drawers could contain underwear and socks, the next drawers could contain shirts, and the bottom drawers could contain pants and skirts.
Organize your dresser in a way that makes sense to you. If you are used to reaching in the bottom drawer to grab a pair of underwear, put all of your underwear in the drawer.
 Once you have your stuff separated into piles, you can start attacking each pile. Stick to attacking one pile at a time; you'll feel more satisfaction once you sort all your clothes, for example, and be motivated to continue cleaning.


Throw away the trash first. Get a large trash bag and place all of the trash you have collected into it. Don’t take it out until you are done cleaning your whole room, as it is very likely you will find more trash to throw away before you are done with the cleaning process.
Deal with the giveaways. Put everything you want to give away/give to your siblings in a bin and leave it right outside your room. You can keep adding to the bin as you clean, so don't get rid of everything just yet. However, it is helpful to minimize the mess in your room by moving everything outside. If you have clothes or things you would like to give to a specific person, consider placing a sticky note on the item to remind you who you want to give the item to.
Put away the things that you want to stay in your room. Fold any more clothes, put books on the bookshelf, toys in a toy bin, etc.
 Even those on the floor should look organized. Stack them by height, biggest on the bottom shortest on the top. Organize your bookshelf if you have one.


Make sure you make all your shelves look presentable. If you just chuck things on your shelf or desk, it will not look very tidy.
You can label each shelf and/or alphabetize your books. The organization system you use doesn't matter, as long as it looks tidy.
 Consider buying a desk organizer at your local office supply store. These desk organizers will help keep your pencils from running into your glue, which in turn will be kept separate from your scissors and markers.


Organize each drawer of your desk. Sort through any papers you may have in there and decide what you want to keep, and what you would like to recycle. Purchase some folders and organize your papers into the proper folder (you can even label your folders with things like ‘School Work’, ‘Drawings’, etc.)
If you don’t have folders, try stapling or paper-clipping paper together to keep them from getting lost. You can also rubber band small objects together.
If you don’t want to get a desk organizer, consider putting all of your pens, pencils, etc. into a plastic bag so that they don’t roll all over your desk drawers.
 Look around your room and see if there are any spots remaining that look messy. Now is the time to untangle your jewelry, put pairs of shoes together neatly, re-arrange your picture frames, and so on. Focus on the finishing touches.


This is also a good time to think of possible upgrades your room needs. Do you need a shoe rack to hang in your closet or on the back of your door? Do you need a jewelry case for all your necklaces? Do you need extra shelf- or closet-space for your clothes? Make a list of things you think would improve your room and set it aside or post it on your bulletin board (if you have one) so that you can purchase those things at a later date (or later in the day.)

, Use a duster to wisp away all of the dust on the surfaces of your desk, dresser, bookshelf, and any other surfaces you may have in your room. Dust before you vacuum or sweep because often dust will become displaced and then settle back on your floor. Make sure that your windows are open while you do this, especially if you are allergic to dust.


If you don’t have a duster, you can use wipes to wipe up all of the dust. Disinfectant wipes work well as they both wipe away dust and kill any bacteria that may have grown on your room’s surfaces. You can also use a damp cloth to wipe away dust.
Make sure to dust objects on your desk, dresser, etc. Things like picture frames, travel souvenirs, and trophies, will look much more interesting if they are not covered in a layer of dust.
 Make sure to clean out the vacuum bag if it's close to being full. Go over the dirtiest parts of your room more than once with the vacuum. If you want, sprinkle some carpet deodorizer on the carpet before vacuuming to give your room a pleasant scent.


If you don’t have a carpet, sweep the floor. You could even go so far as to mop your floor after sweeping or use a Swiffer cleaner.
 Use Windex or another cleaning solution and a microfiber cloth if you have one so that smudge marks don't get left on the windows. Cleaning your windows will give your room a glowing look.
 Shine your door handles by wiping them with cleaning solution. If you have a ceiling fan, wipe the blades down with a wet cloth. You could even go so far as to clean the moulding with wipes (if you have moulding.)


Make sure to dust away any cobwebs that may have formed on your ceiling.
 Pick up any bits of trash that may have accumulated. Empty the trash. If you have any trash that has accumulated, get rid of it. Spray some air freshener or place some bags of dried lavender in your room.


Take your boxes of giveaways somewhere where you won't forget to give them away.
Take any dishes or items that go in other rooms to their respective places.
 Do something you enjoy and/or relax in your clean room! Go out to the movies, eat some candy, play with your dog--whatever you like to do, go and do it knowing that your room is sparkling clean.


Make sure that the next time you get something out, you put it away. Try to make your bed every day. These are cleanly habits that will prevent you from having to clean your room as often.

