 If you are quick to anger, you may do something in the heat of the moment that you'll regret later on. Consider the consequences of what you are about to do. Don't react; respond.


Try to grab hold of your anger and examine it. Ask yourself what exactly is making you so angry. Ask yourself if you are overreacting.
Think through the consequences of your actions. If you react violently in this situation, will you burn any bridges? Will it negatively impact your relationships? Will you run the risk of being arrested, suspended, or otherwise punished for your actions.
 It's easy to be rough with other people if you don't consider how your actions might make them feel. Be careful.


If you find yourself hurting people without intending to do so, try to understand what it was that hurt them so. Is this person sensitive to a particular word or label? Did I grab their arm too hard without thinking?
Consider treating others as if they are especially fragile, at least at first. Be as considerate as you can be without walking on eggshells.
 Try to understand why someone is acting the way they're acting: try to figure out how they feel and what they are thinking. You may find it much harder to be angry once you understand where someone's coming from.If you can't understand why someone is acting a certain way, just ask them. Tell them what you don't understand, and listen carefully to their response. They may be just as confused about what you are thinking.
Empathy is a two-way street. Try to be open about what you are thinking. Work to build a mutual understanding.
 Practice letting go. You may find that many of the things that stress you out are things over which you have absolutely no control.Consider each source of stress. Can you fix it with force? Can you change it with kindness? Do you understand why it bothers you?
Let go of the things that make you angry--whether this is a toxic relationship, an awful job, or a grudge from the past. Commit to yourself that you will focus on the present and not on the past.
Practice letting go, for example, when you are interrupted in the middle of speaking. Take a deep breath. Do not let yourself lose your head over something that you will forget about in a week., It's easy to become swept up in the day-to-day demands of work, school, relationships and family. Give yourself time to simply be yourself.


Get outside. Find a quiet space. Go for a walk or take a swim. Go to the movies. Get a massage or get your nails done. Do anything that allows you to forget your troubles for a while.
Consider leaving your phone behind. You may find it easier to leave the troubles of day-to-day life behind if you are not being constantly bombarded with texts, calls, and emails. Be present.
Reducing stress is fantastic for your health. If you're always stressed and often angry, you may be at risk for high blood pressure. Practice de-stressing, and you may live a longer, healthier life.