 Pick a place you'll enjoy spending several hours outdoors and a place you'll have a high probability of catching fish. Public lakes, rivers, and ponds are usually your best bet. Talk to other fishermen at your local sporting goods store to get some tips on locations for fishing.


Many local municipal parks stock fish in ponds that are available for anyone to fish, and the fishing is usually pretty easy and quick for the beginner, though these are often crowded and somewhat dirty. Never crowd other fishermen and encroach on "their spot."
Secluded spots around ponds or levees outside of town are good bets. If you're wandering in the woods looking for a place to fish privately, make sure you're not tramping onto someone's private property, or that you're fishing in a place that doesn't allow it.
If you live on the coast, ocean fishing is an available option. You'll need a separate license for ocean fishing, and gear specific to the kinds of fish you'll be catching in the ocean. The techniques are largely the same.;
, Many newspapers have local fishing reports that will list locations and tell you what fish, if any, are biting and what they’re biting on. You can also ask around at angling shops, marinas and camping supply stores in the area for tips.


Catfish are common river and lake fish all over the United States. Channel catfish, blue catfish, and flathead catfish are all commonly caught for eating. Look for deep water at the mouth of large creeks and rivers, and keep an eye out for sudden cut banks or drops. Catfish love these spots, but will head out to deeper water when it warms., Want to catch alligator gar but you live in New York? It's going to be tough going if you're casting into the East River. If you want to be ambitious and plan a fishing trip to net a particular variety of fish, you'll have to make a trip to the region and the particular type of water that fish inhabits.


In the Great Lakes region, walleye are quite popular, as well as Northern Pikes. Lake Huron is a popular spot for fishing these often-large catches.






In the South, gar and bowfins are common in swampy regions. Flounder and perch are also commonly fished. The Henderson swamp in Baton Rouge is a great spot for Gar, and Lake Pontchartrain is a fishing destination for all sorts of varieties.
In the Northwest, rainbow trout are well stocked and common, distinctive for their reddish or pinkish stripe from the gill to the tail.Crappie, walleye, and bass are also common in this region.






If you've picked a body of water you like and want to find out what kind of fish are around, throw in some food scraps and wait a few minutes.
 Most fish big enough to catch will spend most of the day in deeper water and come into the shallows to feed. They won't spend much time swimming around shallow water, however, so you'll want to find the places they'll come up for quick food sorties before darting away.


Look for reedy and log-filled beds in lakes that are close to sudden drop offs. Bugs generally congregate in cutbanks and tiny inlets, as well, making them popular feeding grounds for fish. Mussel beds are popular catfish hangouts.
 Most freshwater fish are crepuscular feeders, which means they come out to eat at dawn and at dusk, making sunrise and sunset the most effective fishing hours.


If you're an early riser, get out there before the sun's up to enjoy a morning fishing session. If the thought of setting your alarm clock for 4:30 gives you the willies, aim for an early evening fishing plan.
 Check your State's Department of Natural Resources website, or call and talk to someone at the park office for information about the cleanliness of the water and whether or not its safe to eat the fish you're planning on catching. If you don't want to eat them, simply release them back into the water.
 Visit the website of the state's Department of Fish and Wildlife or the Department of Natural Resources in which you're planning to fish and obtain a fishing license for information. Typically, there's a fee in the neighborhood of $40 for a resident and twice as much for a non-resident of the state. You'll need to get a license for each state in which you catch fish and can typically do this online, though you might need to visit the office in person in some states.


Usually, you can obtain a short-term permit to fish if you don't want one for a whole season and want to save a little bit of money. If you live in the area, though, it's usually more cost-effective to buy the full season license.
In many states, kids under the age of 16 don't need a license to fish. Check the laws in your area to be sure.
Most states will designate a handful of free fishing days on which anyone can fish, with or without a license. Typically, though, you'll still need to get a note of permission from the DNR.
 Going to the sporting goods store can be an intimidating experience, but you don't need to break the bank to pick an appropriate rod and reel to get started with. Talk to the guy behind the counter for advice on a rod and pick something in your price range.


Typically, a medium-length pole will be appropriate for most beginners. Pick a rod that's roughly as long as you are tall and that's a comfortable weight for your casting arm. In terms of flexibility, you'll probably want a fairly "loose" (that is, not rigid) rod to get started with. These rods are less likely to break line and--while not strong enough to fish for big game fish--are plenty strong for the average fish a beginner catches.
The two basic kinds of reels are baitcast reels, which spool vertically when you're holding the rod, and spinning reels, which spool perpendicular to the rod. Spinning reels are more common for the beginner, and are available in open and closed varieties. Closed varieties are generally operated with a push-button and are great for the beginner.
 The smaller the hook and line, the better the chance of a bite. You want to match the kind of line to the type of pole you've got--if you've got a particularly rigid pole, you'll want fairly strong test line. If you've got a looser pole, get the lightest gauge you can. Smaller line means more fish.


You need hooks that will fit the kind of fish you're planning to catch. Number 1 hooks work well for many things, but size 8 to 5/0 are more appropriate for some fish. Ask your local tackle shop about the hook sizing system (i.e. 6,4,2,1,1/0, 2/0) and the best tools for the job.
Making a hook knot is difficult with small hooks and line and can be tricky to get the hang of. Ask a tackle shop owner or your fishing buddy to teach you.
 Synthetic baits like Power Bait are made to resemble and smell like live bait, and pro shops are filled with all manner of elaborate and iridescent plastic lures. But because fish eat insects and aquatic life, there are also lots of effective live baits to choose from if you want a more authentic fishing experience.


You can either purchase live bait at the local angling shop, or you can gather your own. Many anglers gather worms in a lawn after a rain or late at night with a flashlight. You can find grasshoppers along the banks of a stream, or try catching minnows with a net and bread crumbs or a minnow trap. Keep them in a bucket full of water and keep them alive for as long as possible.
Each fisherman has a favorite bait, but the old standard are tough to beat. Consider using:
worms
salmon eggs
grasshoppers
shrimp
liver
bacon
cheese

, If you're planning on keeping your fish, you'll want to get a fish cage to keep the fish trapped in water, or a simple bucket to throw them in while you continue fishing. A net is also useful for getting the fish wrangled before you try to grab it off the line.


If you're going fishing in a boat, bring the necessary gear to be on the water. Life vests and a boating license are required. If you're going to be on shore, you might want to bring a lawn chair and some waders to keep your feed dry.
 In fly fishing, tying the right knot is half of the sport. For the beginner, however, learning a simple clinch knot is the best way to get started. To do a clinch knot:


Thread the end of the line through your hook, then wrap it 4-6 times around itself, going back toward the reel.






Feed the end of the line back through the loop and pull it tight. You might need to use a little spit on the line to lubricate it and make sure it pulls tight.
 If the water is quite swift, as in a river or stream, it is probably best to attach weights (sinkers) to your line about 12" above your bait. By weighting down your line you will keep your bait in place an inch or a few inches above the floor of the water—right where fish are likely to be hunting.


For beginners, using a larger bobber that you can see from the bank makes catching fish much easier. With a bobber, the angler will be able to see a strike from a fish when the bobber starts to jerk and disappear below the surface of the water. Put on just enough shot (sinkers), however, to compensate for the larger bobber to prevent being too hard to see the action of the biting fish.
 While it depends on the kind of bait you're using, in general, you'll want to work the hook through your bait as many times as possible to keep it securely on the hook. Holding the hook securely in one hand, start 1/3 of the way from the bottom of the bait, and push it straight through. Bend the bait back toward the hook and pierce the bait again about halfway. At least two or three secured piercings should be fine.


There's no denying its kind of gross to jam a hook through a worm three times, but you want to make sure the worm stays on and can't wriggle free when you cast.
 Most beginners will cast side arm, using the same motion used to skip a stone across the water. Bring the rod back to your side and bring it smoothly in the direction you'd like to cast, releasing the line as you point in the right direction.


Releasing the line depends somewhat on the type of reel you're using, but if you've got a closed push-button spinner reel, the job is fairly straight forward. Pushing the button releases the line and letting go stops it. When you cock the rod back, push the button, and when you point it, release it.
 Some fishermen will start reeling in very slowly, lightly jerking the bait to give fish the impression that it is alive. Depending on your experience and your bait, you might do this, or you might just sit back and wait. Experiment with different methods until you get a bite. Do not immediately start reeling back in as soon as you've cast, however.


Fish are startled by loud noises and thrashing, so turn down the radio and keep the chatter to a low rumble. You'll anger other fishermen who might be nearby trying to catch fish, and you'll ruin your progress.
You can tell if a fish is biting by touch, by watching a loose line or a bobber, or by attaching a bell to the end of your rod. Make sure with a slow movement of the rod that there is no more slack in the line when you try to hook the fish.
If you wait for 10-15 minutes and you still haven’t gotten a bite, try casting somewhere else and wait again.
 Once you feel a tug on the line or feel the line start to be taken, you will want to "set" your hook. To do this, simply give your fishing rod (and consequently the fishing line) a quick and firm jerk backward and up. If you have a fish on line, it will fight back immediately and your line will follow the movements of the fish.


It can sometimes be difficult to tell if you have a bite or if you’re just feeling the current or a fish bumping into the bait. Only practice can help you get a feel for it.
 Don't use the reel to pull in the fish, except for very small fish. Keep the line tight and use your arms to pull it toward you, then reel in the slack line.


More fish are lost to loose lines than anything else. A loose line provides an opportunity for your fish to "throw the hook" right out of it's mouth. By keeping tension on the line you will ensure that the hook remains in the mouth of the fish.
All modern reels have an adjustable drag but nylon lines drag can be adjusted by pulling with the hand. If you feel the nylon stretching, the drag should begin to work. Even very big fish get tired when pulling against a constant line pressure. Try to use the rod to steer the fish to open water.
 When you've got the fish tired out and reeled in, bring it out of the water and have a partner catch it in your fishing net, or carefully catch it yourself. Be wary of the fish's sharp spines and the hook, which might be sticking out through the fish's mouth.
 If you're considering keeping the fish for eating, you'll need to make sure it's big enough to be taken and that it's not a protected species of fish. Get hold of the fish by moving your hand from head toward the tail without getting lanced by its fins. If you move your hand against the grain, you'll get speared.


You might consider bringing along an identification guide if you're planning on keeping any fish, as well as checking with the DNR regarding particular size limitations for the variety.
 Regardless of keeping or releasing the fish, gently back the hook out, so that it comes out the way it came in. There are special tools designed for taking hooks out, although needle nosed pliers work quite effectively.


You can also use the needle nosed pliers to crush the barb on your hook, to make it easier to remove. Some professionals recommend doing this before casting your line out (especially when fishing for catfish), to make it easier to release your catch. It truly works best with circle/octopus circle type hooks. These hooks make it easier to set the hook in the lip/corner of the fish's mouth; without much effort on your part.
 If the fish is too small, or you're just catching for fun, take a quick picture to commemorate your catch and toss it back gently into the water. If you are going to cook the fish, you may want to consider cleaning the fish at this point, or keeping it alive in an underwater cage for the purpose and cleaning it later.

