 Depending on what model of phone you have, the method to enter the menu will differ. There might be a button on your phone that will take you straight to the menu, or you might have to scroll through some options on the home screen.


Some phones will start you off in the menu when you open them. If that's the case, skip to the next step.
 Scroll through the options in the menu to find the messaging icon. Select it.
 On some phones, hitting the messaging icon will take you to a list of options such as: 1. Text Message, 2. Picture Message, or 3. Voice Note. If that is the case with your phone, select Text Message.
 Scroll through the list of options on the text messaging screen to find the new message option. Select it.


If you already have a conversation with the person you want to text on your phone, it will show up in the text messaging screen. You can select this conversation to send a new text message to them, instead of selecting the new message option.
 The new message screen will start you out with the cursor in a field where you can enter the contact you want to message. Enter their number, or scroll through the list of your contacts and select the person you want to message.


Note, some non-smart phones prompt you to enter your message before selecting a recipient. If this is the case, do that first, then select the "Send to" option. This will give you a list of your contacts and an option to enter a phone number., Scroll down to the message entry field. Type out the message you want to send. How you do this will depend on whether you have a phone with a QWERTY keyboard or not.


If you have a phone with a full keyboard, called a QWERTY keyboard, just type out your message like you would type on a computer keyboard.
If you have a flip phone or another phone without a full keyboard, you'll see three or four letters beside each number on the keys. To enter a letter, you have to hit the key that it's on a certain number of times. For example, the "1" key will have "a", "b", and "c" on it. To enter a "c", you have to hit the "1" key three times., When you are done typing, scroll to the OK or Send button on the screen. Hit select to send your message.