 Find a mixing bowl, a tub, a basin, or a bucket that is large enough for the hat and the water. Make sure the container is clean. Add warm or cool water, meaning roughly 65℉-80℉ or 18℃-27℃ or less. This is essentially room temperature water.Never use hot water, which is roughly above 90℉ or 32℃. Hot water will shrink the wool fibers.
Set the hat into the bowl or basin before you add water to make sure it will fit in the container once the water is added.;
, Choose a wool-specific detergent like Woolite or Persil Silk & Wool to make sure it is mild enough for the hat. Measure out a small amount and pour it into the water. When using powder detergent, agitate the water to make sure the particles dissolve completely.If you can’t find a wool-specific detergent, make sure you use a mild detergent. Baby detergent, such as Dreft, or detergent for sensitive skin, like All Free Clear, are good alternatives.
 Set the hat in the water and gently press it down so it is completely submerged. Hold it there until the entire hat soaks up water. This may take a minute depending how thick the weave of the hat is. Flip it over a couple of times so all sides get wet.
 Gently squeeze the hat and rub the fibers to let the water and detergent permeate completely into it. If possible, turn the hat inside out to make sure the inside gets clean as well.For stubborn stains, use a soft toothbrush to lightly scrub the hat. The fibers are damaged easily, so never scrub wool with a harsh brush or with hard strokes.
Be sure not to stretch the hat out while you wash it, as it may not return to the proper shape.
 After a good wash, let the hat soak in the water for a while to loosen any remaining stains or bad smells. If you want to, put the hat into a new bowl of warm water and detergent so it soaks in clean water.After it soaks for a while, give it a quick massage again to remove anything that was loosened while the hat soaked.
 Take the hat to the faucet and turn on the cold water. Let the water run over the entire surface of the hat, both inside and outside, to rinse all of the detergent and dirty water off of the hat. Rinse the hat for two or three minutes.