 Most living rooms contain a sofa, armchair, side table, and coffee table. Look for these basic elements before adding extra pieces such as ottomans and additional tables.
 Look for solid furniture with sturdy wood frames and sinuous steel springs. High-quality pieces may cost a little more, but they tend to hold up better and last longer.
 Luxurious, high-quality materials will keep you feeling more comfortable and tend to last longer than cheaper fabrics. Stain-resistant fabrics are especially useful if you have young children, but they might still be a good idea even if you only plan on using the space for guests since spills and stains can happen to anyone.
 Foam is comfortable and durable. Some cushions may be filled with down, but down usually breaks and wears quickly.
 Lift one leg of the piece about six inches (15 centimeters) off the floor. If the adjacent leg has not risen as well, the frame is too flexible and too flimsy.
 Each piece of furniture in your living room should complement the others. Otherwise, your room will look chaotic and thrown together. If you have an interior design theme, such as modern or traditional, stick with pieces that fit with your theme.
 There are a number of ways to divide up interior design themes, but the main ones often include modern, contemporary, traditional, casual, and Old World.


Modern and contemporary furniture has sleek, clean lines and usually makes use of white, beige, or other neutral colors. Glass, metal, and shiny black lacquer are used more often than traditional woods.
Traditional furniture is elegant. It tends to look a little more formal and may include details like rolled arms and skirted bottoms. Colors range from ivory to rich hues of red and other colors.
Casual furniture is friendly and cozy. Many pieces make use of plaid, small prints, and other patterns.
Old World furniture combines styles from French, Spanish, and Italian designs. Rustic, antique pieces are especially appropriate, and you should look for deep, earthy colors.
 Loveseats typically provide seating for two individuals. If you have a small family or only intend to use the space for entertaining an occasional guest, a loveseat could save you space while providing you with as much as you need.
 Chests, flat-top ottomans, and extra tables or seating can add a lot to a large living room, but too many of these pieces will crowd out a smaller space.

