 The box must be tall enough to cover the entire torso of the intended wearer and about shoulder-wide.

Do not get a box that extends below the knees or past the elbows, as either trait will make it impossible to move around in. Ideally, the box will end just above the hips and at the shoulder line so that the wearer will still have no difficulties moving around.
The depth of the box should be no larger than the width, but you may opt for a box with a more shallow depth to make it easier to move around in. At a minimum, the box only needs to be deep enough for the intended wearer to fit into.;
,



 


Tape up the other sides of the box to prevent the cardboard flaps from coming loose.
 The hole for the head will need to be in the center of the top while the holes for the arms will need to be along the sides and toward the top.

Use a box cutter or sharp pair of scissors to cut circles out for the arms and head.






Begin with the head. Either gauge the space needed for the head or measure the diameter of the wearer's head with a ruler or tape measure. Cut the hole for the head as near to the middle of the top as possible.






Slip the box over the wearer before cutting out the arm holes. The exact distance from the top of the box to the top of the arm holes may vary depending on the individual wearing the costume, and so gauging it with the eye after slipping the box on is the best way to determine where the arm holes should go. Usually, this will be about 2-3 inches (5-7.6 cm) below the top of the box, along the sides. Each hole needs to be at least as wide as the widest part of the wearer's arm.
 Cover the top and all sides of the box with white spray paint or white acrylic craft paint.


The white paint creates a "blank slate" of sorts, making it easier for the final color to show accurately without being tinted by the color of the cardboard.






Use a non-glossy, matte paint. You need to use a type of paint that other paint will stick to, making matte paint a far better choice than glossy paint.
 Use spray paint or craft paint to cover the box with a primary color.

Red is the most classic color for a LEGO brick, but you could also paint the box blue or yellow. Multiple colors are an especially good idea if you have multiple people attending the same function as LEGO bricks. Opt for bright, solid shades, like "fire engine" red.






Both glossy and matte finishes work for this layer of paint, but spray paint is preferable to acrylic craft paint since paint applied by spray tends to be smoother than paint applied with brushes.






You may need multiple coats of paint, but applying the white layer before the color layer should reduce the total number of color coats.






Don't worry about getting paint on the inside of the box as you work. It makes no difference whether the inside of the box remains clean or gets accidentally coated in paint.


The circles should be primed with white paint and painted with the same color as the rest of the box.






A good idea is to save the cardboard bottom you cut out from the box, cut out your circles from that, and paint the circles using the same paint used on the rest of the costume. Additional cardboard may still be needed, though.
Use a stencil, cookie cutter, or compass to draw and cut out perfectly round circles.






Instead of using cardboard, you could also use round, shallow food tubs, like the kind holding ice cream or margarine. Paint these using spray paint or craft paint approved for use with plastic.
 Use a hot glue gun to secure the cardboard circles onto the front of the box in two columns with three rows each.

The columns and rows should all be evenly aligned, with even spacing between each one.






You may need to use a ruler or tape measure to mark out the two even columns and three even rows. Do this by dividing the width of the box into three even sections and the height into four even sections. Draw light pencil lines marking off each section, and place the center of one circle over each intersection of lines. Erase the lines when done.
 Before putting on the LEGO costume, the wearer should slip on a long-sleeve shirt and long pants that closely match the color of the box.


The shades do not need to be the exact same, but they should be similar. For instance, if you painted a bright red LEGO, wear clothes in other bright shades of red.

