 Make sure your nails are clean by washing them for 30 seconds. Dry them well.
 Dribble a small amount of fingernail polish remover onto as many cotton balls as you need to fully remove all nail polish. If you have a spot that's difficult to reach with a cotton ball, use a q-tip; alternatively, pinch off a small piece of cotton, wrap it around the flat end of a cuticle stick, soak it with nail-polish remover, and use it to reach those troublesome places.









To keep nails healthy, use acetone-free nail-polish remover (acetone dries out nails) and don’t apply it more than once a week., Scrutinize the state of your nails. With the polish now gone, you can see any dirt that has accumulated under your nails. Use a good fingernail brush to wash away the dirt under the nails. Again, if you have a spot that is being stubborn, gently use your cuticle stick to get the hard-to-reach areas.
 You should cut your fingernails by following the natural curve of your fingers. Rounded tips look better on most people rather than square, softening the hand for a more delicate look. It is important to trim the nails to prepare them to be filed.









If you intend to grow your nails, cut them all down to the same length beforehand so that they grow in evenly.
Though fingernails should be slightly rounded, always cut toenails straight across, which prevents them from becoming ingrown., Like sandpaper for furniture, there are different grits of nail files for different purposes; with natural nails, you want a fine grit file. Gently slide the file along the edge of the nail, moving only in one direction only to prevent splitting and cracking.









Be sure to remove any dust particles generated by the filing.
 There are a number of excellent nail-hardening products that will keep your nails strong and healthy.
 Steady your hands and paint each nail individually, starting at one side and working your way across in three or four strokes. Do only one hand at a time to prevent bumping and smudging. If polish gets on your skin, use remover to get it off.









Don't make the mistake of applying it too thickly. To keep your polish looking crisp and professional, you want each coat to go on nice and thin; thick polish takes longer to dry, has a greater chance of smearing, and creates bubbled, warped contours.
If you are one of those people who just can't stand sitting still, paint one finger at a time. When one nail is completely dry, paint the next. The bonus here is that, even if you do have an accident, you've only ruined one nail and not all of them.
 You can either reapply the same color or use a second one to create a unique shade.
 This will create a protective shell over the colored polish, which tends to be weaker.








