 Entertain yourself with a portable MP3 player, Walkman, or iPod. Radio signals from nearby radio stations hold their quality really well inside this airport, and tapes, CDs, or music that you've downloaded are even better. Jam out to the latest hits. You can even start dancing if you aren't afraid of others catching on and dancing along with you (if you decide to make mention of where the song is when you sing it aloud)!, Make a few new friends when you talk to others awaiting at the gate alongside you. Ask them about their travels and where they are planning to travel to next (or what their final destination is - if they are comfortable chatting with you) as well as their lives at home - but make sure you're not intruding. If someone seems uncomfortable talking to you, walk away to another location as this person may not feel like talking to you.
 At or near some of the gates, you'll have some areas where you can take pictures with the porcelain replicas of the characters. This proves to be a pivotal spot where families coming into the area hoping to see the Orlando often stop and take pictures, but if you are flying back out, stop by and take the same pictures., Each wing of the gates side will have some form of food. Grab a snack in one of the few restaurants or restaurant take-out booths, or sit down for a full meal, if you have time. Although airport food can be pricey and is not usually considered the best quality food out there, this can be a great way to pass the time before your flight and enjoy the last meal of your vacation.
 Use the restrooms. Although most "pit stops" only take a few minutes, they can relieve several minutes of boredom inside this airport. This is a great thing to do before you get on your plane, as the restrooms in this airport are much more spacious, comfortable, and well-stocked than those on the plane. If you're traveling with infants or small children, encourage them to use the restroom too and change any of your children's diapers if necessary.

Make sure to allow enough time to use the restrooms before boarding, as long lines can make a trip to the restroom take longer than expected.
 Browse to see what great - and sometimes even cheap - stuff most of the merchants have for you to buy. Even if you have no intent to purchase their stuff, browsing around can still pass some of the time. Each wing of the gates has something, and even some areas of some of the gates have wall areas where newsstands are where newspapers can be purchased without a problem. Sometimes there will be souvenir shops where that last souvenir can be purchased that you almost forgot to send will be located, or where that last postcard you forgot to send to your aunt or uncle (or any other person including yourself at home) can be bought and sent.


There are plenty of restaurants, newsstands, bookstores, and souvenir shops selling Orlando-themed items, so look through the stores for something you like, or simply to entertain yourself while waiting for your plane.
 If you've just started the book, try and read it. If you're halfway through a book, try to finish it. Since this is a busier airport and requires the minimum 2 hour wait time (though if you are well organized you can easily get through in about an hour to hour and a half), what better thing to do in a longer time than finish off that novel that you waited so long to finish that you just couldn't fully get through on the plane that got you there in the first place.


Whether you're reading your book in hard copy or on an e-reader such as a Kindle or Nook, this is always a great option. Portable, quiet, and endlessly entertaining, reading can help you get the most out of the time you have to kill while waiting for your flight to board

, With free Wi-Fi at this airport, feel free to use any device that can connect to the Internet through Wi-Fi. Most iPhones, Android phones and Microsoft phones have Wi-Fi capability, as well as most computers have built-in Wi-Fi detectors you can use. Do not plan to find any Ethernet areas. But be careful of those devices that offer a personal hotspot, as those separate signals may interfere with the free Wi-Fi and you may end up losing your connection.


Do some work. If you brought any work with you, either on paper or on your laptop, finish up any of your remaining work you need to complete as there might be a deadline you will have to deal with. If you're traveling internationally, preparation before the flight is a great time to fill out all necessary customs or immigration forms. But be careful, as some lurkers may like to look overtop, and you wouldn't want any confidential paperwork to be shown to those you don't know.






Make sure that your remaining flight or flights are still on schedule. If your airline offers you a website, check their website with your flight details or if you're flying nonstop to your final destination, find your flight information on a screen above the gate. They will often say either "on time" or the time of boarding. If you have one or more connecting flights, ask an airline agent at one of the booths about the status of those connecting flights about the details of that portion of the trip to make sure they're on time. (If they're delayed, having this information early will help you make alternate plans if necessary so that your trip can seem to act accordingly well.
 Whether the games are for one person or for a group of people, these games can include Solitaire, 500 Rummy, Go Fish, War, Uno, Tic-Tac-Toe, Dots or any game, this can really give you some time to kill some time at this airport. However, make sure to keep the noise to a minimum, as you don't want to disturb the other passengers.


You can also use portable gaming devices such as portable PlayStations, Nintendo DS (or Nintendo DSIs) or similar to play games at this airport and pass the time efficiently.
 Make sure that a nearby person will be reliable to let you know when it's time to board the plane. You can nap and/or daydream to pass some of the time as you wait for your flight. This is a great option if you have a long journey or are flying an overnight flight, as you'll need all the rest you can get.