 They are a fundamental requirement for all those that wish to succeed at work in their career and want to get promoted. It is therefore somewhat surprising that these specific skills are rarely taught directly at school.;
, Attitude in this context is how you approach and undertake the tasks required of you. Try to imagine what kind of employee you would want working for you. I think most people would want someone that was dedicated, hard working and that didn't moan. You must try to become more like this model employee.
 It’s important to know which task to do next, namely, how to prioritize and make the most use of your time. Failure to master this area will mean you spend your time working on urgent, unimportant tasks or helping someone else achieve their objectives.
 You should always seek to improve your software skills in order to do you work more efficiently. There are no end of helpful shortcuts in Word, Excel and Outlook which means your work can be done in half the time. Something worthwhile doing is learning to touch type. Buy a cheap teach-yourself typing programme and spend time learning. You'll get more work done in less time!

, One of the key tools for any successful executive is a keen memory. Imagine being able to rattle off the latest sales figures, to know all your key clients and quote relevant facts and figures at will. Who wouldn't want an employee like that! Well it is possible but (and no surprises here) it takes effort.
 Whatever field you are in, it's essential to keep up to date with the latest developments taking place. This applies at any level. For instance, if you work in Human Resources, it's important to keep up to date with the latest Employment Law changes. Usually the best way to do this is to read; regularly review relevant publications, on- line material and any other appropriate literature you can get your hands on.
 Feedback on your performance is like gold dust because it tells you if your on the right track and whether your efforts are focused in the most appropriate way. I've lost count of the number of times people faced with constructive criticism become defensive. Why?

, Constantly analyse your own performance. Ask yourself at the end of each day how you can improve.
 When looking to get promoted or to progress in your position it's important that you act and behave as if you have already achieved the promotion. By developing and mastering these core, foundation skills, your own work performance and productivity will increase. You’re far more likely to be recommended for promotion. Fortunately there’s wealth of supporting information out there. All these skills take time to master but nothing worth having in life is easy. Good luck on your journey!

