 Becoming a fast runner requires both dedication and plenty of relevant and consistent practice. A concentration on good posture, good technique and a focus on strategies, will ultimately help you to become a faster runner.;
, This is a long process. Start out slowly and work your way up. Practice running every day and don't run for too long of a distance. Run a short distance one day, then a longer distance the next day you run. A good plan might be something like this:


Day 1: Run 1⁄8 mile (0.2 km)
Day 2: Rest day
Day 3: Run 1⁄4 mile (0.4 km)
Day 4: Rest day
Day 5: Run 1⁄2 mile (0.8 km)
Day 6: Rest day
Day 7: Run 3⁄4 mile (1.2 km)
Day 8: Rest day
Day 9: Run 1 mile (1.6 km)
Day 10: Rest day.








There are many other specific running plans you can follow. Check an online running site or borrow a library book on running training. If you have a coach or trainer, use this person to help formulate an appropriate plan, or ask fellow runners for their suggestions.
 You may have to repeat some running days if you can't accomplish running that distance or it tired you out rather much.
 Encourage yourself; be enthusiastic about your chances. The best runners are those that have faith in themselves and their training; it doesn't matter how long your legs are.


Form a race strategy and review it in your mind. For example: Start slow, get faster, quicker up the hill, or stick with this person, etc. This strategy should be informed by your knowledge of the course, watching other competitors previously, knowing your own limitations and following the advice of your coach or trainer (if you have one).
 Be sure to get at least seven to eight hours of sleep.
 If you begin without stretching or doing a quick exercise routine, it will cause painful muscle cramps and bad aches, especially if you are going to be running for an extended period of time.
 Do not allow having a drink to slow you down. Drinking during a long race will help you stay hydrated and think with more clarity.
 Make sure you feel good before you run. If you are nervous, take deep breaths.
 Begin to raise it as you get closer to the ten metre mark.
 It's okay to charge through the crowd at first, so you won't get boxed in behind a wall of slower people, but if you do, don't waste your energy trying to catch up. Leading into the wind uses an average of 18 percent more energy than drafting (running right behind someone), though many people see this as a "cheap" strategy.
 Practice putting your knees up in the lead-up to the race, so that it feels normal during the race.
 When running, stay focused. This includes considering the following:


Don't look behind you to see where people are, it can make you lose seconds that matter.
Keep the focus on yourself; don't think about another runner.
 Don't run looking down or around, this slows you down and breaks your concentration.
 This will help you to stay calm and conserve energy.
 This uses up energy that can be put to better use (running). Many people make this mistake. The best way to run is to relax your hands, rather than clenching them, except in a full sprint. Don't lean your head forward, look straight, not behind you or directly at the ground. Either look about 25 feet (7.6 m) ahead of you at the ground - if you're on uneven terrain, or at the person in front of you - if you're road racing. Keep your head up and your shoes tied!

, If it's a mid distance(half mile) focus more on running hard, kicking out in front of you. Or, over longer distances, where you must keep efficient, you can do this by keeping your elbows at 90˚ angles, placing your hands near your waist, and puffing out your chest. Keep your pelvis underneath you, with your back straight, and don't kick behind you. Raise your knees, and pretend to kick your butt.
 It's okay if you're behind the main pack 30 seconds into the race, but not when you're already well out in front.
 This will decrease the distance that you are running. This is a very important strategy, one that works well.
 It will be hard for them to catch up to you.
 Try to stay with them. This will give you a good indication that you're keeping up and boosts your confidence to a much higher level.
 Remember that 80 percent of a longer distance race is fully mental. Only 20 percent of the battle is physical. And all fast races, whatever their distance, benefit from a good dose of belief in your ability and a willingness to give it all you've got.

