 Because during multi-player the game sends and receives packets of data of information of where player in the game are. So you will need a descent connection (Good download and upload ratio).
Lag or no lag? - Before you choose a game that you are going to play. Make sure you close all unnecessary programs in the background because majority of game are monsters when it comes to having RAM on their dinner plate.

Example: if you have a lot of programs running while you play the game, your computer will likely lag/slow down because it doesn't have enough RAM to support both tasks. Close the programs or get a better RAM.
Another thing is look at the ping. Usually the higher the number means higher ping, therefore more lag.
A suggestion when you choose servers, Stick to the servers with a ping around 0-250 these servers will usually be in your favor. Going to servers with 300 and higher ping is a big risk and boring. For the reason you can't aim and you die a lot more often.

;
,


Know your the field like the back of your hand - A sniper is only as good as his knowledge of the battlefield. Without knowledge of the field, an experienced player may have difficulty in using the weapons that he mainly uses. So get out there, make alias profiles and learn the field.
This can be considered as critical and very helpful as well. For the reason that if you go out and experience the field. You may come across a few hiding places where you can snipe from (usually called Camping- If you are going to camp, don't go camping near the enemy's base and spawn killing everyone you see. It will just cause frustration and will probably lead into the enemy flaming you on the server).
Location?! - In addition to the step above(Step 1) learn the spawn locations of the weapons that you want to use. In this case, that would be the sniper and the pistol. Pistols are usually the default weapons, so whenever you respawn you will have a pistol in your inventory.
Facing who? - It may be crucial to found out what and who you are versing using the zoom function will easy give you a long range view of who is coming towards you. For example, you wouldn't just charge aimlessly into a Scorpion moving rapidly towards you. That's just idiotic. Instead you would quickly find a location to hide from it and slowly sneak away. Or you could try to take it out with your sniper when the tank isn't in motion (a.k.a still).
 It can be used to take out any enemy in one shot if you know how.
The reticle - Basically you know that circle in the middle the one that you use to aim? That's the reticle. Snipers have two levels of zoom (2x and 8x). 2x Zoom is used for those at long and short range. 8x However will be usually recommended only for when the target you wish to sniper is at a very long range.
Leading your weapon - Leading your weapon is most vital to you if you want to live after you fired that gun. Leading is where you aim your reticle in front of where the person is going. Leading in most cases must be done because of the lag. The lower the lag the less you have to lead and vice versa. One thing that has to be taken into account is the distance. Usually the further you are, the less you will have to lead.
One Shot Kill - To achieve this, use the lead technique and keep the reticle at head level of the enemy. If you are leading correctly, it should be an instant K.O. This only works for snipers though.
Three Shot Kill - To achieve this you need a pistol. Use the lead technique and fire, If three shots come in contact with the enemy's head it should be an instant head shot.

