 The IRS will consider an abatement (forgiveness) of a tax penalty or interest payment under some limited circumstances. You may qualify if the following are all true:you have never before been required to file a tax return, OR you have had no tax penalties for the prior three years
you have filed all required tax returns or extensions on time
you have paid, or arranged to pay, any taxes that are due.
 If you have an outstanding tax obligation, the IRS recommends that you get it paid before you submit a request for abatement. The interest on the penalty will continue to accrue until the tax is fully paid. By waiting, you will be able to request an abatement for the full amount., Form 843 is the Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement form. You can find links to Form 843 and its instructions at https://www.irs.gov/uac/form-843-claim-for-refund-and-request-for-abatement.


To complete Form 843, you will need your basic identifying information and an explanation of the interest, payment or penalty that you are seeking to abate.
Provide an explanation for seeking the abatement. The instructions for Form 843 state that the IRS will only grant abatements for interest that are caused by IRS delay or error. You will need to provide an explanation to support your request not to pay.
 The instructions for Form 843 contain directions for mailing in your completed application. The office to send your application will be different, depending on your reason for seeking the abatement or the notice that you received from the IRS assessing the penalty or interest initially. Check the instructions carefully and send your abatement request to the appropriate office.


Keep a copy of your completed application for your records.
After your completed application is submitted, wait for a reply with a decision. If you wish to check on the status of your application after a reasonable amount of time, you may contact the telephone number that appears on the notice that you received that assessed the penalty or interest.

