 Look for individually packaged snacks that are nutritious. Or you can purchase large quantities of food and divide it into smaller portions that you can take on the go. Good snack ideas that are easy to transport include:Peanut butter and cut vegetables
Nuts and seeds
Yogurt cups
String cheese
Fruit
Hummus and whole-grain crackers

, A sandwich is classic on-the-go food. You can quickly make a healthy sandwich the night before you need it and store it in the fridge overnight. Or buy a sandwich that you can customize. This will give you the chance to make nutritious improvements.Keep in mind that you should avoid eating lunch or deli meat during pregnancy. Make classic nut and seed butter sandwiches with jam, veggie sandwiches, or egg salad sandwiches.
For example, substitute whole-grain bread for white bread. Add fresh vegetables and choose low-fat cheese.
 If you'll be stuck at a desk or in a meeting where you can't easily eat or snack, pack some soup in a thermos. You'll be able to discreetly sip a nutritious meal that will also fill you up. Try to choose low-sodium soups or soups with lots of vegetables and lean proteins. You can quickly drink:Cream of broccoli soup
Tomato soup
Chili
Gazpacho

, For example, instead of grabbing a coffee and doughnut as you walk out the door, drink low-fat milk and eat a whole-grain fruit muffin. To keep you feeling fuller, add a little protein like yogurt, cheese, or a nut butter.Avoid simply filling up on sugary or fatty snacks as hunger strikes throughout the day. You'll be able to manage nausea better if you constantly have a little food in your stomach.
 Convenience foods can be a great option as long as you look for minimally processed foods. Many shops carry sliced fruits or vegetables that you can easily dunk into a nut butter spread or hummus. You can even find hard-boiled eggs that are easy to take on the go.Skip frozen meals, foods that are being kept warm under a heat lamp, or foods that are packed full of refined sugars and fats.

