 When you receive a terminal diagnosis, you are going to be understandably overwhelmed and emotional. This is normal. Take a few days (or as long as you need) to process the information. When you feel able, ask your doctor to discuss the diagnosis with you again. Ask a lot of questions, such as treatment options and specifics about your prognosis.Ask a family member of close friend to go with you to talk to your doctor. A lot of times, people are overwhelmed when discussing their own health. Your friend can be your advocate, making sure to ask questions and take notes.;
, Physician assisted suicide is something that many terminal patients consider. This is an option in several states, but it is not nationwide. If this is an option that interests you, ask your doctor if this is an option available to you. Many states are currently considering passing legislation that is titled Death With Dignity.Discuss this option with your family. Many people are interested in physician assisted suicide as it allows them to be more in control of the process of dying.
 When faced with dying, hospice care is another option that you can consider. Hospice care is not to cure your illness, but instead, to make you as comfortable as possible during your final days. In many cases, hospice care takes place in your own home. To many people, this is a more comfortable place to rest and helps with the acceptance process. Hospice workers are on call 24/7 to assist in your needs.There are also hospice programs where you are cared for outside of your home. You may be able to find more than one program in your area. Don't be afraid to gather lots of information before deciding which type of care-giving is right for you.
 Although it is very difficult, you will need to have a conversation about your death plan with a loved one. This is known as making advance directives. If you prefer hospice care in your home, for example, make sure that you have made that preference clear to your family. As your illness progresses, it might become more difficult for you to communicate your choices. Try to make a plan relatively soon after your diagnosis, even though that may be very difficult emotionally.You should make sure that a trusted family member or friend is granted your power of attorney. This will enable them to make decisions on your behalf should you become incapacitated.
Contact an attorney in your area to help guide you through the legalities of transferring your power of attorney.
 Often, deteriorating physical health goes along with a terminal illness. You might find that your body is rapidly deteriorating and that you are no longer able to complete simple tasks for yourself. One of the most difficult parts of this process is to be able to rely on others to do simple things for you while still maintaining your dignity. Choose your caregiver with care. If you are hiring a professional, make sure to discuss their style of caretaking during the interview process. You want to find someone who is nurturing and kind, but who is not condescending.
If you have decided to have a friend or family member act as your caretaker, have an open conversation with them while you are still able. Explain to them that it is important to you to keep your dignity and that you want them to still speak to you as an adult, and never to "baby" you. Ask them to read some articles about caregiving. Your doctor should be able to provide some good resources for that.
 Another difficulty that you might face is losing some of your independence. For example, depending on your illness and medication, you might soon be unable to drive a car. This type of loss of freedom can be very frustrating, especially since you are already dealing with a lot of emotional changes.Try starting a gratitude journal to help keep you focused on the positive aspects of your life. Taking time every day to write down a few things that make you feel grateful can improve your well-being and make you feel happier.For example, you might feel grateful for a hot cup of tea, a conversation with a loved one, or getting to enjoy a beautiful sunset.
Try joining a support group to help you remember that you are not alone. You can discuss your thoughts about losing independence with other members of a support group and find out what they have done to cope.

