 Vaccination against cat flu is considered an essential vaccine. The flu vaccine needs to be given regularly and it comes in a variety of types (modified live, modified live intranasal, killed vaccine) which determines how often the vaccine needs to be given.A typical vaccine regime is an initial loading dose of two injections given 3 - 4 weeks apart followed by a booster one year later, then further booster injections every three years. This is just a guide and varies depending on which vaccine is used.
There is also a vaccine against feline chlamydia but this is considered optional.
The evolving nature of viral infections means that because new strains develop, vaccination may not be 100% effective. Even vaccinated cats may develop signs of upper respiratory tract infection, either because their infection is caused by a bug not included in the vaccine, or because of partial immunity due to viral adaptation. Breeding cats should be vaccinated prior to breeding. Any breeding toms that are brought into the breeding establishment should be vaccinated and preferably watched for 24 hours before mixing with the female, to ensure he isn't showing any signs of sneezing or infection.;
, If you have a multi-cat household of unvaccinated animals, and one starts to show signs, immediately isolate that cat. Get the other cats vaccinated right away. Do not allow the cats to mingle for at least 3 weeks, by which time they should have some protection from the vaccine.Infection is spread when virus particles are sneezed out or are present in discharges from the nose or mouth. This contaminates the environment ready to infect the next cat that comes into contact with that water bowl or the surface that has been sneezed on.Cats most at risk are those kept in large groups (such as breeding catteries), those in a shared air space (such as a shelter or boarding cattery), those with weak immune systems (such as kittens, the elderly, or those cats with another health problem), or cats kept in dirty conditions where the illness can flourish.
 Wash your cat's dishes and bedding regularly. This is especially important in multi-cat households and for indoor-outdoor cats. These cats come in contact with more illnesses and are at higher risk of infection.


If you have a sick cat you should observe scrupulous hygiene. Keep the sick cat in a small room which you can clean easily. Wash all food and water bowls daily in dilute bleach. Wipe down the walls and washed surfaces with a dilute bleach or a cleaning product recommended by your vet. Be careful the surfaces are dry before a cat comes into contact with them, as bleach can be irritant to cats.Wash your hands before petting the other cats, and it's also a good precaution to change your clothing, as viruses can be transported on fabric.
In shelters or boarding catteries it is crucial the staff observe good hygiene, disinfecting their hands between cats. Good cattery design is essential and there should be solid partitions between cats to avoid them sneezing and spreading bugs into the neighboring cage., Most commonly these are similar to the signs you could expect if you had a cold. They include sneezing, coughing, change of voice, a snotty nasal discharge, inflamed eyes, a discharge from the eyes (ranging from watering to a yellow-green purulent discharge), loss of appetite, and perhaps even fever.


In addition, with cat flu the patient may develop painful ulcers on the tongue, which prevent the cat from eating and may cause it to drool.
The incubation period depends on the specific bugs involved, but varies from one day to 17 days, from contacting a source of infection to developing physical signs.
 Your veterinarian will look for the symptoms of a respiratory illness, including sneezing, red eyes, runny nose, and coughing.Your veterinarian may assess the symptoms simply by sight, or they may use a medical instrument, such as a stethoscope, to get a more in-depth sense of the illness.


When you call your veterinarian to make an appointment, tell them what you suspect an upper respiratory infection. They may have instructions for you to follow on arrival, in order to avoid infecting other cats waiting for treatment.
 Treating a upper respiratory illness usually consists of treating the symptoms. However, if the cat has a secondary infection, your veterinarian may prescribe antibiotics for the infection.


Your veterinarian may suggest the use of a nasal decongestant to relieve congestion.Try to make your cat as comfortable as possible while it is recovering. For example, if it has a lot of nasal or ocular discharge try wiping that away on a regular basis.

