 Pick a time when your puppy is energetic and hasn't eaten recently. Wait at least an hour after your puppy eats if you're going to play gently, or 90 minutes if you're going to play rough. If you don't wait enough between eating and playing, your puppy may get a stomach ache or even develop a life-threatening condition (gastric torsion) where the stomach swings over and twists on itself.If you're going to let kids play along during playtime, always make sure you or an adult are supervising. Your puppy may not understand the fine distinction between playing and teasing. If your puppy becomes frustrated, he may nip out of confusion.;
, Not all puppies like the same things. Some like to run and hunt things, others like to chew, while others are motivated by smell and love to follow scent trails. Watch your puppy to see what makes him happy, and what he tends to do naturally. It may take you time to find out what your puppy likes.


For example, if he's always got his nose to the ground sniffing, then he probably likes to follow scents. Or, if he simply sits and watches a ball fly off, then he's probably not fond of fetch.
 Add simple commands to playtime. For example, if your dog adores chasing a ball, then he'll be motivated to learn the command "give" in order to release the ball so you can throw it again. Or, your dog may obey commands like "sit" and "stay" if he knows you'll reward him with a game of fetch. You can also use a clicker to train while playing. For instance, you could click right before throwing the ball, tell him to "sit" and click again when he sits on the ground. This way, your dog associates the action with a reward of fetch.Realize that you don't have to reward your dog only with food. The reward of more playtime and your attention can be powerful motivators.
 Since puppies are usually energetic, it's hard to remember that they can become overtired. A puppy has growing bones and slack ligaments supporting those bones. If he becomes overtired, he might move awkwardly and damage those growing joints. Make sure not to overtire the puppy, so stop while he still has some energy.When you do stop, end on a good note that leaves your puppy wanting more, instead of playing him till he's completely exhausted. If he's worn out, he'll become grumpy from tiredness.
 While play might seem like a fun afterthought, it's actually an important way to socialize your dog. Dogs that play well and respond to basic commands are more fun to have around and are also more sociable. You can learn about your dog and his personality by playing games. You'll also discover dislikes or fears that your dog may have.


Not only will playing help you bond with your puppy, but it will give both of you a great chance for exercise. Play will also provide valuable mental stimulation for your puppy., Use a tugger rope toy designed for play, not another household item like a shoe. If you use something that's not a toy, your puppy will be confused into thinking he's allowed to play with household things. Pull somewhat gently on the tugger rope toy, since it is possible to damage your puppy's teeth by pulling too hard. If your puppy is under one year old, use caution when playing. Puppies have soft spots at the top of their heads that can injure easily.


Some people believe that playing tug-of-war can make your dog possessive. For this reason, you may not want to play it with large dogs from guarding breeds. Their superior physical strength and protective instinct could cause them to dominate.Your puppy may benefit from playing tug-of-war if he's shy or anxious. Allowing him to win could boost his confidence., Tell your puppy to "sit" and "stay." Show him a treat and then hide yourself. Call your puppy's name when you're in your hiding place. He should search until he finds you. This game teaches your puppy to come when called and how to find you when you cannot be seen. It will also give your puppy practice at following scents.


If your puppy breaks from the "stay" command before you've reached your hiding place, try commanding your puppy to "wait.", Show your puppy a ball or toy and command him to "sit" or "wait". Throw the toy a short distance and encourage the puppy to both get the toy, but to come back to you. Coach him through the process by saying things like "get it" and "bring it" and make a big fuss for every successful stage of the game. End the game on a high note while it is still interesting to the puppy. This will also establish your authority.


Fetch can teach your puppy to give on command, a valuable skill that could keep him safe. Once your puppy is holding the toy he fetched, offer a high-value reward. Give the command "give" at the moment he drops the toy and reward him with the treat.Never throw sticks when playing fetch. Your puppy could accidentally run onto a stick, causing a painful injury., Once your puppy has mastered basic commands, teach a few tricks like rolling over or playing dead. Spend about 10 minutes each session and be sure to offer rewards for correct behavior before your name the trick.For example, show your puppy what you want him to do, like getting him to give you a paw, and reward him him when he does it correctly several times in a row. Then you can begin calling the command "shake."


Tricks exercise your puppy's mind, teach focus and enable you to bond. Do no overwork any given trick, just revisit it often and always end on a high note.
You can also try mind games like teaching your puppy the location of his toys, family members, and where his bed is. Then, hide an item like car keys and tell your puppy to "go find" them.

