 Look for the game app on your device. Its name is Spider-Man with the classic Spider-Man on the logo. Tap on it to launch it.;
, Tap on the Menu button on the upper right corner to bring down the menu bar. From here, tap on the “Options” button. Find the Settings menu from the Options screen and tap on it. You will be brought to the Settings screen.
 The game can be integrated with your Facebook account. If you haven’t done so, you should. Playing the game with your Facebook account enables you to play and challenge your friends, to send your friends in-game gifts, and to back up your game profile with your Facebook account. The last one is the most important aspect here to ensure your game progress and data are protected. Tap on the toggle button to enable Facebook.


Facebook may ask you to sign in and explicitly request for an authorization to allow the game to access your user profile. Tap on the “Allow” button when prompted.
Your game progress will then be saved via Facebook.
 Browse through your apps and find the Spider-Man Unlimited app.
 Use your mobile device’s uninstall or delete function to remove the game.


On iOS: Tap and hold on the app icon until it shakes. An X button will appear on the upper left corner of the app icon. Tap on it then tap on the “Delete” button on the confirmation message. The app will be removed.
On Android: Go to the Settings menu and tap on the “Apps” or “Applications manager” button. Scroll through the list of programs and find the game. Tap on it. On the app info screen, tap the “Uninstall” button, and the app will be removed.
 For iOS devices, tap the App Store icon; for Android, tap on Google Play

, Type in “Spider-Man Unlimited” on the search field and tap the magnifying glass icon to begin the search.
 Tap on the “Install” button beside the app. The game will begin downloading and installing to your mobile device., Look for the game app on your device, and tap on it to launch it.
 Upon initial installation, the game will need a few minutes to download further updates. Wait for it to be completed.
 After the updates, you will immediately be brought to the game environment with a default Spider-Man running. This is the Tutorial mode where the game instructs you on how to play it. Go with it and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the Tutorials.


When you’ve completed the Tutorials, you will be brought to the main screen. Some of the game modes and buttons are still inaccessible at this time. This is normal, as the game doesn’t have your player profile yet.
 Tap on the Menu button on the upper right corner to bring down the menu bar. From here, tap on the “Options” button. Find the Settings menu from the Options screen and tap on it. You will be brought to the Settings screen.
 In order to retrieve and restore your profile containing all your progress, team of Spider-men, and game currencies, you have to reconnect the game to your Facebook account. Tap on the toggle button to enable Facebook. Once your data has been accessed, the game will now reflect your profile properly, and you now have your team of Spiders back.

