 If you confuse your readers you're not going to get useful information from the survey. Steer away from technical jargon or large vocabulary words, double negatives ("Would you never consider not buying our product?"), and make sure your grammar and spelling are perfect. The simpler it is to read the question, the easier it will be to give a useful answer.


"How would you improve the robust genre filtering system?" is much too wordy. Instead, ask, "Is there any way to make searching for music easier?" You'll get more honest, direct answers without confusion., While you want to be simple and direct, you don't want to be so simple that you don't get the types of answers you want. For example, instead of asking, "How likely would you be to sign up for MeMusic service?" give the reader an idea of what the service is while still keeping it short:


"MeMusic examines your current music collection and then makes radio stations based on your favorites. Based on this description, how likely would you be to pay for MeMusic?"
"MeMusic is considering a new feature that shares your stations with friends. Would you pay extra for such a service?", Asking "how much do you love MeMusic?" suggests to readers that they love the service already. While these answers are good to hear, they don't give you as much useful information. Instead, aim for neutral wording. Try out something like, "How satisfied are you with the MeMusic service?"


Never hedge your questions with filler like, "we're very proud of our customer service team. Have you enjoyed them too?" Get right to the question.
Don't make one option stand out. For example, when asking a Yes/No question, don't make one of the options "Definitely!" and the other "No." This may bias your reader., Discrete means that they only lead to one potential outcome. This is easiest to see with an example. You might ask, "do coaches and players enjoy the new field, yes or no?" But the answers wouldn't help you. A yes could mean the coaches enjoy it, the players enjoy it, or they both enjoy it. With just one question you couldn't tell which of the three options they mean.


Only ask one thing at a time. Make "Was the program easy and fun to use?" two separate questions about ease and enjoyment., Structured questions are when the user can only pick a set number of answers, like a multiple choice question. They are best for times when you need specific feedback, not new ideas or suggestions. They are also much easier to analyze, as you can see the response as numbers (how many chose each answer) as opposed to reading each paragraph. When designing structured questions:


Only offer the choices you want feedback on. Do not give so many options that the question is overwhelming to a reader.
Avoid overlap. If you're asking how much money someone would spend a month, don't write "$0-25" and "$25-50." What if they want exactly $25? Make the second "$26-50."
Cover all alternatives. If the topic is broad, make an option "Other." Many surveys include a bar next to other so someone could input their off-beat option., Rating questions allow a reader to order the options, into their first, second, third choice, etc. This is helpful when trying to find overlap or choose between multiple good ideas. For example, you may be planning the theme for a party, and give the options "Beach," "Space," and "Old West." Say you do a normal survey and everyone picks Old West. But when you get to the party store, they're all out of cowboy decorations. A ranking question would let you see everyone's number two option.


This can also help if you need to make one choice that appeals to everyone. For example, Half the people might have put Old West last in their rankings. Even though it "won" the most votes, you could make more people happy by choosing the universally popular second choice., An open question is simply when you ask something, then provide a blank box for the reader to add their input. When designing open-ended questions, try and keep the prompt short. You want quick, easily read answers, not long and broad answers that are tough to differentiate.


Remember to only ask one thing at a time. Don't ask "what are our best and worst features" in one question. Make it to.
Sometimes, however, a wide-open question like "is there anything else you'd like to tell us," is a great way to end a survey and find new information you may have missed.