 You should never handle your contact lenses without washing your hands first. Your eyes are very susceptible to infection, and handling your contacts with dirty hands can be dangerous.Make sure to wash your full hands, including your fingertips, between your fingers, and the backs of your hands. Use soap and running water.
When drying your hands, be sure to use a clean towel. You do not want to get bacteria from a dirty towel on your hands after washing them.;
, Open the package according to its instructions. Usually, contacts come in individual pockets and you have to peel off the plastic covering the top of each individual pocket.Carefully slide the lens on your index finger.
Slide the lens upward until you remove it from its package.
 Hold the lens on the tip of your finger. In a well-lit area, bring the lens close to your eyes to examine it. Make sure the lens is damage-free before putting it in your eye.The lens should be in a semi-circular shape. The edge of the lens should be smooth and not have a lip. A lens with a lip is inside out, and you will have to turn it over before placing it in your eye.
You should also make sure the contact lens is free of dirt or hairs, and does not have any tears.
 Start with your right eye. Keep your contact on your index finger. Take your middle finger and use it to pull down your lower eyelid.If you've never put in a contact before, use a mirror here. Look straight into a mirror while you put your contact in place.
 Watch your hand with your left eye. Move your index finger towards your eye. Place the contact directly onto your right iris. Press the contact down until all corners of the contact are touching your eye., This will secure the contact in place, and also smooth out any air bubbles. Keep blinking until you can see clearly with the contact in place., As soon as the first contact is comfortably in place, move on to the next one. Repeat the exact same process, only with your left eye.Putting contacts in can be very tricky at first, so don't be surprised if takes several tries to get your contacts in at first.
After awhile, you should get the hang of putting contacts in. You may not even need a mirror after a certain point.
 You should also wash and dry your hands before taking your contacts out. Wash your hands with soap and clean water, making sure to wash all portions of each hand.Dry your hands with a clean towel when you're done.
 Blink a few times before pulling down your lower lid. This will assure that the contact is placed directly over your pupil. Use your middle finger to gently pull down your lower eyelid., Place your index finger over your contact lens. Look upward while gently sliding your index finger downward. Slide the lens onto the white portion of your eye., The lens should begin to slip away from your eye slightly. At this point, very gently squeeze the lens between your index finger and thumb. Once you have a good grip on the lens, pull it away from your eye.Make sure to keep your grip gentle. It's very easy to tear a contact lens, and you do not want to do so in the process of removing one.
 You should never reuse contact lens solution. Each night when removing your contacts, place them in fresh solution. Reusing the solution from the night before can expose your contact lenses to bacteria. This increases your risk of an eye infection., Some contacts are designed for extended wear. However, you should still remove your contacts overnight as often as possible. The longer you leave your contacts in, the greater your risk for an eye infection. Whenever possible, remove your contacts overnight., You should only use contact lens solution to wet your lenses. Saliva and tap water contain a lot of bacteria. You do not want to expose your eyes to bacteria, as this can greatly increase your risk of an eye infection.Carry a small container of contact solution when you when your out. This way, you can quickly disinfect your contact lenses if they fall out.
 Each type of contact lens is slightly different, and there will be different specific instructions regarding care. Some contact lenses need to be replaced more often than others. Therefore, it's important to always read your manufacturer's instructions closely. You should also ask your eye doctor any questions you have regarding your contact lenses.

