 Give your audience the feeling of being let in on a secret, whilst also giving you a way to vent.
 You can also write them both at the same time, which can be much easier. Whichever you write second is likely to be harder because you have to fit it to the other part you wrote, so save your particular talent until second.


Some pretty well-know artists start with the melody, and then find the right words to fit. There's one song everybody knows that started out with only a melody. As the song was developed, the artist sang "Scrambled eggs..." When he was finished, Paul McCartney had written "Yesterday."
This is also a favorite technique of Peter Gabriel, who frequently uses nonsense syllables as he works out the melody, adding actual words only when the music has been decided on.
 Write as many ideas down as possible and words that relate to it (especially useful if you want to make your lyrics rhyme). Write as much detail as possible—remember it might not all go into your final lyrics. Express yourself!

, Sing it to yourself to make sure that the rhythm and words are together.
 The Arctic Monkeys have managed to rhyme "something" with "stomach" (summat, stomach).


While making words with different endings rhyme, and making dissimilar words flow is a definite plus, do not overdo this.
You can use regional sayings or phrases. This tends to make the piece sound native to a specific area. Also, a common thing for British bands is to use the accent to their advantage—like South Central Heroes—and this can create a very unique beat. However, there is no need to fake an accent or dialect just to make your song sound "unique."

, Maybe you could have lots of repeated lines, an unconventional rhyming scheme or a range of very short and very long lines.
 Pay attention to how people around you talk and what they talk about. You could base your lyrics around this.
 Make your song deeper and more interesting by using similes, metaphors and other literary devices.
 Include things that are funny or make references to current affairs and trends as people tend to remember them more. They also tend to date a song, and what began as a serious song can be seen as dated or even campy a few years down the line.
 Make sure it is relevant to your lyrics, but if it's only tangentially related, or just downright obscure, don't worry too much about it. Dylan's Rainy Day Women No. 12 and 35 means absolutely nothing to mere mortals (and perhaps not even to Mr. Dylan), but when he wrote that song, Everybody Must Get Stoned was not a title that would get any airplay or juke box positioning.


Be careful of overly-long names, like Joan Miro's Procession Through The Insides Of A Purple Antelope Across A Sea Of Tuna Fish by Adrian Belew. If you make your song name really long, people will either gloss over it (bad), make up their own name for it (risky), or it'll become a cult favorite simply because of the name. If the muse moves you to it, follow your muse.

