 Use every method possible to let everyone around you know that you do not know, nor do you wish to know, the results of any Olympic events. Post this as your status, tweet it, mass text it, wear a T-shirt if you really want to get the point across.;
, Every news outlet — whether it's online, on paper or just on a screen — is talking about the Olympics. These sites are likely to update as many results as they can as soon as possible. If you want to be able to watch it later, avoid all of these at all costs.



Ignore newspapers. Don't even glance at them when you walk past a newsstand, because most likely, an Olympic event will be on the cover. While it's not updated throughout the day, keep in mind that actual results come out hours and hours before they are even broadcasted. That means newspapers have time to write up the story and have it printed before NBC can even broadcast the performances.

Turn off the radio. Radio talk show hosts are almost exclusively talking about the 2012 Olympics. Use your iPod or turn on Pandora if you need a music fix. Even when talk shows aren't on, you run the risk of an ad or promo for a later show spoiling results.

Pretend you don't even own a television. Don't turn on the TV unless you want the results right then and there. Commercials, promos and actual broadcasts are all dying to bring in viewers by announcing results and breaking down performances. Turn on the TV only when you are ready to tune in for results.
 In an era of where social media reigns supreme and anyone with an internet connection can post whatever they want in seconds, you will need to safeguard yourself from social media ruining your Olympics binge.



Deactivate Facebook. Let's be honest, your friends will post results. You will find out more than you want to know even if you just log on to check your messages. Unsubscribe to notifications. Make your status a statement that declares you are avoiding spoilers. Don't even bother logging on.

Stay away from Twitter. In fact, more tweets went out in the first 24 hours of the London Olympics than the entire duration of the Beijing Olympics. Twitter is the least safe place to "avoid" results. Unsubscribe your phone from getting tweets.

Just to be safe, avoid even Instagram and Pinterest. You may think these are safe, but then you see a photo uploaded of standing on the podium listening to 's national anthem with a gold medal around his/her neck. So just to be safe, stay off the boards.
 Smart phones are changing the way information spreads. Now within seconds you can have results texted, and emailed straight to your phone. Here are the best ways to prevent that technology from spoiling the Olympics for you.



Delete applications that may tempt you. Delete any news applications. Keep in mind many of them will send you breaking news that will give away results. You can always add them back later.

If you are hesitant, just destroy all notifications. Go into all of your applications (including social media) and unsubscribe from updates. Even if you are strong enough to not click into the app, a pop-up can easily spoil results.
 Whether or not you like it, everyone else is going to be talking about the games. The more you surround yourself with people the more you are exposing yourself to results. Tell people you don't want to know results — they will probably forget. Tell everyone you have the plague — they won't even talk to you!



Avoid co-workers at all costs. The office is filled with conversation about which athlete is Susanne's favorite, what John would have done if he was Misty May in that set, and who Karen thinks is the most attractive member of the Men's gymnastics team (Hint: the American who ). You can tell people you don't want to know the results, but you still run the risk of over-hearing. Close your office door and keep to yourself. Or create an anti-Olympic-Spoilers club with that guy from HR and Jason from tech-support.

Avoid fellow commuters with headphones. Your iPod is your new smart phone. Cling to it like it has your social security number and mother's maiden name inscribed on the back. Whenever you are around people, especially commuting home, plug in your headphones and create a barrier between you and fellow commuters' conversations.

Desert friends and family who will ruin the games for you. Lesson of the London Olympics 2012: trust no one, not even family. Avoid anyone who you feel can't keep their lips buttoned about results. Make sure to tell people that you still plan on interacting with that you do not want to know who won gold in the Men's 200-Meter Individual Medley (, ).

