 Planks are a great bodyweight core exercise. They work the abs and core muscles, along with the legs, glutes, and shoulders. To perform a plank, lie face down on the floor. Push yourself slowly onto your elbows and toes. Pull your core in tightly and hold for as long as you can.









Make sure to keep your neck and head in line with your back — do not sag or round your back. Your shoulders should be right above your elbows. Keep your hips down.
To modify, drop your knees to the floor.
 Bicycle kicks work all the core muscle groups. Start by lying on your back. Rest your hands behind your head, but do not pull on the head — simply cradle it in your hands. Bring your knees up, bent at a 45 degree angle, and then go through a bicycle pedaling motion, pushing your feet out and rotating them slightly. Make sure your core is pulled in and engaged.


Then, bring the opposite elbow to the opposite knee. You will be twisting your core to make these two meet. Then, return to center as you pedal your legs and twist your other elbow to the opposite knee.
 Russian twists focus on the external obliques, which help with the rotation of the body, along with the transverse abdominis and rectus abdominis. To do a Russian twist, sit with your knees bent. Lean your body back about halfway to the floor, keeping your abs tight, then twist to the right as far as you safely can. Make sure the position of your torso doesn’t change. Then, twist to the left as much as you can. That is one rep.


To make the exercise harder, hold a dumbbell or medicine ball as you twist. You can also lift your feet off the floor for an added challenge.
To make it easier, sit up closer to a 90 degree angle. The farther you lean back, the harder the exercise will become.
 Scissor kicks work the transverse abdominis and help strengthen the lower back. Lie flat on the floor. Keep your head, legs, and buttocks on the floor. Pull your abs in and lift one leg while holding the other slightly above the floor. Lower your leg as you lift the opposite leg. Continue this scissoring motion, trying to keep your legs from touching the ground.


Try to keep your legs as straight as possible. You can go as fast or slow as you want.

