 Rinse it under cold water, scrubbing with your fingers until any loose dirt hiding in the crevices comes free. Washing the fruit will ensure that any chemicals or germs that may have been on it are removed and it is safe to consume., Using a cutting board is better than cutting the fruit on your counter, since it will prevent you from scratching up your countertop. Either a plastic or wooden cutting board will work well., Be sure that you are careful while using the knife so as to avoid accidentally cutting yourself. Clean the knife prior to use with hot water and soap., Slide the blade of your knife along the green edges of the starfruit. Remove only the non-orange edge of the fruit., After the edges have been removed, slice off the two ends of your starfruit. Remove about half of an inch (1.27 cm) with your knife. At this point, your starfruit should only be orange in color; all of the green or brown areas should have been cut off., On the widest side, slice the trimmed fruit into star shapes that are about a half an inch (1.27 cm) thick in size., Your slices will have seeds in them, and seeds are especially found in the middle of the fruit. Poke through the center of your fruit with your knife to remove the seeds., Starfruit, like all citrus fruits, contains acids, so be careful to keep it of your eyes and away from open wounds. After you cut it, wash your hands with hot water and soap to prevent stinging in case you touch your eyes later., Display the starfruit however you see fit, depending on the occasion. All parts of the fruit are edible, so don’t waste or throw away any scraps that you would rather eat., Wash your cutting board so that it will be clean and ready for future food preparations. Be sure the counter is clear of any fruit remains, as fruit can rot and smell over time., Starfruit can be used in a vast number of recipes, from starfruit chipsto mango-orange sauce.Plan your recipe ahead of time so that you can be sure to account for all ingredients.