 About once a month, you should give your cage a thorough cleaning. Before you start cleaning, remove your lory or lorikeet from the cage so you don't have to clean around it. You can move your bird to an alternative cage or a room in your home that's safe for your bird., Take out any toys and accessories that are removable. Place somewhere safe for now. You will clean them later in the process., Put on a pair of gloves. Remove any loose debris, like droppings and seeds, from the floor of the cage and throw them away.If there are droppings on perches or toys, scrub them off using dishwashing detergent and water. With wood perches and toys, rub off the droppings with sandpaper.
 Use a cloth soaked in hot, soapy water. Scrub down the full interior of the cage, including bars, perches, and the floor. Wash away any set in dirt or stains from the cage. When you're done, use plain water to rinse the cage. You can use a cloth soaked in plain water or spray the cage down with a hose or spray bottle., Buy a commercial disinfectant for a bird cage online or at a pet store. Spray down the full interior of the cage with your disinfectant. Then, rinse the cage thoroughly using plain water., Toys, perches, baths, and food dishes should all be washed with warm water and dish soap. They should also be sprayed with disinfectant after the washing process. Make sure to rinse all items from the cage completely before returning them to the cage.Some toys and accessories can be washed safely in the dishwasher, which can save you time.
Soft toys, like ropes, can be washed in a washing machine.
Unfortunately, older toys and accessories may not come completely clean, no matter how much you wash them. Anything that doesn't come clean should be thrown out.
 In general, air drying is your best option. Make sure the cage and all toys and accessories dry completely before reassembling your cage and putting your bird back in the cage.Placing items out in the sun can speed up the drying process.

