;
,, Just buy the product and leave.
, If you do not treat the employee with respect they will not treat you with respect and you will not receive a high level of service, in fact the employee may be so annoyed with people like you that he/she will go out of their way to "rip-you-off" and cause you problems in the future with your returns and shopping experience.
, To retail employees, the "Squeaky Wheel" gets "the Shaft"
Constantly return items for no valid reason? To businesses you just cost them money and they don't want you as a customer and will help you as little as possible, if at all.
Refuse to listen to reason or be shown the facts rather than believe what you have "heard"? This shows the employee(s) that you are ignorant and their want to help you will drastically decrease.
Try to "get a deal" or "get the hook-up" whenever you come to shop at the business? The business and its employees will recognize you as a customer who does not spend money on products that makes the business money so why the business want you as a customer?
Claim to have spent "thousands of dollars" with this place of business? Because odds are, the employee/manager can look up your purchase history and can tell you are lying. This will result in you getting "The Shaft"
Lie while talking to the employee(s)/manager(s)? Odds are you will get someone who catches you in a lie and this will result in you getting "The Shaft".
Refuse to accept the store's policies even when they are displayed clearly throughout the store and are printed on the receipt? If so you will be considered ignorant and this will result in you getting "The Shaft"
Say something to the effect of "Your employee told me." and you can't tell them who the employee was, what they looked like, or when it even happened? This will destroy your validity and the employee will not trust you.
Speak loudly, yell, raise your voice, or make any threats including "I'll just take my business somewhere else" or "This happens every time I come here." They don't give a damn what you want at this point and may even refuse service.
,,