 Though this type of acid may cause you to have a reaction if your skin is sensitive, it's the best over-the-counter cleaner for whiteheads and blackheads. It treats blackheads by reducing swelling and unclogging blocked pores.Try looking for a foaming cleanser with this product in it.You can also apply it as a cream, gel, or ointment.Because your skin is sensitive, test it on a small area of your face first. If you break out or itch, move on to another product.
Salicylic acid may make your skin more dry or irritated, especially when you first start using it. Try using it only in small amounts, and increase the amount you use as your skin adjusts.Use the cleanser once or twice a day. Use your cleanser with salicylic acid to cleanse your face while you're having a break out.Splash water on your face first, then rub the cleanser in. You can use a washcloth if you do it gently but don't scrub too hard. Wash the soap off, and dry your face off.;
, If you reacted to salicylic acid, try baking soda instead. The main reason baking soda works is because it acts as an exfoliant, cleaning away dried, dead skin that clogs your pores. However, this treatment can dry out your skin if you use it too much, so don't use it every day.Mix a little with water until you have a paste. Rub it into your skin.Wash off the mixture once you've thoroughly rubbed it in., Another natural cure some people have had luck with is a raw honey-cinnamon mixture. Honey and cinnamon both have natural antibacterial properties, so they may help kill off skin bacteria responsible for breakouts.Simply combine equal parts of raw honey and cinnamon powder or a few drops of cinnamon oil. Gently rub it onto your face. Once you've thoroughly rubbed it in, cover it with a light cotton strip or a thick paper towel. Leave it for about 5 minutes before pulling the strip off and rinsing.The honey will help clear bacteria, as well as act as light glue that pulls up blackheads.Cinnamon encourages a healthy glow, as it increases blood flow to your face., This method is a common one to help reduce the appearance of blackheads. Simply pour boiling water into a bowl. Lay a towel over your head and the bowl, so the steam is concentrated on your face for about 10 minutes. The steam will soften up the dirt in the blackheads, so gently wash your face with warm water after you steam it.You can add an antibacterial essential oil to help add punch to the steam cleanser. Lavender, thyme, peppermint, and calendula have antiseptic properties., Though it may seem counter-intuitive since you're trying to avoid clogged pores, moisturizers keep your skin hydrated. The key is to skip ones with oil in them, as that can clog your pores.Look for labels that say "non-comedogenic," "oil-free," or "non-acnegenic."

