 Before applying any makeup, it’s important to make sure that your skin is properly hydrated. That will help your makeup go on more smoothly so it looks naturally flawless. Pre-teen and teen skin is usually oily, so choose an oil-free product and apply it approximately 5 minutes before you do your makeup.It’s important to protect your skin from sun damage too, so you may want to use a moisturizer that has an SPF of at least 15. You can also use a separate sunscreen product if you prefer. Apply it after the moisturizer and give it 5 minutes to sink into your skin before applying any makeup.
If your skin looks too shiny after applying your moisturizer, use a tissue to blot your face before moving onto your makeup.;
, It’s common for pre-teens and teens to have breakouts, so you may have some spots that you want to conceal. Dab concealer just on those spots, and blend it with a clean finger or concealer brush.Make sure to choose a concealer that matches your skin tone as closely as possible. Otherwise, you’ll only wind up drawing attention to the areas that you’re trying to hide.
As with your moisturizer, choose a concealer that’s oil-free. If you have acne, you may also want to look for one that contains acne-fighting ingredients, such as salicylic acid, to help fight the breakout while concealing it.
If you’re using a stick concealer or one that features an applicator that is stored inside the tube, don’t apply the concealer directly from the container to your face. Dab some on your finger or a brush, so you don’t spread bacteria from your acne to the concealer itself.
 When you’re going for a natural makeup look that you can wear to school, heavy foundation is a big no-no. If you feel like your skin still needs some more coverage after using concealer, use a light tinted moisturizer or BB cream to even out your skin tone. Apply it with clean fingers to keep the coverage light.Make sure that your tinted moisturizer or BB cream is oil-free so it’s less likely to clog your pores.
If your skin is extremely oily, you may want to skip a general moisturizer and just use a tinted version so you can moisturize and even out your complexion in one step.
While tinted moisturizers and BB creams are usually more sheer than traditional foundations, it’s still important to choose a shade that matches your skin tone. Test it by blending a small amount across your cheek, and checking it in natural light to see if it’s a match.
Even if you’re using a sheer tinted moisturizer or BB cream, make sure to blend it over your jawline and down onto your neck. You don’t want to wind up with a line across your jaw where your makeup ends.
 Because your skin is probably on the oily side, you should set your concealer and other face products with an oil-absorbing powder. Apply it over any areas where you used concealer, tinted moisturizer, and/or BB cream to set it, as well as over your forehead, nose, and chin, also known as the t-zone, where your skin tends to be most oily.Opt for a translucent powder that won’t add much color and coverage to your face so your look stays natural.
Apply the powder with a fluffy brush. That will diffuse the product so your face doesn’t look cakey or powdery.
If your skin is relatively even, you may want to skip a tinted moisturizer or BB cream and use a powder foundation to set your concealer. It offers more coverage than a translucent powder, but is still light enough to look natural.
 When you want a natural makeup look, there’s no need to fill in your brows with a pencil or powder. Instead, just brush a clear brow gel through your brows so they look neat and trim. The gel will also help keep them in place all day.If you feel like your brows need some filling in, you can swap your clear brow gel for a tinted version that matches your brow color. It will look more natural than a brow pencil or powder.
 Eye shadow isn’t really necessary for a natural look, but if you want to add a little color to your lids, keep it soft. Choose a shadow that is close in color to your skin tone, but has a slightly shimmery finish so it will catch the light. Apply it across your lid, staying below your crease.You can use the sponge-tip applicator that comes with your eyeshadow, a brush, or even your fingertip to apply it. However, for the most natural look, use a fluffy shadow brush to apply it. The color will appear more sheer, so your eyes look soft and subtle.
 When you’re young and trying to achieve a natural look, eyeliner is usually too much. That’s especially true if you use harsh black liquid or pencil liner, which can actually make your eyes look smaller. Instead, ditch the eyeliner so your eyes look fresh and bright.If you feel like your eyes really need some extra definition, try using powdered eyeshadow as liner for a much softer, more natural look. Dip an angled brush into a brown, gray, or navy shadow, and run it as close to your upper lash line as possible.
 Even if you don’t wear any shadow, you can draw attention to your eyes by using a little mascara. Black mascara is the traditional choice, but you might prefer brown for a softer look. You can even use clear mascara if you just want to define your lashes without darkening them.A single layer of mascara is all you need for some definition. If you apply too much, your lashes may start to clump together and ruin the natural look.
It’s a good idea to choose a waterproof mascara, particularly if you’re wearing makeup to school. That way, if you start to sweat in gym class or at soccer practice, your mascara won’t run under your eyes.
 Everyone looks a little healthier with some color in their cheeks. If your cheeks aren’t naturally flushed, dust a little blush on the apples of your cheeks. Choose a sheer, matte shade that complements your skin tone for a natural look.To find the apples of your cheeks, smile -- apply the blush to the fleshy part of your cheek, blending up toward your hairline.
For fair skin, choose a light pink blush.
For medium skin, go with a rose gold blush.
For dark skin, opt for a hot pink blush.
Peach blushes tend to be flattering on all skin tones.
Using an angled blush brush usually makes for an easier application. That’s because the shape deposits the most color on the apple of your cheek and fades it out across your cheekbone.
 If you aren’t a fan of blush or just want a sun kissed look, you can add some bronzer to your face. However, you shouldn’t apply it everywhere or it won’t look natural. Instead, dust it on your skin with a fluffy bronzer brush in the places where sun would naturally hit you, such as your temples, cheekbones, jawline, and nose.Don’t go more than one or two shades darker than your natural skin tone with your bronzer.
Choose a matte formula that isn’t too orange, so it looks natural.
If you’re having trouble figuring out where to apply your bronzer, use the “3/E” shape method. Starting at the top of your forehead, dust it over your face in “3” shape on the right side of your face, so you cover the temple, cheekbone, and jawline, and an “E” shape on the left side of your face to cover the same areas on the other side.
 For a natural look, you shouldn’t wear a very dark, saturated lipstick. You want to keep your lips looking soft, so opt for a sheer lip gloss or even a tinted lip balm. Choose a shade that’s similar to your natural lip color so you know it coordinates with your skin tone.Avoid lip glosses that have a lot of glitter or shimmer in them. They usually don’t look natural.
If you want to go a little bolder with your lip color, opt for sheer pinks and peach shades.

