 The key to recovering files using a data recovery program is to stop using the drive immediately. When a file is deleted, it is set to be overwritten. If you stop using the drive immediately, you increase the chances that the file has not been overwritten yet.


Don't open any programs, save, create, or delete any files, and if the deleted file is on your startup drive, turn your computer off.
 Make sure to download the program on another computer or drive so that you don't accidentally overwrite the file you are trying to recover. Popular programs include:PhotoRec (Free)
Disk Drill (Free)
Data Rescue
FileSalvage

, If you can, install the data recovery program onto a disk drive in portable mode. This will allow you to connect the drive to your Mac and then run the program off of the USB drive, preventing anything on your hard drive from getting overwritten.
 The process will vary depending on the program you choose, but generally you will be able to select the drive that you want to scan. Select the drive that contained the file you accidentally deleted. You may be asked to specify the types of files you want the program to look for. Narrowing the search can increase the speed of the scan.


You may be able to choose from a Quick or Full/Deep scan. Try the Quick scan first to see if your file can be recovered, as the Full scan can take a significant amount of time. If you can't recover the file in the Quick scan, then give the Full scan a go.
Some data recovery programs come with an image that you can boot from. This has the potential to recover more files than scanning from within OS X.
If you are using PhotoRec, you will need to indicate the file system that the drive is using. You can select "Other" unless the disk has been formatted with the EXT2/EXT3 file system., After scanning your drive, you will be presented a list of files that can be recovered. File names will often be destroyed, so you may have to preview each file individually in order to find the one you want.


Not all files can be restored. You may have to sift through multiple files to find the one you want since file names will be unrecognizable.
 After selecting the files you want to recover, you will be prompted to save the files somewhere. If you still have more files to try to find, do not save them to the drive they were deleted from. Instead, save them to an external drive or another connected drive.


If trying to recover a large number of files, recover the most important ones first. Even the recovery process can overwrite and corrupt deleted files, so make sure you grab the ones you need the most first.

