 You'll need to be running version 9.29.3.0 of Snapchat in order to access this new Lens. This update was released in April 2016 for both iOS and Android. You can check for updates in your device's app store., Snapchat will scan the pictures on your device and find faces to swap with. You'll then be able to select from these faces in Snapchat when selecting the Face Swap lens.


You can use pictures you've taken with your camera as well as pictures that you've saved or downloaded from the internet. You can use this feature to swap your face with someone famous or fictional, or with a friend that's thousands of miles away.
 You'll need to be in a well-lit room and your entire face should be in the frame.
 A wireframe outline should appear after a moment, and the various Lenses will appear at the bottom of the screen. Make sure you hold your device steady while pressing on your face.


Lenses may not work on older devices. If the wireframe does not appear and the Lenses don't load, your device may be too old to use them.
 Scroll all the way to the end of the selection. You'll see the purple Face Swap option with a picture of a camera and a smiley face.
 You may be prompted to allow the Snapchat app access to your device's photos. This is necessary for this filter to work. Tap "OK" or "Allow" to allow Snapchat to scan your saved photos.
 You'll see all of the faces that Snapchat was able to detect in the pictures stored on your device. Selecting a face will apply it to your face immediately. You can't browse through the photos on your device. Snapchat scans your pictures to find faces to use.Because you can use any picture stored on your device, this feature allows for some creative face swapping. You can even use pictures of animated characters, if they're detailed enough to get recognized by Snapchat as faces. For example, many modern video games feature faces that are incredibly realistic, and Snapchat can pick out these faces from screenshots saved to your phone.
You can download a picture of your favorite celebrity and easily swap faces using this effect as well. Try to find pictures taken directly on so that you can see the person's whole face.
 Once you've selected the face you want to use, you can record your Snap like normal. Tap the circle button to take a photo Snap, or press and hold it to record a video Snap. You can move your face and the swapped face will morph accordingly.
 After taking your Snap, you can make edits and send it off to friends.


If you really like the Snap you created with the swapped face, you can save it to your device before sending it so that it isn't lost forever. Tap the Download button to save the Snap.
Tap the Sticker, Text, and Pencil buttons to add stickers, text, and drawings to your photo or video Snaps.
Tap the "Add to My Story" button to send the Snap to your Snapchat Story. This will make it visible to all of your friends for 24 hours.
Tap the Send button to select the friends that you want to send your Snap to.

