 Choose a cue word or phrase to use when you take your dog outside, such as "Toilet time". If you use this word from the beginning, your Boxer puppy will learn to associate it with doing what he is supposed to do outside. When you bring the puppy home, take him straight outside to the toilet spot. The chances are he'll have a sniff around and toilet. When he does, say the cue phrase and then give him lots of praise or even a small treat. You are rewarding the good behavior (toileting in the desired spot) so that he starts to understand this is an easy way of getting a lovely fuss made about him.When house-training a puppy, when possible take him outside every 20 to 30 minutes. This is to increase the chance of the puppy squatting as a matter of coincidence, and increases your chances of being there to give him lots of praise. Persistence at house-training is key.Watch your Boxer puppy carefully when he is inside. If he is walking in circles or sniffing the floor, he is likely getting ready to relieve himself. Take him outside immediately. If the puppy makes it outside, be sure to give him a treat and praise.
When house-training, keep your Boxer confined to one room, so there are fewer distractions for him. In addition, if he does have an accident, you can find it and deodorize the spot. A dog allowed to roam the house may squat secretly and, if you don't find it, the smell will draw the puppy back to urinate there again., Clicker training gets the dog to associate the "click-clack" sound of a clicker (pressed by you) with a reward. The clever part of the clicker is that it can mark the precise moment that a desired action took place, hence building a strong link between the action and reward. Boxers are highly trainable because they are very food-motivated, which makes clicker training ideal for them.Learn how to clicker train your dog. The clicker itself is a tiny plastic box held in the palm of your hand, with a metal tongue that you push quickly to make the sound. Eventually your dog will come to learn that clicks are always followed by treats, which is a very powerful incentive for Boxer puppies. One your dog makes this connection, you can use the click to mark the instant he performs the right behavior, such as sitting down. Over time, he will learn that sitting down when commanded gets him rewards.
 Crate training your Boxer is great idea. The idea is that the Boxer thinks of the crate as his den, a place where he's safe and can relax and sleep. Let the puppy discover the crate and want to go in voluntarily. The crate should be big enough for your puppy to turn all the way around, stand up and lie down. Boxers do grow to be fairly large, so you may have to invest in a larger crate as your puppy gets bigger.Learn how to crate train your dog or puppy. Make the crate an appealing place with a comfy dog bed, and scatter some treats inside. Give the puppy some meals in there but leave the door open. Once the puppy is happy to go to the crate, you can close the door for a few seconds, and open it again and if the puppy was quiet give her lots of praise.
Note that a crate should never be used as a punishment or a prison, and should only ever be used in a positive way.
Be aware of the following crate-time guidelines, and avoid leaving any dog in a crate for over five hours at a time (with the exception of overnight):

Age 9 to 10 weeks: 30 to 60 minutes
Age 11 to 14 weeks: 1 to 3 hours
Age 15 to 16 weeks, 3 to 4 hours.
Age 17+ weeks: 4 or more hours (but never more than six).



