 In order to gain your younger sibling's respect, it’s important that they see you are a fair person. If you’re in a situation where you’re in charge, don’t take advantage of your power by being unfair. This could include controlling the TV programming, hogging the computer or game console, or taking what’s not yours.


Try to share with your younger siblings so they come to appreciate when you have to care for them.
If you have more than one sibling you have to look after, make sure to be equally fair to all of them.
 Younger siblings can be incredibly annoying and stubborn at times, but it’s important to keep your cool. Allowing them small, inconsequential victories will boost their self esteem and make them feel better. As a result, you'll also avoid unnecessary conflict. Don’t fight with your siblings. Be the authority and example they can aspire to be like.


A younger sibling may not always accept your authority.However, you can condition them over time as long as you maintain your maturity.
Letting your sibling win in a videogame is an easy way to make them feel good., Your younger sibling will trust you the more that they see you can solve problems when your parents are away. They will come to you for guidance if they need something and the more you’re able to act like a parent, the more they’ll respect and look up to you.


Clean spills or messes before your parents come home.
Helping younger siblings with homework will also show them how knowledgeable you are.
 You could confuse a younger sibling if your rules are different than when your parents are around. There should be house rules that are established that never change or deviate.Be firm when you reprimand a sibling for breaking the rules. They need to know they did something wrong so they don't do it in the future.
 One way to build distrust is to brag about how much later you can stay up, or the types of movies or music you’re allowed to listen to. This will only make a younger sibling feel resentment towards you.


Avoid talking about the special things you're allowed to do. Instead, enjoy that you’re able to do them.

