 Place the bone in a small to medium bowl and cover it with room temperature water. Allow the bone to soak for an hour or two.


As with fabric fibers, the bone fibers pick up dye more readily when wet.
You only need enough water to keep the bone submerged.
 When you're ready to start dyeing the bone, fill a saucepan with 1 to 2 cups (250 to 500 ml) of warm to hot water. Set it on your stove and switch on the heat to medium.


You only need enough water to keep the bone submerged.
Use a saucepan that will not react to the dye. One made of stainless steel or enamel works best.
 Sprinkle in 1/2 oz (14 g) of acid dye powder in any color. Mix with a non-reactive spoon until the powder is dissolved.You need to add between 1/3 and 2/3 oz (9.5 and 19 g) dye powder for every 1 lb (450 g) of bone you plan to dye.
On average, 1/2 oz (14 g) should work well for small batches of bone. Keep in mind that more dye powder will produce a darker color, while less will produce a lighter color.
You may want to wear rubber gloves or plastic gloves to prevent your hands from accidentally coming into contact with the dye.
 Remove the bone from its soak and transfer it to the dye bath.


Do not dry the bone at all before adding it to the dye bath.
 Increase the heat to medium-high or high. Continue heating the dye bath until it reaches a temperature between 185 and 200 degrees Fahrenheit (85 and 93 degrees Celsius).


Stir the dye bath frequently as it heats up.
Use a cooking thermometer to monitor the temperature of the dye bath.
 Pour 1/4 cup (60 ml) of vinegar into the dye bath. Stir to combine.


Acid dyes work best when combined with an acid, like vinegar.
Note that you will need 1/4 cup (60 ml) vinegar per 1 lb (450 g) of bone.
You could substitute the vinegar for 1 Tbsp (15 ml) citric acid per 1 lb (450 g) of bone if desired.
Try to avoid pouring the vinegar directly on top of the bone as you add it.
 Keep the bone in the dye bath for an additional 30 minutes. The dye bath must remain at the same approximate temperature during this time.


You may need to adjust the heat settings on your stove to maintain this temperature.
Stir the dye bath frequently during this half hour.
If you want a stronger color, you can leave the bone in the dye bath for a longer period of time.
 Remove the bone from the dye bath. Wash the bone with warm water and a mild liquid soap.


Continue rinsing the bone under running water after removing the soap. Do not stop rinsing until the water runs clear and all excess dye has been washed away.
 Place the dyed bone in a sunny location and allow it to dry completely.


Once the bone is dry, the process is complete.

