 You can launch the game from the desktop or Start menu. Once launched, log into your account. A progress bar will then be displayed as the game tries to download any required updates from the Internet.;
, As soon as all the updates are downloaded, the “Play” button on the dialogue box will activate. Click it to open NFS World.


When the game has finished loading, press “Enter” or any other key to start. Your NFSW profile details will be displayed.
 Free Roam is a mode in the game (and most other modern NFS titles) that allows you to tour the city for familiarization or to find races you can engage in.
 This will take you to your Safe House.


A Safe House on NFSW is a facility where you can buy new cars and manage them.
 On the Safe House Menu, click “Customization” and then select “AfterMarket Shop.” This will open a page where you can purchase or sell parts for or from your car.


There are two small windows on the AfterMarket Shop page that allow you to view purchasable items and items that are already installed on the car. The window labelled “Inventory” allows you to view and sell parts already on your car while the one marked “Store” allows you to purchase new parts. Click the round button that links the two windows to toggle between them.
 Activate the Inventory window by clicking the round button and then clicking the downward-facing arrow on it to view the categories of body parts that are already installed on the vehicle.
 For instance, to sell a Level 2 Lowering Kit, select “Lowering Kit” from the categories. This will display all lowering kits available on the car.
 Drag the part to sell onto the Sell Parts tab. The Sell Parts tab is found at the bottom right of the Aftermarket page.


A confirmation dialog box will appear, asking you to confirm that you want to sell the part. Click “Yes.” The part will be removed and your cash balance incremented with the value of the part.
Press “Escape” to exit to the Customization menu and “Escape” again to return to Free Roam.

