 Shuffle and deal out all the cards so that every player has twelve.;
, Bidding is simply deciding how many points you wish to offer up, typically depending on the value of the cards you have. The minimum bid is 250 points and bidding is done in multiples of 10. Whoever makes the highest bid declares the trump suit, which is whatever pattern declared to be worth the most by whoever wins the bid.
 Melding is to lay down combinations of cards to score you points. Pinochle has five different types of melding:


A pinochle is the jack of diamonds and the queen of spades. You can also get a double pinochle by having both jacks of diamonds and both queens of spades.
An around is a set of four cards of the same level (e.g. all aces) in four different suits (diamond, club, heart, space). You can also get a double around (all eight cards of the same level) for 10 times the points. However, arounds and double arounds are only worth points if you have them in aces, kings, queens, or jacks. Tens arounds and nines arounds around do not count for anything.
A marriage is a king and a queen of the same suit (e.g. both clubs). A marriage is worth twice as much in the trump suit (mentioned above).
A run is an ace, ten, king, queen, and jack all in the trump suit. If you have an extra king or queen (or both) in trump, it's worth even more points. But playing a run that's not in the trump suit is worth nothing.
A dix is a nine of the trump suit. A dix is worth 10 points, and gets its name from that fact ("dix" is French for "ten"). DOUBLE DECK

, For example, you can have a queen that's part of a marriage and also part of a pinochle, but not part of two marriages or two pinochles at once.
 If their score so far is more than 250 points less than what they bid, they should forfeit, which is called going set. This means that your bid amount is subtracted from the points you've gotten in previous rounds. Going set will make it harder for your team to win, but it is still a better option than going ahead and giving extra points to the opposing team.
 Trick-taking is putting down one of your remaining cards at a time to determine who gets the rest of the points. Each person plays a card, starting with the bid winner, and you must play the same suit as the person before you. If you cannot, you should play a card in the trump suit, and if you have neither of those suits you just play whatever you'd like to get rid of. This continues until all the cards are gone. You will receive 10 points or zero points, depending on what you put down.


The ace, ten, and king are worth 10 points each while the queen, jack, and nine are worth zero. However, a card in the trump suit is always worth more than a card not in trump. So if one person plays a nine in trump and the other three all play aces, the first person wins but nobody gets any points; that's just how it works.
Whoever wins the first trick is the first one to play for the next trick. The winner of that trick will start off the next trick, and so on.
There are 240 potential points to be scored in the trick-taking phase, since in each Pinochle deck there are 24 aces, tens, and kings. Also, whichever team wins the last trick gets an extra 10 points, for a grand total of 250.
 Shuffle the cards and begin again at step 1 until one team reaches 1500 points. This is also the time to trade in players if you have more than four people, or to play different teams if you have multiple games of Pinochle going on in the room.

