 Liver is one of the most vitamin B12-rich foods available. You can give your dog cooked beef or chicken liver two or three times a week as a snack in between meals.


For example, you would want to feed a 10 kilogram dog 50 to 70 grams of cooked liver.
Eggs are also high in B12. In addition they contain a lot of Vitamin A, Riboflavin, Folate, Vitamin B12, Iron, Selenium, and Fatty acids. Give your dog raw eggs, adding one egg three times a week to their dog food.
Remember to add these foods gradually, so that they do not upset your dog's stomach.
 High energy dog food means they have a high caloric content and can easily be absorbed and assimilated into the body. This will prevent thinning and emaciation, and will aid in giving your thin dog additional weight.


Good brands to try include Hill’s Science Diet High Energy ®, and Royal Canin Veterinary Diet High Energy.
You can also try transitioning your dog onto a puppy food. Puppy food contains more calories than regular food, because it is designed to serve the high energy needs of growing puppies. The down side is that puppy food tends to be rich, and may upset some dogs' stomachs.
Introduce it gradually, adding a spoonful to the existing food, and gradually building up the amount feed over 4 - 5 days. Monitor the dog's feces and if diarrhea develops then stop the new food.
 Imagine yourself eating the same dry food, or the same cereal or soup, day in and day out. You’d probably get bored of it. Dogs can experience a similar boredom with their food. Sometimes switching from dry to wet canned food, or vice versa, will do the trick and get your dog to start eating again.


However, be aware that tin food contains a lot less calories than dry food. For the same volume of food, wet food contains just a quarter of the amount of dry kibble, so a little dry kibble is worth a lot of wet food. This is because wet food is 60 - 80% water, so whilst it may be more appetizing, you run the risk of filling the dog's stomach with water and giving it inadequate calories.
 Feeding your dog homemade recipes can give variety to your dog’s diet, making it more interested in its food.


A sample recipe is from Founder's Veterinary Clinic of Brea, California. This sample recipe is for a 10-kilogram dog that you can divide into two for a 5-kilogram dog, or double the amount for a 20-kilogram dog. The dog food consists of 100 grams of cooked, skinless chicken; 1 cup of cooked brown rice; 1 cup of peas and carrots; 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil; and 1/4 teaspoon of a salt substitute. Cook all of these ingredients and mix them together.
Try other recipes like this chicken and rice dog food, or this raw food diet.


