 It is generally a good idea to clean up after you have urinated, regardless of where it is. Hand sanitizer, baby wipes, or paper towels pre-soaked in soapy water are all good options.You can find hand sanitizer and baby wipes at any big box store (like Walmart) or any supermarket. If you do not want to buy the large size you can get the travel size.
To pre-soak your paper towels: Take a dry paper towel and place it under running water until it is soaked. Pump one or two drops of hand soap onto it and rub it in until the soap lathers. Squeeze out any excess water and fold it into your desired size.
 When you need to urinate, pull your car over to a safe and discreet place. Make sure you are in a location that is far enough away from traffic that you will have some privacy. Taking an exit from any main road is preferable. Do not pull your automobile onto the shoulder of a major freeway or highway, for safety.
 Step out of your car and look around you. Make sure there are no people nearby who can see what you are doing. If there are, choose another location. It is also important to check that you are not urinating on someone’s private property.
 If you are in a location that is remote (near a wooded area or close to shrubs), walk several feet from your car and find a spot that is semi-to-fully obstructed. This way nobody walking or driving by will be able to see what you are doing.


Standing behind a tree or large shrub, in the middle of some tall grass, or behind a fence are all good options.
Once you find a good spot, go ahead and do your business. If you are female, pull your pants down around your ankles and squat behind a tree or shrub.
If there is no discreet area available, stand behind your open passenger door. Face away from the road. If you are female, pull your pants down around your ankles and squat behind the passenger door. Squat as close to the body of the car as possible for the most privacy.
As a female, if you can't squat because you have a knee problem, or the area seems gross, you can stand by referring to Urinate Standing Up as a Female. Remember that this takes practice, so if you still have a few days before you go to the automobile trip, start the practise right away!
Be careful not to get caught, you could be fined for disorderly conduct. Depending on where you are, fines range from $50 to $500., Once you are done, re-situate yourself and get back into your car. Leave your used tissues or toilet paper in your pee spot. They are biodegradable and will disintegrate quickly. Before you hit the road, it is a good idea to clean up using the cleaning supplies you brought with you.
 Continue driving toward your destination. Make sure you drink enough water. Dehydration causes fatigue, which is a bad combination with driving.