 Talk to your teacher at the start of the term to discuss how they can help you get the most from each lecture. If possible, make arrangements to show up for class early to preview that day’s lesson.Tell them, “Meeting 15 minutes before class starts to preview the lesson’s main points would be helpful. It’s easier to take and review notes when I know the main aims of a class session.”
Ask if they use outlines for class sessions and if they’re willing to provide you with them.;
, If you record lectures, talk to your teacher about how they can accommodate you. Test your device with them before class starts to make sure you get a clear recording.Be sure to ask your teacher to verbalize anything they write on chalkboards or other visual aids they use. You can also help your teacher remember that moving around too much or talking with their back to you might muffle the recording., Have your school’s disability support office appoint someone to take notes for you. They can assign you a notetaker, typically another student, and give the note taker  a special carbonless notebook to easily create copies of notes.It’s usually easier to study from notes that are already reduced to an outlined, bullet point form. Audio recordings of lectures are great for getting a full description, but it can take time to consolidate a recorded lesson into a quick study outline.
 It can be tempting to just try to memorize your notes and recordings. However, you’ll have much more success if you aim to understand the material instead of simply memorizing it. Listen to your recording, pause it, say it to yourself out loud, and write down any questions you need to ask your teacher or personal tutor., Do your best to go to any study sessions that your teacher or peers offer. These will give you more opportunities to ask questions than a typical class session. You can go over your notes or listen to a lecture recording, identify areas where you need clarification, then get a better understanding in study group., If your teacher or professor has office hours, do you best to make regular visits. You'll have the opportunity to ask questions or get clarification on topics giving you trouble. You can also ask about the most important points to study, which will help you organize and consolidate your notes.

