 Many people meet someone and jump straight into a relationship because they prefer not to be single. While this does fill one of your needs, you have no way of knowing of that person will make you happy in the long run. The first thing that you should do is reflect on what you want out of a relationship and out of a partner, and what attracts you to someone else. Think about things like:Do I want to be with someone who is career or family oriented? What physical features do I find attractive in a person? What about a person’s personality attracts me? Do I want to be with someone who is spontaneous or predictable?
Think about your list, but remember that no one can ultimately make you happy but yourself. Think about the traits that would compliment what you want in a happy life, rather than depending upon someone else to bring fulfillment to you.;
, The best way to meet people that have things in common with you is to go out and do the things you love doing. Inevitably, you will meet someone that enjoys doing the same things. This is a great start to a potential relationship, as you will naturally attract people when you are doing something you enjoy.For example, if you are an avid book reader, you might join a book club for people around your age.
There are many organizations and groups from book clubs to adventure clubs that can help you spark a relationship with someone who enjoys similar things.
 The friends you already have are likely to have common interests and know other people with interests like your own. Sometimes, a friendship can transition into a relationship easily if there’s an attraction between the two people. Friends can also introduce you to someone that they know and think you’d like.


Do not try to force a relationship with a friend. This can lead to a failed relationship and a failed friendship.
 Though the internet makes it easy for people to create a false representation of themselves, there are people out there who are looking for genuine relationships. You can explore dating sites and social media to meet people and get to know them. Just be careful when going out with a person you meet on the internet. You should always meet in a safe, public place.