 Feeling irritable might be your mind's way of telling you that you need to take a break. When you feel a mood change coming on, make it a point to step away from the situation and take some time for yourself. This can be as simple as taking a quick walk around the block to calm yourself down.Make it a habit to set some time aside your yourself each day. Maybe you can reserve the last half hour of each day to read a book. Or you could wake up a little early to enjoy having your first cup of coffee in complete silence.
When you notice yourself being irritable, give yourself a break. Take some time to listen to music or do a few relaxing yoga stretches.
 When you are impatient, you are more likely to feel irritable, overwhelmed, and stressed. Try to practice patience in your everyday life. It's not easy, but it will have positive benefits for your overall mood.Try to slow down. Research shows that by moving at a slower pace, you will feel less hurried, and therefore less impatient. Try to eat more slowly, breathe more slowly, and take time to appreciate your surroundings.
Be flexible. It's important to know that things won't always go your way. Be prepared for things to go wrong or take longer than expected. For example, maybe you only scheduled thirty minutes to get your kids dressed and off to school. Try building a little flex time into your schedule. That way, if it takes a little longer than expected, you won't feel like your entire day has been thrown off course.
 Meditation can having amazing emotional benefits. Reports say that it can cause decreased irritability, greater ability to deal with conflict, and more emotional balance. Try adding meditation to your daily routine. You will see definite changes in your mental health.You can mediate by choosing a quiet, comfortable place to sit. Close your eyes and focus on breathing deeply. You can let your mind drift or focus on a mental image, such as rolling waves or a flickering candle.
There are many guided meditations available. Try downloading one to your phone. They are available in many time increments, from two minutes to two hours. Guided sessions are great for those new to mediation.
 You may feel that you are chronically irritated about something. For example, maybe your child can never seem to remember to make his bed before school. Instead of letting this ruin each and every morning by causing irritation, talk to yourself about reasons to just let it go.This is also known as "dropping the story". Instead of letting the messy room invade your thoughts all day, practice some self-talk. Whenever you think of the unmade bed, remind yourself that your child is sweet, caring, and humorous. Eventually, those will be the thoughts that your brain instinctively focuses on.
 Anxiety is one of the primary reasons we become irritable. Often, unexpected events can cause that anxiety, leading to an overall irritability. Think about what happens to your mood when a traffic accident causes you to be 20 minutes late for work. That unexpected delay can cause ripple effects throughout your whole day. You can't stop the unexpected from happening, but you can definitely take steps to handle surprises better.Take a deep breath. Calming yourself with slow, conscious breathing can help you stay calm and stave off irritability.
Allow your anxiety to exist. Don't cause yourself to feel worse by being angry at yourself for being anxious. Instead, acknowledge your emotions, make a plan to fix the situation, and move on. If you're going to be late for work, maybe just acknowledge that you'll have to eat lunch at your desk to make up for lost time.
 It's possible that you are irritable because you are surrounded by people who are negative. Moods are contagious. If you want to be in a good mood, one of the best things you can do is surround yourself with those people who make you happy and relaxed.You cannot always choose who you spend time with. For example, if you have a negative co-worker, you obviously can't just cut her out of your life. You can, however, make a conscious choice to not allow your own mood to be affected by her negative attitude. You can also limit your interactions with her as much as possible.
Think positive thoughts. Throughout the day, take some time to focus on something good. It can be as easy as appreciating the smell of your morning coffee.
 If your home is cluttered, chances are your mind is, too. Having disorganization in your daily life can lead to greater stress, which can increase feelings of irritability. Try keeping your environment neater. You'll feel better mentally. Take 10 minutes each evening to do a general straightening-up of your living space. Your mind will feel relaxed as you go to bed, and you'll wake up feeling better prepared to calmly face the day.
Try keeping your desk neat. You'll end up feeling calmer at work, and less likely to be crabby.

