 If anyone knows your in-laws, it's your spouse. You should try to find out what they do and do not like in people so you know how to act around them. You may find out that your in-laws do not like when someone is "too nice", so to speak.;
, Any person's family want their family member to be happy and loved. Any hint this is not the case and they will begin to form negative opinions. Never argue or have a spat in front of your partner's family. Not only will the family side with your family making you outnumbered it is a source of embarrassment to your partner to have you act in that manner.
 Do not try to come between your partner and their family. Not only will this create issues within your relationship but will instantly put your in-laws offside. If you have a troublesome in-law, speak respectfully to your partner in private and ask them to address the person or issue. Do not take the lead in someone's else family unless it is an urgent or unsafe issue.
 Be the role model they need to live up to. Unless they've done something terrible (such as abused your spouse or something of that nature), treat them with respect. Respect goes a long way, and you might find them being able to open themselves up easier to you.
 If you put up an attitude, your in-laws are less likely to take to you. However, if you say your please and thank-you's, they will most likely see you as a friendly, approachable person.


Use good manners in their presence. Be on your best behavior. If you're invited to their home for a meal, take a bottle of wine or something appropriate. Always offer to assist in the kitchen and offer to clean up. Remembering simple courtesies like that will go a long way to a positive reception.
 Remember they have been a family for longer than you have known them and have established their own customs and norms. While you personally might not like certain things, you are not in a position to assert authority over them or demand like a diva they do things your way.
 This will most likely cheer them up about seeing you, as well as making you appear friendly.
 Gifts are a great way to show how much you like someone. Find out what kinds of things your in-laws are into, and give them presents. Make sure you remember birthdays!

, You can talk about an array of things. Discuss what you both have in common. Doing this will often lighten the atmosphere, and you may be surprised to find how many similar likes you both have. Try to avoid arguments, as that can quickly turn into bitterness against you.


Get to know your in-laws as people. Everyone has a story to tell and things to learn about each other that help form the common basis of all relationships. Get to know your in-laws as people not just someone you have to interact with. This may open up new perspectives on the reasons they act or do things the way they do. It also greatly helps when it comes time to buying gifts.
 If you act tense and uncomfortable around them, they may become the same way. Your in-laws may become offended if you act distanced from them, and may think that you do not like them.

