 Soak your finger in warm water for about 15 to 20 minutes. Soaking helps relieve pain in the finger and helps with swelling. You can do this three or four times a day.Dry the fingernail thoroughly after soaking it. You should keep your ingrown fingernail dry unless you are soaking it.
After soaking your finger, you should then place any ointment or oil on the fingernail. You should also replace any cotton or bandages after soaking the finger.
 Another option to help an ingrown fingernail is to soak your hand in Epsom salt. Fill a bowl with warm water and add a couple of tablespoons of Epsom salt per quart of water. Let your hand soak for 15 to 20 minutes.Epsom salts help relieve pain and inflammation.If you want to apply a bandage to the ingrown fingernail, dry the finger completely after soaking. Then apply a bandage.
 Hydrogen peroxide is used to prevent infection.You can soak your ingrown fingernail in a solution of warm water and hydrogen peroxide. Add half a cup of peroxide to the warm water.You can soak your finger for 15 to 20 minutes.
You may also place the peroxide onto a cotton ball or piece of gauze and apply it directly the the ingrown fingernail.
 Tea tree oil has antifungal and antibacterial properties, which can help with an ingrown fingernail.When you soak your nail, add two or three drops of tea tree oil to the warm water. Mix a drop or two of tea tree oil with a tablespoon of olive oil and rub it on the nail to prevent infection.


The tea tree oil can also help keep the nail a bit softer. You can put a drop of tea tree oil diluted in a tablespoon of olive oil on the nail daily. You can use tea tree oil as an alternative to antibiotic ointment since you probably won’t need both.After the tea tree oil soaks in, put a dab of Vicks VapoRub or Mentholatum on the sore area. The menthol and camphor will work to reduce the pain and help soften the nail. Keep the menthol or camphor on for 12 to 24 hours using a bandage or a small piece of gauze.
If you are using cotton to lift your nail, you can put tea tree oil on the cotton you place under your fingernail.

