 You will need beads, beading string, and a beading needle. You will also need a beading loom. If you have a beading loom and beading kit, go for larger seed beads and one large toggle bead to finish. If you are starting from scratch, buy a small bag of beads in the colors you want to use. The beads should all be the same size, though you may buy one larger one to seal the headband if you want.


Build a loom. You can make a beading loom by attaching two combs to a sturdy box or box lid. Take two matching combs, or snap a single comb in half. Tape or glue each comb to parallel sides of the box, each at the edge, so that the teeth protrude into the air.
Buy string for beading. A slightly elastic string will make your headband more comfortable.
 Beaded headbands were worn by members of many tribes, including those of the Cheyenne, Sioux, Crow, Sauk, Fox, Winnebago, Kickapoo, Cree, and Arapaho. Search online for patterns traditional to these tribes, or find one in a book about North American beadwork. You can also invent your own design. Draw your design on graph paper, coloring in the squares to represent the beads you will use.


You run less risk of offending a native person if you opt for a beaded headband, as they hold less spiritual significance than feathered warbonnets or headdresses., Tie beading string to the leftmost tooth of the loom (or comb), then stretch taut across the loom and cut it to size, leaving two or three inches of string hanging loose outside the loom. Tie the loose end to the leftmost tooth of the other side of the loom. Repeat until you have enough parallel strings to contain your design.
 Arrange your pattern to match your loom, in a vertical line, and start counting beads from the top row. Count out the first 5 lines of your pattern and thread the corresponding beads onto a long thread in the order you have counted. Count from left to right for the first row, then right to left for the second, then left to right, etc.


This is because you will be weaving the beaded string through the strings on the loom from left to right, then right to left, switching each time a row ends.
 Tie the end of the string to a needle, and weave in and out of the rows. Go over the first string, under the next, then over, then under. Weave your first row at the loom's top, weaving left to right. You'll end up on the right: start the same process again from the right, then back again from the left. Stop after your first five rows to see if the pattern is coming out as you'd planned.


If it is, line up your next 5 rows on the string and keep weaving.
If it isn't, undo your glitchy rows and count your beads again.
 Use a tape measure to measure the head of the person who will wear the headband. Weave until you have reached that length, or an inch shorter if you want to tie off the ends. Cut your headband free, and tie the two or three inches of thread you left hanging together so that the beads stay in place. You may tie a large bead to one side, and make a loop with the other, large enough to go around the bead.


Trim for tidiness.
If you don't want to use the large bead method, you can tie the dangling thread on each side in a knot. Tie the two knotted ends together when you want to wear your band.
If your band fits exactly, you can tie the ends together tightly and wear it as is.

