 Ingesting the right foods is one of the most important elements of maintaining a healthy lifestyle and reducing your risk of cancer.Include plenty of fruits and vegetables in your daily diet. Aim not just for quantity, but for variety. Studies have shown that consuming a wide variety of fruits and vegetables has a significant impact on overall health.Limit your consumption of foods high in animal fat, as women with diets high in animal fat have been shown to have a higher risk of uterine cancer.Foods rich in fiber will promote a healthy digestive tract by helping eliminate toxins and byproducts from your body. If you’re not taking in enough fiber through your diet, consider taking over-the-counter fiber supplements that promote regularity and proper digestion.;
, Probiotics limit the growth of harmful bacteria which transform procarcinogens into carcinogens, and they strengthen one’s overall immune system.Probiotic-rich foods include yogurt, kefir, kombucha, and raw cheeses. Check the label of the product to make sure that it contains live and active cultures.
If you're not partial to naturally probiotic-rich foods, you can take a probiotic supplement. Such supplements are widely available over the counter at your local drugstore or health food store.
 In addition to eating a healthy diet, being physically active will improve your overall health and reduce your risk of uterine cancer.If you're engaging in moderate-intensity physical activities like walking, you should exercise for at least 30 minutes a day, five times a week. If your physical activity is something intense like running or rowing, you should exercise for at least 20 minutes a day, 3 times a week.Low-impact exercises like yoga or spinning are just as good for you as jogging or hiking, so don’t miss out on physical activity just because you have knee or joint conditions.
 Paired with a balanced, calorie-controlled diet, frequent exercise should lower your likelihood of becoming overweight or obese. Fat cells produce estrogen, one of the main causes linked to uterine cancer, so weight should be controlled as much as possible.While weight loss has been shown to resolve some precancerous conditions, studies show that major weight loss through diet and exercise is almost always futile or unsustainable. If you're more than 75 pounds overweight, consider your options for bariatric surgery, which has a much higher success rate over the long term.Medical management by obesity specialists can also help.
 Sleeping between 8 and 10 hours a night has been shown not only to diminish one’s risk of cancer, but also to improve many aspects of daily life such as attention span, energy, and mood levels.Getting enough sleep is also associated with lower rates of obesity, which helps to prevent uterine cancer.


Avoid drinking coffee or energy drinks after 7:00 in the evening.
Though it seems to be part of our modern lifestyle to watch television in bed, studies have shown that keeping your bed a sleep-only zone encourages more restful sleep patterns.Develop a night-time ritual that relaxes you and helps you to wind down for the evening. Experiment with aromatherapy candles, different books, and non-caffeinated teas or cocoas in order to find the right groove for you.
 Studies have shown that, since both pregnancy and breast feeding lower one’s exposure to estrogen over a lifetime, these conditions also diminish your risk of uterine cancer.