 People bully for a number of different reasons. However, the most common reason that people resort to bullying is that they're envious of something you represent and that they don't possess, such as status, money, smarts, or health. Or, they may be jealous of your relationship with someone they want to have in their life too.Be sympathetic, for trying to be like you is a strange form of flattery and it shows that they are truly misguided by not realizing that bettering themselves requires looking deep within, not scouting for scapegoats external to themselves., Along with understanding why people bully, you need to understand what kind of bully you're dealing with. The most common types are:


Aggressive bullies: These people are likely to abuse physically and without hesitation. Aggressive bullies hurt people to get their anger out physically and make you fear them. However, aggressive bullies usually get into the most trouble when you report them. Some aggressive bullies might threaten you by saying something like "report me and I'll beat you up". Learn to ignore the nonsense threats, they won't touch you.






Taunting bullies: These people are verbally abusive (calling names, making jokes, teasing, etc.). Taunting bullies usually work when there's a big crowd around you so they can make people laugh. They aim to make you hurt on the inside as opposed to on the outside. They could hurt you saying something against the way that other people think that you're cool. Remember that this is only because they wish people thought they were cool and they're trying to act big so people respect them.






Cyber bullies: These people harass other people through instant messaging, e-mail, and any other electronic means. Cyber bullies hide behind computers so that they don't have to face you. Unlike the other two types of bully, cyber bullies very rarely strike when you're with other people. This is because they can easily be caught out; what they've said is on the chat history. Cyber bullies often have nothing to say when you're around them, however you should still stay away.







