 Most decongestant herbs are best taken as steam treatments, breathing the herbs in, directly into the nose, the lungs, and the sinuses. Steam can help open up the nasal passages, help thin out the sometimes thick mucus, and allow the mucus to drain out of the sinuses. These treatments can be used along with pain relievers, antibiotics, and antifungal treatments as well as for viral infections of the sinuses.


If you are already seeing a physician, continue with those treatments along with steam treatments.If you are not seeing a physician and these treatments don’t give you any relief within five to seven days, make an appointment to see a physician. You may be dealing with a more complicated situation.
 You can use dried herbs or the essential oils when you use the steam method for your decongestion. Essential oils tend to be a bit more effective because they are the concentrated forms of the herbs.


You can also try a mixture of a couple different herbs or oils, such as eucalyptus and peppermint.
These essential oils have either antibacterial, antifungal, or antiseptic properties. This means they can kill bacteria and other microorganisms that can infect the sinuses as well as help break up congestion.
Be aware that allergic reactions are always possible with herbs. The first time you try an herb, do so for only three to five minutes for steam treatments and and then wait for 30 minutes to determine if you are experiencing any adverse reactions. If you do, choose another herb., Fill a one quart pot with water. Place the pan on the stove and let it boil. Remove from heat, then add either one to two drop of the essential oils or 1/2 a teaspoon of dried herbs for one quart of water. Sit the pot aside and cover. Let the oil or herb steep in the hot water for five minutes.If you don't have a quart pot, a kettle or other pot that can hold at least a quart of water will work fine.

Never place your head over boiling water. This can cause burns or serious injury.
Cayenne pepper is the exception to the recipe for teas and steam decongesting. Use ⅛ to ¼ a teaspoon. This herb is very strong and is too overpowering in larger doses., Open the lid of the pot. Place your hand over the pot to test the temperature. It should be hot but not painful. If it is a good temperature, cover your head with a large, clean cotton towel, close your eyes, and place your head over the steaming pot that is away from the stove. Keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water. You want the heat to enter your nose and throat, but you certainly don’t want to damage or burn yourself with heat.Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth for five counts and then in and out through your mouth for two counts.
Repeat for 10 minutes or as long as the water is still steaming. Try to blow your nose during and after the treatments.
You can do this every two hours or as often as your schedule permits.