 One of the known symptoms of a lupus flare is fatigue. A person suffering from a lupus flare needs adequate rest to overcome their symptoms and go about their daily activities.Try to get at least eight hours of sleep at night. Get yourself into a routine by going to bed and waking up at the same time each day.
Naps during the day can also help to reduce fatigue.;
, Many lupus flares are triggered by sunlight exposure. Therefore, it's important that you protect yourself from sunlight by wearing sunglasses and using an umbrella to shield your skin from direct sunlight.Avoiding direct sunlight and reducing sunlight exposure, as simple as it may seem, can make a big difference in the frequency and severity of lupus flares.
Also remember to wear sunscreen with a sun protection factor of at least 55 before going outside, even on cloudy days (harmful UV rays can penetrate the clouds).
Use sun protection and go out in the sun only when absolutely necessary.
 Stress can lead to a lupus flare.Meditation can be used as a technique to calm the body and mind. It is often used by people suffering from illness to attain physical relaxation, mental calmness, and psychological balance.Some evidence suggests that meditation can help improve the quality of life for lupus patients in particular.Mindfulness meditation is a simple and effective way to begin a practice of daily meditation:Sit in a comfortable position, whether in a chair, cross-legged, or kneeling.
Begin to pay attention to your breathing. Your mind will eventually wander. When you catch your mind wandering, bring your attention back to your own breathing.
Don’t stop to dwell on or judge your thoughts.
Continue this process for a short time, such as five minutes if you are trying it for the first time. Repeat this practice frequently, at least once a day. As you begin to practice mindfulness meditation regularly, you can gradually increase the length of the sessions, if you desire.
 Exercise is good for your physical health and it can also help to control stress, which often causes flare-ups.Try to get 30 minutes of moderate exercise every day.


Some good exercises to try include walking, biking, swimming, or taking an aerobics class.
Choose something that you like doing and that is appropriate for your current fitness level.
 People with lupus are more susceptible to viral infections, so it is best to avoid large crowds as much as possible.You may also want to steer clear of people when they are sick to protect yourself.
 Lupus may become a very painful disease. However, there are a few ways to handle the pain and make your day more comfortable. These techniques can also help reduce stress, lessening the risk of a flare.


One of these comfort measures is a good massage. A good massage can be very relaxing and soothing, as it can help to relieve both joint pain and systemic pain.
See a massage therapist, perform self-massage or ask a family member or friend to massage the painful area for you.
Use heat therapy. Another way to ease pain and promote comfort is by using heat. For example, a hot shower or a hot bath can ease systemic pain. For localized pain, a hot towel or a hot compress can be placed over the affected joint or area.
Make sure the hot compress or hot towel does not burn the skin. Place a dry towel around the hot compress if it is too hot.
Heat helps to relieve pain by increasing the blood circulation at the site of the pain.

