 Set an alarm clock the night before to wake you up with plenty of time to prepare for the day. Aim for at least 1-2 hours to wake up, eat, shower, and get dressed. While it may be hard at first, you’ll find that your body will gradually adjust to the routine. Once you start naturally waking up with the alarm, or shortly before it, you’ll know that you’ve trained yourself.One technique you can try is to set your alarm a minute earlier every day or every week. This way, you will slowly get used to waking up earlier and earlier, until you reach your target wakeup time., The snooze button is tempting – but it is not your friend. Using the snooze button can trick your body into thinking that it is really sleep time, which will make you feel groggy and wooly-headed. This is called “sleep inertia.” Hitting the snooze button also throws off your internal clock, disrupting the routine that you’ve been trying to build., Getting your blood running and your heart rate up is a sure way to be more alert in the morning. Try an exercise that you enjoy, like going for a run or bike ride; stretching is also beneficial. Morning exercise will not only wake you up, but it will boost your mood throughout the day and give you energy for hours. Fresh air helps, too!Time needn’t be an issue with exercise. As little as 15 to 20 minutes will do the trick. Plus, by exercising in the morning you’ll have more free time in the afternoon and evening.
 Especially if you are exercising, you should think about taking a shower to be clean and as a further way of waking yourself. Make sure the temperature is right; don’t be seduced and stay in the bathroom too long, however.


If you can bear it, turn the shower to the cold setting to wake yourself a bit more. Cold showers are miserable, but can in fact boost your awareness and mood. Then quickly turn the shower to the warmer setting and then finish your morning shower.Some shower gels claim to be useful for waking up, and are made with various herbal or fruit aromas. Try one designed to help you feel more refreshed.