 These can be as simple or complex as you'd like. Keep in mind the type of neighborhood you live in; if you live in a part of town that is known to have crime, some or all of the below precautions may be necessary, whereas in a "safer" neighborhood they may not be.


Install a security camera. This will allow you to see anyone that comes to your door before you open it, and will also deter burglars. Even having a fake camera can scare away thieves if you aren't willing to pay for a real one. If you do install a security camera, putting up a sign indicating video surveillance is a good idea, and may be even be required in certain areas.
Install an intercom speaker system. It is actually less expensive than you a think, and is a good way to safely communicate with people at your door without actually opening it.
Get a secure door chain if you don't already have one. This will allow you to speak to strangers through a small gap rather than open the door all the way. Make sure it is securely mounted with long screws so it will hold in case someone tries to push their way inside. The standard screws that come with the door chain are often too short and weak to withstand force.
Get a dog. Mean-looking or barking dogs will deter any strangers with bad intentions. Burglars often don't want to deal with dogs and will avoid your home altogether if it is evident that you own one.;
, Did you make plans for your friend to come over, or arrange for the plumber to fix your leaky sink? If so, it could be them, but it is still wise to double check before opening the door. If you aren't expecting anyone, there's no need to panic. They are likely a stranger, but it could still be an unexpected visit from someone you know.
 Avoid looking out the door's window (if you have one), and instead look out an adjacent window that is away from the door. That way they can't see you, and you can safely assess whether or not you know and trust them. If you have a peephole, you can use that as a method of identification too.
 It doesn't have to be with a firearm, either. A knife, baseball bat, pepper spray, golf club, etc. could also be used. Especially if you feel uncomfortable or that the person is suspicious, having a means of protecting yourself could help you feel more secure and potentially save your life in a bad situation.
 Any valid worker or salesman should be able to verify their legitimacy with the company they represent. If they can't or refuse to do so, decline their offer and ask them to leave your property or come back later. Just because they are dressed in uniform doesn't mean you should trust them.
 For example, if a salesman comes to your door selling something and you are uninterested, just tell them "No thank you." If you don't trust them or don't have time to listen, you could say "Sorry, I'm busy right now. Could you come back later?" Be polite the first time, but if they don't listen, continue to bother you, or insist to stay, call the police.
 Make the code word something really strange that you wouldn't normally use in conversation and couldn't easily guess, like "kangaroo". You could even make it multiple words or a phrase, such as "I like apple pie" to greatly reduce the chances of a stranger guessing it. Don't let anyone inside without telling you the code word, even if they insist.
 Whether you are too busy or for some other reason unavailable to answer the door, just ignore it. Whoever is there will likely just go away and leave you alone.

