 Wrist flexion and extension are one of several exercises that are important to get your wrist back to the condition it was prior to the injury. However, do not start any of these exercises until your doctor tells you that you can. Start slowly and stop of if you experience any pain.


Place your forearm with the bad wrist on the table.
Have your hand face palm down and extend your wrist and hand past the table edge.
Move your hand up by bending your wrist and close your hand into a fist.
Next, lower the hand and relax your fingers.
Each position should be held for six seconds.
 This exercise should only be done after your doctor or physiotherapist gives you the go ahead. Do the exercise eight to 12 times but only if it is pain free.


Sit down and place the affected wrist and forearm on your thigh with your palm facing down.
Flip your hand, so that your hand is now facing palm up and resting on the thigh.
Repeat flips to alternate between palm down and palm up.
 Wrist radial and ulnar deviation is the motion of moving your wrist from side to side. Start slowly and if no pain is present, repeat 8-12 times.


Hold the hand with the broken wrist in front of you, palm facing down.
Bend your wrist slowly as far as possible, from one side to the other.
Each position should be held for six seconds.
 Wrist extensor stretch can be an effective exercise to get your wrist back in shape. When no pain is present, repeat this move two to four times.


Extend your arm with the broken wrist.
Point the fingers toward the ground.
Use your other hand and bend your wrist until you feel a stretch that is mild to moderate in the forearm.
Hold for 15 to 30 seconds.
 Wrist flexor stretch can be difficult with a broken wrist at first. Start slowly and do not overdo it if you feel pain.


Extend your arm with the broken wrist in front of you, palm facing away from the body.
Point your fingers toward the ceiling by bending your wrist back.
Use your other hand to bend the wrist gently toward you or press it against a wall.
When you feel a stretch in the forearm, stop.
 This is an exercise that will help to get your grip back after the injury.


Rest your broken wrist on the table one side against the surface, holding your fingers straight.
Bend your fingers toward you from the joint that connects your fingers to your palm but keep the fingers otherwise straight so that you form a 90 degree angle.
Return to the starting position and repeat.
 This is another exercise to help get your grip back and ideally should be done eight to 12 times per session.


With your palm up, have the good hand placed on a table.
Take your injured hand and enfolded the fingers around the thumb of the hand that is good.
Uncurl the joints slowly on the injured hand.
Have only two of the top joints bent from your fingers so that your fingers look like a hook.
Return to the position you started at and repeat.
 To get as much as possible out of these exercises, they need to be done as quickly as possible.Use the thumb on your injured hand and touch the tip of every finger with it. Do this as quickly as you can.
Have your injured hand face palm upward and bend your thumb to the little fingers base. Then, stretch it out as far as you can to the side.

