 Swamp biomes are characterized by dark trees and grass, vines hanging from trees, and numerous bodies of water. You'll usually find them in ravines or as an extension of a forest biome.;
, Swamps are generally flatter than most other biomes, but you'll typically want to find a flat, wide area within the swamp.
 On Mac and PC, you can do this by pressing the F3 key; after doing so, you'll see a bunch of white lines of text pop up in the top-left side of the screen.


On the console and PE versions of Minecraft, you'll need to open a map to view the "Y" coordinate.
 When in a swamp area, slimes will appear between the 50th layer and the 70th layer.


For reference, sea level is at the 65th layer.
 The light level of your chosen area must be seven or less. You can create an artificially dark area by covering a section of the swamp's canopy with a dirt block ceiling and walls, or you can just find an area with a low enough light level.


You can view the light level by looking for the "rl" value in the second-to-last line of text when you have the coordinates view enabled.
 Slimes require two and a half blocks of vertical space to spawn, so you may need to clear out some foliage, which may in turn raise the light level.
 Slimes won't spawn if a player is within 24 blocks of the spawn area, and they will de-spawn if a player is 32 or more blocks away.
 Slimes spawn most frequently during a full moon, so you may want to build a small shack with a bed nearby and wait for the full moon part of the cycle.


Slimes will never spawn during a new moon.
 By creating several platforms with at least three blocks of vertical space between them, you can increase the number of surfaces on which slimes can spawn.


If you do this, make sure that all of the platforms fall within the 50- to 70-layer range.
 If you aren't able to prompt slimes to spawn in a swamp biome, you may have more luck underground. Slimes spawn in caves located in "slime chunks", which are 16 x 16 x 16 block areas.


You have a one in ten chance of coming across a slime chunk.
 When below layer 40, slimes can spawn in any light situation; adding torches will both make mining easier and prevent other hostile mobs from appearing.
 This constitutes a chunk. Slimes won't start spawning immediately while you're here, but you may be able to force them to do so by adding platforms.
 These platforms should be stacked on top of each other with three blocks of vertical space between each. Having these platforms increases the possible spawn area for slimes.
 As with the swamp biome, slimes won't spawn if you're 24 blocks (or closer) away from the spawn area.
 If you don't see any slimes within a standard night and day cycle, you'll need to find a new cave.

