 Good chocolate will have cocoa solids (the actual chocolate) and cocoa butter (the creaminess of the chocolate) as top ingredients.High-quality dark chocolate consists simply of cocoa solids, cocoa butter, and possibly vanilla, lecithin (an ingredient that keeps the chocolate from separating), and sugar.


If you browse the list of ingredients and see many ingredients you do not recognize, consider purchasing a different chocolate.
Milk or milk solids may be an ingredient in milk and white chocolates. Avoid chocolates that have sugar as the top ingredient or include additional fats or Dutch cocoa.;
, Check the date the chocolate was made: the more recently the chocolate was made, the fresher it will be. Aged chocolate will lose some of its quality and taste. Dark chocolate should be eaten within 1 year after purchasing, and both milk and white chocolate should be eaten within 6 months after purchasing.The production date is a bigger factor for retail chocolates that are expected to have a longer shelf life than handmade or specialty chocolates.
 Good chocolate will cost more than commercial grade chocolate, as it should. If you are looking for top-quality chocolate, expect to pay more for the quality.If you’re buying a well-made bar of dark chocolate, for example, you will likely pay three or four times what you would for a mass-produced milk chocolate bar.


A high price doesn't guarantee high-quality chocolate, though. Some sellers may try to sell commercial grade chocolates at a higher price. Price inflation can be especially prevalent if the chocolates are “pretty,” such as bonbons or truffles.
 Treatment with alkali results in a lower-quality chocolate, which you should avoid purchasing.Treating chocolate with alkali substantially reduces its health benefits. The process removes many of the compounds in chocolate (especially flavanol) that are good for your heart., If you’re purchasing chocolate to put in baked goods—like brownies or chocolate cake batter—you’ll most likely need a semisweet or unsweetened dark chocolate. Baking chocolate is typically sold in bars and will have a very high cocoa percentage, often over 70% cacao. Follow your recipe's directions, and buy a variety of baking chocolate that corresponds with the suggested cacao percentage.Baking chocolates will be located in the baking section of any grocery store. If you’d like to find an organic or all-natural brand, check the organic section, or visit a health-food grocery store.
Depending on the recipe you’re following, you can also bake with semi-sweet chocolate chips, wafers, or cocoa powder.