 As with so many other issues surrounding menopause, there is a good deal of controversy surrounding the idea that exercise can reduce the symptoms and frequency of hot flashes. Exercise may not be able to reduce hot flashes in all women, but in the field of treating menopausal symptoms, that is actually the norm. The signs and symptoms of menopause are so varied and are felt so differently in so many women that very few approaches can be said to be effective for all women.The controversy is not all that important because the benefits of exercise during any time in a woman’s life far exceed any controversy. The best advice is to exercise throughout your life because it will be beneficial.
Exercise has been proven to reduce the risk of heart disease, obesity, osteoporosis, diabetes, arthritis, and other chronic disorders, as well as potentially reducing the severity of hot flashes. You can essentially accomplish two goals using exercise as the approach, reducing hot flashes and reducing your risk of other medical problems.
 A number of studies show that a majority of women experience significant relief of hot flashes by increasing their physical activity.These studies used a variety of measures of physical activity. There was no preferred type of exercise, so these studies indicated that any increased physical activity could be effective in reducing hot flashes.


Exercise of any type also improved mood, strengthened bones and reduced the number of fractures, reduced stress, reduced sleep issues, and reduced weight gain.
In some women, exercise may cause hot flashes instead of reducing them. Talk to your doctor if this is the case.
 If you are starting with an exercise program or increasing your level of physical activity, start slow. Work yourself into increasing your physical activity slowly but steadily. Instead of focusing on instant goals, look at the bigger picture.For example, don’t start by trying to run a marathon. You may want to start by jogging a mile, or walking a mile or even half a mile. If you are lifting weights, don’t expect to lift the heaviest weights. Start with two, three, or five pound weights and increase from there.
Ask yourself how you will feel next month or in the next six months. Don’t focus on how you will feel tomorrow.
Remember that the physical changes you are striving for are long-term and you will see them. It will just take a bit of patience.
While we can all recognize the advantages of exercise at all stages of life, sometimes it’s hard to adopt an exercise program. Menopause can be a difficult time, especially if you are just starting to get involved in an exercise program. Don’t be too hard on yourself. Take it slowly and keep at it.
 If you expect to be able to stay with a new exercise program, make certain it is something that engages you and that you will enjoy. Play a sport you’ve always enjoyed. Pick up a hobby you used to have that you never had time for.


Think about your interests. Maybe you liked riding your bicycle as a kid, or you were on the track team in high school. Maybe you love hiking or kayaking. Try Zumba if you love dancing, or a spin class if you like cycling.
Try something new. If you’ve always wanted to do an activity, make this the time you finally go for it. Do a variety of activities. Try something new each day, or join a gym and attend all the different classes.
 You don’t have to exercise alone. Exercising with someone else can be motivating and help the time fly by. See if there is a friend or group of friends that will join you in your physical activity.Invite your partner or spouse along when you go out and exercise. Ask your kids to join you.
Find other women who are suffering from hot flashes. Start a menopause exercise group so you not only have someone you can work out with, but you can also help support each other as you deal with menopause.
 Any type of physical activity is good; however, you want to make sure your workouts are well-rounded so you work all aspects of your body and all your muscles. Whatever exercise program you choose, make sure it includes aspects of:Aerobics, focusing on movement and cardio health.
Strength training, focusing on weight training and building muscles.
Stretching, focusing on increasing your flexibility.
An example of a well-rounded routine would be: Warming up before walking with a slow, five minute walk. Then walk at a faster pace for four blocks. Then cool down for five minutes and stretch. After two weeks, increase to six blocks. After two more weeks, walk six blocks and add in a few sets of slow walking lunges, some pushups (for instance a modified pushup from a park bench), and a held plank (against a wall or a bench) for the abs. After one month, walk eight blocks and increase the number of reps of your added bodyweight exercises. Stretch after every workout.
 Pushing yourself is an important part of improving your overall health, but you can push too much and too far and cause yourself injury. Talk with your physician and work with a trainer or coach to make sure you are not pushing too much., You need to make sure you exercise long enough to get the benefits of the activity. Only doing it for a few minutes or once every week or two will not be enough to make a difference. When you begin, try for at least 30 minutes of physical activity at least four to five times a week.You can also split the 30 minutes into 10 minute increments throughout the day.
You can increase this amount of time as you get more fit, aiming for a total of 150 minutes each week.

