 Bathroom policies will vary from school to school, teacher to teacher, and grade to grade. If you do not understand the bathroom policy, ask your teacher or professor to explain the rules and procedures to you. If you can not remember the restroom rules, ask your teacher to remind you of the rules. If you can not comply with any part of the bathroom policy, set up a meeting with your parents, teacher, and principal to discuss the concern and develop a solution you can all agree on.In elementary, middle, and high school, you may be required to ask for permission to use the restroom.
In college and graduate school, most professors will let your come and go from the classroom as you please. When you do get up to use restroom, leave and reenter the room quietly and discretely.
If you are an exchange student, ask your host family, roommate, teacher, or professor to explain the country's cultural norms regarding using the bathroom at school.;
, Before asking to use the bathroom, make sure it is a convenient time for you to ask this question. Ask yourself, “Is it a good time to talk to my teacher and leave the classroom?”


Avoid asking your teacher to use the bathroom when they are in the middle of giving instructions, during the middle of a lecture, or during a lesson.
Do ask your teacher to use the restroom during independent work times, when you have finished all of your class work, or after you have completed a test.
If it is an emergency, remain calm and ask your teacher immediately., When it comes to asking to use the restroom, each teacher has a different policy. While some teachers prefer the traditional method of raising your hand to ask for permission, other teachers find this practice disrupting. Instead, they insist that their students use a special hand signal.


Raise your hand, wait patiently to be called on, and ask for permission to use the restroom. “May I please go to the restroom, Mr./Mrs/Ms. ____.”
Raise your hand with the special signal (perhaps crossed fingers) and patiently wait for a response. If your teacher is fine with you using the bathroom, they may nod their head "yes.” If your teacher would like you to wait, they may shake their head “no” or raise a finger to signal “wait a few minutes, please.”, Your teacher may respond in one of three ways: “yes,” “no,” or “not right now.” If you don’t receive the answer you were hoping to hear, you must respect your teacher’s answer. If it is an emergency, tell your teacher it is an emergency and you can't wait to use the restroom.


If your teacher says “yes,” thank them and exit the room. After using the bathroom, return to the room quietly.
If your teacher says “no” or “in a minute,” ask again in a little while.

