 Using heavy-duty jewelry cutters, cut wide-link metal chain down to a length of 18 inches (46 cm).


The opening of each chain link must be at least 1/8 inch (3 mm) in order for the ribbon to fit through it.
If desired, you could also make this a longer or shorter necklace by altering the chain length. Keep in mind that a longer necklace will be heavier, though, especially when using such a large chain.
 Unroll 1/8-inch (3-mm) wide polyester ribbon but do not cut it. Begin weaving this ribbon in and out of the links in your length of chain.


Work the ribbon over and under the links, alternating back and forth from link to link. It's best if you weave the chain around each consecutive link, but you could choose to weave it around every other or every third link for a slightly different look.
 Wrap the working end of your ribbon through and around the opening on one side of the buckle charm.


Continue weaving the ribbon through the chain links that now fall behind the charm.
Once you reach the other end of the charm, attach it to the opening at this opposite end, too.
 Continue weaving the ribbon through the remaining links of the chain. Don't stop until you reach the last link.


Pull approximately 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of ribbon through the last link.
 Apply a small dab of tacky glue to the free end of the ribbon, then fold this end over the last chain and onto the ribbon beneath it. Press firmly until the glue holds the ribbon in place.


Trim the other side of the ribbon, leaving approximately 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) tail, and glue it down over the starting link in the same manner.
 Open one 15-mm jump ring and attach it to one side of the chain. Hook a large (20-mm) hook-style clasp onto the jump ring, as well.


Due to the thickness of the jump ring, you may need to use standard needle-nose pliers instead of jewelry pliers.
Use the pliers to open the jump ring from side-to-side. Attach both the chain and clasp, then bend the jump ring closed again.
 Open another 15-mm jump ring and attach it to the opposite side of the chain. Close this jump ring after hooking it on.


This is the jump ring that the clasp should hook into when you put on the necklace.
 The project should be finished, and your new necklace should be ready to wear and enjoy.


When wearing this necklace, make sure that the decorative side of the buckle charm faces outward instead of facing toward your body.

