 Grab some blankets, chairs, and clothes pins or pillows and begin making an awesome blanket fort in your living room or bedroom. Use the pillows or clothes pins to attach your blankets to the chairs.
After your fort is complete, throw some pillows and blankets on the floor and crawl underneath it.
It could be fun as well to string some lights in your fort.;
, Ask your parents for extra scraps of fabric, ribbon, glue, beads, buttons and any other items they have lying around the house. Then, come up with some creative things you can make with your friend! Here are some examples:


Friendship bracelets
Pasta art (grab some noodles and make words with them!)
Paper chain necklaces
Wreaths for the doorCards for family or friends

, See what's in your fridge and pantry and mix up some delicious chocolate chip or sugar cookies. Ask your parents for their recipe book or find some great recipes online. , Grab some fun props, a camera, and wrapping paper and take lots of great pictures. Tape the wrapping paper to the wall and take pictures of each other with silly props, or set up a camera so that you can both be in the picture.
 Silly, pointless and all around goofy videos will keep you up laughing. Get a digital camera, video camera or anything to record and do whatever you want in the movie! Laugh, sing, dance, tell jokes, and have a blast.
 Put on your favorite songs, turn the music up, and have a dance party in your house.
 Have an array of nail polish colors set out to choose from and pick one for your nails. Let your friend paint your nails and you can paint hers.
 Get out the hair supplies, straightener, curling iron, and hairspray and create a fun hairstyle for your friend. You can go crazy and wild, or fun and cute. Try out different hair styles with each other and take tons of pictures.
 Either make your own facial mask or buy one at the store and give each other relaxing facials. Don't forget the cucumbers for the eyes!, Truth or dare is a good start as well as murder in the dark, charades, or hide and seek.


These may be difficult to play with just one other person, so just try them out and if they seem dull or boring move onto something else.
 Grab your pillows and begin swinging! Do this in an open area where you won't hit anything and make sure you aren't too rough.
 Twister is always a great party game as well as card games like "Old Maid" and "Go Fish." If your parents have an old game of Taboo grab the buzzer and "Buzz" when someone starts falling asleep.
 If it's not too late, go outside and play games like basketball or tag. Invite some neighborhood friends to join in your fun.
 Come up with a list of items to find or places to go and take a camera along with you so you can take pictures to document that you found the item on the list. If you're not able to leave the house then make a list of items you can find in your home or outside. Once you've found an item take a silly picture with it and then you and your friend will be cracking up as you are going through your pictures. Do this together as a team or make it a competition for who can find the most items on the list., There's never a better time to talk about your lives and share your secrets than when you are tired, hyped up on sugar, and eager to gossip. Grab your sleeping bags and talk with your friend about everything going on in your life.
 Make a pact at the beginning of the night that you are going to stay up as long as you can and maybe even make it a competition.
 Turn the lights off in your room, crawl into your sleeping bags, grab a flashlight and share your scariest stories. If you get really scared at least you'll have each other!


Not every one responds well to scary stories, so make sure your friend is okay with listening to them and won't be too scared.
 Look through your phone and find your friend's crush. Call them up and leave a silly voicemail.


Be careful that they don't already have your number, because that could be embarrassing.
Make sure your friend is okay with making prank calls before you call anyone.
Don't call a random number, because that could lead to consequences. Make sure you only call people you know who would think it was funny if they found out it was you.
 Stop at a local video shop or choose some flicks from your own collection. Maybe you're interested in watching a scary movie, chick flick, drama, or comedy. Decide on a movie based on the mood you're feeling.


No movie is complete without some popcorn and snacks.Set the scene by turning off the lights, getting some comfy pillows and blankets, and snuggling up in front of the tv screen.
If you always get tired during a movie, then keep the light on; it will help to keep you alert and awake.
 Pull up your favorite tv show on Netflix, Hulu, or find a marathon on tv and watch as much of it as you can before you fall asleep.

