 One of the most identifiable traits of the narcissist is a lack of empathy.Of course, children and teens are naturally self-centered. In order to prevent these normal behaviors from developing into pathological narcissism, you’ll want to boost their ability to relate to others.


No matter how old your child is, help them build an ability to consider other’s emotions. Empathy is grounded in being able to step in someone else’s shoes.
While watching TV or reading books, ask your child, “How do you think this character feels?” to get them thinking.If your child tells you about a friend at school who was bullied, ask them to name some feelings the child might experience (e.g. sadness, embarrassment, rejection, etc.).
 A narcissistic parent rarely has true friendships. Friends and acquaintances may be purely a means to an end. Your child may pick up on this unhealthy relational pattern and exploit their own peers.


To prevent this, encourage your child to make friends from diverse backgrounds that don’t revolve around status. This helps them to recognize they are worthy not because of who they know, but because of who they are.
In addition, emphasize the significance of keeping confidences, demonstrating loyalty, sharing, and resolving conflict., All children test the limits or behave inappropriately at times. However, you can set the bar for building positive relationships and empathy by not overlooking negative behaviors.


Let’s say, your child manipulates a friend by saying, “If you don’t let me play with your doll, I won’t be your friend anymore.” Pull them aside and suggest that they step into the other person’s shoes. How would they feel if the friend did this to them? Is it fair to hold friendship over their heads? Is there another way to ask to play with the doll without being manipulative?
Counteract manipulation by encouraging kindness. Ask your child each day what they did nice for others. Get your child to do anonymous acts of kindness in which they don’t receive any recognition for doing good.You can also encourage your child to volunteer to help build their empathy for other people.
 Unfortunately, children of narcissists are at risk of developing this personality trait, too. If your adolescent child uses or exploits others, lacks empathy, or bullies, you may need to seek professional help before these traits get out of hand.A professional mental health therapist can work with your child to address the root causes of narcissism and build healthier relational behaviors. Talk to your pediatrician, family doctor, or school counselor for a referral.

