 If you are suffering from a major psychological problem like anxiety disorder, major depression, substance abuse, or post-traumatic stress disorder, it could be affecting your sleep. Likewise, medical issues like diabetes, chronic pain, and disorders of the thyroid can also impact sleep patterns. You should address these underlying issues with your doctor before beginning cognitive behavioral therapy., In order to learn more about your personal sleep pattern, you will need to journal about it for at least one, but preferably two, weeks. Take notes on the time you get into bed, the time you fall asleep, how many times you wake up during the night, how long you stay awake for during nighttime wake-up episodes, and the time you wake up in the morning.Be sure to take notes on if and when you use caffeine, alcohol, and tobacco.
Include times you eat meals and snacks.
Don’t forget to take notes on the time and duration of any naps you take during the day.
 Do you find you are waking up multiple times each night when you drink alcohol before bed? Do you have a harder time falling asleep after a day that included an afternoon nap? Does eating certain foods or drinking caffeine seem to affect your sleep pattern? Carefully examine your sleep journal and make notes on what you can change to positively affect your sleep.
 When you are lying in bed at night, while you are washing the dishes in the afternoon, or when you are at work, take careful notes on what these thoughts are. When they happen at night, they are called “excessive nocturnal mentation.” These thoughts can include musings such as, “I will never be able to get my work done tomorrow if I can’t fall asleep by ten o’clock!”
Such thoughts can upset and arouse you, preventing sleep and causing negative moods.
 For example, are you working out at 9pm and expecting to be asleep by 11pm? Do you stay up late watching television and then stress about falling asleep on time so you can make it to work the next morning? Take notes on behavioral patterns that might be affecting your sleep patterns.
 Stress is often a key factor in the development of insomnia. It can prevent you from falling asleep, staying asleep, and getting a truly restful night of sleep. Take notes on what factors in your life are causing you stress.Common stressors that affect sleep can include work, family obligations, finances, and social pressures.

