 Korea's special adoption law No. 2977 section 9 (A) requires the use of such agencies for international adoptions, and section 10 (A) specifies that all such agencies must be officially recognized by Korea's Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. This agency is the government authority that oversees adoptions in the Republic of Korea.


The four primary Korean agencies are Eastern Social Welfare Society, Social Welfare Society, Holt Children Services, and Korea Social Services.
Look for agencies based in the United States that specialize in Korean adoptions. Before settling on an agency, check the Better Business Bureau for its record. Legitimate adoption agencies are affiliated with government licensed agencies located in Korea.
 Korean adoption laws do not require that prospective parents travel to Korea to adopt. Typically, the child being adopted is sent to the United States in the care of a U.S. adoption agency that is licensed to work with the Korean agency you adopted the child from. Note that some U.S. adoption agencies have their own requirements on travel and may request or demand that one or both parents travel to Korea before bringing their new child back home.


The U.S. Embassy in Seoul suggests that prospective parents wait until after the U.S. issues the immigrant visa for their potential adoptive child. Potential delays could otherwise force parents to remain in the country longer than anticipated.
 These guidelines are not strict legal requirements, but Korean adoption agencies consistently adhere to them nonetheless. If you do not fulfill one or more of these guidelines, you should talk to your adoption agency about the possibility of having an exception made for your circumstances.


Two married individuals must be willing to adopt, and their marriage must have lasted for three years or more. Single parent adoptions are not permitted.
Prospective parents must be between the ages of 25 and 44. Exceptions may be made if only one parent is under age 45, if both parents have adopted a Korean orphan in the past, or if the parents are willing to adopt a Korean child with serious medical ailments.
The age difference between the prospective mother and father should be no greater than 15 years.
The prospective family should have no more than five children, including the baby they wish to adopt.
Prospective parents should have a combined income above the national U.S. average. At minimum, the family income must be at least $25,000/year.
 All documents must be authenticated before Korean authorities will accept them.


U.S. civil records, including birth and marriage certificates, must be marked with a seal from the issuing office and authenticated by the Secretary of State located in your state's capital, as well as the U.S. Department of State Authentication. The documents must then be authenticated by the Korean Embassy or Consulate in the United States.
Other documents, like tax returns and medical reports, must be notarized and authenticated by the county clerk. The documents then head over to the Secretary of State, U.S. Department of State Authentication’s Office, and the Korean Embassy or Consulate.

