 Make sure you’re not seriously hurt before you do anything. If you’re bleeding, elevate your injury and put pressure on it. If your injury is serious, call for help using a cell phone or try to get rescuers’ attention., Use a cell phone to call for help if you have one. If you can’t use a phone, try knocking loudly on something nearby until rescuers find you., Look to see if there’s anyone trapped nearby or if someone needs medical attention. If there’s a first-aid kit near you, grab it and use it on minor injuries.If someone is bleeding, apply pressure to the wound and wrap the injury in gauze if you have some.If someone has no pulse, administer CPR.If you encounter someone with substantial medical injuries, seek professional medical assistance., Aftershocks are smaller earthquakes that follow the main shock of an earthquake, and they can cause significant damage. Expect aftershocks to occur and prepare to move to a safe location, like an open outdoor space or a structurally sound building.If an aftershock does occur, drop to the ground, cover yourself, and hold on to something until the shaking stops., Try to find a long-sleeve shirt and pants so your body is protected from glass and debris. If you have access to a hard hat, goggles, or a mask, put those on too. If you don't have access to shoes or clothes, walk around debris and fallen objects to avoid hurting yourself., The structure of the building you’re in may have been weakened by the initial earthquake, so you should exit in case of any aftershocks that could cause more damage to the building.If you’re in a high-rise building after an earthquake hits, do not use the elevators to exit. Slowly descend the stairs of the building and exit outside.If you’re in a stadium or theater, exit the building calmly, watching out for any debris that could fall on you., Do not enter any buildings unless they have been deemed safe by authorities. Buildings that look safe could be at risk of collapse if an aftershock occurs, or falling debris inside could seriously injure you. , Avoid standing near buildings or other large objects that could fall on you if an aftershock hits. If you’re near a coast, head for high ground in case a tsunami forms after the earthquake., Find out if they’re alright and what the status of your home is if you're not there. Make a plan and establish a place to meet., If you’re not sure where the nearest shelter is, ask an emergency official nearby or see if a neighbor knows. Do not re-enter your home until you are certain that it is safe., Traffic lights may not be working and there could be fallen debris on the road. Clear the way for any emergency response vehicles you encounter., Follow the instructions of local officials and check in regularly for updates. You can also check social media or cell phone alerts for further information from authorities., If a fire is small enough, put it out using water or a fire extinguisher if you have one available. If you encounter a large fire, contact the fire department or nearby emergency officials immediately.

Prevent a fire from starting by unplugging broken lights and appliances. Don’t light any matches or open flames until you’re certain your home is safe., If you smell gas, immediately turn off the gas valve. The smell could indicate a gas leak, which could cause an explosion or a fire., If there’s damage, immediately turn off the main breaker switch. Keep the power shut off until the electrical wiring is fixed and your home is deemed safe., They’re at high risk of collapsing after an earthquake. Never use your fireplace after an earthquake until it’s been inspected by a professional, and keep out of rooms with brick walls., Find an open outdoor space to go to or make plans to meet up with others. Take an emergency kit with you and leave a note in clear view detailing where you are.