 Let the air completely fill your lungs. Resist the urge to exhale quickly before you've fully inhaled. It definitely takes some practice, since most of us are in the habit of taking quick, shallow breaths instead of long, deep ones. Focus on breathing in as much as you can through your nose, which has tiny hairs that filter out dust and toxins so they can't reach your lungs.As we go about our days, we often breathe in a quick, shallow way without being conscious we are doing so. Daily stresses distract us from being aware or mindful of the way we are breathing.
Deep breathing will help you be more mindful of your body. Feel the air enter your lungs and fill them up. When you're concentrating on taking a deep breath, your worries are pushed aside for the time being.;
, As you draw in a deep breath, let your stomach expand by an inch or two. The air should travel all the way to your diaphragm, causing your belly to round out as it fills. If you watch a baby sleep, you see that babies belly-breathe naturally. Their stomachs, not their chests, rise and fall with each breath.As adults, we get conditioned to take shallow breaths instead of belly breaths. When we hold in our emotions, we tend to suck in our stomachs, tensing up rather than relaxing when we breathe. When you learn how to breathe properly, this tension goes away.


Lay down, stand, or sit upright as you breathe. It's more difficult to draw in a full breath if you're in a slouched position.
Place one hand on your belly, and the other on your chest, as you inhale. You can tell you're breathing deeply and properly if the hand on your belly rises out further than the one on your chest as you inhale.
 Let out your breath slowly through your nose. As you breath out, pull in your belly toward your spine. Exhale all of the breath in your lungs. After you exhale, take in another deep breath through your nose and continue breathing deeply. Try to exhale for twice as long as you inhale, and fully expel the air. , Inhaling and exhaling counts as 1 time. This immediately calms you down by slowing your heart rate and blood pressure, as well as distracting your mind from stressful thoughts. Get in a comfortable position and practice deep breathing correctly 5 times in a row.


Remember that your stomach should expand an inch or so from your body, further than your chest expands.
Once you get the hang of deep breathing, try doing it 10 or 20 times in a row. Notice how your body begins to feel as you flood it with oxygen.
 Now that you know how to breathe deeply, use the technique as an immediate stress reducer when feeling uptight or worried. You can perform this deep breathing privately in quiet place. You can just as easily take five deep breaths while sitting at your desk, riding the subway or even talking on the phone. Use this tool to calm yourself down when and where you need to.


Each time you notice yourself taking short, shallow breaths, switch to deep ones. You'll immediately start feeling less frenzied and more in control.
The more you practice deep breathing, the more natural it will feel. After all, as a baby you breathed deeply with each breath you took.

