 It may seem obvious, but make sure you have a DVD drive, not just a CD drive. A CD drive will not play DVD media. Look for the DVD symbol on the front of the drive.


If you don't have a DVD drive, don't despair. Your CD drive can usually be replaced with a DVD drive.;
, Sometimes, the best things in life are free—–and right in front of you! See if you have Windows Media Player.
Go to Start > Search and type Windows Media Player. If you have it, you can play your DVD on Windows Media player.






If you don’t have Windows Media Player, or yours is out of date, upgrade to the latest version. Go to the help menu to find a link to the latest upgrade, which is currently version 12.
 If Windows Media Player is unable to read the DVD, you can download other media players, or you may simply need to install an MPEG 2 codec.
You can download the latest codec installation package from Microsoft here: http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=507.






You can check for all the codecs you could ever need at: http://www.free-codecs.com/download/ffdshow.htm codecs.com.






You can also download and install RealPlayer, GOM Player (which will hunt down codecs for you whenever it can’t play something), BSPlayer, UMPlayer, and VLC. See "Tips" below for more information on these and other media players.
 If all else fails, you can always add an external USB DVD drive to your system.


An external drive has many advantages, including:

Plug into any computer
Can be "retired" when the technology becomes obsolete
Is easier to connect than a built-in drive
Reduces the weight of your laptop if you remove the old drive and replace it with a cap to cover the hole.
 For whatever reason, your computer or your budget is just not ready for a DVD player. Don't despair, there is always online!
Sign up for Netflix. For a few dollars a month, you have access to hundreds of movies and TV shows.






Download from iTunes. You can download or rent movies from iTunes, as well as the usual songs and CDs.







