 You will probably benefit by meeting for a consultation with an employment attorney to discuss your case. You can explain your situation to the attorney, and they can advise you about the strength of your case.


Also ask about what court you should sue in. If your employer violated federal employment laws, then you can sue in federal district court. However, if your employer violated only your state employment law, then you would file in state court.
Many states have overtime and minimum wage laws that are the same as the federal law. However, your state may have more generous benefits. For example, the federal minimum wage is $7.25 an hour. In New York, however, the minimum wage is $9.00.If your state law provides more generous benefits, then you generally will sue under your state law.
Although costs might be a concern, you should think about hiring the lawyer. Under federal law, you could win attorneys’ fees, court costs (such as filing fees) and “liquidated damages,” which is a penalty equal in amount to the wages you are owed.In this situation, an attorney might be affordable.
 If you think you want to sue your employer, then you shouldn’t delay. Generally, you have only two years to sue under federal law, unless the violation was willful, in which case you have three years.Your state law might have different deadlines. In any event, you should promptly meet with an attorney and begin planning to start your lawsuit.
 You start a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. In this document, you identify yourself and your employer, and you also describe the circumstances of the dispute. Many courts have printed, “fill in the blank” forms you can use. You should check on the court’s website or ask the court clerk.


If you are suing in federal court, then there is a form complaint you can use available online., Your court might not have a form complaint you can complete. In this situation, you will need to create your own. You should open a blank word processing document and set the font to Times New Roman or Arial 14 point.


Also make the document double-spaced and provide a one-inch margin on each side.
 The “caption” appears at the top of the first page of any court document. The caption will remain the same throughout the lawsuit. It contains the following:The court’s name at the top. For example, “Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Suffolk” in all caps, bold.
The names of the parties. On the left-hand side, you should put your name and then tab down three lines. Then put a “v” and tab down a few more lines. Then enter the name of your employer.
On the right, beside your name, you should insert “Case No.” and then leave a blank space for the case number, which you will get from the court clerk when you file the lawsuit.
 In your introduction, you can identify yourself and whether you are representing yourself. For example, you can write “Plaintiff Jon Jones, representing himself pro se, complains and alleges as follows.”, Using numbered paragraphs, you need to identify yourself and the defendant. You should sue both the individual responsible for not paying you wages and also the company. Identify the following:Your identity. Identify where you live: “Jon Jones is an individual who currently resides in New York City.” You can provide your full address.
Your employer’s name and address.
The name of the business you worked at. State whether it is a corporation.
 A court can’t listen to your dispute unless it has power (called “jurisdiction”) over the subject matter of the dispute. After identifying the parties, type a section titled “Jurisdiction and Venue.”


If you are suing in federal court, then tell the court it has jurisdiction under federal law: “This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s federal law claims pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331.”
If you are in state court, then tell the court it has jurisdiction because the defendant is domiciled in the state. You may have to read your state’s Rules of Civil Procedure to find the precise rule number. For example, someone suing in New York state court could write: “This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to the New York Constitution, article VI, § 7(a) and CPLR § 301 and because all parties are domiciled in the state of New York. Venue is proper in Suffolk County pursuant to CPLR § 503 because Defendants resided in Suffolk County at the time Plaintiff started this action.”, Use a heading like “First Claim for Relief: Minimum Wage and Overtime Violation: Fair Labor Standards Act.” Then state that your employer willfully violated the law and identify the wage law your employer violated. If you have a second claim, then type “Second Claim for Relief: ….”


Provide relevant details, such as the dates of employment, your job title and kind of work you performed, as well as the rate and method of payment. If you are suing for overtime, then tell the court the dates you worked the overtime.
You also need to allege that your employer violated the law. For example, you could write: “Defendant willfully failed to compensate Plaintiff the minimum wage for the hours he worked, in violation of the FLSA, 29 U.S.C. § 206(a). Defendant also willfully failed to pay Plaintiff overtime compensation for each hour he worked in excess of forty hours in a workweek in violation of the FLSA, 29 U.S.C. § 207. Plaintiff is entitled to recover from Defendant his unpaid minimum wages, overtime wages, an additional equal amount as liquidated damages, reasonable attorney’s fees, and the costs of the action in an amount to be determined at trial.”, After you list all of your claims against your employer, you should include the words "Respectfully submitted" and then insert a signature block underneath. Include your name, address, and phone number.
 Make several copies of your complaint. Take the completed complaint and copies to the court clerk and ask to file.Depending on your court, you may have to file some copies along with the original. Always keep one copy for your records and another copy for your employer.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee, which will vary depending on your court. Call ahead to ask the clerk for the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 You have to give your employer a copy of your complaint and a “summons,” which you can also get from the clerk to fill out.The clerk needs to sign the summons before you serve it on your employer.


Generally, you can serve the summons and complaint by having someone 18 or older make hand delivery. This person cannot be you or anyone who is a party to the lawsuit.For example, you could hire a private process server to make delivery. You can find them in your phone book or online.
 Your employer will respond to your complaint by filing a response. You should read it carefully. Generally, you will then have to meet with the court to come up with a schedule for the rest of the lawsuit.


See Sue for Unpaid Wages for more information.

