 All of these layers create the final image in Photoshop. Not only do these layers consist of your final JPEG file, they also give you a final PSD file. If you’re not familiar with it, PSD is an acronym that simply stands for Photoshop documents.The different layers can either be made invisible or visible on your image. They can also be rasterized to remove a segment of the layers. When you rasterize an image, you are basically turning it into a graphic so that you can manipulate it.;
, On the interface that appears, select File from the Menu. Click Open on the drop-down list. Find and open your image on the Open window.
 This is so you don’t make any changes to the original. If you look in the Layers panel, you’ll see that you now have two layers with the same image. The original stays safe on the Background layer, and the editing work you’re about to do will be on the copy on Layer 1 above it., It’s a good idea to adjust the name. Otherwise, you could easily get it mixed up with the original. So that you know which image it is, however, you may want to keep the same name but at the end in all caps, add “WITH TEXT REMOVED.”


To do this, right-click directly on Layer 1. The Rename option will appear. Change the name. Press Return (Mac) and Enter (Win) to accept the name change.
 Inside the toolbox, right-click on layer and choose Rasterize layer from the options. Select the Lasso tool from the toolbar option. Then select part of the image that you want to remove. Hit Delete. From the Menu, select File and Save to save the changes you made.Of all the tools in Photoshop, the Lasso Tool is probably the easiest to understand. With it selected, your cursor will appear as a small lasso icon, and you click somewhere along the side of the text that you want to delete. Continue holding the mouse button and drag to draw an outline around it. When you’re finished, hit delete to remove the text.To better understand layers, you can look at them as simply one image on top of another. Imagine you have a piece of paper and you paint it red. Then you take a piece of clear cellophane and paint a yellow circle on it; lay it over the paper. Now you take another piece of cellophane and paint a word written in blue on it; lay that on top of the yellow circle. So now, you have a red background with 2 layers on that are yellow and blue. Each one is referred to as a layer. This is what Photoshop means when it refers to layers. It’s basically all the separate parts of the whole.

