 Wash and peel four large carrots. Make sure to scrub the carrots clean. Then remove the peels with a vegetable peeler.If you do not have large carrots, wash and peel about eight small or medium sized carrots. Altogether you will need enough for eight cups of grated carrots.
 Use a cheese grater with big slots to coarsely grate the carrots. You may also use a food processor. However, do not let them turn into a paste in the food processor. One large carrot= one cup of grated carrot. If you do not have large carrots, use a measuring cup and grate until you have eight cups.
 You can buy these pods from a grocery store with a large selection like Whole Foods. The pods are usually wrapped in cellophane and are in the spice or produce section. Open the pods with your fingers, and remove the seeds.
 Use a rolling pin, a mortar and pestle, or the blunt end of a cooking utensil to crush the cardamom seeds. On a cutting board, press down firmly on the seeds with your instrument until the seeds break. Crush two or three times more, until the largest chunks are broken up a bit.


You do not need to continue crushing the seed. The seeds only need to be crushed enough to release their flavor. In fact, some recipes use whole seeds.
 If you bought the whole nuts, open the shells with your fingers. Then on a cutting board, chop the nuts until they are in 3-5 pieces. Chop the nuts until you have about ¼ cup. They will be used as a garnish for your halwa once it is prepared. Place them in a bowl, and put them to the side.
 Use a heavy-bottom pan if you have one. These higher quality skillets will distribute the heat more evenly. Your mixture will be less likely to burn if you use use a heavy-bottom skillet.
 Mix them together with a cooking spoon. Bring the pan up to medium high heat, and cook until the mixture comes to a boil.
 Reduce the heat to medium. Check on the mixture after 15-20 minutes, if the liquid is still at the same level, turn up the heat. All of the liquid evaporate should be evaporated by the end of the 40 minutes. The longer and hotter the mixture cooks for the thicker it will become. Cook until the mixture is a thick and shiny consistency without any liquid. You can use soy or coconut milk instead of almond milk in this dish. Coconut milk will add a more sweet and tangy flavor. Soy milk, on the other hand, has a bit more of a creamy taste and has a little thicker consistency.
 Start with a quarter cup of date paste, and stir it into your mixture. Take a small taste with a clean spoon. Add more date paste until it is sweet enough for you.


Use agave nectar to sweeten carrot halwa. Start with a half cup, and sweeten to taste. If you add agave nectar, cook longer, until the mixture is thick and shiny.
Date paste and cashew butter can be found at a grocery store like Whole Foods.
 The cashew butter is optional, and it will give the dish more of a creamy, thick consistency. It will add more fat and protein to your dessert. Mix raisins and cashew butter thoroughly.
 Get out spoons to eat it with. Halwa can be served warm or cool.


To cool the halwa, scoop the halwa into a bowl that will fit in your refrigerator. Cover the bowl with saran wrap and place in the refrigerator. Let it cool in the refrigerator for three to four hours before serving.
 Enjoy your vegan Indian dessert with friends or family. 