 Find some photos of hair colors that you want to create with bleach and go online to look up what those colors are called and what products work best for creating them. Also consider what hair color you’re starting with.

Consider looking up something like: “What hair products work best for bleaching black hair?” or “How to bleach red hair platinum blonde.”;
, To properly bleach your hair with professional supplies, you will need to buy a number of products. Each of these is important and will be crucial at different stages of the bleaching process. These products include:


Bleach powder: this comes in either packets or tubs.
Crème developer: choose this product according to the color of your natural hair. If your hair is already blonde or light brown, use a 10 or 20 volume (10V or 20V) developer. If your hair is dark brown or black, you’ll need to use 20V developer and give it more time to process. Talk with a sales clerk to get their opinion on what you should purchase for your hair.
Many professionals use 30V or 40V because it processes the bleach faster. Refrain from doing this alone at home because it can cause more damage than lower volumes.
Toners even out the color of bleached hair and neutralize unwanted tones and brassiness. Buy this if you’re going for more of a platinum look. Some toners make hair white, and some give a silvery effect.
Add red gold corrector to the bleach powder to increase its effectiveness so you don't have to bleach twice.
You can use “purple shampoo” to remove brassiness and yellow tones. Don’t use it often or it may stain your hair purple.
Buy a tint brush, a bowl, and plastic wrap.
Buy an extra package of bleach and developer so you have extra in case you run out midstream. Some people’s hair will absorb the bleach mixture more quickly than others, and having extra bleach mixture on hand will save you the trouble of running out. You don’t want to be halfway through your hair and find you don’t have any more bleach mixture.
 No matter what bleaching method you use, it’s going to cause your hair to become drier and more fragile than normal. Starting with healthy hair prevents excessive damage from the bleaching process. Don't dye or otherwise process your hair for about a month before you plan to bleach it. Use gentle products, like shampoo and conditioner made from all natural ingredients, to make sure your hair is as healthy as possible before bleaching.
 Use a deep conditioner a day or two before bleaching your hair to help build up moisture in your hair. There are many types of deep conditioners, from less expensive ($5-$8) to more expensive ($30+) store-bought ones to more natural, DIY ones. There are recipes to make your own deep conditioner, which typically use foods as their base. Search online for “deep conditioner recipes” for suggestions using bananas, avocados, mayonnaise, yogurt, eggs, coconut oil, or other foods.This step will help minimize ending up with extremely dry and brittle hair after you bleach it by increasing your hair’s moisture and elasticity. , This step seems time-consuming, especially when you want to get started on bleaching your hair. But it is an important step that will save you a serious skin rash (or worse) if you happen to be allergic to the bleach or any of the other ingredients. To do a patch allergy test, apply a dab of bleach solution on a patch of skin behind your ear. Leave the bleach on for 24-48 hours and check for any allergic reaction, such as a rash, itching or burning on that spot. If you do have an allergic reaction, however mild, you should try a different method for bleaching your hair.
 Read the instructions that came with the bleach powder to find out exactly how much to use. Usually, you mix one part bleach with two parts toner, but the instructions will give you precise measurements. Mix these in an old bowl with an old spoon or spatula that you will not be putting back into your kitchen. The mixture will be blue or bluish-white.Add the red gold color corrector if you’re going for a more platinum look. Pay close attention to the instructions on the label to ensure your measurements and proportions are exact.
 Peroxide can stain clothing and can be irritating to skin, so take care to cover yourself properly. Wear gloves and cover your clothes with an old towel. Apply a small amount of petroleum jelly along your hairline and neckline to protect your skin.


Never apply bleach without gloves; the chemicals can burn your skin.
 Gather up a small hunk of hair from the nape of your neck. Spray the peroxide onto this strand, starting at the roots and working it towards the ends. Leave it in for about 20-30 minutes. Rinse out the peroxide and check the color against a white towel. This will enable you to check if you like the color before dousing your entire head in peroxide. It will also help you gauge how much time to leave in the peroxide., Divide your hair into a few sections and twist the sections up. Clip these sections into easily removable hair clips; it’s best to use hair clips you can put in and take out with only one hand, especially after you start the bleaching process. Don’t clip the first section you plan to bleach.
 Make sure your hair is completely dry before you begin. Use the tint brush to apply the bleach. Keep the hair that has not been bleached separate from the hair that has been bleached, so you can keep track of where you’re at. Use clips or squares of foil to separate sections of your hair.


Depending on the style you’re going for, you can use use the tint brush to apply the bleach in different ways, including: roots to tips, tips to roots, etc.
Don't rub the bleach into your head, since the chemicals can burn your scalp.
To get salon quality highlights, separate out small sections of your hair that are less than an inch wide. Place foil squares under these sections to protect the rest of your hair from receiving any of the peroxide spray. Spray these sections and wrap them in the foil sheets to keep them from touching the rest of your hair while you let the peroxide sit in your hair. Highlighting your hair is probably easiest to do with a friend helping you.
It can be a good idea to just apply bleach to the front section of your hair, allow it to process, and rinse, before doing the back section. Putting the bleach mixture over your whole head takes time, and you may not have enough time to finish the back section before the front section needs to be rinsed out., Cover your hair with plastic wrap. Let the bleach start working on your hair. The longer you leave it in, the lighter your hair will be. Keep checking a strand of hair every 10 minutes until you're satisfied with the color of your hair. Don't leave the bleach in your hair for more than 45 minutes total.


Several factors, including the volume of your developer and the darkness of your hair, influence how long it will take for the bleach to lift your hair color to the lightness you desire.
 Rinse out all of the bleach with cool water. Then use the special shampoo for bleached hair. Dry your hair and check out the color. If you like the color, you can stop there. Style your hair normally.


Be aware of the different hues that a bleach job will give you, depending on your hair color. Dark brown hair will lighten to chestnut brown, but too much peroxide may result in an orange-brown color. Medium brown will turn to light brown; light brown will turn dark blond; red hair will turn orange, and with enough bleaching, will become strawberry blond; dark blond will turn light blond., Some people will need to tone their hair to achieve a nice white blond color, or to even out some of the color imperfections that their hair has after bleaching. This may not work for everyone, however, and can result in white-gray hair that you may not like.The stage for adding toner comes in after you have fully bleached your hair and you will not be trying to bleach your hair further. You should have also already washed and dried your hair so that you can assess the color that your hair has become.
 Use an old mixing bowl and old spatula and put in the correct parts toner, developer and red gold corrector. Be sure to check the instructions on the box to get the correct proportions and measurements.
 Dry your hair at least a little bit with a towel. Use a clean tinting brush to apply toner to your hair in sections, using clips or pieces of tin foil to separate sections that have toner on them from those that still need an application. Applying the toner is not as time-sensitive as the bleach application stage, so you can take your time a little more now.
 This varies depending on the product you are using, but 30 minutes is about the norm. Wait until the toner turns a dark purple in your hair. Check your hair after about 15 minutes to see how it looks by wiping off some of the purple toner. Keep checking every 10 minutes until you have reached the color you want.
 Rinse your hair under cool water until all traces of the toner are gone. Cool water is better than warm water since it stops the developing process, which will stop the chemicals from removing more color from your hair.
 Purple shampoo is a type of toning shampoo that is used to help distribute purple pigment to counteract brassy hues in your hair. By adding a little bit of purple pigment to your hair, you neutralize some of the reds and yellows in bleached hair, bringing out some blue hues and making your hair a slightly cooler color. Rinse your hair in hot water briefly so that the hair shafts open and are ready to absorb more of the purple hue. Apply shampoo liberally to your hair, let it sit for up to 5 minutes, and then rinse with cool water. The cool water will seal up the hair shafts and help retain the purple tones in your hair.Make sure you rinse it out completely, however, because it will stain towels and it can potentially leave your hair a lavender color if you have white blond hair.


There are several different brands and prices for these, from Clairol Professional Shimmer Lights Shampoo for about $10 per bottle to Unite Blonda Toning Shampoo for about $30. Your best bet is to purchase this type of shampoo at a beauty supplies store. Talk to a sales clerk for advice on the best shampoo for your hair.
 Your hair will be brittle and dry after this treatment and will need deep conditioning to restore some moisture and elasticity. Use a deep conditioner (store-bought or natural) at least once a week, leaving it in your hair for 20-30 minutes and then rinsing it out. Results can be improved by heating up your hair with a hair dryer while the deep conditioner is in place. If you have made your own deep conditioner with food, check to make sure it hasn’t gone bad. If it’s been mixed up for longer than a few days (or a week if kept in the refrigerator), throw it away and mix up a new batch.

