 - How are you?/Hello
Nowt, Nuttin, HEEHAW - Nothing;
, - What are you up to today?
Craic the day? Hows it gaan? Fits the craic? - What are you doing today?

,, - What
Bairn, rugrat, wean- Baby
Mankit, manky, reekin, mokkit, clatty - Dirty
craw - Crow (can also be used offensively, ie - look at that craw = look at that rough person)
stotter - someone who looks in a state normally used to refer to a drunkard who is wandering aimlessly about and stoating.
sassenach - A specific offensive word used against the English, or used to anyone not agreeing with your point of view not normally used towards english as stating they are english is normally offensive enough for Scots.
Coo, dug - cow, dog
baw - ball
eejit - Someone who is an idiot
the brew, the dole - unemployment office
dreekit, ringing - soaking wet
aw ya Bawbag - you're a dick, actually translates as Excuse me, you scrotum ! However this can also be said to a friend, meaning I have not seen you in a long time how are you doing?
in ma hoose/ma bit/ma gaff - in my house or flat (apartment)
gimme ma haunbag, gies the hingie, gies the didgerydoodah - pass my bag, give me that thing, give me the.......
yir aff yir heid - you are off your head meaning you are insane, not understanding or just plain stupid.
gies yir patter, or gies yir banter - let me hear you say things in a local dialect that I can find amusing.
heid bummer- person in charge
get up yon close - go up the stairs
gutties, snibs, reekers, trannys, paki 2 bobs - meaning training shoes or plimsole
wheres yir wallies - where are your false teeth
its baltic, brass monkeys, blue balls - it is very cold outside
chibbed, dun in, a kickin, leathered, skudded, smacked good looking - you are about to be assaulted in a serious manner
wheesht - please be quiet
skelf - splinter (can be used to describe anything appearing rather thin and smaller than counterparts.
yir a skelf - you are very thin
awrighty troops, awright muckers - hello everybody (who are your friends)
it's a belter, top quality, its smashin - it is very good
am goin a donner - I am going for a walk
blether, natter - having a chat
get a grip, get a haud o yirsel - Calm down and amend the way you are thinking
you fancy a cuppa - would you like to go and get a cup of tea/coffee
wits oan the box - what is on the television
gies a break - please leave me alone
ah want a bag of crisps - I would like a bag of potato chips/slices
am goin for a chippie - I am going to the fish and chip shop
chips - like french fries but thicker and greasier (throughout the UK, not just Scottish)
sweets - general British term for what the US calls candy
bevvy, cairy oot, take away, offies, - having an alcoholic beverage
roon ma bit, ma gaff, - around the area where I live
an empty - an unexpected absence of parents where teenagers are left unattended and throw a party
a kipper - two faced and gutless person or a smoked haddock
yir nabbed - you have been caught
getting jumped - meaning you will be attacked later, or have a sexual encounter.
Elvis impersonator - drunken man found at 3.00am outside every dance hall in Glasgow millions have seen them
poaching - stealing animals or fish illegally... or cooking eggs
nicking, nabbing, lucky dip - stealing
blues and twos, checkers, bizzies, pigs, polis, scum, grunters, I smell bacon, paddy wagon, meat wagon, black maria (dated) - police and their vehicles
windae licker - meaning a person who is very special and requires alternative transport rather than mainstream
crack me up - meaning to laugh a lot or drive insane
it's a riot, rammy, randan, dogs bollocks, bees knees, top banana, off the chain - highly infectious fun
bampot, eidgit, twat, feckwit, divvy, heidbanger, heidcase - all meaning idiot of the highest level
dinked - meaning to be hit with a glass bottle over the head
tealeaf - meaning thief, burglar
five finger discount - stealing
ony, onywhere, onyway - meaning any, anywhere, anyway
whit the **** - meaning : What is happening? Why is this not working? What is going on? You cannot be serious?

