 Your starting point for finding a conflict-free diamond is to find a jeweler you trust and who has a selection you'd like to choose from. The jeweler should be known to specialize in conflict-free jewelry. Consider using a jeweler who ethically sources their diamonds, funds projects in the communities where the diamonds are mined, and supports the Diamond Development Initiative.The Diamond Development Initiative tries to make all diamond mining accountable to human rights and environment standards. It hopes to support small scale and artisan miners in mining ethical diamonds while investing in local communities.;
, Ask where the diamonds were mined. The jeweler should be able to tell you about every step of the process that the diamond takes from being mined to ending up in the jewelry store. If your jeweler doesn't know, is vague, or or assures you the diamond is fine without answering your question, find a more knowledgeable jeweler to work with.If the jeweler tells you that the diamond is certified by the Kimberly Process or came from a reputable source, continue asking questions until you get a more detailed response. You should find out exactly where the diamond comes from and under what conditions.
 The Kimberly Process is a certification program that tries to prevent diamond mining from funding conflict. Countries that participate in the Kimberly Process are supposed to self-regulate and trade only with other countries that agree to the program. Unfortunately, some argue that the program is ineffective since there's no staff or enforcement.The Kimberly Process doesn't address the serious issues of child labor and environmental destruction from diamond mining. There are also concerns that their definition of "conflict diamonds" is too narrow to be effective.
 Several human rights agencies like Amnesty International have documented human rights abuse in several countries that mine diamonds. Avoid diamonds from these countries as well as from countries where mining funds conflict. Specifically, don't buy diamonds that have been mined from Zimbabwe, Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, and Liberia. Instead, choose a diamond from an area where human rights are protected and environmental standards are followed. You might want to get your diamond from:Canada
Botswana
Namibia
Sierra Leone

, If you have a family heirloom diamond, but don't like the setting or style of the piece, take it to a jeweler. The jeweler can usually reset or recut the diamond and create a new setting or design.Although you may not know where the antique or vintage diamond was mined, you'll at least avoid supporting current abuses and exploitation in the diamond business.

