 You will quickly cease to live unhappily or otherwise, if you don't drink water or water-based fluids for four or five days. You would get groggy, faint, and, possibly, not wake up. If you desire to be unhappy/alive, stick to plain, drinking quality, water. If you are living unhappily but not coping well with it, try to become a little happier by drinking liquids you enjoy.


A cup of tea in a proper China tea cup, a cold glass of sparkling lemonade, something slightly quirky like freshly squeezed orange juice in a glass cup and saucer, any of these, or something else, can be a little treat to yourself to help you feel a little better, a little reward for facing another day with a little change.
An alcohol addiction may assist you to live unhappily on purpose, while tackling the addiction might make you happier, in the long run. A little alcohol might help you relax and is a diuretic.;
, You will cease to live if you don't eat. Starvation will stop your living but will take more time than you might think. Eating a poor diet is likely to shorten your life and may well cause health problems making you more unhappy.


Eat whatever you like, or dislike, to live unhappily. Try to eat a balanced diet with all the usual nutritious elements, if you want to cope better with living unhappily.
Deny yourself treats to be unhappy, treat yourself in moderation if you're not doing so well living unhappily. Healthy eating is happy eating and preparing yourself, or better yet your family, a healthy, delicious meal can be very rewarding. Set the table, use your best china, light some candles, make it an event.
 If you have no friends or family, you will live unhappily. People lose friends through death, through their moving away, by simply losing touch with one another, through arguments and disagreement, all sorts of reasons.


Sadly, families become disconnected from one another for many of these same reasons. If you are lonely and isolated, you are living unhappily, try to get connected even though you are sad. Should you wish to try to tackle this, reach out.
Contact those you have lost touch with, you have nothing to lose. Write a letter, make that phone call, reach out. Join any community groups that are open to you, try your local place of worship, or a Sunday Assembly (these groups meet on Sundays to hear lectures and sing songs with no religion involved whatsoever).
Try becoming a regular at your local shop, go to the library, work outside in your garden when your neighbour is doing the same and get chatting. It's easy to be trite about tackling loneliness, especially in the elderly or those who are geographically isolated but it's important to remember you have to help yourself first, however hard it seems.
Virtual communities, such as wikiHow, can help you have human interaction, but remember, as in the real world, not everyone in internet communities is always helpful and supportive; so if you are a vulnerable individual, on line communities may not be for you.
 Get outside if you can and you want to live unhappily more easily. Fresh air and sunlight have health benefits, both physical and mental. You don't have to walk far, it doesn't have to be in beautiful mountains or by stunning architectural delights.


A walk around the block or down your road and back is a start. Go to your local park or a nature reserve, if you can. Stroll if you like, take in your surroundings. Observe the change of seasons or just what's happenin' in your 'hood.
If you wish to remain living unhappily, stay indoors, pull the curtains, and don't go out unless you don't want to.
 Try to maintain reasonable levels of personal hygiene at least, and consequently get more out of being unhappy. If you want to make it easier for yourself to live unhappily, try enough bathing and/or showering that you may see these things as a bothersome chore.


It's easy to think, 'what's the point' in making yourself look good if no one notices or no one will see you. You can look good, and smell good, just for yourself too. If you can, treat yourself to some luxury including personal care products. Take your time using them, have some 'you' time. But if you wish to continue living unhappily, you can stink and not bother cleaning your teeth.
 You may be living unhappily because you don't like your home, or don't like where your home is. You may not like who you live with, or how far away you live from loved ones.


These issues are hard to tackle, if you're not in a position to move house. Try to only worry about what you can change. Clean up or tidy up if the state of your room or home is getting you down. Redecorating may give you a boost if it's possible. Just displaying some photos or artwork that have positive associations for you might help. If you want to continue living unhappily, quit cleaning up and redecorate in black or grey.
 You might struggle to see the point in flinging on anything other than a tee shirt and sweat pants, if you are living unhappily.


Make more effort if you can. If you are convinced no one will see you, wear whatever you like, something totally over the top or unseasonably ridiculous, why not? Wear a ball gown or a tuxedo to water your house plants if you like. If you live with or around others, wear things that you enjoy wearing but won't be ridiculed for. Exactly what is entirely up to you. If you enjoy living unhappily, try hair shirts and starched underpants.
 If you are in debt and it is making you unhappy, get some advice. Burying your head in the sand when it comes to debt is unhelpful.


Tell those you owe you are in financial difficulties, responsible organizations are often prepared to assist when you are in genuine financial hardship. They may be prepared to take small, regular payments instead of a large, hard to come by one-off payment.
Get some help with budgeting. Citizens Advice Bureaus, Debt Counselling Services and other similar organizations can help.
 Forgive and forget. Living unhappily due to arguments or disagreements is not productive. Bury the hatchet.


Use your energy for positive things, not negative hatred or resentment. In the long run, it's often easy to give up an argument, even if you are the one in the right. Ending a conflict with you as the "loser" on purpose is not worse than continuing it with both parties angry, both losers.
Be the bigger person to tackle living unhappily. Do something desirable that you don't really want to do today, and go where you don't want to be, like work or do a good deed. Unhappiness can take you farther than you want to go -- so try taking control of your purpose and set a course for somewhere worthwhile.
 And, if you get up in the morning and face the day and don't hurt anyone or anything else, don't commit any crimes, don't do anything immoral and don't take or use anything you're not entitled to: You are being a good person.


You may, unhappily, believe you're not contributing to society because you don't have a job, or don't do volunteer work, or don't get good grades, or don't have children or there are many other reasons why you may be living unhappily and not feeling like you put much into life. As long a you're not dealing drugs, vandalizing property, defrauding the government, abusing your children, bullying your classmates or doing any other criminal or anti social activities, you deserve a pat on the back and credit for not being a scum bag.
 You can do something about that, if you see it as an opportunity. Being unhappy while bored is natural. You could try to put something old in a new place or vice versa and have a reason to keep on.
 Act like things matter until they do, and expect to create something that you want... Fungus won't grow on a rolling-stone/in a rapids, a tumultuous living stream. Action begets action. Do your good plan, if not now -- when?

