 Visit http://www.sagaftra.org/locals to locate their nearest office. Get in touch with them directly, either by calling or walking in if the office is local. Ask for an application. Also confirm their current initiation fee for new members to ensure that you have enough money saved., If you have been hired as a nonunion performer in a SAG-AFTRA production, confirm that your employers have registered all appropriate paperwork regarding your employment. If you are seeking to transfer membership from another union to SAG-AFTRA, confirm that SAG-AFTRA recognizes that union as a legitimate organization. In either case:Ask what if any documentation is still required from you and/or the production or affiliated union.
Double-check where each piece of documentation should be sent to, both for your reference and for anyone else who may have to send info directly to SAG-AFTRA on your behalf.
Double-checking exactly what they need and where they need it sent to will help expedite the process once you submit your application and other paperwork.
 If needed, collect all proof of eligibility specified in your conversation with the office. If you are a member of another union, contact them to request a transfer of all required paperwork directly to SAG-AFTRA. If you need to prove that you are currently employed in a production covered by SAG-AFTRA:Make copies of your original paystubs for that production. Hold onto the copies so you can include the originals with your application.
Contact the payroll company that issued your pay. Ask them to send SAG-AFTRA an original activity report.
Activity reports should contain the following info: your name and Social Security number; the production company, plus the title of the production; dates of employment; the dollar amount(s) paid.
 Include all documents needed to prove your eligibility. Add a cover sheet listing your name, address, telephone number, and date of birth. Also add a self-addressed stamped envelope for the return of all of your documentation. Although this may change, as of 2016 all applications should be mailed or delivered in person to this address:SAG-AFTRA, Membership Services Department (Proof of Eligibility), 5757 Wilshire Boulevard, 7th Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90038

, Expect to be contacted by mail. In addition to your returned documents, SAG-AFTRA will mail you a letter of eligibility confirming that you are entitled to join the union. When they do, call (323) 549-6769 to discuss paying your initiation fee to finalize your membership.The phone number listed is current as of 2016, but could possibly change. In that case, refer to their website or your letter of eligibility for instructions.
The initiation fee as of 2016 is $3000. Although this fee is supposed to be upfront, a payment plan of installments may be possible if needed.