 Allow them to air dry until the peels are hard to the touch. This can take anywhere from a few days to up to a week, so remain patient.


Avoid the use of a dehydrator or other drying mechanisms when drying the peels. This can compromise the oil stored in the peels.
 Once the peels are completely dry, cut the peels into small pieces. You can use a knife, vegetable dicer, or food processor to accomplish this. Take care not to over dice or process the peels however, as this can compromise the oils contained in the peels.


Over diced peels will take on a liquid, minced appearance. Avoid expressing liquid from the peels prior to the distillation process.
 Pour enough alcohol into the jar to completely cover the peels. The alcohol should rest roughly an inch above the top of where the peels rest. Allow the jar to sit for several days.


Vodka can be used for the distilling process, but may slightly affect the scent of the oil, depending on the type of vodka used.
Place the jar in a location that gets plenty of sunlight to help the separation process.
Shake the jar several times a day. Give the jar a shake each day to help separate the oil from the peels.
 After several days have passed, use a coffee filter to strain the liquid into a second jar. Place a coffee filter or cloth over the second jar, and allow all of the alcohol in the jar to evaporate. This can take up to a week or more.Oil evaporates much more slowly than water or similar types of liquids. Though oil can technically evaporate, the water will evaporate before the oil, leaving just the oil behind., After the alcohol has evaporated, all that will remain is the oil. Bottle the oil for later use. Dab a little on your skin for a fresh smell, or use some in cooking recipes that require essential oil. Remember that the oil is very concentrate – a little will go a long way.


Always test a small amount on your skin first in case you have a reaction to the peel oil.
Skin sprayed with citrus oil should not be exposed to direct sunlight. Citrus oil is phototoxic, meaning direct sunlight can contribute to sunburn, blisters and other harmful skin conditions.