 The world is full of misconceptions about autistic people, and by hearing from other autistic people, you can sort out the garbage and find the truth. Autistic people can offer insights on how your mind works, and can share useful coping skills. They can also provide an understanding support network if you reach out to them.


Search for autistic people on the internet.
Explore wikiHow's autism articles. A large portion of them have been started or revised by autistic people, and reference articles by influential autistic writers.
When visiting an organization's webpage, make sure that autistic people are given a meaningful voice inside it. (Some parent-run groups are considered hate groups.) One quick way to tell is if they use person-first language ("person with autism") or compare autism to kidnappings, deadly diseases such as cancer, or epidemics.;
, Don't be afraid to take a nontraditional route: perhaps you don't want to be the sort of person who can't count all their friends on ten fingers. Maybe living independently would be too complicated and stressful for you, so you would be better off in a group home. This is all okay. Your comfort and happiness should be your priorities.
 You may choose to do this in person, or, if the idea of face-to-face conversation is too draining, do it online. You can use this group throughout your journey to being content with yourself and others.


Consider joining an autism rights group to meet other autistic people while making a difference.
Remember, if you're going to meet other autistic people, they'll be just as nervous as you are (maybe more). We all make social mistakes, so it's no big deal!

, Sometimes, especially if you're going through a stressful period, it may be harder to do the things you normally do. If your self-care abilities are beginning to slip, get help. Talk to your therapist, read tips from autistic writers, or arrange to live with another person who can make sure you're doing okay. You deserve support, full stop.
 It's healthy to go to therapy to improve your social skills, work on your sensory integration issues, or work through emotional problems. However, it's also important to capitalize on your unique talents. You have something special to give to the world. Don't forget to embrace it.
 Adapting to a neurotypical world is stressful, and taking breaks is important to your health. Enjoy your special interests, spend time with people who make you feel happy, and get plenty of solitude. Your physical and emotional health come first.


Set aside a quiet corner where you can retreat when need be.
Let go of people and therapies that leave you unhappy or on edge.
Love yourself (just the way you are).
Learn how to recognize signs of stress so you can step in early.
 If you need to flap your hands or spin in circles in public, that is fine, and it's not wrong if you're not hurting anyone. Yes, some people will respond badly to you, but if so, were they really worth your time in the first place? Your needs and comfort come first.

