 In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the vinegar, Worcestershire sauce, sugar, salt, and pepper. Slowly drizzle in the peanut oil. Continue whisking until the marinade becomes slightly thick and the oil and vinegar are combined. Stir in the onion and garlic.Use this sauce to marinate:

Steak
Chicken
Tofu
Fish
Vegetables;
, Combine all the ingredients in a blender or food processor. Pulse the ingredients together until they form a smooth dressing and there are no chunks of onion or garlic left, about one to two minutes. Transfer the dressing to a squeeze bottle or easy-to-pour container. Use 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of dressing per serving of salad.

Store leftover dressing in the refrigerator for up to two weeks., Pulse the peanuts in a food processor for one to two minutes, until they are coarsely ground. Heat the peanut oil and curry paste for one minute in a small saucepan over medium heat, stirring constantly. Whisk in the peanuts, coconut milk, and sugar. Bring the mixture to a boil, whisking constantly. Remove the pan from the heat. Whisk in the soy sauce and lime juice.Serve the peanut sauce hot, or refrigerate it immediately and use it within two to three days.
Peanut sauce is a versatile ingredient that you can serve with meat, tofu, stir fries, vegetables, noodles, and rice, or added to soups and other dishes.
 Use a food processor or blender to pulse the nuts for 30 seconds to chop them roughly. Set aside half the nuts to make chunky peanut butter. Process the remaining nuts for three minutes, stopping every minute to scrape down the sides. After three minutes, add the remaining ingredients and process for another two minutes.To make chunky peanut butter, add the chopped nut pieces back to the smooth peanut butter and stir to combine.
Transfer the peanut butter to an airtight container for storage.
 Deep fryers typically cook foods at 350 to 375 F (177 to 191 C), and the smoke point of peanut oil is 450 F (232 C). This means you can use peanut oil to deep fry all your favorite foods, and you won’t burn the oil. Peanut oil also has a neutral taste, so your food won’t taste like peanuts.Foods you can fry with this oil include:


Turkeys
French fries
Battered vegetables
Fish
Chicken

, Stir frying is the process of cooking small pieces of food quickly at a high temperature in a small amount of oil. Peanut oil is ideal for this type of cooking because of its high smoke point and neutral flavor. To stir fry any type of food:Heat a wok or skillet over medium heat
Add 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 ml) of peanut oil
When the oil is shimmering, add chopped garlic, onion, and other aromatics
Cook for 30 seconds to a minute
Add bite-sized pieces of meat or vegetables and cook for five to seven minutes, stirring constantly
Add your favorite sauces
Serve warm

, Roasted vegetables are a great addition to any meal. To help the vegetables stay moist and to give them some extra flavor, oil is drizzled over them before roasting. Peanut oil is a great roasting option because it won’t burn and won’t overpower the flavor of the vegetables. Vegetables you can roast with peanut oil include:

Potatoes
Onions
Carrots
Parsnips
Asparagus
Beans
Brussels sprouts
Zucchini

, Peanut oil will keep longest when it’s protected from air, sunlight, heat, and moisture. For a shelf life up to nine months, store peanut oil in an airtight container, and keep the bottle somewhere that’s cool, dry, and dark.A cool pantry is an ideal place for peanut oil.
 Like most oils, peanut oil can be used to moisturize dry skin and sooth itchy, flaking skin. Pour a teaspoon (5 ml) of peanut oil into the palm of your hand and massage the oil into dry areas of skin.Peanut oil can also be used to moisturize a dry scalp. Massage the oil into your scalp for about 10 minutes. Rinse your scalp with warm water and dry your hair.
Avoid using peanut oil on your face. The high fat content could cause pimples.
 You can make a quick an easy homemade furniture polish by combining 1 cup (235 ml) of peanut oil with ½ cup (118 ml) of fresh lemon juice. Transfer the mixture to a spray bottle. To use the spray:Shake the bottle well
Spray a clean lint-free cloth with a small amount of the solution
Rub and polish wood and laminate furniture with the damp cloth
Wipe the area with a clean cloth

, Peanut oil and peanut butter are great for removing glue and sticker residue from surfaces. Scrape away as much of the sticker as possible. Use a clean cloth to saturate the residue with peanut oil. Let the oil soak for about five minutes, and then scrape away the residue. Wipe the area clean with soapy water before rinsing and drying the surface.