 Be polite at all times. Don't expect everything to go your way. When choosing where to go, be prepared to compromise and be open to new things. Also be polite and considerate to any other people you encounter on your date. Being rude to a waiter or a person working at the movie theater will make you look bad.How you treat other people tells your date about the kind of person that you are.
 You and your date will feel more connected to each other if you are focused when he or she is talking.If your date is talking about something, ask questions or make comments that show that you are interested in what is being said. Another way to be attentive is to keep your cell phone turned off. It is distracting and rude to reply to phone calls constantly during a date.


For example if your date mentions a musical artist or a television show that both of you like, let your date know.
If you are expecting an important phone call, let your date know and screen all numbers but the urgent one. Otherwise, turn it off and check your messages later.
 The conversation can make or break a date. You want to share about yourself and learn about the other person as well. Avoid pre-planned jokes and one-liners as they do not go over as well as spontaneous jokes and more natural conversation.Talk about things that reveal good personal qualities (e.g. generosity, kindness), artistic abilities,and cultural experiences.


If you think you are talking about yourself too much, say "Enough about me, let's talk about you..."
Do not treat your date as if he or she is on a job interview. No one wants to be interrogated. Instead ask questions about likes and dislikes and really get to know the person. This should be a relaxing and fun time., The date isn't all about you. It's about learning more about another person and showing them that you are interested. Listen as the other person is talking and do not interrupt. Try to take in what the other person is saying instead of thinking about what your response will be.Your body language should also say that you are listening. You can nod in agreement or lean forward as the other person is talking.


Paraphrase what the person says and then ask questions to move the conversation forward.Try saying, "So you're saying..." and then ask a questions.
 Looking your date in the eyes communicates that you are interested in what he or she is saying and is a sign of respect. However, you do not want to stare at your date too much. Try looking for 7 to 10 seconds and then look elsewhere.You can look across the room, at another part of your date's face, or at the waiter.


Pay attention to how your date responds to the eye contact. If he or she looks uncomfortable or keeps looking away, you may be making too much eye contact.

