 If your pet has access to the outdoors or is house trained, asking one or more friends and family members to stop by in the morning, afternoon, and evening to feed your dog and take it for a walk may be adequate. For younger dogs and those who are not housebroken, you may need someone to be on hand more often. Discuss your dog’s needs with your friend or family member, and make sure they can reliably devote the necessary time and attention to your dog.


Offer your friend or family members money to care for your dog, or offer to return the favor if they are pet owners too.
Make caring for your pet as easy and convenient as you can by leaving clear instructions, preparing meals in advance, and making sure your sitter can access your home easily. You may also want to allow your sitter to stay in your home while you're away.;
, If your friends or family members are unable to stay in your home or visit throughout the day, you can also let them take your dog to their house. This can be a convenient alternative to having friends stay in your home. Make sure you’re doing all you can to make caring for your pup convenient for your friend or family members, especially if they are caring for your pet free of charge. Allowing your sitter to care for your pup in their own home may be more convenient for friends who have their own pets, kids, or who live several miles away from your home., There are also professionals who keep dogs. Doggie hotels and other pet boarders will care for your dog while you’re away for a fee. These professionals are able to take good care of your dog, and reputable dog boarders offer insurance and care agreements that obligate them to provide effective care for your pet.


Read online reviews of the boarding facility before choosing to board your dog there.
Ask friends or family members who have pets for recommendations of dog boarders in the area.Research common boarding rates to make sure you get a fair price. Prices will fluctuate based on the size of your dog and any special care needs, but you can typically board a dog for between $25 and $50 per pet a night. If you want to offer your pup a little added luxury of a doggie hotel, you may be looking at a price between $75 and $100 a night., It’s easy to find a trustworthy, affordable care giver for your pup using web resources. You'll want to look for a sitter who has experience with dogs, is available at the times your dog will need care, and who lives close enough to ensure your pet is checked on regularly.Originally created to help parents find sitters for their children, care.com now offers information on pre-screened pet sitters at a variety of rates.The National Association of Professional Pet Sitters at petsitters.org is also a great resource to find a caregiver for your pet while you’re on vacation. These sitters will come into your home while you’re away to care for your dog.