 You'll want a very hot oven to cook the perfect steak.;
, Steaks that are an inch to an inch and a half thick work best for this method. That's because thicker steaks get more time to develop a wonderful outer crust before the inside is drier than a duck's feather. Pretty much, the thinner the steak, the quicker it becomes as dry and hard as it cooks.


It's just as easy to buy and eat two big steaks than it is four small steaks. If your steaks are behemoths, don't be afraid to slice them up (after cooking, of course) in order to serve them. Once they taste these steaks, your guests won't care that two pieces started off as one steak. Because taste is king!


, Excess moisture left on steaks will cause them to steam, not sear. Steamed steak doesn't sound too appetizing, does it? Be sure to take a paper towel and wick away any moisture that's present on your steak before committing it to the glorious fire.
 There are several opinions about how and when to salt your steak. And depending on how you salt your steak, obeying them can be the difference between a really beautiful culinary treat and a tired, dry, excuse for nutrition.









If you don't have a lot of time on your hands, salt your steak immediately before you place it in the piping hot pan. Why? Because, given time, salt draws moisture from the inside of the steak to the outside. And as noted earlier, moisture on the outside of the steak is not great.
If you have more than 45 minutes to spare, try salting the steak three quarters of an hour in advance. The salt will draw salt out to the surface of the steak, but after 30 to 40 minutes, the steak will draw back the salted moisture in a process called osmosis. This gives the steak a wonderful taste and, some say, actually tenderizes it., Yes, your steak will start off over the burner, but the bulk of the cooking will be done in the oven. This method is used by chefs, cooks and restaurateurs the world over. Try it before you knock it!









Use a neutral oil such as pine nut or canola oil instead of a pungent oil like olive oil. This helps respect the natural intensity of the steak's flavor.
You'll know the pan is ready to cook with when the oil starts steaming.
 To avoid any oil splatter, tip the bottom of the pan up slightly by lifting the skillet's handle up in the air. The oil should gather in a small reservoir near the very tip of the pan. Place the steak gingerly inside the pan and lower the skillet's handle back down.









Adjust the steak with tongs to ensure that it's getting equal coverage on the pan (for a better crust), but don't press down on the steak with your tongs in an attempt to "sear" the steak. The steak will sear perfectly well on its own, given time. Pressing down just robs your steak of more juicy goodness.
 Cook the steak just long enough to develop some nice color (i.e. flavor) on the first side.
 You won't need as much time on the second side of the steak because it will continue to develop color (from contact with the bottom of the pan) in the oven.
 This step is optional, but a tablespoon or two of butter right before the steak goes into the oven gives the steak a wonderfully rich, nutty taste, along with a richer jus to serve alongside the steak in the end.
 Of course, the time spent in the oven depends on the thickness of the steak (the thicker the steak, the longer cooking time it will require) and your desired level of doneness (after 6 minutes, the steak is probably still medium-rare; after 8 minutes, it's about medium).
 A cooking thermometer is your friend. They're cheap, handy, and exact. With a cooking thermometer in hand, your does or under- and overdone inexactitude are over! Just stick the thermometer into the middle of the steak, and voilà! Here's a little temperature chart you can use to tell whether your steak is done.

120° F (48.8° C) = Rare
130° F (54.4° C) = Medium rare
140° F (60° C) = Medium
150° F (65.5° C) = Medium well
160° F (71.1° C) = Well done


, As the outer layers of the meat cook, they contract. This sends the juices of the steak further into the center, where they accumulate. If you choose to cut up your steak immediately upon removing it from the oven, the juices will run all over the place because they've been trapped in one place. If, however, you let the steak "rest" for about 8 or 9 minutes after it's done cooking, the outer layers of meat will relax, allowing the remaining juices to travel back into the entire piece of meat. This creates a much juicier piece of steak.









Rest your steak under a lightly wrapped piece of aluminum foil to help keep it warm while it rejuvenates. Be mindful that the steak will continue to cook during this time.
 Serve with classic steak fare, such as a roast potato, steamed asparagus, and a simple salad on the side.

