 Do not show any emotion. Even if you feel yourself getting angry, annoyed, or irritated, don’t give them what they want by showing that their rudeness is getting to you.


Stay calm and collected. Close your eyes and take a deep breath if you feel yourself losing your temper.
Keep a straight face or try going for a “blank” look on your face, disengaging completely from the person and showing them they are not worth your time.
 When you make eye contact, you are acknowledging the person and validating their actions. Look away from them and gaze straight ahead at something in the distance.


Avoiding looking down at the ground. This type of body language comes off as submissive and unconfident. Keeping your gaze up and steady makes you look self-assured and in control., You can convey a lot through your body language alone. Turn your shoulders and feet to point in the opposite direction. Cross your arms in front of your body to look closed off and disengaged.
 If possible, walk quickly in the opposite direction from them and don’t look back. Stand up tall and look confident as you are walking.If you feel awkward not saying anything before walking away, keep your response short. This will acknowledge that you’ve heard what they’ve said but don’t agree with it. You can just say something like, “OK” or “I don’t know” before turning away.
If a classmate keeps rubbing in your face that he or she got a perfect score on his last exam, just smile and say, "That's nice.” Then turn your or her attention to other, more important things.
If it’s someone that you know you will have to interact with again, like a coworker or friend, walking away from a few minutes can give them some space to calm down. Hopefully when you meet again, they will have changed their behavior.
 Keep your distance from the rude person so that their negativity does not bog you down on a regular basis.If the person is a stranger, this should be easy - you will likely never have to see them again.
If you really can’t stand the person but tend to run into them on a daily basis, try to limit contact with them as much as possible. If it's possible for you to switch offices or make some other change to avoid running into this person, take that step. It will definitely help to not have them in your presence.