 If you want to hide your pipes, the best option is to use a paint color that matches the hue of your kitchen walls or ceiling.In essence, you'll be hiding the pipes in plain sight. Even though the pipes will be out in the open, they will be fade into the background and become much less noticeable.
Alternatively, you can make your pipes look like part of the décor by painting them in a fresh color that stands out. For instance, you could paint the pipes a bright color that coordinates with the rest of your kitchen décor, turning them into statement pieces instead of eyesores.;
, Use a steel wool brush to scrub away as much dirt, rust, and old paint as possible. Follow up by cleaning away any oil or grime with a wet rag.


Use a mild detergent and warm water. After wiping the pipe with a soapy rag, wipe it down again with a second rag soaked in clean water to rinse away any detergent residue.
Thoroughly dry the pipe with a dry rag before continuing. Leaving moisture on the pipe could cause it to rust and may prevent the paint from properly adhering to the surface.
 Clear the area of furniture. Cover the floor, counter, and all fixed appliances with plastic sheets to protect them from stray paint.


Make sure that all removable furniture is as far away as it needs to be to protect it. This may mean moving it to another room while you work on your pipes.
It's also a good idea to protect yourself, too. Wear clothes that you do not mind getting paint on. Consider wearing goggles if you have to paint a pipe on the ceiling since dripping paint could theoretically get into your eyes without protection.
 Select a rust-proof metal primer. Paint a smooth layer of primer over the pipe with a standard paintbrush.


Make sure that you select the right primer. Different primers are designed for use with different types of metal, so you'll need to know what your pipes are made from before you can purchase the right primer.
Wait for the primer to dry before continuing to the next step. Read the primer label to determine how long you'll need to wait.
 Using a clean paintbrush, apply an even, smooth layer of your chosen paint over the dry primer.


Make sure that the paint is formulated for use with the type of metal you'll be applying it over. It's also a good idea to use paint made by the same manufacturer that produced the primer, since doing so will ensure that the primer and paint will be compatible with one another.
Read the paint label to determine how much time needs to pass in between coats.
 Once the pipe is ready for another coat, paint another smooth coat over the first. Let it dry.


Usually, you will only need to apply two coats. If you decide to apply more, make sure that the proper amount of time passes in between each consecutive coat.
Once all of the coats are on, you'll need to let the paint dry for a longer period of time before touching the pipe or moving furniture back into the kitchen. In most cases, the paint should dry within 24 hours, but you should check the manufacturer's label for a more exact measurement of time.
After the final coat of paint dries, the project is complete.

