 Before you can fix the nail, you need to make sure that your hands are clean and free of oils.


Use warm water and soap to wash your hands or feet. Dry well with a clean towel.
Wash and dry carefully to avoid accidentally snagging the torn nail and making matters worse.
 If the tip of your nail broke off completely and you want to reattach it, soak the broken tip in warm water until it feels pliable again.


If your nail is still attached or still pliable, disregard this step.
 Grab this bead with a toothpick and spread it over one side of the broken nail, creating a thin coat of adhesive.









If you do not have nail glue, use super glue. In general, a glue containing cyanoacrylate will form the strongest bond.
Do not touch the glue with your fingers for any reason.
 Use the tip of the toothpick to ease the broken portion of the nail back into place. Press down on the nail with firm, even pressure, using the side of the toothpick.


Again, it is important to avoid getting glue directly on your fingers.
Apply pressure for at least 1 minute to ensure that the nail adheres properly.
 Before the glue finishes drying completely, dip a cotton swab or cotton ball in nail polish remover and run the soaked cotton along the sides of your nail bed. This should get any excess glue off your skin.









You may need to scrub a bit to get the glue off.
Make sure to apply nail polish remover on any part of your skin you got glue on.
 After the glue has finished drying, file the nail to look even. Use the rough side of an emery board or nail file to file down the rough, exposed edge of the tear.









Move the file in one direction, not back and forth. To minimize the risk of further damage, move in the direction of the break, not against it.
Work slowly to prevent yourself from causing additional damage.
 Once the broken nail seems smooth again, protect it by applying a coat of nail strengthener or protective top coat over the entire nail. Let the nail dry completely.








