


Shojo: Girly manga that usually involves moe/cute characters, romance, magical girls or slice of life drama.
Shonen: Manga usually intended towards young boys full of action, violence, ninjas, samurais, demon slayers and very few female characters. If any female characters at all, they are usually womanly side characters or young, tomboyish kunoichi's.
Seinen: A darker, more realistic version of Shounen with less action intended for adults and young adults.
Harem: A serious-plot-lacking manga that includes several female characters with strange appearances and backstories with one, seemingly boring male character anyone could easily slip into. All the females seem to really like the male character, leading an extremely large love-triangle to take place.
Hentai-Manga: Pornography.
Ecchi: Hentai with younger, cuter characters and less of a pornographic and/or explicit plot.;
, A plot is what defines a manga; it is the story that defines the characters whom live in the world you have created. A young elf who was born into a fantastical medieval themed world cannot live in a technology fulled alternate universe with nothing to do but mope around and be confused, with no purpose in life. That is an awkward and strange plot that no one cares to read about. Also, depending on your skill of art, starting with a complicated plot could be disastrous.
 Making characters is often the hardest part of creating a manga. You constantly come upon characters you've created in your past that have a special place in your heart and no matter how Mary-Sueish they seem, you just can't burn them. Then, on the other hand, you have some decent, well-rounded characters that you personally dislike but feel as if they'd be a good addition to the story, overall. But once you understand what makes a good, realistic character, you'll be fine. A male in a shojo-romance typically would be pretty-boyish and kind with maybe a limited set of flaws, however letting a brute-like older man with a kind heart and thing for romance novels be your characters love interest won't hurt you! It'll just add some originality to your story! Also a young, lovestruck girl won't ruin a shonen story, she'll just have to have some traditional, shonen qualities in order to generally be accepted. Don't create stories to shape your characters. Create characters to shape your stories!

, In order to start an interesting, different art style is difficult but will make your fans have a way to identify the manga you make. Start off by copying famous mangaka's artwork the best you can without tracing and then combine styles, fixing what you don't like. Designing characters may take a lot of work but if you have a mental image, go with out!

,