 Studies have shown that aerobic endurance can remain for as much as 30 days; however, at that point it will be difficult to maintain without another intense training course.;
, Most personal trainers in gyms have access to fairly adept computer systems that can give an accurate estimate of your body's oxygen use. The trainer will ask you to jog on a treadmill or use a stationary bike or treadmill to see how much moderate aerobic exercise you can do before reaching an anaerobic level.


You can also opt to find a health care professional who can conduct a VO2 test. This directly measures the volume of oxygen that you use while engaging in aerobic exercise. This can only be conducted using specialized equipment, often in a clinical research facility, under the supervision of a doctor or nurse. You may be able to find a training center that can conduct this test, but it is likely to be more expensive than an estimate done by a personal trainer.
 Studies have shown that if you cut your number of weekly aerobic workouts by 50 to 70 percent, you can maintain aerobic endurance. However, you must be sure to keep the same level of intensity during your maintenance workouts.


For example, if you used to jog for 60 minutes 5 times per week, you can cut your 60-minute workouts to 2 times per week and still maintain aerobic endurance.
If you cut the intensity of your workouts, but do them more often, you will not maintain your endurance. For example, if you jogged for 30 minutes 5 times per week, you will reduce your aerobic endurance.
 Maximum heart rate is estimated as 220 minus your age. For example, if you were 43, then your maximum heart rate would be 177 and you would want to stay between 106 to 124.
 These can be purchased on the Internet or in sports stores. Measure your heart rate while you work out, in order to make sure you are staying at the proper heart rate.
 "Fartlek" is Swedish for "speedy-play," and it was developed by a coach to train a cross-country racer. In this training, you can tailor the training to your sport or preferences, while basing your training on the following guidelines:


Warm up before starting the intervals. Jog at an easy pace for 5 to 10 minutes.
Choose a city block or long path with landmarks to serve as your "track." Start slowly for half a block. Increase your pace for the other block and then race for 1 block.
Walk for 1 or 2 minutes. Repeat the previous segment 2 to 6 times.
You can also use a stationary machine and increase your intensity according to the same benchmarks as the example fartlek running training. You can choose the intensity of your workout, but most fartlek workouts last for 45 minutes.
 If your endurance has decreased, you may need to return to endurance training to return to your original level.

