 Before you use a word processing program like Microsoft Word to create the Table of Contents, make sure the headings and page numbers are correct. Note each heading and subheading in the document, checking that every section has an applicable heading.You should also confirm the page numbers are correct in the document. Each page should be numbered in order. Having the correct page numbers will ensure the Table of Contents is created correctly when you use the word processing tool.
 The Styles tab will on the Home tab in Microsoft Word 2007 and 2010. The Styles tab will allow you to label each heading in your document. Doing this will make it easy for the word processing program to create the Table of Contents for you., Once the Styles tab is open, you will see “Heading 1” listed as an option. Start by labeling each main heading “Heading 1.” Highlight each main heading and click on “Heading 1” in the Styles tab.If there are subheadings in your document, label them “Heading 2.” Highlight each subheading and click on “Heading 2” in the Styles tab.
If there are sub-subheadings in your document, label them “Heading 3.” Highlight each subheading and click on “Heading 3” in the Styles tab.
The text and font for each main heading may change based on the settings for “Heading 1,” “Heading 2,” and “Heading 3.” You can choose your preferred text and font for each main heading so they appear as you like in the Table of Contents.
 Most Table of Contents follow the title page in a document. Have a new page ready so you can populate it with the table of contents. Click the new page on the spot where you want the Table of Contents to appear.


The Table of Contents should be on its own page. Do not include the introduction or a dedication on the same page as the Table of Contents.
 The Reference tab should appear in the Document Elements tab in Microsoft Word 2007 and 2010. The Table of Contents option will appear under the Reference tab. Once you click on the Table of Contents option, the Table of Contents should appear automatically on the new page with the applicable headings and page numbers.You can choose the built-in Table of Content options, where the tool will automatically choose a font size and style for you.
You can also go for from a list of custom Table of Contents, where you choose the font color and size based on your preferences.

