 There are many reasons a hairstyle might not work for you, but imbalanced head symmetry is one of the main offenders.Use the following descriptions of the main kinds of face shapes to find which closest matches your own:



Oval: this face shape can be identified by its length, which will be roughly 1.5 times longer than the width.Round: shaped faces will have equal width forehead, cheekbones, and jaw, but your features will be softer in general and your jawline rounded.Square: this shape is characterized by equal width in the forehead, cheekbones, and jaw, with sharp, angular features.Heart: sometimes called the "inverted triangle," this face shape generally has a wider forehead and narrows slightly at the jaw. Classically, this style also has a widow's peak.Diamond: these face shapes are most noticeable by the cheekbones, which should be your widest feature.Your jawline and forehead will be about equal in length, though shorter than your cheekbones.;
, Imbalanced symmetry is often created when your hairstyle offsets the natural balance of your head shape. To prevent this, consider the following guidelines for head shapes:



Oval: thanks to the balance and symmetry of this head shape, most styles should work well with this head shape

Round: hairstyles that add length to the face and frame it should look great on this head shape, especially styles that add volume to the crown (top) of the head. Short bobs, blunt cuts, or straight fringe style might be less flattering.

Square: longer hair that softens and frames the edges of your face might be the way to go. Long bangs and layers moving from the jawline up should be considered. Avoid short cuts, as these may accentuate the square shape of your face too much.

Heart: any look that softens the framing of your face, including waves and curls, are typically a good choice for this shape. Be wary of longer styles, especially those that frame your face, or styles that add to the width of the top of your head.

Diamond: bangs can help moderate the angles of this shape, but also blunt, shoulder cuts and longer haircuts with feathery bangs suit this shape. Keep away from excessive layers and volume., The coarseness or fineness of your hair can limit some of your options for hairstyle, but can also open up new possibilities. Hair is usually divided into three categories: fine, medium, and coarse. To figure out your hair texture, wet your hair and pull it away from your scalp. Hair that is:


Thin in width is considered fine.
Neither thin nor thick is medium.
Thick in width is considered coarse., Now that you know the texture of your hair, there are some general pointers you should keep in mind while choosing a style for it. These are not rules, per se, but most of the time:


Fine hair can lack volume, so the use of volumizing products can add an extra dimension to your hairdo. Styles that have only slight graduation, like the bob-cut or the wedge, are good options.
Medium hair is relatively balance and can be thinned with razor cut styles or thickened with blunt cuts that have light graduation.
Coarse hair can appear bulky or heavy. Products that lessen the weight of your hair and slim down the appearance of bulk are useful. Razor cuts, layered cuts, and styles that diminish your hair's thickness are prime options., Celebrities are often forerunners of trends and fashion, and you might find an awesome new haircut that's perfect for you among the Hollywood elite. Look at celebrities that share your face shape and have a similar hair texture. This can remove much of the guesswork from figuring out your new 'do.
 Even if you're planning on changing your hairstyle yourself, consulting a professional stylist can point you in the right direction. Stylists have experience with many different face shapes and hair textures, so with one look, she may have an awesome suggestion.
 Technology can help put you at ease before applying dye to your hair. Some people prefer a different color to their natural shade, but before you buy hair dye, take a picture and use a photo editor to change the color of your hair. This way, if the color you have chosen clashes with your skin tone or doesn't look as awesome as you intended, you'll know beforehand.


Be aware that depending on the darkness of your hair, achieving certain colors may be difficult without a professional., Some hairstyles come with attitude. Ultimately, your preference will determine which style you think is most awesome, but think about the image associated with different hairdos. If you don't want to be confused with a counter-culture punk rocker, a classic Mohawk might not be for you.

