 Every disaster is different and may require you to respond differently. (i.e., Do I evacuate? How should I evacuate? What is the nearest evacuation route? What if they tell me to stay at home or "shelter-in-place?").;
,
Where you will get prenatal care.
Where you will deliver your baby if your hospital is closed.
, Ask your local American Red Cross for information on what they suggest every family prepare to do. Then develop your own plan, writing down the steps on paper.
Talk about potential disasters and emergencies and how to respond to each using your family plan. Choose a meeting place, other than your home, for family to gather in case you can't go home.
Give this emergency plan to all your family members. Have a family talk and give them a copy. Leave a copy in a prominent place in case other adults (e.g., babysitters) are in your home during an emergency.
Choose someone outside your home who can be an "emergency check-in" person in case someone cannot reach you or your family. Keep this person's telephone number and address with your plan and first aid kit. Give this number to friends and family members, including any children.
 This includes the following:


Water. Each person needs 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water each day.
Food. Store canned foods such as soups, beans, vegetables, fruit and juices, peanut butter, etc. Keep a non-electric can opener ready. If you have pets, stock up on dry or canned pet food.
Personal-care. Store soap, toothpaste, contact lens solution, feminine hygiene products, nursing pads, clothes, etc.
Baby care. The CDC and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommend breastfeeding for optimal infant nutrition. Breastfeeding remains the best infant feeding option in a natural disaster situation. Even when experiencing diarrhea, food-borne illness, or extreme stress, breastfeeding mothers continue to produce ample milk for their babies. Also store baby supplies such as diapers, wipes, baby food, bottles, etc.
First aid kit that is custom-made for your family and the risks that you might encounter.
Other supplies. Make sure you have large plastic bags that seal for water-proofing important papers, a battery-powered flashlight and radio with extra batteries or a wind-up radio, and a first-aid kit.

Know what financial papers or items you will need and how to keep them safe (e.g., cash, ATM/EBT card, traveler's checks, long distance telephone cards, credit cards, checks).
Keep important contact information, toll-free numbers, and Web sites together so you can learn about the status of the disaster, know where to get assistance, identify maternal and infant health resources, hospitals, etc.
Put "ICE" (In Case of Emergency) before important numbers on portable and cell phones. This helps emergency workers find the right person to contact in case of emergencies.
Take every emergency or weather warning (e.g., tornado horn or severe weather alert) seriously. Use these alerts to test your family's emergency evacuation plan, equipment, and supplies (e.g., expiration dates, etc.).

