 In addition to practicing good oral care, there are some other steps you can take to make your teeth strong and healthy. Eating a healthy diet is one great way to care for your teeth. Make sure to get at least five servings of fruits and vegetables per day.Avoid foods with added sugars. Too much sugar adheres to teeth and causes the release of acid, which leads to tooth decay. Avoid sodas and candies.
Foods that contain protein and calcium can remineralize the enamel on the teeth, which is what makes teeth strong. Try eating low-fat cheese, milk, and lean meats.
 Detergent foods are those that naturally clean your teeth. For example, apples are known as nature's toothbrush because they are firm, crisp, and clean teeth while eaten. Add an apple a day to your diet.Raw celery and carrots and popcorn are also detergent foods.
You can also gargle with apple cider vinegar to help naturally cleanse your mouth.
 If you smoke, stop. If you don't, don't start. Smoking can lead to gum disease and several forms of mouth cancer. Smoking lowers your body's ability to fight infection, which makes you be more susceptible to gum disease.
Nicotine can stain and weaken teeth.
Ask your doctor to recommend a smoking cessation program that is right for you.
 Tooth loss is a problem for many older adults. It is connected to osteoporosis, which causes loss of bone density. You can take several steps to combat the weakening of your teeth and bones.Maintain a healthy body weight. You can do this by being moderately physically active for at least 30 minutes five times a week.
Exercise is a key component in your overall physical health. Choose an activity that you like so that your are more likely to stick with it.
 Certain activities come with risks to your teeth. For example, sports such as hockey and basketball involve contact. An accidental elbow to the mouth can weaken your teeth. When participating in sports, wear a mouthguard to protect your teeth.Most sporting-goods stores sell inexpensive mouthguards. You can also ask your dentist for a custom made guard.
 Try adding some new elements to your routine. For example, start chewing gum after meals. This will increase the saliva in your mouth and help prevent buildup of acids. Just make sure the gum is sugar-free.


Drink your beverages through a straw. A straw helps your drink bypass your teeth, thereby keeping acid from them.

