 Microsoft Word, Pages, Photoshop, or any other program that will allow you to create shapes, insert images, and make text boxes will work. Word processors like Microsoft Word and Pages are user friendly and very simple to use, whereas Photoshop is a bit more advanced. Use whatever program you are most comfortable with.


Your computer should also have access to a printer. If you don't have access to a printer, you can pay to have your trading cards printed at any store with printing services, such as FedEx Office.
 The type of artwork you use will depend on the type of trading cards you're making. Create a folder on your computer to store your images in. Using this folder, save your artwork or photos to set them to the side while you create your card template.


Drawing your own artwork is a great option if you want to create a unique trading card game. You should draw your characters in pencil, and color them in with marker to give them a finished look. Once you've drawn your characters, you'll either scan your images into your computer using a scanner printer, or take a photo of each character and upload the photos to your computer. (If you choose to take photos, make sure you have bright lighting with no shadows).
Using photos of your friends, family, or even pets for your characters is a great way to make a personalized trading card game. Simply upload pictures of each person you want to be a character to your computer.
Download photos of your favorite baseball players to you computer to make your own baseball cards.
Crop your photos / artwork into square shaped images. This will make adding them to your templates much easier.
 Open up your chosen computer software and create a new document / project. We will pretend we are using Pages since it is a simple software. Using Microsoft Word will be extremely similar, but the buttons / commands may be named slightly differently.


Click "Insert Shape" to insert a rectangle into your document. Drag the dimensions of your rectangle so that it is the size of your desired trading card. As you drag your rectangle, the size measurements will appear. Typical trading cards are roughly 2.5 inches wide and 3.5 inches tall.
For size reference, you can hold a trading card or playing card up to your computer screen, and drag your rectangle's dimensions so that it is the same size as that card. Be sure your document is zoomed in to 150% for accuracy if you use this method.
Give your rectangle shape a thick border for you to cut around.
Once you've created the shape of your card, it is time to insert text boxes for your character / person's name and details. Add a thin text box along the top of your card, and type in your character / person's name. Next, add a slightly larger text box along the bottom of your card. This will be where you list your character / person's details.
Use a legible font so that the name and details are easy to read.
You should now have an open square area in the middle of your card, this is where the image / artwork of your character will go.
 Remember the artwork or photos that you set aside from earlier? Now it's time to add them to your template. Open the folder where your images are saved, and drag your first character / person onto your template. You can drag the dimensions of the image so that it fits into the square space that you've left open. Now, your card should have a name, an image, and a description.
 Copy and paste your template so that you can make multiple cards out of one sheet of paper. If you've done a standard card size, your card template should fit on one sheet 9 times. If you've done a larger card size, put 4-6 card templates on one sheet.


To copy and paste your entire template (the rectangle shape and the text boxes together), click "Edit" in the upper left hand corner, then click "Select All," and finally do your copy and paste.
Add the names and details for each of your characters into your templates so that each card is for a different character / person. Drag the image for each character / person into the templates, and resize accordingly.
Once you've done this for each card template, you should have a sheet full of individual trading cards ready to print.
 Use thicker paper to give your cards the proper consistency. This type of paper can be bought at any office supply store.


If you're unable to print at home, save your documents to a flash drive / thumb drive and bring them into your local printing store. Be sure to select a thicker paper for your print job.
 Once your cards have been printed, cut them out! Cut slowly and carefully along the edges of your borders. If you choose to get your cards laminated, you can buy a laminating machine or take your cards into specialty shop to be laminated.