 If you aren't about to have your period, spotting may be a sign of implantation. Normally, this spotting will not be like a regular period; you will just have light bleeding. It may closely resemble the first couple of days of your period., Cramps can occur with early pregnancy. While you're likely to feel cramps while on your period they can occur just before your period and are a common symptom of PMS. Implantation pain resembles menstrual cramps.Pay attention to how heavy the cramps are. If they are especially painful, you should call a doctor. Also, if they are moved over to one side in your body, you should also call. Both of these could be signs of a problem., One sign that your fertilized egg has implanted is that you need to pee more, for some people.You have more of the hormone Human Chorionic Gonadotropin, increasing how much blood flow you have near your bladder, which can cause you to urinate more., If you are pregnant, you may feel lightheaded or dizzy, most likely because of hormonal changes. However, some doctors think this symptom could also be due to the fact that your body is creating more blood for the baby., Sometimes, even in early pregnancy, you may start to feel more hungry than normal. If the symptom lasts more than day or two, it could be a sign your fertilized egg has implanted., Morning sickness is a misnomer; nausea and vomiting can happen any time of the day when you're pregnant. This symptom can happen as early as 2 weeks after you conceive., One symptom of early pregnancy is a sudden aversion to certain foods and smells. This symptom can trigger morning sickness, even if the smells or food were something you loved before., This symptom happens most often early in pregnancy and late in pregnancy. You may feel out of breath more easily. No matter when you feel it, you should definitely talk to your doctor about it., Some women may have a metallic taste in their mouth soon after getting pregnant. This symptom is not associated with PMS., You certainly can and likely will have backaches later in pregnancy. However, if you are trying to differentiate between early pregnancy and PMS, backaches early on are more likely a symptom of PMS., Though both pregnancy and PMS can cause mood swings, PMS is more likely to be associated with depression. If you are feeling somewhat depressed, that could be a sign you've not implanted., Though you can feel bloated at the beginning of pregnancy, this symptom is more often associated with PMS. Your stomach may feel extra tight with this symptom., While this step may seem obvious, it's one of the most significant signs that you're not pregnant.Try to keep track of when you have your periods by marking them on a calendar, so you know when one should be coming up. That way, you'll know you may be pregnant if you've skipped one.
 The most effective method to know if you are pregnant or are simply experiencing PMS is to do a home pregnancy test. These kits are easily available at the pharmacy and come with easy-to-follow instructions.You can take a pregnancy test a couple of days before you normally have your period or when you are trying to decide whether you are having PMS or implantation symptoms. Some pregnancy tests claim they can be accurate that early. However, for a more definitive result, wait until a week after you would normally have your period.Most times a blood test will detect hormone only a couple of days prior to the early home pregnancy tests. Don't request a blood test just for curiosity, as your insurance is not going to cover that., You know what your normal period is like. Whether it's heavy or light, you know what to expect from your period. Implantation bleeding should be lighter than your period, though, because you're not shedding the whole lining of your uterus, plus it usually won't last as long as your period. Implantation spotting normally occurs before the expected period.You should only see a few spots of blood, plus it will be lighter in color, usually pink or brown, as opposed to the bright red of period blood., When you're PMSing, you may have mood swings, but that is also a sign of early pregnancy.In both cases, the moodiness is due to hormonal shifts., Because both PMS and early pregnancy change the hormonal balance in your body, both can make your breasts feel swollen or a little painful. They might feel a bit more full if you are pregnant.,, Both PMS and implantation can cause you to feel extra tired. When you become pregnant, you can feel this symptom as early as one week in, most likely because of an uptake in progesterone.However, PMS can also make you feel fatigued as well, also likely due to hormonal changes., Hormonal changes can also cause headaches. Therefore, you may experience them both during early pregnancyand when you have PMS., Cravings can crop up during PMS.Similarly, they can also appear during early pregnancy. Sometimes pregnancy cravings can be stranger but not always., PMS can give you either constipation or diarrhoea, due to hormonal changes.Pregnancy is similar, though it is more likely to give you constipation. Also, symptoms are more severe in later pregnancy., Usually, PMS symptoms will occur 1 to 2 weeks before you start your period.They usually disappear within a couple of days of starting your period.Implantation symptoms and early pregnancy symptoms generally occur around the same time; it's at the same point in the cycle that you either implant or shed the lining of your uterus and start your period.