 Once you begin to master how to choose ripe, good quality fruit, you may develop preferences for specific flavors and textures. Learn which varieties are nuttier or lighter in flavor.


Purchase the Hass, Lamb Hass, Gwen, Reed, or Sharwil varieties if you prefer avocados with a nutty taste.
Choose the Bacon and Zutano varieties for avocados that are lighter in flavor.
 Florida varieties typically contain more water, while those grown in California and Mexico are oilier. These fattier, more oily types are best for guacamole because of their rich texture. You’d also use an oily variety for skin moisturizers, while watery types are great for use in juices. These juicy types tend to have light, sweet flavors, and weigh up to five pounds.


Watery varieties include the Choquette and Hall.In addition to oilier varieties, types with thicker skins, such as Hass and Gwen, are also great for beauty use. Gently rub the peel or skin against your face in soft, circular motions, then rinse with warm water.While an avocado's size doesn't directly relate to its quality, it can help you determine where the fruit comes from and whether it has a higher water or oil content.
Larger avocados, some weighing up to five pounds, are typically from Florida and grow so large because of their high water content. Smaller avocados, with lower water content, are generally from California or Mexico.
 With evidence that avocados can lower cholesterol and decrease risks for certain cancers, more people are consuming avocados regularly or even daily. If you plan on consuming a large quality of avocados or eating an avocado a day, it might be best to consider choosing varieties that are less rich. Even though two-thirds of the fat an avocado contains is mono-unsaturated and considered healthy, they are still a fatty and high calorie fruit.Tonnage avocados are a great balance, as they have a rich texture but much lower fat content than most avocado varieties.While it’s the one you’re most likely to come across at the market, Hass avocados are among the fattiest varieties. Its relatives, like the Daily 11, are similarly oily and fatty.
Consider Florida-grown fruit for lower calorie, lower fat options.

