 Are you really ready to go on professionally? You can ask yourself this even if you're in high school. It's never too early to start. You just need to have it in you. Make sure you have been studying seriously so far and have gotten at least more than skin deep into horn playing.;
,

The ability to do lip trills.
Flexibility between the extreme high and low ranges that includes proper dropping of the jaw in the low range.
Skill in transposing from Horn in E, Eb, D, C, Bb, A, G, and even Db, Ab, and B for the occasional Verdi and Brahms repertoire that require those keys.
These three skills are essential for the aspiring virtuoso, whether your aspiration is to be a horn soloist or an orchestral player.
 In this path you take, you'll be hearing a lot of technique correcting. People have gone through several teachers telling them how to play horn, and eventually you'll fall into a style that is overall correct, but make sure you take high quality lessons from a good, professional teacher who is actively playing in groups and has a good standing. Don't be afraid to ask for their resume. Better to pay for a well rounded experienced and active musician than a secondary school teacher who only plays horn once in a blue moon.

A good example of accepting change is realizing how many different ways your right hand can be in the bell, rather than trying to figure out one perfect way that doesn't exist.
 Start asking for CDs of horn players for Christmas. Get your hands on recordings of Dennis Brain, Barry Tuckwell, Roland Berger, Michael Thompson, Hermann Baumann, Eric Ruske, etc. Also, look up very well known horn players, and listen to their music and study their technique. Pick one to be your role model, and even pretend to be that horn player while you play. It can help confidence. Listen to a lot of music. This is essential in developing your own tonal concept.
 Have a pile of concertos, excerpts, etude books, etc. You'll want plenty of materials to have while studying in graduate school and such. The more you know about musically, the better. It's not a bad idea to know Horn in concert H means "concert B natural" either.
 Practice as much as you can. Now, here's the big thing: don't think you're great because you practice 10 hours a day. It's always quality over quantity. Ask yourself: did you play well? Did you accomplish something? What did you accomplish? Never ever expect 2 hours of tooting random notes will get you anywhere.
 Get out there and perform. It doesn't matter if there's no work, make work. Try going to a church every week and play a new piece weekly for them. Teach the rest of your horn section during high school, relaying things you've learned. Get involved with regional competitions, local gigs, set up a brass quintet with some friends, etc.
 Audition for Julliard, Curtis, and other prestigious schools. Try out for the NY Philharmonic, Boston Symphony, or the Trans-Siberian Orchestra. If you don't dream big, you won't go big. You'll face some pretty tough failures in your life (rejection from Julliard after putting all this work into it) as well as some great successes (scholarships, job offers, etc). Just go for it!

