 It's important to find an envelope of the right type for your letter. If you choose an envelope that's too light, for example, your heavy stationery might break through the envelope while it's in transit. Take the following factors into consideration as you decide what kind of envelope you need for your letter:


The weight of the paper. The weight of the envelope should match the weight of the paper and any other contents you may be mailing with it. If your letter is written on heavy cardstock, or you're including something else like photos inside, choose a sturdy envelope that can handle the contents.
The size of the paper. The size of the envelope should be appropriate for the size of the paper. Letters written on standard sized 8 1/2 by 11-inch paper are typically folded into thirds, then mailed in a business-sized envelope. Letters written on notecards may be mailed in smaller envelopes.
The intent of the letter. If you're mailing a cover letter, you'll want to choose a professional-looking business-sized envelope. A personal note may be sent in a decorative, colorful envelope if you wish.
The letter's destination. If you're mailing the letter overseas, you may want to use a sturdy envelope, since there is a greater chance it could get damaged along the way.;
, Once you've chosen the right envelope for your letter, place the letter inside and lick the edge of the envelope to moisten the glue, then press it shut to seal the letter.


You can wet a sponge with a little water to moisten the envelope glue if you don't want to lick it.
Place a bit of clear tape along the edge of the seal if you are afraid the letter might open on its journey.
 Write the address of the recipient in the middle of the front of the envelope. Include the recipient's name, apartment or house number, street name, city, state or province, and zip or postal code. Use clear, printed letters written in dark ink so that the post office knows just where to send it.


If you are writing to someone outside your country, make sure you include the country name as well.
Some people have their mail sent to a post office box, rather than a street address. If this is the case for your recipient, write the correct post office box number followed by the city, state and country if applicable.
Write each part of the address on a different line to make it more legible. For example:

Skyler White
2004 Rosethorn Court, Apt. 4
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87041
United States



, In the top left corner of the envelope, write your name and address. You may also choose to write it on the back of the sealed envelope or use a printed return address label. Including your address will ensure that the letter comes back to you if for some reason it doesn't make it to the recipient.

