 Though you may have strong cravings for foods that are high in sugar, caffeine, and salt during your period, try to avoid eating them as much as you can. Eating foods high in sugar will cause your blood sugar to spike and then crash, leading to more mood swings and headaches. Eating foods high in salt can make you retain more water and feel more bloated. Having foods high in caffeine will increase the production of estrogen in your body, which will just lead to more intense period symptoms.Try to replace coffee and caffeinated teas with water or herbal teas. Go for foods low in salt and sugar, at least while you have your period.
If you cannot suppress your chocolate cravings, you may try eating raw chocolate. Look for raw chocolate, made with raw cacao and no additives, at your local health food store. It is packed with magnesium without any added sugars or additives.;
, Foods with calcium, including low-fat yogurt, sardines, non-fat milk, cheese, spinach, and tofu, may reduce bloating, cramps, food cravings, and mood swings.Aim to get at least 1,200 milligrams of calcium a day. If you have trouble meeting this number, try taking a supplement.
 You should also adjust your eating schedule so you eat smaller portions more frequently throughout the day. Eating more frequently will keep your metabolism up and working. It will also ensure you have enough energy throughout the day.You can still have three medium-sized meals throughout the day, but schedule in snack breaks where you eat a small amount of food between these meals. Stick to snacks that are high in vitamins, like raw nuts, fruits, and vegetables.
 Many women develop migraines before and during their periods due to a fall in their estrogen levels.If you tend to get migraines during your period, you should switch up your diet. Cut down on foods high in carbohydrates, starches, sugars, and processed ingredients. This can help to reduce your migraines.If your migraines do not improve, you may want to see your doctor about getting medication for the issue. Your doctor may prescribe anti-inflammatory painkillers, estrogen supplements, or suggest you go on hormonal contraceptives, if you aren’t already taking them them. These treatments can help to reduce the intensity and frequency of your period migraines.
 Though you get cramps and feel sore during your period, working out can help to reduce these symptoms. Try to schedule in light exercise at least once a day, even on the days when you have your period. Getting your body moving can improve your mood and regulate the symptoms of your period.You may do a 10 to twenty minute run once a day or go on a long bike ride. You could also try an aerobics class or a dance class to get your heart rate going. You may want to avoid exercises that involve the abdominal area, as this area can be sore during your period.
 Another option for exercise is to do yoga. Yoga can be beneficial for your body during your period as it allows you to de-stress and relax through movement. You may go for a more calming style of yoga or a more rigorous yoga style, depending on your mood.You may consider joining a yoga studio and sticking to a regular schedule of classes every week. This way, when you have your period, you can try to maintain the same schedule and attend your usual yoga classes.
 Meditation and biofeedback are two ways that you can learn to effectively cope with your period, and can be used in conjunction with or instead of medication. Meditation, such as mindful meditation and Transcendental meditation (TM), may help increase your pain tolerance and take your mind off your symptoms.Biofeedback is a technique that teaches you to become aware of your body's responses and signals, such as temperature, breathing, and blood pressure. It may also help you control menstrual cramps and other symptoms.Look for a healthcare professional with training in biofeedback to teach you how it is done.
 Sleeping when you have your period can be a challenge, especially if you tend to get cramps and headaches during your period. You can counteract any restlessness at night by keeping your bedroom cool and calming. Set up a fan in your room if it tends to get hot or open a window for airflow. Use light, cotton sheets on the bed and make sure your bedroom feels dark and cozy.You can also make your bedroom more calming by lighting candles or incense in the room. You may also put on relaxing music to calm down and settle into sleep.
 You can also get more comfortable in bed by sleeping with a hot water bottle over your abdominal area. This is ideal if you tend to get cramps at night or when you lay down. Wrap the hot water bottle in a blanket or a towel and place it on your abdominal area or just above your pelvic bones.

You can also take a hot bath before bed to soothe any sore or cramping areas and sip hot herbal tea, such as chamomile, peppermint, or rosehip.
 You should always be prepared during your period for a sudden spell of cramping or a migraine. Be sure to pack painkillers in your bag or purse so you have them on hand. This will ensure that if your period does become unbearable, you have the means to make it a little less so.You may pack anti-inflammatory painkillers like ibuprofen, naproxen, and mefenamic acid.
 Pack extra tampons or pads in your bag in the event of spotting. Have these on hand just in case you need to change your tampon or pad while you are away from home.You may pack a variety of sizes of tampons or pads so you are prepared. Keep tampons that have a low and high absorbency rate on hand so you can wear the right one based on your flow.
 Stay hydrated during your period by drinking lots of water every day — try to drink even more than you normally would. You should aim for eight to 10 8-oz glasses (1.9 to 2.4 liters) of water a day to ensure you are not dehydrated. Get in the habit of taking a water bottle with you wherever you go, especially when you have your period. Sip on water throughout the day so you stay hydrated and healthy.You may want to try adding lemon or lime juice to your water for taste.
 If you feel like your current menstrual hygiene method is not effective, you may consider switching to a different method. Perhaps you find tampons uncomfortable and decide to switch to pads, or you want to be more environmentally-friendly and use a menstrual cup. Switching to a different menstrual hygiene solution can make your periods more bearable and comfortable for you.You have several options for internal protection during your period, including tampons, menstrual cups, or menstrual sponges. For external protection during your period, you can try menstrual pads or panty liners or reusable cloth pads.
 Though you may find it annoying and uncomfortable to get your period every month, try to remember that it is all part of being female and completely natural. You do not need to feel embarrassment or shame about your period, as all women experience the same flow every month and deal with many of the same menstrual issues. Getting your period is part of being a healthy woman and it should not be considered taboo or shameful. Try to embrace your period as natural and essential to your health.


Think about it this way: almost 50% of the entire population of the world has gone through or will go through the same thing.

