 Your payment history makes up 35% of your FICO score. Late payments also incur late fees and penalties, which can snowball. If you make a $100 purchase but are late with a payment, you might incur a $25 late-payment fee and have your APR increased.


Set up a payment reminder. Some banks will send you an email or a text message when your payment is due., You generally want to keep your balance on each card to 30-35%.This is called your “utilization,” and it makes up about 30% of your credit score.For example, if you have a card with a $10,000 limit, you shouldn’t carry more than $3,500 on the card.
You might need to spread your balances around different cards by using a balance transfer.Alternately, you could rotate which cards you use so that no single card racks up too much in charges.
 Your length of credit history is also important and makes up roughly 15% of your credit score.If you no longer use an account, consider keeping it open. Closing your accounts can negatively affect your credit score.
 Make sure to close all joint accounts or to remove one person’s name from the accounts so they are no longer jointly owned.You will also need to ask the judge to divide your debts.


Divorcees also need to establish their own credit history. However, you shouldn’t apply for cards and loans all at once. Instead, space out each credit request by at least six months.
 Each time you apply for credit, the lender will pull your credit score. This “hard pull” will reduce your credit score slightly for about a year.For that reason, you shouldn’t liberally apply for credit.


Instead, comparison shop and find the right loan or credit card for you. Then make one application, which will result in one inquiry. Applying for a lot of new credit suggests you are having financial problems.If you’re shopping for a car loan or a mortgage, then it’s okay to have several inquiries. In fact, all inquiries made within a 30-45 day window will count as one inquiry.
 You can get your credit score in one of several ways. For example, you can buy it from myfico.com. However, there are other free options:Contact a credit counselor or a housing counselor approved by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Look at your credit card statement. Sometimes, your score is reported there.
Visit a website that provides credit scores for free. Choose a reputable company, like Credit Karma.

