 A licensed broker will be able to help you determine the value of your property and the associated mineral rights. It is important that you find someone who has experience not only in selling the surface property (what we commonly think of when we speak of buying and selling land) but particularly someone with experience with mineral rights. An experienced broker in your area will be familiar with the type of minerals that exist and can help compare your property to similarly situated properties in the area.The phrase "mineral rights" encompasses several different things, each of which has its own value. A broker can help you decide how to value the mineral interests, working rights, and royalty interests associated with your property. These can be sold together or severed and sold separately.;
, Sales of properties, including mineral rights, must be recorded at the land registry in your state or county. This becomes public information. You can visit the land registry and review documents of recent sales to find out what the current market value of similar properties would be. This can help you and your broker set the value for the sale you are considering., If properties surrounding or adjoining yours are producing valuable minerals, then the likelihood is high that yours will as well. In such cases, you can demand higher prices for your mineral rights., Unless you already know, you may need to begin by finding out what minerals exist on your property, and where they are. You can hire a professional geologist to survey your property and conduct tests beneath the surface. These professionals can give you estimates of the minerals that exist, and their location relative to the surface. All of this will affect the value of your mineral rights., If your property is in a part of the country where mining or drilling is common (oil wells in Texas, for example), you should meet with other property owners. While you may not come right out and ask, “How much did you pay for your property?”, you can learn from other people about the property use and get a general understanding of the market value.


Online chat forums or bulletin boards dedicated to owners of mineral rights let mineral rights owners share ideas and learn about property values. One such example is MineralOwnersForum.com., If your property has already been producing value through mineral rights, from which you have been receiving royalties, you can use that information to set a reasonable value for selling your rights. One rule of thumb is to calculate the average annual royalty for the property and multiply that by four to find a reasonable sale price.For example, if your property has been producing at a rate of about $5,000 per year, then a reasonable estimate for the sale of the mineral rights would be $20,000 ($5,000 x 4). Note that this is an estimate for the sale of the mineral rights alone, not the surface property.
 If you look online for “mineral rights for sale,” you will find numerous listings of mineral rights. These listings can be arranged and searched by geography or by mineral type. For example, if you are only trying to sell oil rights, you can list your property on a page designated for oil drilling. Some reputable listing sites include the following:


ListMineralRights.comLoopNet.com/MineralRightsUSMineralExchange.comSome of these sites are free and some require payment of a subscription fee. Check the site carefully to know what you are signing up for.
 In some areas, there exist organizations of property owners with a focus on mineral rights. These associations can assist with the advertising and sale of your mineral rights. Look in your area or check the phone book or Internet for such groups.One such example is the Freehold Owners Association (FHOA). This is a Canadian organization that supports private ownership of mineral rights, as opposed to large corporations. The FHOA operates throughout central Canada, and includes real estate listings of mineral rights for sale.
In the United States, the National Association of Royalty Owners (NARO) supports owners of oil and natural gas mineral rights. The NARO has local chapters in many states across the country., Though not as focused on mineral rights, you can also list your property on some general sites. For example, eBay will accept nationwide postings of real estate or mineral rights for sale. General postings like this may not be as effective as listing on specific mineral rights sites, but you will still get some exposure and may generate offers., When you are simply selling a home, it may be sufficient to report the address of the property. However, mineral rights can be separated from the property rights themselves, and the general phrase “mineral rights” actually encompasses several different kinds of rights. You should consult with an attorney to be sure that you know what you are selling. Some options include:Mineral interests. This is the ownership of the actual minerals themselves--the oil, gas, gold, or whatever else is in the land. It is possible to sell mineral interests in one type of mineral to one buyer, and sell the mineral interests in something else to a different buyer.
Working rights. The owner of the working rights to a piece of land control the excavation operations. This owner may or may not also own the minerals themselves. Someone with working rights might, for example, operate the oil well for the owner of the mineral interests, and in exchange get paid a commission.
Royalty interests. This is similar to a lease, whereby the owner of the property allows someone else to drill or mine, and then the owner will receive royalty payments for the minerals that are recovered.
 In its simplest form, a deed is a contract between the owner and the buyer, which defines what is being sold and the price of the sale. When dealing with mineral rights, however, a deed of sale can get quite complicated. You should work with an attorney or experienced real estate broker to develop a deed that complies with your state laws and effects the sale as you intend it., In many states, the signatures on a deed must be notarized for the sale to be valid. The land registry may not accept a non-notarized deed for recording. Even if not required by law, however, notarizing the signatures is a very good idea. This will help if there is ever a dispute over ownership or the validity of the sale. When you are preparing to complete the sale, arrange for a notary public to attend the closing and verify the identities of the parties., After you complete the transaction, you must record the deed with your county land registry office. If the deed is not recorded, the sale is still valid, as between the buyer and seller, but recording is necessary to put outside parties on notice as to the sale. For example, if Mr. Smith sells his interest in mineral rights to Mr. Brown but does not record the deed, then someone in the future who tries to purchase from Mr. Brown may have difficulty confirming that Mr. Brown owns the property., Before you attempt to sell your mineral rights, check the deed that you received when you purchased the property. If the deed said nothing about mineral rights, then you most likely own everything, including the surface property and all mineral rights below the surface. However, if the deed specified that you were buying “surface property” or if it said that the owner “retained the mineral rights,” then you do not own the mineral rights., It is possible that the mineral rights may have been separated from the surface rights of the property in some transaction prior to your purchase. As a result, your deed may not say anything about mineral rights, and yet you will not own the mineral rights anyway. You can only resolve this situation with a full title search. You, or someone you hire, will need to to go the Registry of Deed or other land recording office in your area and research the history of the property.For example, it is possible that several transactions before yours, someone may have separated the mineral rights from the surface rights. This would be evident in the deed at that time. Any subsequent deeds, however, might just say, “I transfer my rights to the property….” If that earlier person did not own the mineral rights to begin with, then the transfer would not include the mineral rights.
 Title issues regarding mineral rights can be complicated. An attorney can assist you in reviewing the title history or any deeds, wills or other documents that may affect the property. For assistance in finding an attorney with this particular experience, you can contact the bar association in your area.Mineral rights differ in different parts of the country. In one part of the country, the issues may be about oil or coal, while in other areas the focus could be precious metals, such as gold, silver or copper. The legal issues differ greatly. It is important to work with an experienced attorney in your local area.

