 If you have an older version of Windows, such as XP or Vista, you’ll need to upgrade before installing Connectify HotSpot. Find out which version of Windows you have by pressing ⊞ Win+S, then typing the word About. Click “About Your PC” or “About This Computer” and look next to “Edition.”;
, There are three versions to choose from:


Connectify HotSpot Lite is the only free (ad-supported) version of Connectify. This option allows you to share your Wi-Fi or Ethernet connection with other devices. You won’t be able to share your mobile data plan with this version. This should be enough for most home users.Connectify HotSpot Pro has the same features as the free version, but also allows you to share your mobile 3G/4G data connection, choose a name for your HotSpot, and set up a firewall. This option is best if you rely on your mobile 3G/4G data plan to get online.
Connectify HotSpot Max has all the features of Pro, but includes bridging and custom DHCP/IP controls. This option is best suited to more advanced users.
 If you want to purchase Pro or Max, click “Buy Now” to pay, create an account, and begin your download. HotSpot Lite users should click “Download” to get the free version. A dialog box will appear, asking you to choose where save the installer. Choose “Desktop.”

, Double-click the “Connectify Installer” icon on your desktop. When you see a User Account Control message asking if you want to allow the program to make changes to your computer, click “Yes.” Read the license information and click “Agree” to begin the installation. When the installation is complete, reboot your computer as instructed by the installer.
 Use your normal method connect to the Internet using the connection you want to share. For example, if you connect to Wi-Fi to browse the web, connect to your Wi-Fi access point.
 Double-click the Connectify HotSpot icon on your desktop to launch the software. You’ll have to configure it before other devices can access the Internet through your computer.


If you purchased Pro or Max, click “Already Bought.” Use your email address and password to log in at the next screen. If you’ve forgotten your password, click the “Forgot Your Password?” link and follow the on-screen instructions.
If you want to use the Lite version, click “Try it Out.” You won’t need to log in.
 Pro and Max users can choose a 3g or 4g mobile data connection, but HotSpot Lite users must choose a non-mobile connection (Wi-Fi or Ethernet).
 The password is the code that other users will need to enter in order to connect their devices to the Internet through your HotSpot. You don’t need to have Pro or Max to set a password.


For optimal security, choose a password with 8 characters, including letters, numbers and symbols.
If you’re using Pro or Max, you can also change the name of your HotSpot on this screen. This is the name other devices will see when they scan for available networks.
, When you see the Connectify HotSpot in the search results (it will have the word “Connectify” in the SSID/name), connect to it as you would any other Wi-Fi network and enter the password when prompted. That device will now be able to access the Internet as normal.


As long a device has Wi-Fi access, it should be able to connect to your Connectify HotSpot as though it’s a typical wireless network. Neither the type of device (tablet, phone, laptop, etc) nor its operating system (iOS, Android, etc) matters.
When you turn off Connectify HotSpot, shut down the computer, or lose connectivity to the Internet, any devices using your HotSpot will also be disconnected.

