 These factors will be based on the type of fish that you want to catch. Short rods provide power for fish that give more fight while longer rods cast further. The power of a rod is how much weight in can lift, from light to extra heavy. Rods can also be chosen based on the weight of the lure or the pound-test line that they are designed to be paired with.


Choose a graphite rod if you want a stiff yet sensitive experience and a fiberglass rod for a tough and powerful one.Reels are classified as high or low speed where the latter is used when needing more power to fight large fish. Some reels allow you to push a button to switch between high and low speed.
 Spinning rod and reels work well with top-water poppers and high-speed plugs. Use your dominant hand to hold the rod as you use your other hand to crank the handle.Make sure you change the handle of your rod depending on which is your dominant hand.
Spool the line by laying the rod on the floor and ensure that the line is going onto the reel at the same direction that the line is leaving the spool. Pinch the line and crank the reel handle a dozen times. With a slack line, drop the tip of the rod to check if the line starts to twist and spin. If it does, you have spooled the line in the wrong direction. Flip the spool over and continue in the right direction as you fill the reel.
 These rods work best when bottom fishing, jigging, long casting, or when using big baits. Use an open-face reel for casing or jigging to let out and retrieve the line quickly. Use a closed face reel when using lighter lures and baits. Make sure to use your thumb to control the speed of the spool and keep it slow.Baitcasting rods easily get tangled because the spool turns faster than the line as it leaves the rod. If the tangle isn’t too bad you may be able to untangle it by pulling more line off the reel. However, most baitcasting reel have either a centrifugal, magnetic, or electronic cast control to keep your line from getting tangled.
 Saltwater trolling rods carry a lot of line and their large bodies allow them to take extreme pressure for fighting large fish. These rods are shorter and stronger than casting rods. They may also come with a notched butt for a fighting belt or chair. Rods that are longer with a short butt are meant for use with a fighting belt or chair.Pair the rod with an appropriate line-test where a 20 pound rod and line combo works for sailfish, dolphin and marlin. Use 130 pound rod and line combo for billfish and bluefin tuna.
 These rods work best for either hovering over a target or to retrieve your line at high speeds. Use specialized tackle to work your lure at the correct speed, either very quickly or slowly depending on the fish. Use vertical jigging with high-speed rods and metal lures for fast retrieval. In contrast, use rubber jigs to hover over the target or for slow, deliberate retrieval.