 Before you begin engaging in races, it is advisable to tour the city in Free Roam mode in order to familiarize yourself with the routes and to gain driving skills. Free Roam is a mode where you can just drive around the city without the pressure of being in a race.


From the game’s Main Menu, select Career >> Resume Career >> Resume Free Roam. This will take you to the streets of the fictional Rockport City on which the game is based.
You can now drive around the city to learn the tracks. Use the Up Arrow key to accelerate, Left and Right Arrow keys to steer left and right respectively, and the Down Arrow key to brake and reverse.
Use the map on the lower left corner of the screen to help you familiarize the streets of the city.;
, Throughout your single-player career, the BlackList will be your focus. It is the ultimate goal in the single player mode of NFSMW to climb to the top of the BlackList, a list of the top 15 most wanted players in Rockport City. You can do this by working on the milestones and races that need to be won so you move up the list.


To access the BlackList, on the Safe House menu (Main Menu >> Career >> Resume Career), click “BlackList 15.” This will open a page profiling the BlackList racers above you on the list of 15, so you can see what races or milestones you need to tackle before you can challenge them for their spot on the list.
Milestones are unique achievements in NFSMW, like evading the cops within a certain duration or being caught by a speed camera while driving at a certain speed.
 On the racer’s profile, you can view the milestones/races you have to complete in order to surpass him or her.
 To view a milestone, click “Milestone Events” on the BlackList racer’s profile page. To view the races you have win, click “Race Events.” Clicking either will open a list of various icons that represent the races and milestones you have to complete.


Icons that have a checkmark next to them indicate a race or milestone that has already been won or completed.
 Select whether you will do a race or milestone, and click one of the icons without a tick next to them. Click “Yes” on the dialog box to confirm the action, and you will be taken back to the streets of Rockport City where you can attempt the race or milestone.


After the race or milestone attempt is over, press Escape and click “Jump Safe House” to return to the Safe House menu.
If you do not win the race or successfully complete the milestone, follow the same procedure from step 3 above to retry. You can retry an infinite number of times. If you did win the race or successfully completed the milestone, there will be a check mark next to it in the BlackList racer’s profile.
 After you have completed all the milestones and races related to the current BlackList member you selected, go back to the BlackList to take on the next one. Repeat this procedure till you eventually clinch the top spot on the BlackList, and you will have completed NFSMW’s single player mode!

