 Wake up as soon as your alarm goes off. Reaching for the snooze button might seem like a great way to get an extra few minutes of sleep; however, hitting snooze actually results in your feeling more exhausted upon waking.


If you're waking up to an alarm clock, you'll often end up jerked awake in the middle of REM sleep. This is the deepest stage of your sleep cycle. It can be jarring to be woken suddenly from REM sleep (this is known as sleep inertia).If you press the snooze button, your body begins a new sleep cycle, only to be once again suddenly roused from deep sleep. The cycle of falling asleep and waking up leaves you more exhausted when you finally get out of bed.
While it might be tempting to hit snooze for those few extra minutes, try to force yourself to get up as soon as your alarm goes off. To motivate yourself to forgo the snooze button, try reminding yourself that this will be better for you long term.
If you have trouble resisting the temptation to hit the snooze button, consider placing the alarm across the room. That way, you'll have to get up to turn it off. This can help wake you up.;
, Human brains are wired to respond to light as a cue to awaken from sleep. As soon as you wake up, try to expose yourself to bright lights and sunlight. This will send a signal to your mind and body that it's time to be awake.Natural sunlight is best. Try opening your blinds as soon as you get up or stepping out on the porch for a few minutes in the morning.
If you wake up before the sun rises, turn on all the lights when you wake up. Artificial light can provide a decent substitute for sunlight. There are alarm clocks that provide an artificial sunrise by way of alarm to help coax you out of bed in the morning., Caffeine is a powerful stimulant. When used in moderation (200 – 400 mg of caffeine, or about one 8-oz cup of coffee), having a caffeinated beverage in the morning can help you feel refreshed throughout the day.Studies show overall cognitive function on low sleep improves with use of caffeine. Have a cup of coffee within your first hour of waking up. This will help you feel energized throughout the day.Don't overdo it. Many people feel drinking loads of coffee, or an energy drink packed with sugar and high levels of caffeine will help them wake up. But too much caffeine can cause dehydration which results in fatigue. You could also experience other physical symptoms, such as anxiety and difficulty concentrating.Avoid caffeine at least six hours before going to bed, as it has been shown interfere with sleep.

