 Being a young single mother isn't easy but with the right help and support from family and friends, your life will be less difficult. If your parents are allowing you and your child to live with them, accept that offer. There is nothing wrong with living with your parents until you get on your feet. Don't feel pressured by your friends or anyone else to move out of your parents house too soon. It is nice to have your own place but you don't want to move out and be struggling as a single mother, be patient.;
, If you don't have money to pay a babysitter, there are resources available. Depending on which US state or country you live in, you might be eligible to receive childcare assistance through the government. If you aren't eligible for assistance, or your state/country doesn't have a childcare assistance program, ask your parents for money to pay a babysitter until you can save up and pay the babysitter yourself. If one of your parents doesn't work, have them babysit while you work.


If your parents can't babysit your child or don't have money to help you out with a babysitter then maybe try taking out small student loan to pay for childcare. When you enroll in college you are able to apply for financial aid including the pell grant and loans. See the section below for more information.
 If you were in high school and had to drop out due to having your child, go back. Without a high school diploma, some places won't even hire you. If you have finished high school and received your diploma, enroll in college. Look into local community colleges in your area and apply. If you can't afford to pay for college out of pocket, you might be eligible to receive the federal pell grant (go to https://fafsa.ed.gov/ ). Another option is going to a trade school. Trades such as certified nursing assisting, medical assisting, dental assisting, phlebotomy, etc do not have to be complete at colleges and they don't take two or four years to complete like college degrees.


Some colleges allow students to take certain classes online. Online classes are great for mothers because you can do classes from home as long as you have an internet connection.
There will always be many jobs available in the medical field that pay well, that is just one possibility.
Try to choose a career that you like and one that will allow you to spend enough time with child.
 Keep your eye on the prize and don't get distracted. It's okay to have some free time and spend time with your friends but your main focus is being a parent and school. Keep up your grades and maintain a good GPA. Once you get that degree in your hand and find a good paying job, you are all set!

