 The Amsler Grid is a chart you can use to test your central vision at home. Symptoms of central vision loss include difficulty identifying faces, reading text and signs. Central vision loss is associated with macular degeneration, which is when cells deteriorate in the macula, a part of the retina.


Request an Amsler Grid from your eye doctor. The chart is a grid of vertical and horizontal lines with a point in the center.
Hold the chart up in front of your face at eye level.
Cover 1 eye. Look at the central dot with your other eye, and then look at the vertical and horizontal lines while focusing on the dot.
Switch eyes and repeat the process.
Call your eye doctor if you experience the following during the test: blurriness, the appearance of curving or distorted lines or empty spots in areas of the grid.
 Make an appointment with your eye doctor if you suspect you may have loss of vision. An optometrist or ophthalmologist can perform tests to detect vision loss. Common tests your eye doctor may perform include:


Slit-lamp test: Using a microscope and a high-intensity light source the doctor can focus into a thin beam, the doctor will examine your eyes for signs of damage or injury. The eye doctor may also give you eye drops to dilate your pupils in order to examine the back of your eye.
Refraction test: The eye doctor will ask you to sit in a chair and look through a machine known as a refractor that uses lenses of differing strength to determine what, if any, corrective lenses are necessary for your eyes. You will view a chart with different letters or symbols through the refractor.
Tonometry: A tonometer measures the pressure inside your eyes. Your eye doctor will either use a tonometer to briefly touch your eye to measure the force needed to flatten the cornea, or the doctor may perform the air puff test. The doctor will shine a bright light in your eye and puff air in it. The light reflections change when the air hits your eye, and a machine can measure these changes and determine your eye pressure.

