 The room should be relaxing, with activities available for children who have extra energy to expend.


Paint the walls a soft, calming color, such as pink, light blue, lavender, or light green.
Try a fuzzy carpet for children who sit on the ground.
Keep distractions such as posters to a minimum.;
, Teach children that there is a time for shouting and making noise, but that it's not courteous to do it in the classroom. This helps avoid sensory overload in easily-overwhelmed children.
 If someone is upsetting the autistic child, don't sit back and allow it to continue, and never blame the autistic child for someone mistreating them.
 Children feel more comfortable around you when they feel that you accept them for who they are. Don't try to force them into compliance, stop them from doing something because it "doesn't look normal," or respond violently to meltdowns.
 Children won't open up if they don't feel like you're going to listen. When they talk to you, or attempt to communicate nonverbally, don't brush them off. Look at them, validate their feelings, and ask for clarification if need be. Once they realize that you're a good listener, they'll start telling you things.
 Autistic children may confuse a feeling (e.g. anxiety) with sickness (e.g. a stomachache). Here are some strategies they can use to understand their feelings:


They can go to a mirror and see their facial expression.
They can stop for a minute and reflect on what just happened to them. Could this sensation be due to something they don't like?
They can monitor their stims. (Are they stimming more, or using a stim that they only use when stressed?)

, Try creating flash cards, or making a poster chart of various facial expressions. When a child isn't sure how they're feeling, ask them to point to a picture on the poster, along with monitoring physical symptoms.
 My Little Pony and The Berenstain Bears are examples of media that explains how the characters feel about different events.


As you read or watch, ask "How do you think (s)he feels about that?" If the child isn't sure, throw out a few suggestions.
 For example, there's a difference between "cheerful" and "overjoyed." Try rating emotions from 1 to 5, and discussing how you might act based on that emotion.
 Some autistic children are afraid to express anger because they think it is bad. Talk about how it's a normal reaction to seeing something that you think is wrong, and that there are ways to deal with it.


Counting
Taking a break
Telling an adult
Taking deep breaths

, Autistic children may not understand their own sadness, and may not realize that they are sad. Encourage them to take a break when they're feeling down, to seek solace in their friends or special interests, and talk about it with an adult if they need to.
 Autistic children may be afraid of asserting their needs, because they are used to being told that they are burdens. Assure them that their needs are reasonable and worth your attention.
 Self-calming techniques alone do not usually solve a problem. Teach them to reach out and get help when they aren't sure they can handle something by themselves.

