 Not all items freeze well, so if you are making your soup with the intention of freezing it, you might want to exclude these items. You can add them in fresh when you are reheating the soup later.


Items that don't freeze well include: cream, eggs, fresh herbs, and pasta.Veggies freeze well, but you may want to slightly undercook them to better preserve texture.If you are freezing soup that already has these items in it, don't worry. There are a few things you can do to preserve their texture and flavor.;
, You will have to chill your soup first before you can place it into the freezer. If you put hot soup into the freezer, you will risk thawing the other items in there. The soup also won't freeze evenly, or fast enough to prevent bacterial growth.Plan ahead. The ice bath needs to be level with the soup, once you put the pot in.
 If you have a lot of soup, consider dividing it into smaller metal containers, and sticking all of them into the ice bath.


The ice bath must be level with the soup. If it is too deep, drain some water/ice. If it is too shallow, add some more water/ice.
 This will help distribute the cold throughout the soup. It will also help it cool more evenly. You can use an ordinary spoon, or for even faster results, a cooling paddle. Cooling paddles are plastic paddles that are filled with water and then frozen solid. Commercial kitchens use these to stir hot soups to make them chill faster.


Consider placing a fan next to the soup. This will help move warm air away from the soup., As the soup cools, the ice will begin to melt. When this happens, you will need to drain the excess water, and add even more ice. The ice bath should always be level with the soup. It should also always be filled with ice, and not just cold water.
 Use a clean, meat or cooking thermometer to gauge the temperature. Once the soup reaches 40°F (4°C), you place it into the freezer., These bags are usually thicker and more durable than your average sandwich bag. If you are freezing a lot of soup, consider using different sized bags for different portion sizes, such as gallons and quarts.


Plastic bags will save space in your freezer. If you are hesitant about using plastic bags and don't care about saving space, use a plastic box with a tight-fitting lid instead.
 Write the name of the soup and the date using a permanent marker. Frozen soup will not last forever, and needs to be used within a certain amount of time. Dairy-based soups will only last 2 months, while broth-based soups will last 3 months. Any longer, and the taste and texture will be compromised., This will hold the bag stable. Make sure that the jar is large enough to hold the bag.If you are using a plastic container, set the container down on a stable surface.
 Use a ladle to transfer the soup from the pot to the bag. If you are using a plastic container, leave ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) of space between the soup and the lid. This will allow for the soup to expand while freezing. It will also reduce the chances of freezer burn., Pull the bag out of the jar, and squeeze out as much air as you can. An easy way to do this is to close the bag most of the way, and then to press the air out. Seal the bag tightly. If you are using a plastic container, simply place the lid on tightly.
 Lay the bag(s) flat on the bottom of the freezer. When they freeze and become solid, you can stack them to save space.If you are using plastic containers, you don't have to wait for the soup to freeze. You can simply stack them from the start.


Soups that contain grains and starches, such as beans, pasta, or potatoes, can go mushy. To keep this from happening, place the soup towards the back of the freezer. The temperature is most consistent there.