 Wear clothing that makes you look nice. Avoid wearing Spiked Collars, because they make you look rough and/or mean.;
, You could do it in your own order, and you can decide which shops to show them. Don't forget to buddy them, so they can follow you around. Try buying a membership because you might get more good clothes.
 New Jammers need to know how to be safe in trading. Explain to them that scamming is when other scamming Jammers steal your good items. Then, show them how to prevent getting scammed and how to recognize a scam. Tell and teach them how to get rid of scammers: reporting them for scamming. Make sure they understand this concept.
 All Jammers need to know what Gems are and how they are used. Show them the Sol Arcade and anywhere else there are games. Then, take them to Adventure Base Camp. Explain how adventures work, the point of doing adventures, and the Alphas and phantoms. Finally take them to shops and let them use their Gems. Be sure to show them how to recycle items. Note that you can't get the full value back from recycling items.
 Finally, you can show the the Diamond Shop. Explain that there are only a few ways to get Diamonds. They can be earned through Daily Spin, and you can get Diamonds from codes. Show them the Diamond items that are for every Jammers including Non-Members (if they are one, which they most probably are). Tell them that if they are a member they get weekly diamonds.
 Teach them how to add buddies and send Jam-a-Grams. Then, show them how to remove buddies and delete Jam-a-Grams. Explain that members have "free" chat on Jam-a-Grams, while Non-Members only have a select number of phrases to use. If they are a member, tell them about the Jammer Wall if you know about it.
 If they are non-member, explain the "barrier" between members and Non-Members. If possible, give personal experiences. Tell them how to deal with the bullying. Teach them how to report and block rude or mean Jammers, if you haven't already. Remind them to follow the rules of Jamaa. Lastly, show them the Jamaa Journal and the Daily Explorer. Be sure to tell them the purposes of each.
 Tell them what they are and how to tell them apart from regular items. Show them examples, if you have them. Also, tell them about the rare item Monday.

