 Take a different path to class. This may mean a different hallway or a back staircase in a larger school. If you go to a small school, see if changing the order you visit your locker or the bathroom helps alter your course to class.


Eat your lunch outside the cafeteria if your school allows it. Many schools offer smaller outside sitting areas or let students spend time in the library.
Ask your favorite teacher for help in finding new hangouts in the building. Even if you’re quiet in class and feel like the teacher doesn’t notice you, he or she definitely does and will be happy to help you feel comfortable in school.
Stay away from where they hang out. If you find yourself dealing with jealous classmates, avoid the areas where you know they hang out. While this may not be entirely possible, you can minimize your interactions with them by making a note of where they like to hang out.;
, If you feel like the pressure of dealing with your jealous classmates is too much, find a place in the school where you can go calm down when you feel overwhelmed. Even if you can’t find a physical spot, form a relationship with one of the adults who work in your school so that he/she can help you get a break from your classmates when you need it. Having a place to recenter your mind will help you resume your daily schedule with a fresh perspective.Secure your spot by volunteering. Most schools allow students to help out if they’re interested. For example, you could ask to be an office aide or a teacher’s aide during his/her off period. This way you could have time away from your classmates as well as an opportunity to build a relationship with adults on campus who can help you.
If you like to read a lot, you may be able to find a nook in the library. Check with the librarian if you feel nervous. You might say, “Hi, I’m feeling stressed and would like to calm down with a book. Can you recommend a good title and somewhere I can get started with my reading?”
If you you’re a star athlete, you may be able to get permission from your coach to hide out in the locker room. You could always offer to help your coach in exchange for spending extra time in the gym or locker room.
If you are in theater, offer to organize the costumes so that you can spend some quiet time in the dressing room.
 While it’s fun to talk about what’s going on in our lives, oversharing can open the door for jealousy because it can signal to others that you feel like you have something they don’t. Studies have shown that we are more likely to share stories and accomplishments that make us feel good about ourselves, which is a recipe for creating jealousy in those around us.Remember that you can share good news without oversharing. For example, tell your friends if you win the highly coveted part of Juliet in the school production of Romeo and Juliet, but refrain from adding that you’re also top of the class and just got a cell phone upgrade.
When others share their good news, celebrate with them before turning the subject to yourself. If you immediately respond to someone else’s success with a comment about your own, then it sounds like you’re trying to one-up people.
 Even if you can’t entirely avoid your jealous classmates, you can block out their negativity. Plan mental escapes for yourself, such as reading a book, sketching in your notebook, listening to your favorite band on your phone, or flipping through a catalogue from your favorite store., Perhaps people are jealous of you because of a misunderstanding or perhaps the problem lies in the way you act. If ignoring jealous classmates is not working, it may make sense to examine your behavior. Ask a trusted friend their impressions about your problem. They may be able to provide valuable feedback.