 A lidded container will trap most of the odor inside. Select one with a capacity of 20 to 24 quarts to make sure that you have enough room to store two days worth of cloth diapers.


A flip-top garbage can usually works well and allows air to circulate inside the container, preventing the odor from becoming too overwhelmingly potent while minimizing the amount that seeps out. If you have rowdy youngsters, however, you may wish to consider a container with a tighter seal, since these are more likely to remain closed if accidentally tipped over.;
, If you do not line your pail, you will need to clean it out separately every time you wash a load of diapers. A cloth pail liner can be removed and washed alongside the diapers, saving you time and energy. Do not use bags made of cotton or other woven fabrics, however, since these will absorb the odor and moisture from the soiled diapers. Instead, use a bag made of nylon, PUL, or another water-resistant or laminated fabric.


Alternatively, use a disposable plastic bag to line the pail. Plastic bags will contain the moisture and odor created by your baby's diapers, and they do not need to be washed afterward. You will need to change the bag each time you wash a load of cloth diapers, though, which can get costly and wasteful.
 Generally, 1/4 cup baking soda should be enough to greatly reduce the potency of diaper-related odors. Pour it directly into the bottom of the container or into the liner. You can also sit a reusable deodorant disc at the bottom of the container, but make sure you do not accidentally wash this disc.
 You do not need to worry about waste from babies still on breastmilk or formula, since it is water soluble and will not be solid enough to remove. Babies and toddlers on solids will have more solid waste, however. Dump this waste off into the toilet. Allowing it to fester inside the dirty diaper pail will only intensify the odor, and it may also lead to a less thorough cleansing when the time comes to actually wash the cloth diapers.
 Most cloth diapers consist of an absorbent insert and a waterproof outer covering. Separate the pieces before throwing them into your pail so that you do not need to separate them before throwing them into the washing machine. These pieces must be separated for the wash; otherwise, the diapers may not be cleaned as thoroughly.
 Tea tree and lavender oils are the most commonly used essential oils. A few drops, soaked into an absorbent fabric rag or paper towel, can greatly cut down the odor of ammonia that urine-soaked diapers produce. A few drops of vinegar can accomplish the same task.


Note that some dirty diaper bags have a small strip of fabric sewn into the inner seam of the bag. This strip of fabric is specially designed for deodorizing purposes, so if your dirty diaper bag has it, add your essential oils or vinegar directly to this strip.
 Even though many cloth diaper experts do not recommend drying your baby's diapers with fabric softener sheets, laying a sheet on top of the dirty diapers in your dry pail can be an effective counter-measure against particularly smelly diapers. Gravitate toward sheets that use baking soda rather than those that contain a lot of perfume. Perfume can interact negatively with the odors produced by your baby's diapers and may actually make the situation worse.
 If you do not want to use essential oils, vinegar, or fabric softener sheets, stick with baking soda. As your pail gets fuller, the baking soda you initially sprinkled at the bottom will become less and less effective at eliminating odors. An additional, small sprinkle of baking soda on top of your dirty diapers can go a long way in freshening things up again.
 You should aim to wash your child's dirty diapers within 48 hours, especially if you use the dry pail method. Otherwise, ammonia and other hazards, both chemical and bacterial, can build up and create health problems.

