 The neonatal period extends from birth through two weeks. During this period, the pups’ eyes and ears will not be open, and they’ll be limited to the sense of taste, smell, and touch. The mother dog (dam) would normally watch them closely at this time, so the responsibility is now yours.Touch the pups when necessary—primarily to feed them—and allow your scent to imprint on the pups. This will help them develop an emotional bond with you, as the surrogate dam.;
, In a natural setting, the pups' mother would confine them to a den or bed, where the pups would stay during the neonatal stage. Keep the temperature in the room warm, and you can leave the lights off, since the puppies won’t be able to see. Since the pups’ mother would normally provide body heat, you’ll need to place a blanket over the pups or set a heating pad (set to “low”) beneath their bed.Since the pups will be largely immobile during the neonatal stage, they are too young to be handled by children. Also restrict the number of adults that handle the pups; were the puppies not orphans, only the dam would interact with neonatal pups.
 Since the dam would normally breastfeed her pups, you’ll need to manually feed the orphaned puppies. Feed each puppy while it is lying on its back, and let it suck on the bottle nipple until full. During the first 72 hours of the puppies’ lives, feed each pup once every two hours. For the duration of the neonatal period, feed the pups every four hours during the day, although you can leave the pups unfed for 6 hours at night.Puppy feeding bottles should be available for purchase at your local pet store. Also purchase a puppy-specific brand of formula, as puppy formula will provide the nutrients that the pups need. Do not feed your puppies cows’ milk or goats’ milk.
Ask your veterinarian if they have a preferred type of bottle and a preferred brand of puppy formula.
 During the neonatal period, puppies are unable to eliminate waste on their own, as they lack control over the corresponding muscles. Were the pups not orphans, their mother would stimulate urination and defecation by licking the puppies’ anal area. Since the pups are orphans, you’ll need to provide this stimulation. Use a warm, damp washcloth to wipe the pups’ anal and genital areas, and clean up any excrement that the pups produce.You’ll need to facilitate the puppies’ waste elimination until they’re roughly three weeks old. After that point, the pups will gain the necessary muscle control to urinate and defecate on their own.
 This period covers from two to four weeks; the pups eyes and ears will open, and they’ll begin to walk and take a few tentative steps around the bed where they’ve been kept. It’s important that the pups are handled during this period, so that you can imprint on them and the pups gain familiarity with humans. Stroke and hold each pup for only a couple of minutes every day.The pups will begin walking during the transition period, and will be quite clumsy. Keep a close eye on the pups, and don’t let them out of the room with their bed.
 Grooming is another behavior that the dam would usually perform for her puppies; since the puppies are orphans, you’ll need to groom the pups. In addition to providing basic hygiene, grooming also plays a role in the pups’ socialization by providing physical warmth and contact. You should at least hold and brush the pups once every couple of days; this will help the pups’ brains develop more quickly and will form an emotional bond between you and the puppies.Depending on the breed of dog, the pups may require more or less grooming. If you’re unfamiliar with the breed’s grooming requirements, ask your veterinarian how you should groom the puppies.
 While the puppies will need to be bottle fed during the first 5 weeks of their lives—the time during which they would normally be breastfed by their dam—by the 6th week, the pups’ teeth will have developed enough for them to begin eating kibble. If you have the time, you can help the pups transition by providing “puppy mush” between 4-6 weeks as an intermediate food. You can make puppy mush by placing kibble, puppy milk formula, and warm water in a blender.In case some of the pups’ teeth are slow to push through the gums, you should also make soft, canned food available, in case some of the pups prefer this food.
 Although the puppies will be small and weak when newborn, they will quickly become curious, playful, and active. Between 4 and 12 weeks, the pups will begin to socialize with one another, often through playful “wrestling.” The puppies will also begin to explore their environment and engage with the humans they encounter.Once the pups reach about five weeks of age, you can let them out of the room in which they were kept following birth. Let the pups roam through your house or apartment—but keep a close watch on them, especially around stairs.
 Between three and twelve weeks, pups go through a period of critical socialization, during which they need to be exposed to new experiences, sounds, and people. If pups are inadequately socialized, they may be hostile towards unfamiliar people and animals, or may react with fear to all new situations.Take the puppies on brief walks around the neighborhood you live in. This will allow them to hear traffic and outdoor sounds, and let the pups overcome their initial fears of the unfamiliar outside world.
 Show the puppies to your friends and family members, and invite them to gently play with the pups. The puppies need to learn to inhibit their urge to playfully bite, and should develop social skills with people. Take the pups to a dog park or regular park, and ask a couple of friends to meet you there to play with and cuddle the pups.The pups should be exposed to a range of ages (from children to the elderly), and need to meet people in a variety of settings. If possible, take the puppies to work or school with you, and allow anyone interested to pet the pup.
Make sure that all of these interactions are positive and fun for the puppy. If the pup shows signs of fatigue or anxiety (for example, hiding in a corner), remove the pup from the situation., This is an important aspect of socialization: even though the orphaned pups have each other to play and socialize with, exposing them to other puppies, grown dogs, and other animal species, will help your puppies develop social skills.Also consider taking your puppies to a “puppy class”: a large group of puppies gathered by their owners to socialize. These classes are often facilitated through pet stores, such as PetSmart or Petco. If you have friends or family members who own puppies or dogs, invite them to bring the pups to your house or apartment. Be sensitive to differences in age and size, however; your tiny pups could be accidentally harmed by an energetic large dog.
Before allowing your puppies to meet other animals, make sure that your pups have all been vaccinated, and that the other animals have been as well.
 Your orphaned pups won’t need to have their first visit to the vet until they’re about six weeks old. At this point, the pups will be old enough to transport safely, and will have developed physically enough to allow the veterinarian to assess their overall health. Make sure the vet knows that the pups are orphans, and ask if the puppies are ready to begin receiving standard vaccinations.If you are concerned about the pups’ health prior to six weeks—especially if they display concerning symptoms like vomiting, crying, coughing, or diarrhea—call the vet and schedule an appointment or a house call immediately.

