 Start by lighting the Havdalah candle, which is typically braided and has several wicks. A wine glass is filled, and a spice box is filled (typically with cloves or cinnamon).The ceremony begins by making fire, which represents civilization, hope, and a way to overcome the darkness (both literal and figurative). Lighting the candle harkens back to Adam and Eve, who were afraid of the darkness until G-d showed them how to make fire.
Even when the candle is put out, the memory of its warmth and light will remain.;
, Wine represents hope and joy for a happy week ahead. Pray the following: ברוך אתה יי אלוהינו מלך העולם בורא פרי הגפן


The transliteration is: Baruch ata Adonai eloheynu melech ha’olam borei p’ri hagafen.
Translate this as: Blessed are You Adonai our God, Ruler of the universe, Creator of the fruit of the vine.,
The English translation is: Blessed are You Adonai our God, Ruler of the universe, Creator of all the spices.
The spice box can then be passed around. It symbolizes a revival of the senses, to remind you that the next Shabbat is only six days away., You can extend your hands towards the flame to feel its heat and appreciate its beauty while praying: ברוך אתה יי אלהינו מלך העולם בורא מאורי האש


You can speak this transliteration: Baruch ata Adonai eloheynu melech ha’olam Borei m’orei ha-eish.
The prayer translates as: Blessed are You Adonai our God, Ruler of the universe, Creator of the light of fire., This blessing both closes the ceremony and points toward the new week that has just begun: ברוך אתה יי אלהינו מלך העולם המבדיל בין קדש לחול


In transliteration, it is: Baruch ata Adonai eloheynu melech ha’olam Hamavdil bein kodesh l’chol.
In translation, the prayer is: Blessed are You Adonai our God, Ruler of the universe, Who separates the sacred from the profane., The candle is put out in the wine and leaves you in (relative) darkness. Shabbat has ended, and it is time to look forward to the new week and what it holds in store. This last sound (the sizzle of the snuffed flame) is what separates the holy (Shabbat) from the mundane (the rest of the week).