 The best way to show children how to have good is to demonstrate as much yourself. Children, especially very young children, tend to learn best by observation. If you've worked a desk job for a long time, you may have developed bad habits regarding your own posture. Be conscious of how you're sitting and make sure you keep your back straight at all times., Children need positive reinforcement and tend to learn better through praise than criticism. Do not merely tell your child to "sit up straight" when she is slouching. Praise her when she keeps her back straight as well. Tell your child how grown up and tall she looks when she's sitting up straight, for example. This will give her motivation to work on good posture as she'll engage in behaviors that gain her praise from adults., Children might not be willing to follow instructions if they don't see the benefit. Talk to your kids about why good posture can help in the long run.


Abnormal bone growth can result from longterm improper posture. Poor posture can result in disorders like carpal tunnel syndrome and spinal abnormalities, which can cause pain of the joints and limited mobility later on in life.Your breathing improves with better posture, which can increase your energy and ability to concentrate as your brain needs oxygen to work.Good posture can also improve self image. People who slouch less tend to feel better about themselves as standing tall and straight promotes confidence., Children, especially very young children, thrive on the presence of visuals in order to learn. Use pictures and images to teach your child about posture.


You can find child friendly cartoons and handouts online that discuss posture. Children tend to respond to kid friendly visuals over blocks of text or lectures. Printing some images out at home or at your local library can help.You can also have your children engage in fun, creative activities to help you learn about posture. Have your children draw pictures of people using good posture and bad posture.Other creative outlets can help. Consider writing a song about good posture or putting on a short play with your kids., Yoga can help promote posture by strengthening core muscles. Many yoga courses are designed for children. See what's available in your area in regards to children's yoga courses.


As so many children spend a lot of time on computers and smart phones, yoga can be a refreshing break from being slouched over a screen. Yoga promotes posture and flexibility and may increase children's attention spans as they'll learn to spend time away from electronic devices.Make sure any classes you enroll your child in are taught by a certified teacher. This way, you'll know the teacher understands what poses are doable for children and your child will get the most out of the experience., There are a variety of games you can play with your child that promote good posture. Be creative and have fun to help your kids learn.


Play "My Fair Lady," a game in which kids have to walk across a room carrying a book on their head without having it fall off. Kids will have to learn how to stand up properly and position their head and neck in such a way that promotes posture.Encourage climbing. Have your children climb trees or buy climbing nets, climbing domes, or even ladders. Climbing requires a certain amount of core stability and strength that will encourage good posture.Take your kids on bike rides. The way you need to sit on a bike to find balance results in good posture., Consider enrolling your kids in light gymnastic courses. Early gymnastic poses, like animal walks and somersaults, promote core strength and require good posture for correct performance. This is also a great means of exercise and will get your kid involved with the community and give him or her a chance to make friends., Oftentimes, children develop poor posture due to homework and school obligations. If assignments are done electronically especially, children end up slouched over a desk or computer all night. Create a work environment for your child that discourages slouching.


Tables and desks should always be elbow height. Make sure your child is working at a desk that meets these conditions. Do not allow your child to do homework on the couch or in bed.Teach your child proper posture when using a computer. Make sure you tell your child to keep the bottom of her palms lifted above the keyboard rather than resting on it and to keep her shoulders shifted back and her back straight as she types., Television and video games can discourage good posture as children are often lounging or lying down while using them. Try to limit time in front of a screen to around 2 hours a day. Not only will this help with your child's posture, it'll encourage him or her to be social, get exercise, and get outdoors., Certain types of furniture can discourage good posture. Work to alter the furniture you have in your home.


Make sure your child's mattress is firm, as a soft mattress can cause back discomfort that leads to slouching.Avoid overly cushy chairs or sofas, as children might sink into these objects and end up slouching.Encourage kids to sit with their feet flat on the floor. Crossing the legs can twist the spine and result in bad posture.