 A light sleeper may like it better by sleeping in bits and pieces. Think of sleep as work, it has to be done, and can be daunting task. The hour break at work can be applied to sleep by going to bed an hour earlier and taking an hour break from the "work" of sleeping. In another case, a two-job worker (or student) might take an hour nap between jobs (or classes and studying) and feel more refreshed than if he added that hour to the bulk of his sleep time. Continuous sleep slows the body way down, too much for some people. 4+4=8, 5+3=8, 7+1=8;
, Sleep times varies daily due to work, family, social or other reasons. When it is the weekend sleep as experts would recommend. By practicing time management, you will be more efficient, organized and productive.
 How you lived your day was by choice, accept the consequences of your actions. Be that as it may, continue to lay in bed, with your eyes closed and lights off. Do not force yourself to try to sleep, let sleep happen on its own. Think about a pressing problem if it concerns you so much, but lay still, keep the lights off and keep your eyes closed. Winding down is not a quick process.
 Draw the curtains, cover the eyes, and most importantly keep the eyes closed. A major part of sleep is resting the eye muscles - the eye muscles are not going to relax if the eyes are open. The eyelid muscles keep the eyes open, the eyeball (orbital) moves the eyeball and in the eyeball are muscles that a). focus and b) control the incoming light (the pupils), like the aperture in a camera. All these muscles have to rest.
 After controlling what can be seen, controlling sounds is next in importance. Foam earplugs are designed to dampen and not eliminate sounds. These plugs are used in occupations where hearing is protected from noise but also where hearing is important. i.e. you will still be able to hear with these earplugs on.
 For gas air pollution start indoor planting with plants that require low light and are drought resistant.
 To relax and to wind down, requires stillness. If some "things to do" item causes anxiety, get up, make a post-it and forget about it.
