 The first step to treating Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) in cats is consulting a veterinarian. They can suggest a variety of medical treatments and lifestyle changes to help your cat live a long, fulfilling life despite the chronic condition.


Your vet has likely already diagnosed your cat's IBS through a series of tests and procedures. Usually, IBS is diagnosed through gradually ruling out other causes and taking an extensive survey of your cat's medical history.Treatment for IBS is oftentimes confusing as there's no single cure or approach that works across the board. Usually, treatment involves a combination of medication, dietary adjustments, or lifestyle change. Treatment is sometimes trial and error. Your vet will advise a variety of approaches and if one method fails you'll try another.Listen to your vet closely and ask her any questions you have regarding your cat's treatment. With medications especially, you need to know the proper protocol for administration, dosage, and storage.;
, Usually, the primary route of treatment involves the use of corticosteroids. Your veterinarian will prescribe a particular type of steroid and you'll monitor your cat to see if symptoms improve.


Prednisolone is the most commonly prescribed corticosteroid for cats. It has powerful anti-inflammatory properties that can reduce symptoms of IBS.Corticosteroids have a fairly high success rate, alleviating symptoms in approximately 85% of cats.Corticosteroids are usually given orally and for 3 to 4 month intervals. If your cat has flare ups after you discontinue steroid use, your vet might prescribe another round of steroids or she might try other treatment options.Your cat should be monitored closely by veterinary professionals when on steroids. Corticosteroids can lead to immunosuppression and diabetes. However, most cats do well on steroids if they're given in the right dosage and on a proper schedule. Usually, a high dose is used initially and the dosage tapers off over time.Cats can be difficult about taking medications orally, and sometimes vomit up meds. If you're worried about your cat taking pills, you can ask your vet about injecting steroids via syringes instead., Antibiotics are usually prescribed if a combination of dietary changes and corticosteroids is not adequately addressing symptoms.


Antibiotics work because bacteria is sometimes a causal factor in IBS. Metronidazole and azithromycin are the most often prescribed types of antibiotics.Side effects are uncommon, but some cats do vomit in response to the meds. This is usually due to their taste., Usually, immunosuppressive drugs are added to a treatment regimen if corticosteroids and antibiotics fail to yield results.


Immunosuppressive drugs are quite potent but they can alleviate symptoms in some cats. Like other treatment options, they are taken orally.Immunosuppressive drugs are a last ditch treatment option for a reason. They are very strong and can suppress bone marrow in some cats. Your cat will need regular veterinary checkups while on immunosuppressives. If your vet recommends ceasing use, do so immediately., Ask your vet about introducing dietary supplements to your cat's diet. If she thinks this may help, and it won't interfere with other medications, it's a possibility.


As bacteria plays a strong role in IBS, medications that encourage the growth of certain bacterium such as prebiotics and probiotics might result in a reduction of symptoms. Ask your vet where you can find the proper supplements and how to safely administer them to your cat.Other dietary supplements can be found in health stores, and combination pills that mix together a variety of homeopathic cures might be the easiest route for treatment. Just make sure you consult your vet before any changes to your cat's treatment or diet., Food allergy can be one of the contributing factors to IBS in cats. Choosing foods that are hypoallergenic in nature can alleviate symptoms.


Your vet will likely recommend you find a protein and carbohydrate source your cat has not eaten before. Rabbit, venison, or duck-based diets are usually a good staring option as most conventional cat foods do not use these meats.Certain cat food brands, such as Royal Cainn Limited Ingredients Diet, use hypoallergenic products only. You might want to switch to this brand of cat food and see if symptoms improve., Low residue foods are designed to be easy to digest and absorb, lessening bowel issues related to IBS.


Most conventional cat food brands offer a low residue option, but might not be labeled as low residue. Instead, the company might use labels like "Scientific Formula." Ask your veterinarian what brands and categories of cat food you should buy if you're trying a low residue diet.Iams provides foods that are specifically labeled low residue and made for cats with intestinal problems. This might be a good route. If a low residue brand is not available in the store, you can order a bag online., Fiber is key in many species, cats included, for regular and smooth bowel movements. Upping your cat's fiber intake could improve some of the diarrhea and stomach discomfort related to IBS.


Many brands of cat food, such as Royal Cainn, are labeled high fiber. They might be difficult to find in department stores, as most owners do not prioritize a cat's fiber instinct, but you can always make the purchase online., Regular physical activity improves colon function and can lessen symptoms of IBS.If you have an outdoor cat, he might get a lot of exercise playing and running outside. Make sure he's going outdoors a few times a week. If weather, such as rain or snow, prohibits him from getting outside make sure you replace his outdoor exercise with indoor exercise that day.
Cats, unlike dogs, are generally not walked. The bulk of physical activity therefore comes in the form of indoor play. You should provide your cat with a variety of toys and throw, pull, or dangle them for him each day to engage his interest. Aim for 15 to 20 minutes of play a day. If your cat is higher energy, and doesn't seem tired out at the end of 20 minutes, play with him until he loses interest.If your cat is good with other animals, you might consider getting another cat. Cats tend to be more physically active when they live in groups as they run and play with one another. However, if your cat has past behavioral issues related to other animals, another pet could cause stress. Stress is linked to IBS flare ups.
 Cats with IBS may experience flare-ups related to stress. Managing stress in your cat's life is important to reduce IBS symptoms.


Make sure your cat has access to a safe, private spot in your home. Cats might want to retreat from noise, especially if you have guests over, and they'll crave hiding spots like closets, cabinets, and kitty condos.Minimize changes to routine, such as feeding and sleeping times. If changes are necessary, ease your cat into transitions. If you move, for example, get your cat used to his carrying crate before you have to transport him in a new location.Always keep your litter box clean. Dirty living conditions bother cats, so excessive urine and fecal matter in a litter box can cause stress. Scoop out clumps of litter on a daily basis and once a week dump the existing litter and replace it with a clean, fresh batch., IBS is not a curable disease. Cats who suffer from IBS will have flare ups their entire lives and you need to understand the longterm prognosis for your cat.


The disease will come and go with time. Your cat may go months or even years without a flare up and then experience symptoms again. As IBS is caused by a multitude of factors, predicting and preventing flare ups is not always possible. However, if you consult your vet right away in the event of symptoms appearing, the disease can be effectively managed over time.Regular veterinary check-ups are important for any cat, but especially one with IBS. Your vet can monitor symptoms over time and adjust treatment as needed. Always take your cat in at the first sign of a flare up.