 Rabbits mostly eat the same sort of leafy green vegetables that you should probably be eating yourself. Give your rabbit the greens you can’t finish or parts of the plant that you typically throw away. Seventy-five percent of a rabbits’ diet should be composed of leafy greens and fifteen percent should be non-leafy greens, and less than 10% should be fruit.You should feed your rabbit about one cup of leafy greens for every two pounds of your rabbit’s body weight. These include arugula, carrot tops, cucumber leaves, endive, escarole, frisee lettuce, kale, mache, lettuce, spring greens, turnip greens, mint, basil, watercress, wheatgrass, chicory, cilantro, radicchio, bok choy, fennel, borage leaves, and dill leafs.
Only a third of these vegetables should be high in oxalic acid, which can be harmful in large quantities. These include: parsley, spinach, mustard greens, beet greens, swiss chards, radish tops, and sprouts.
You should feed your rabbit about one tablespoon of non-leafy greens per two pounds of their body mass every day. These include carrots, broccoli, roses, pansies, hibiscus, celery, bell peppers, Chinese pea pods, brussel sprouts, cabbage, summer squash, and zucchini squash.
Feed your rabbit about one teaspoon per 2 pounds of your rabbit’s body weight in fruit everyday. Good fruit to feed your rabbit include apples, cherries, pear, peaches, plum, kiwi, papaya, mango, berries, pineapple, banana, melons, star fruit, apricots, currants, nectarine.
Alternate what you feed your rabbit as much as possible to ensure that your rabbit gets sufficient nutrition.Rabbits will eat many parts of the food that we generally don’t eat like the green tops of carrots and celery, the center of pineapples, cauliflower leafs, raspberry and strawberry leafs, and broccoli stalks.;
, One of the reasons that rabbits are such an eco-friendly pet is that you can grow much of their food for them. It's healthier for your rabbit, you can have some of it for yourself, it'll improve your gardening skills, and provide you with a fun new hobby.Don't expect to grow everything that your rabbit eats. You should aim to feed your rabbit three different types of vegetables everyday and alternate the types of vegetables you feed it. It is improbable that you can grow a garden with enough vegetable variety to entirely care for your rabbit, but you can make it a major source of its nutrition.Some of the easiest rabbit foods to grow are beets, cucumber leafs, lettuce, basil, dill leafs, cilantro, parsley, and bok choy., Dandelion greens are both one of the most invasive weeds in most people’s yards and one of the favorite treats for a bunny. You can gather them yourself or allow your rabbit to munch on the lawn in a movable cage with no bottom.Alternatively, consider cutting the dandelions and giving them to the rabbit.
Rabbits are allergic to azaleas, bloodroot, caladium, christmas rose, cone flower, daffodil, daphne, elephant ear, tobacco, foxglove, iris, ivy, jimson weed, lantana, nightshade, poison hemlock, and poison ivy., One of the staples of rabbit food is grass hay, which most farmers have in abundance. Try to make contact with a local farmer who is willing to sell you some. It should be cheap and ecofriendly, because your rabbit food won’t need be shipped, cutting down on carbon emissions.You can vary up the types of hay you feed your rabbit and mix several types together. You should refrain from feeding your rabbit alfalfa hay though, because it has more calories and protein than your rabbit needs., While it might seem like your rabbit is a garbage disposal, there are some household plants that can be dangerous to your rabbit. Familiarize yourself with what not to feed your rabbit.


Do not feed your rabbit the leaves of agave, the seeds of apples, buckeye seeds, castor bean seeds, eggplants, horse chestnuts, mistletoe berries, morning glory seeds, mustard, potatoes, sweet potatoes, sweet peas, rhubarb leaf, and tomato leafs., Rabbits love to chew on found objects. A plain cardboard box that would otherwise be thrown away will provide hours of fun. The cardboard inside a toilet paper roll will be a suitable toy for your rabbit. Old phone books and towels can also be a source of entertainment for your bunny.This will allow you to recycle household products. There will also be less waste from packaging and producing toys.
Do not give your rabbit any wood that has been painted or treated with chemicals, These can be dangerous to rabbits., Save yourself the expense of an electronic shredder and give your sensitive documents to your rabbit. They won’t tell anyone your bank accountant number, but they will shred it up. They can even use the paper as a nest, so that you won’t need to provide specialized nesting material., You can use your rabbit’s droppings, as well as litter made out of recycled newspaper pellets, hay/straw, or wood shavings as compost. This can be used to help grow the vegetables that you feed your bunny with!


In contrast, the droppings of cats and dogs are not compostable, because they are carnivores. The meat in their diet makes their droppings unsuitable for compost.Rabbits also don’t require the plastic bags that are necessary for disposing of dog droppings.
 Rabbits are content to run around in confined places, so you don’t need to drive them to a park to walk them. This will reduce your carbon foot print., Rabbits are surprisingly clean and disease free. You don’t need to treat them with pet shampoos and tick treatments. The chemicals in these cleaners pose a variety of ecological issues.