 You should determine the amount of time the lease will be in effect and the amount of rent to be paid in particular intervals (monthly, annually, etc). Included in this should also be any scheduled rent increases and lease extensions or termination clauses. Landlords tend to want stable long-term tenants, while new and small businesses generally should negotiate for short-term (one- or two-year leases) with the ability to renew without steep rent increases. Common rent structures include:Gross Rent - the most common and is a fixed monthly amount and the landlord is responsible for all expenses of operating the building including taxes, repairs etc.
Net Leases - require the tenant to pay for some or all of the real estate taxes in addition to their base rent.
Net-Net Leases - require the tenant to pay for some or all of the real estate taxes plus the insurance on the space they are occupying.
Net-Net-Net or Triple-Net Leases - are usually written only for industrial properties and basically pass on all costs of operating the building to the tenant.
Percentage Leases are a type of rental arrangement that applies to retailers. In a percentage lease the tenant pays a base rent plus a percentage of gross income. Rent may go up and in that case it is outlined in the escalation clause of the lease agreement.
 Frequently, there are additional charges for maintenance of shared facilities (such as parking lots) and utilities that are provided by the property owner (such as dumpster rental and trash disposal). Be sure you know what additional items you are responsible and what is included in your rent. If utilities are billed to you by the property manager, be sure you know if these are individually metered for the area you are leasing or if they are apportioned by square footage or other metric. Ask the property manager to disclose all fees you will be expected to pay to the landlord., Some properties offer “build-out” options in which the property manager will make certain modifications to accommodate the needs of the tenant. Often this will result in an increased rental price per square foot. These may include adding or removing walls, laying carpeting or tile, or installing particular lighting treatments. If the property doesn’t offer build-outs, be sure you will be able to hire outside contractors to make any modifications you will need., In many commercial leases, the tenant is responsible for maintenance and repairs to all except common areas. Be sure you know who is responsible for maintaining and repairing:Roof
Walls, doors, and windows
Electrical systems
Plumbing systems
Other fixtures and appurtenances to the property

, Aside from insuring your business furnishings and equipment that are to be located inside the property, many commercial property managers require the tenant to carry a policy to cover the building in the case of destruction caused by the tenant or their clients and guests. Contact insurance providers to see how much that coverage will cost.
 In some areas, failure to pay your rent on a commercial lease can result in an immediate lock-out. This could be devastating to your business. You should clearly negotiate what happens if either party does not perform the lease as expected. A few questions you will want to consider are:What will happen if the property is not vacant or ready for move-in on the date the tenant is to take possession?
Will there be a grace period for the tenant to pay the rent plus late charges?
Can the tenant deduct from the rent the cost of making repairs that are the landlord’s responsibilities?
If either the tenant or the landlord decide they want to terminate the lease prior to the date negotiated initially, can the tenant sublease the property, what will be the procedure, and how will any damages be calculated and paid?

