 For this type of project, it will be best to use a simple rounded vase or candle holder that’s roughly the same width from top to bottom. This will allow the burlap to wrap tighter and lay flat against the body of the vase.Spruce up an old, unused vase that you’ve had in storage to instantly revitalize it.
Shop around for a new vase that’s just the right shape and size for the design you have in mind.;
, Take the loose end of the burlap and press it to the center of the vase, or whichever section is thickest. Unwind the rest of the roll and guide it around the vase until it meets the loose end. Pull the burlap taut to prevent it from sliding down the vase.If the vase you’re using is curved or tapered, line up the edges of the burlap as best as you can and trim any corners that stick out.
It may help to tape the loose end of the burlap in place while you measure.
 You should overlap the edges of the burlap a few inches so that the vase is completely covered all the way around. Run your scissors straight up the roll. Make sure both edges are straight and in line with one another.You may need to trim or iron the crimped edge of the burlap roll before you get started.Overlapping the edges of the burlap will also make it easier to glue them down.
 Using a hot glue gun, dab a few spots of glue down the inside edge of the burlap, then pull the opposite end over the top and press down firmly. Hold the edges together until the glue is dry.You can also glue the strip of burlap directly to the vase itself. It will be much more secure, but the vase will show unsightly glue marks should you decide to remove it., As you did with the burlap, stretch out the roll of ribbon and wind it around the vase. Make sure the ribbon is centered with the strip of burlap. Plan on cutting the ribbon a little longer so that it reaches all the way around.Choose a white, dark or brightly colored ribbon that offsets the burlap.
Look for ribbons with eye-catching patterns or styled edges. This will help create a further sense of depth.
 Determine how long you want the ribbon to be and snip it accordingly. A short ribbon can be attached in the exact same manner as the burlap strip, while a longer ribbon can be tied into a bow. This will give you a few more options in customizing the look of the finished vase.Practice tying bows before you make any actual cuts to the ribbon to avoid cutting it too short.
 Line up the edges of the ribbon and glue them into place for a smooth, streamlined look, or leave them longer and tie them into a bow for a more fanciful finish. For added security, go around and glue down the ribbon to the burlap. You might also choose to leave it loose so that you can switch it out for other colors and designs later.To replace the ribbon layer on your vase, simply slide off the old ribbon and cut a new one to fit.
If you decide to tie the ribbon, use an extra dab of glue to make sure the bow holds., Glue mismatched buttons down the burlap seam, or find fabric flower buds or other unique and attractive items to enhance the look of your vase. You could even rummage through your home to find miscellaneous improvised accents to include, such as bottle caps, pins or old jewelry.Browse craft shops and home goods stores for handsome trinkets that might make a good addition to a burlap vase.
 Before you attach the ribbon, cut a length of lace to drape over the burlap. This will lend the vase a more delicate, sophisticated look. Trim the lace so that it’s a little narrower than the burlap strip—that way each layer will be distinctly visible.Vases adorned with burlap and lace make ideal centerpieces for an outdoor wedding.Top the lace with a separate ribbon, or tie the ends of the lace and ribbon together to form a more elaborate bow.
 Fill the vase with water and stick in a fresh-cut bouquet, arranging the flowers around the outer edges of the vase. The vibrant floral elements will contrast pleasantly with the muted texture of the burlap. You’ll have a vase that’s simple, chic and can be put to use for any number of formal or casual occasions.Smaller vases and candle holders could also be filled with sand and soil and used to house flowering succulents.Select a ribbon in a neutral shade that doesn’t clash with the color of the flowers.

