 If you would prefer to connect to others in person, you may opt for a support group in your area that meets on a regular basis. Support groups can be lead by a peer or facilitated by other members in the group. They may also be run by professional counselors or therapists.These types of groups may or may not be covered by your insurance, so check with them.


Search for a support group that is looked close to where you live or work, as it will be more convenient for you to get to on a regular basis. You can get a referral for a support group through your doctor, your cancer treatment center, or through others living with cancer.You may look for a support group that focuses on your type of cancer, or a support group made for caregivers, if you are taking care of someone living with cancer.
Keep in mind that your first visit to a support group can be a little sad and overwhelming. Try to commit to going three times to see if it is right for you.
If there are no support groups in your area, then consider starting your own support group.
 You can also connect with individuals living with cancer by signing up for a cancer wellness retreat. These retreats are often one week long and allow you to spend time in nature with other survivors and those living with cancer. Though the retreats cost money, they can be a good way to relax and connect with others.The cancer wellness retreat is often tailored to the needs of those living with cancer. All types of cancer are often welcome at the retreats.
You can find more information on cancer wellness retreats by talking to your doctor or a representative at your treatment center.
Try contacting the retreat to see if you might qualify for a discount or grant to attend.
 There are programs called “Finding a Support Buddy” that allow you to connect one on one with someone who has the same type of cancer as you. You can find buddy programs through several non-profit organizations. There are different buddy programs for adults and young people.Having a support buddy can help you deal with feelings of isolation, depression, and anxiety. If you are a caregiver of someone living with cancer, you may also benefit with connecting with someone else who is also a caregiver.
You can also go with a more informal approach and agree to buddy up with someone from a support group. Decide on how often you will check in with each other, see each other, and what you will do in a crisis.

