;
, This will be used to hold the gram weight.

To make the bottom half of this box start with a square piece of paper. The size of the paper will change the size of you paperweight. Also make sure that once its made it will be able to hold your gram weights. I recommend using 6" by 6" (15cm by 15cm) piece.






Place the sheet so that the corners are facing up, down, left, and right. Then make two folds in the paper, one going from the upper left side to the lower right and the other going from the upper right to the lower left. Be sure that the creases on these two folds are both "mountain fold". In other words when you fold the paper fold it away from you and not towards you.






Now using these creases as guide lines fold the corners of the square piece of paper in towards the center creating a smaller square. Note: Do not worry if the edges won't line up exact they almost never do.






Now fold the left and right sides of you new square into the center and then do the same for the top and bottom sides. This will create an even smaller square. Next begin to unfold this new tiny square.






Continue to unfold the square until you are back to the point where you had folded the corners of your original piece of paper into the center. Now unfold the top and bottom triangles leaving the left and right ones folded.






Now you should have a complex shape consisting of a square middle and a triangle at the top and bottom. Grab the section where the triangle and square parts meet and fold the crease in to create a corner. Do the same on the other side of this triangle. And then lift the triangle up to create the first side of you box.






Be sure to lift the quarter piece that is going to be another side of this box. Repeat Step 2.6 with the other triangle. Once both sides are upright you should notice that there is a little extra on the top and bottom sides. Fold this extra paper into the box to reinforce these sides folding the triangle tip out as part of the bottom of the box.
 Note: Be sure not to buy weights that are large or have hooks on them as this will tear the paper cube.


optional: You may wish to leave the box open and not make a cover but if you wish to hide the weights just follow steps 2.1 through 2.7 to create another box and place that box over the bottom one to create a cover. Note: You may need to make the second box slightly bigger to fit it over your first.
