 Before you can apply for a green card, there must be a visa available. The Immigration and Nationality Act (“INA”) sets the number of visa that may be issued to those seeking permanent residence green cards. To determine if a visa is available to you, see the USCIS’s Visa Availability and Priority Dates webpage.;
, The categories under which you can get your green card, and links to criterion to help you determine if you fall within a particular category, are:


Through family. To determine if you are eligible for a green card through a family member, see the USCIS’s Green Card Through Family page.
Through a job. There are several different ways that one may get a green card through a job. To determine if you are eligible for a green card through a job, see the USCIS’s Green Card Through a Job webpage.
Through refugee or asylee status. To determine if you are eligible for a green card through refugee or asylee status, see the USCIS’s Green Card Through Refugee or Asylee Status.
Through one of the many other, lesser used, Green Card programs. There are many other green card programs, for which one may be qualified. Some of those programs offer green cards to those who are already living in the U.S., those who are working illegally, afghan citizens who assisted the U.S., widows of U.S. citizens, broadcasters, religious workers, and more. For a complete listing of all green card programs, see the USCIS’s Other Ways to Get a Green Card page.
 Once you have found the category under which you will apply to get your green card, download the appropriate forms and instructions from that category page.
 Type or print neatly in blue or black ink, following the instructions provided with the forms. If you category requires another party, such as an employer or family members, to complete any forms, have him or her do so.
 Mail your forms, filing fee, and a photograph (if required) that complies with the specifications described in your forms, to the address provided on the forms. When paying the filing fee, follow these guidelines :


Bank drafts, cashier's checks, certified checks, personal checks and money orders must be drawn on U.S. financial institutions and payable in U.S. funds.
If you live in the United States or its territories, make the check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security” (not "USDHS" or "DHS").
If you live outside the United States or its territories, and are filing your application or petition where you live, contact the nearest U.S. Embassy or consulate for instructions paying the filing fee.
 In some cases, a green card applicant may be required to submit additional information to USCIS, such as:


A set of fingerprints. Most applicants for immigration will need to be fingerprinted at an authorized fingerprint location. If you are required to submit a fingerprint card, the USCIS will mail you an appointment letter, which will give you the date, time, and place where you should have your fingerprints taken. Be sure to read and follow the instructions on the appointment letter.
An affidavit of support. An affidavit of support is filed by your sponsor and says that you have a way of supporting yourself and will not rely on government assistance, once you become a permanent resident. You can find out if you need to submit an affidavit of support, by reviewing the USCIS’s Affidavit of Support page.
A report of medical examination. If you are asked to provide a report of medical examination, follow the instructions provided on the USCIS’s Medical Examination Information page and then Locate an authorized Civil Surgeon near you, to perform the examination.
 Once your application for immigration has been accepted as complete, you will receive a receipt notice form USCIS. Save the notice, as you will need the receipt number to check on and complete your green card application.
 Not everyone will be required to attend an interview, but if you are, you will receive a letter with the interview date, time, and location. Follow any instructions included with this letter.
 Foreign nationals, who have applied for a green card, must pay an immigration fee before traveling to the U.S. and before a green card will be issued. The process for paying the fee is as follows:


Receive your alien number, DOS case ID, and sealed visa packet. You will receive these documents and information at the U.S. Embassy.
Create your USCIS Electronic Immigration System (“ELIS”) account. Create your account online by following the instructions provided.
Pay the immigration fee. You must pay the immigration fee online through ELIS on your credit or debit card. For the current immigration fee amount, see the USCIS’s Immigrant Fee information.
 You should receive your green card within 30 days of approval of your application, or payment of your immigration fee. If you do not receive your green card within 30 days, call the USCIS National Customer Service Center at 1-800-375-5283.
 Along with your U.S. permanent resident status, comes some rights and responsibilities, which you can review on the USCIS’s Rights and Responsibilities page.
 Once you have been issued a permanent resident green card, you will be responsible for renewing it every ten (10) years. For complete instructions on renewing a green card in your specific circumstances, so the USCIS’s Renew a Green Card page.

