 Work out a plan with your partner about how you can both fulfill each other’s needs. However, only do what you feel comfortable with. If your spouse wants you to appreciate them with acts that you don’t want to engage in, speak up and come up with an alternative. Similarly, tell your spouse what you would like done to make you feel appreciated.


Consult with a marriage counselor for help if you are unable to come up with tokens of appreciation that you both feel comfortable with. An outsider looking in may be able to think of something neither of you can, since you are both too involved., If you are the person who believes they are entitled to certain treatment from your spouse, you’ll need to let go of what you feel. It’s understandable to want your spouse to be kind and caring, but to demand that they constantly owe you is inconsiderate and a definite way to end your marriage.


Understand that you aren’t entitled to anything from your spouse. What’s more, only doing things for your spouse because you want them to “owe” you isn’t productive or beneficial to your marriage., If you want the status of your marriage to improve, it's time for you to get off your high horse. Start doing acts of kindness for your spouse for the simple pleasure of serving them—not to get anything in return. Try to incorporate one small way to serve them into each day.


For example, you might ask your spouse, "Is there anything I can do that would make your day easier?" You can consider laying out their work clothes, buying them a special treat, or watching what they want on TV. This isn't done to get anything back, but simply to make them smile and feel loved and appreciated.
 A surefire way to spoil the satisfaction in your marriage is by keeping a running tally of who did what for whom. By keeping score, you and/or your partner are welcoming negativity and trust issues into the marriage. If score-keeping is a variable affecting your relationship, make the commitment to let bygones be bygones.


Throw away your tally sheet. Cut your partner some slack and try something new. Instead of keeping up with what they did wrong, search for things that they are doing right. This allows you to create a positive self-fulfilling prophecy in your relationship. You will see more positives, and, as a result, you will experience greater marital satisfaction., Some say that comprise is the secret to a long-lasting relationship. One of the best ways to keep your marriage happy is to simply work out a deal with your spouse. You may not fully agree with what they want, and vice versa. However, putting your pride aside and compromising can help you to both become happy and allow your marriage to become stronger.The best route to successful compromise requires that each person bend a little to make the marriage work. Determine how much an issue means to you and then discuss with your spouse how you can each make sacrifices to meet in the middle.
For instance, you might take turns choosing a restaurant for dinner rather than always making the executive decision. You might get your spouse's input on reasonable punishments for your child instead of making the call on your own.
 The line between what you or your spouse wants (i.e. entitlement) in your marriage versus what is legitimately needed can get murky. It's best to keep an open dialogue with your partner, and an open mind within yourself, to prevent your wants from getting confused with your needs.


A healthy relationship involves positive communication between partners in which they both can safely discuss their opinions, thoughts, feelings, and dreams, respect for one another as individuals, respect for one another's right to privacy, ongoing support and compassion from your partner, and the flexibility to compromise.If any of these staples are missing, your relationship may be in jeopardy. Other desires not listed here may need to be discussed on a case-by-case basis depending on your individual preferences and expectations.

