 Everyone need the best knives in the world for their outdoors survival trips like hiking, camping or trekking. But there might be no perfect knife for for everyone. The survival knife which might be perfect for one might not prove perfect for the other.When going in to the wild, you should know up front what you could come across. A knife that can meet these needs will make your experience more easy, and in some situations, save your life. (For example, an axe is considered a very useful tool in the California or Canadian woods. But a machete in a jungle environment is better suited to cut through the dense jungle foliage. Finding a knife that can meet both needs halfway could come in handy). For example you have to decide getting the best survival knife or trekking knife which can be used for multiple applications and are easy to carry in your bug out bag.;
, When choosing a knife to take with you you should keep in mind how easy it will be for you to carry. Some knives can be kept in your with a clip on bar. But some others will required for you to obtain a sheath to attach it to your belt, vest or pack. Remember, having the knife easy to access for you is ideal.
 Many knife manufacturers have a large variety and styles of knives that usually vary on price as well. Always beware of cheap priced knives as the quality of these can be so poor that they will fail you when you least expect it. But just because a knife is simple, it doesn't mean it is of poor quality (Such knives, like tanto blade knives are known for their simplicity but their reliability). But just as well, beware of overly priced knives that claim great quality and craftsmanship. Just because they claim to be used by survival experts, military groups or simply because of their brand name, you shouldn't spend hundreds of dollars on a knife that would meet the same requirements as a $50 knife with the same durability and reliability. (Ka-Bar knives are known for their strength and history, at a much affordable prices)

, Different blades are made of different materials. Most small, pocket sized or tanto boot knives are made of 440 steel. These is an affordable, light and decently strong metal for knives, that is known for it's light weight, sharpness, and that it takes a long time to rust. Other, much larger and heavier knives are usually made of 1080 (or higher grade number) steel. These knives hold their blade much better and longer. They are good for heavier task, like wood cutting or small game hunting. Many large 7 inch (17.8 cm) Ka-Bar or SOG knives are made of this material and are historically known for their reliability. But beware. These material makes them much more prone to rust easy over time, because of the high amount of carbonation the metal is put through. So keep them away from moisture, preferably on nylon sheaths.
 Just because a knife looks like Rambo's knife doesn't mean is the best to carry on your back for weeks to come. A knives handle can make a huge difference. Clip knives are often used for small, quick activities, because the clip makes it uncomfortable to handle over time and can create blisters in your hands. (just imagine building shelter in the rain while using a clip pocket knife). Larger knives can come with rubber grips, which makes it more suitable for wet environments than leader grip knives. A knife has to feel good in your hand, even if it is for a minute or for hours. (weight can make a difference as well. Heavier knives can cut through wood better, but lighter knives might make it easier to carry on load trips). Gerber knives are known for their comfort.
 Think of the many things you can or will do with the knife you choose. From opening cans to cutting through rope or vegetation, or even unscrewing things. All of these should be things you have to keep in mind when you decided what knife to carry. Many people prefer to carry a single multi-tool knife instead of a single blade knife, as this can be lighter, more compact and can be your one everything stop. But others, like hunters who expect to skin animals or kill small game, and some who will find themselves in more remote areas who expect to cut through wood for fires, or to make their own shelter, usually take much heavier knives that can take much heavier and tougher treatment.
 Just readying one or two articles or reviews on a couple of knives would not give you a good idea of what kind of knife makes the best match for you. read as many reviews as you can, form the goods to specially the bad ones, as these can give you a better understanding of the complications a certain knife can give you. Many web forums in which people discuss their experience with the knives they have purchased and used. Specially if they are written by known or respected knife experts. Also considered going to knife stores in your are. Look around, as a good quality knife can be found on almost any store even if you don't expect it. Stores dedicated to knives only tend to know a lot about knives and can give you advice on how to take care of it and what kind of sheath you could use, but beware, because they tend to overprice the knives tends of dollars than some other chain stores. (Target carries a good variety of Gerber knives for example)

, Expect your knife to fail or not to meet your expectation on your first try. Be prepared to go through a couple of knives until you know what style, size and material is the best suited for you. Many experienced campers and hunter carry at least two knives, a large or main knife, and a smaller tanto or clip knife as a backup.

