 Water is responsible for cleansing skin from the inside out and preventing wrinkles. Keeping well hydrated will keep your skin looking plump and fresh as a child’s.


Try to drink at least 64 ounces of fluid a day, including water. Try to make water your primary drink, substituting it for sugary drinks or alcohol.Avoid sodas and alcohol which can affect skin negatively. The sugar and chemicals in soda and sugary drinks causes acne and oil buildup, while drinking alcohol steals moisture from your skin and gives the appearance of premature aging.
Try adding cucumber or lemon slices to your water, as both have proven to have extra skin-boosting benefits and add a refreshing twist to your H2O.;
, Sun damage is one of the top causes of an uneven skin tone, so protect yourself by using a minimum SPF15 on a daily basis.


Avoid tanning beds and laying out in the sun for hours whenever possible, as these are incredibly dangerous due to their carcinogenic properties.
Although SPF 15 is the minimum level of sun protection, to really save your skin apply at least an SPF 30.
Apply sunscreen on a daily basis, even if it is cloudy out. 80% of the sun’s radiation penetrates cloud cover, meaning you can still receive sun damage when it’s gray and rainy.
Use an SPF that has both UVA and UVB protection. UVA are the rays from the sun that cause wrinkles and age spots, while UVB rays are responsible for burning your skin.Keep in mind that many facial moisturizers and foundations contain sunscreen. Check the label to be sure. If your makeup or moisturizer does not contain sunscreen then you can always wear sunscreen under your makeup.
 Working out doesn’t just affect your size and weight, but helps to generate new skin cells which keeps your complexion even and young.


Heavy workouts aren’t required to get healthy looking skin. Instead, focus on just getting your blood pumping for a few minutes every day.
If you get dirty during your workout, be sure to wash your face afterwards to keep oil and dirt from getting trapped in your pores and causing your skin to break out.
 Healthy eating in general can help to promote a clear complexion. However, in the beginning you might notice you are breaking out a bit more due to your skin pushing out all the toxins. The chemicals, oils, and sugar in junk food cause your skin to create more oil, which clogs your pores.


Instead of completely cutting junk food out of your diet, slowly incorporate more fresh food and less processed food to help your skin.
Some foods like blueberries and salmon, which are high in antioxidants, are great for evening out your complexion.

