 If you have difficulty managing your emotional pain, then seek counsel from a professional trained to deal with this type of struggle. Contact you doctor or trusted friend or family member for a referral in your area.


Cognitive-behavioral therapy is one of many types of therapies that are effective with emotional pain that causes depression, anxiety, and various disorders.Group therapy is also effective when coupled with a problem-solving approach.Groups may be focused specifically on recovery from trauma or loss, or can be formed to help with social and coping skills.
 The goal is to pick a program in which you feel safe, comfortable and accepted. The unique aspects of your situation will drive the decision. All forms of treatment require a large dose of self-help to make the program successful. Treatment options include:


Family-based therapy has been found to be an effective first line treatment in some cases.Inpatient treatment centers. You are required to check-in to the facility and remain there for a specific period of time.
Outpatient therapy. You attend therapy at a clinic, but are able to stay in your home.
Group therapy. You attend meetings with a group of other people suffering from emotional pain and discuss your issues together under supervision of a therapist.
Individual therapy. You attend one-on-one appointments with a trained therapist to explore your feelings, beliefs, and behaviors and build strategies for improvement.
 When people are in pain they will do whatever they can to stop the pain. The decision of how you will “treat” your pain is up to you. There are healthy ways and destructive ways. Using alcohol, drugs or binge-eating to manage your pain is unhealthy and will lead to more pain if left unattended.


Research shows that individuals suffering emotional pain due to PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) who engage in self-medicating behaviors are more likely to attempt suicide.If at any time you have thoughts of suicide contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. If you live outside the U.S. contact them for a referral for your area.
If you are self-medicating, discuss this with a doctor, counselor or trusted family member to get the help you need.
Find healthy alternatives to manage your pain, as noted in this article.
 Strong relationships don't just happen. They need attention to thrive if they are to enhance your physical and psychological health. When a person experiences a difficulty in life, relations can suffer. Reconnect with friends and family to ensure you get the support that you need.


You can participate in online social gatherings and real life gatherings. Expand your interests into new areas. Perhaps you can volunteer for an educational program reading books to kids at youth centers or libraries. Fight your pain with activities that make you feel better.
Groups form when people share similar interests. Research potential opportunities and join in.
 For example, if you are good at drawing or computer coding, go out of your way to get involved in these activities. It’s nice to feel successful and capable, which can prevent you from lapsing into a negative mind space.


Use your family and friends and groups to help you remain accountable.
Use visualization techniques to train your brain to believe you will get past the emotional pain and discomfort. The thoughts you have during visualization exercises produce the same mental instructions for your brain as if you acted them out., There are times in life when things have been so difficult you might have forgotten what if feel like to enjoy life. If it's been a while since you have done something you enjoy, it is time to start. Get out and do the things you enjoy doing.


Education is a lifelong undertaking. If you are open to new experiences you will enhance your understanding of the world. Difficult times provide a new perspective to your life and its meaning. It is life's equivalent to hitting the reset button.
Motivation to do things in life can elude you when you need it the most. Participate in activities that help motivate you. For example, if you love the outdoors because it helps you feel alive and motivated, then make sure you get out as often as you can.
It may sound silly, but smiling has been shown to improve your mood, and is contagious.Sharing a smile with the world is a surefire way to create happiness for yourself.
 Identify the positive aspects of the struggle you are experiencing, what you learned and how those lessons will help you in the future. Appreciate the experience.Being grateful for the experience and what it brings to your life will improve your overall mental and physical health.When you are healthy, you are better-equipped to manage the feelings associated with emotional struggles.

