 Some researchers suggest bold, primary colors like bright red, yellow and blue to stimulate a baby's neurotransmitters while others suggest pastel colors of blues, greens, and violets to create a soothing environment that promotes healthy sleep patterns. Since your baby's nursery will most likely be the room that your child spends most of his or her time in during the first few years of life, this room should be airy, functional and attractive.


Look through baby magazines and online baby room databases to get ideas for decorating your baby's nursery. There are thousands of resources in print and online that can help you discover new decorating trends and innovative ideas for decorating a baby's room.;
, Many parents decide to create a baby nursery theme around a favorite character from children's literature or film. You can search for infant bedding that features a beloved character and then choose paint colors that will correspond with this theme.



Some parents who plan on having more than one child may wish to create a nursery that can be functional for both genders. Colors such as yellow and green are gender neutral and can be featured in a boy's or girl's nursery.
Make note of the effect the color scheme may have on your baby. Bold, primary colors are considered to be visually stimulating while pastels are considered to be soothing and comforting.
 For example, if you find a mobile for your baby's crib that you simply adore, you can take the mobile to a paint store and choose corresponding colors for the walls. You can then find matching bedding and other accessories, which will make the mobile a focal point. Any favorite item can become the focal point around which you create your baby's nursery theme.
 Heavy drapes can achieve both of these purposes. Some health experts caution parents to avoid floor-length drapes because fabric can become entangled around a small child's neck. Thin fabrics are more dangerous than heavy, upholstered fabrics. Avoid using mini blinds, roman shades, or venetian blinds in your child's nursery as the hanging cords can also present a choking hazard.



Electrical equipment and heavy items should be kept out of reach of small children.
Electrical outlets should be covered with safety covers so that children cannot accidentally electrocute themselves.
Baby cribs, bassinets, changing tables and other accessories should abide by safety standards.
 All pieces of furniture should feature the same wood finish to create a consistent and open look in the nursery. Popular furniture items include a crib or bassinet, a changing table, a dresser, a storage chest and a rocking chair or glider.



Mobiles, music players, children's literature and educational toys can all be valuable assets to a functional nursery.
Be sure that accessories are appropriate for newborn children and that they don't present any choking or strangulation hazards or tipping hazards. Furniture should be too heavy for a child to push over. Lamps should have short cords that stretch to electrical outlets without any slack. Furniture knobs should be tightly affixed to the furniture so that they cannot be pulled off and swallowed.
 If you want to include a mural of a nursery rhyme scene or storybook scene on the wall, you can accomplish this with a simple grid design.


Find and print an image that you want to feature on the wall.
Carefully draw a grid of small squares over the image. Then, draw a larger grid on the wall where you want the mural featured. The larger the grid on the wall in proportion to the image, the larger the mural will be.
Fill in each grid square with the corresponding lines in the image grid square. This will help you create a perfectly proportioned, professional looking sketch on the wall. Fill in the appropriate colors with paint.
