 If you want to get more rebounds, developing the right mindset is key. Understand that proper rebounding techniques are as important as dribbling, shooting, and other skills.


Make rebounding a priority. If you're able to rebound a lot of shots, you increase your team's chances at victory. Gaining control of the ball as fast and often as possible is key to a successful game. Always be on the lookout for potential rebounds when playing basketball.Be aggressive. Go into the game ready to take control of the ball. Do not shy away from boxing players out when necessary. Having a "loose ball" mentality, meaning you're lax in regards to who is controlling the ball and when, decreases your chances of winning. Go into each game ready to be aggressive and go for rebounds when possible., Most shots in basketball, especially first shots, are missed. Even at the professional level, players only make 43% of their first shot attempts. Therefore, each time a shot is taken you have a solid shot at a rebound. Learn to be aware of the factors that increase the likelihood of a rebound.Pay attention to your opponents as the game progresses. Players have preferences as to where they shoot the ball. If you notice one player tends to always shoot from the right corner, go to the right corner when that player has the ball. This way, if the shot is a rebound, you have a solid chance of intercepting it.Understand the angle the shot is likely to follow. If a shot is taken anywhere from the wing to the baseline, 80% of the time these shots will rebound from the same angle. Shots taken above the foul line rebound to sides 60% of the time and from the front of the rim 40% of the time.Keeping this information in mind, watch where shots are made. Move to the part of the court where they're likely to rebound. You will not make every rebound this way, but you will increase your chances greatly., Just as you need to practice skills like shooting and dribbling, engage in exercises that develop your rebounding skills. McHale taps are one exercise you can use to improve your coordination and skill at rebounding.


Move to the right side of the backboard. While jumping, dribble the ball off the backboard using your right hand. Dribble the ball while you are in the air.You should not be jumping between dribbles. Each jump is its own dribble. Try to touch the rim with your left hand with each dribble you make with your right. At first, you may not be able to reach the rim. That's okay. Try to at least get the net. You'll work your way up with time.Do this for 50 jumps or for 2 minutes. Then, switch it up. Dribble with your left hand and touch the net or rim with your right. Repeat for another 50 jumps or 2 minutes., Bangs are another great exercise to help improve your rebound skills. To start, pick up the ball with two hands. Jump and then bang the ball on the backboard 3 times, using as much force as possible. Jump one more time, this time putting the ball in the basket.Do about 20 bangs. Then, change sides. Move to the left side of the board and repeat the process, once again doing 20 bangs.