 Have some topics or ideas ready to raise in your meeting. Jotting down some notes can help you know what you want to say. Bring a notebook with you so that you’re prepared to say what you want to confidently. Prepare some examples and ready yourself for questions.For example, if the meeting is about increasing productivity, write down some ideas that can help encourage people to be less distracted.
 If you’re feeling nervous, that’s okay. Don’t pretend like you’re not. Instead, embrace these feelings to show that you’re ready to bring your best. Remember that it’s normal to feel nervous or stressed, but you can use these feelings to propel yourself to get excited.Say to yourself, “I’m a bit shaky, but I can bring this energy to my presentation.”
Practicing accepting unpleasant emotions will help them to diminish over time.
 Challenging your negative thoughts is important because they are contributing to your fears. You might question yourself or feel like whatever you say will be inferior to what other people say. If you have negative thoughts about your abilities, start to fight back against them. Take those “What if…” thoughts, self-criticisms, and fears of making mistakes and challenge them. What would you do if the worst outcome did happen? If you’re feeling self-critical, ask yourself what evidence backs up your criticisms and if you can find positive thoughts to replace them instead.For example, if you’re thinking, “I’m going to mess this up,” ask yourself, “When is a time I succeeded even when I was nervous? How can I do that again now?”

, To relax your body, try breathing from your diaphragm and not your chest. Get into a comfortable position then put one hand on your belly. Take a breath in through your nose and notice your hand and stomach move as you inhale. Exhale through your mouth and notice your stomach emptying of air. Do this three to ten times until you start feeling very relaxed.Do some relaxation to calm your nerves. Try some meditation to reduce stress. Relaxing activities can be healthy outlets for your stress and are best practiced regularly., If you have a big meeting and are feeling anxious, take good care of your body ahead of time. Get plenty of sleep the night before and wake up feeling rested. Eat healthy meals and limit your caffeine intake, as caffeine and other stimulants can increase feelings of anxiety.If you normally drink coffee each day, don’t automatically cut it out that day, as this can lead to withdrawal symptoms. However, don’t drink more caffeine than you normally would.

