 Every woman’s body is different and the fit of clothing can enhance your shape. Knowing parts of your body you’d like to highlight can help you find the most flattering maxi dress for your shape.Keep in mind you may be petite if you are under 5’4” or plus size if you wear larger than a size 16. Research different styles to decide on what you like and might look great on you. Consider the following dress types:


Play up an hourglass figure with a strapless column maxi dress.
Highlight your curves with a spaghetti-strap maxi that falls in a column or has a slight A-line
Consider a classy capped-sleeve maxi if you are big busted.
Play up an athletic physique with a belted maxi that skims your body or makes a long, slim silhouette.Try waistline-cinching and simple silhouettes to downplay larger busts and diving necklines, open backs, and details like ruching to boost your bust.Empire waist or shape skimming fabrics for curvier figures and skin-bearing options to elongate smaller bodies.;
, Just as body shape, style, and fabric can affect how you wear a maxi dress, so can the color and print. Choose an optimal color and fabric for your shape to best wear your maxi dress.Wear simple and small prints or a solid color if you are smaller.
Try bolder prints or larger floral prints if you are curvier. Solid colors will also work.Consider your skin tone when figuring out what colors and prints might work best for you. Ask your friends to let you know what colors best suit you.
 There is a wide range of maxi dress lengths, from foot skimming to floor skimming. Getting the right length can keep you from tripping or getting caught in your maxi dress.Aim to have the dress touch the top of your toes.Make sure the dress hits at least at your ankles.Give the dress a test run. Walk around in it for a couple of minutes to make sure that you don’t step on it and that it doesn’t trip you.
 Before you make any trips to buy new maxi dresses, look in your closet to see if you have any that might work or even ones that you haven’t worn in a while. This can help you save money and avoid buying styles that you already own.


Make a list of items you need and want to put together your desired looks. Include pieces that you can pair several other items to change up your look without breaking the bank. For example, you might have a solid-colored strapless cotton maxi. Consider adding other options such as a printed maxi or one with sleeves to help round out your collection.
 Keep your eyes open maxi dresses when you are out shopping. You may want to carry the list of dresses you already have so that you don’t buy similar styles.


Be aware that you can find maxi dresses at almost any store, from big box stores to exclusive boutiques.
Avoid breaking the bank. Buy yourself a couple of versatile maxi dresses you can wear for different occasions. For example, a simple black maxi dress can be worn for formal and informal occasions.
Try and buy the best quality dresses you can afford. This can help ensure that they last for a long time. Go for materials like pure cotton and silk that can last longer and are easy to launder or dry clean.
 Maxi dresses can range from sleek and class to trendy and chic.Research different looks to find maxi outfits for any style dress for various occasions.Take note of hairstyles and accessories paired with maxi dresses.
Search for possible outfits looking at images of maxi dresses online. Search social media sites like Instagram, Pinterest, and Facebook for inspiration, too.
Flip through fashion magazines or trade publications for ideas on how to style your maxi dress.
For example, you might want to look boho or like a lithe Greek goddess in your maxi dress.Consider keeping pictures of looks you like to inspire your outfit choices.
 Depending on the style, color, and print of your maxi as well as the look you are going for, focus on one item or piece of your outfit. Keep the rest of the outfit simple. This can help your maxi dress and accessories from overwhelming you.Keep your dress the focus if it has a bold print or is covered in flowers. If the dress has a lot of fabric and is very flowy, you’ll also want to keep the focus on the dress.
Use accessorizes such as jewelry or shoes if your dress is a solid color or simple print. You can also add an intricate hairdo like braids for some extra pizzazz.
 You can build your outfit by adding different articles to your dress. Remember that you want to keep the focus on the dress or an accessory, so consider completing the outfit with simple pieces.Check the weather when adding items to your maxi dress. For example, in spring or summer you could add a light cardigan or denim jacket. In winter, you could put a long cardigan or scarf around your neck to highlight her dress.Match your clothing items. For example, a denim jacket will match with almost anything. Or you might put a plain cardigan with a printed maxi.Put on a chic and simple blazer to go with your maxi. For example, a fitted black blazer would look lovely with a floral printed maxi dress.
 Because maxi dresses are often long and flowy and you may be going for a more relaxed look, keep your shoes simple.In most cases, a pair of strappy, simple sandals in a neutral color work best.Wear flip flops or flats if you’re going for a more relaxed vibe. In many cases, a pair of simple, wedge espadrilles will also look great with a maxi dress.Gladiator sandals also work with maxi dresses.Try open-toe and strappy pumps if your maxi is a more formal dress or for a formal event.Avoid closed-toe flats and boots with maxi dresses., Accessorizing your maxi dress can give your outfit some extra polish or pizzazz. Put on jewelry, a belt, or carry a handbag to complete your look.


Match jewelry to the overall outfit and look you want. For example, if you want to go for the boho look, stack lots of bracelets on your arms and wear a pair of intricate hoops in your ears.Pair a statement necklace with a simple, solid maxi dress and let that be the focus of your outfit.
Carry a larger bag to balance out the dress. Pair solid colors with print dresses and try printed bags with solid dresses.
Cinch the waist of your maxi dress with a belt to create curves or reduce the dress’s flowing texture., Depending on the formality of your office or your profession, you may be able to wear a maxi dress. Pair the dress with office or meeting appropriate toppers and accessories.Match the print to your office. For example, you may be able to get away with a brightly colored print at an art gallery whereas you’d need something more subdued at a law office.
Layer with appropriate pieces. Cardigans or blazers can make a maxi seem more office appropriate. Make sure the proportions of your layering pieces match your dress.Avoid strapless dresses, which are inappropriate for most offices. Be sure that your bra is covered as well.Wear office appropriate shoes. If you don’t have any that match your maxi, consider wearing something different.Use accessories such as diamond studs or a patent belt to dress up your maxi., If you are going to a wedding, anniversary party, or any other type of formal event, you may want to wear a maxi dress for comfort and sophistication. Having the right cut, fabric, and accessories can make you look polished and proper at formal events.Wear a more formal fabric like chiffon, silk, or satin.Beaded detailing on the fabric can also impart an air of sophistication.
Make sure the cut doesn’t reveal too much of your skin.Wear a pair of heeled strappy sandals or other simple shoes that match your dress. Avoid wearing flip flops.Match accessories such as jewelry and a small bag to your dresses motif., Talitha Getty’s photo in Marrakesh set the tone for the multitudes of women who embrace boho, or bohemian, dressing. You can make a maxi dress boho with the right print and great accessories.Get a maxi in a floral, tie dye, or paisley print.Pair your maxi with mini boots in suede or beaded or gladiator sandals.Add accessories or details like pompoms, sequins, or beads to your look.Wrap your head in a turban-style wrap.Also consider flower crowns or braids for your hair.Layer on loads of accessories like bracelets and necklaces.
 If you are having a day at the beach or just knocking around, or even meeting friends or a guy for a casual dinner, a maxi dress can be a comfortable way to enjoy the time. Keep you overall look simple and let your personality shine through.


Choose higher-quality fabrics like jersey-cotton, which are comfortable and can keep their shape throughout the day.
Keep accessories simple and to a minimum. For example, wear a long necklace or a nice pair of earrings and a couple of rings that match the print or color of your dress.
Wear minimal makeup and let your hair flow naturally. For example, a swipe of mascara and waves from the beach can make you look healthy and glowing.
Wear a comfortable and simple pair of shoes, such as leather thongs.

