 This is from every conceivable angle, meaning that if you are on the phone you should not have music in the background or keep telling the admin staff to hold on a minute. It means your written and verbal communication should be cordial and even friendly whilst maintaining an air of professionalism. It also means phoning, emailing, submitting and/or visiting within their schedule and not casually turning up five minutes late without so much as a plausible excuse or apology.;
, This also means picking suitable language and not calling the staff “buddy”, “pal” or any other colloquial term of endearment. Once again, a friendly rapport is okay, in fact it is advised, but be careful how you comment, how you use your language and be extra careful if you are cracking any jokes. Sarcasm is even harder to get away with and requires such skill that it is best avoided.
, If they call you by your last name then call them by theirs. If you speak in person then a friendly smile goes a lot further than a stern and serious look. The situation is a serious one, but you are dealing with human beings and you have not entered a criminal court.
 This is especially important when meeting people in person. Saying something such as, “I was told I should bring along my portfolio by the arts and technology teacher Mr.…erm, what’s his name?” The admin staff and professors will cordially brush off your faux pas but it will stick in their mind when they think of you next time.
 Remember that you are judging their college as much as they are judging you, which means you should be asking questions too, just make sure they are suitable questions. Asking what time the bars close or how many hot women attend the college is not going to go down well.
 Just rehearse your opening once or twice with a phone in your hand just so you know you will not fumble the first bit. The rest of the conversation should flow very well if you get off to a good start.
 A hand written card through the post may have made an impact in the 1950s but it is going to do you no favors these days. Fill out every form in full and miss out “nothing.” There is nothing more infuriating in both the academic world and the business world to have to receive applications that are not fully filled out.
 Email, a landline, your mobile, and your address are pretty standard things to add in. Adding details such as your fax number or beeper number may send the wrong impression these days. If you have a particularly well written and professional social media profile then you can take the risk and add in (for example), your Facebook ID or Twitter handle. Some admin staff enjoy putting a face to the applications they receive.
 You do not need to look as if you work behind a L’Oreal counter in the mall. Shiny shoes and a suit is not needed as you do not have to look as if you are about to accept an academy award. Use your own style but let it be seen that you have made an effort.
 Also, make sure you address your questions, comments and other non-requested communication to the lowest office that can handle the question. Emailing the Dean to ask about tuition fees is going to be a mistake.
 For example, some colleges get a lot of applications from people describing themselves as an avid leaner, to the point where admin staff start to worry if they have a subsidence problem, especially when they have people saying they think they can lean a lot from their collage.

