 Once you have your Tamagotchi, pull the tab and begin!;
,, In 2 minutes, it will hatch.
 When it does hatch, it will be hungry and won't be too happy so it will need some taking care of. Make sure you play lots of games so you can keep it's weight low to keep him healthy.
 If you continue to take good care of your Tamagotchi pet, it will turn into an adorable character.
 Quickly go to the potty icon and click it. Babies (I'm pretty sure!) don't do this. If you click the potty every single time your Tamagotchi does this, eventually he or she will automatically go potty every time he has to go, leaving you a clean screen.
 Check the hearts (in the first button, the scale) every 15 minutes, and, if you play games so your Tamagotchi weighs the lowest weight, you clean up its mess, you don't overfeed it, and you take great care of it, you'll end up with a really good character!

, During or after its sleep it will turn into a child! These are also very cute. Babies require the most attention, and children require much less, but don't slack on the attention~!

, Even easier to care for, you will still enjoy taking care of your Tamagotchi and playing games!

, These characters are the best, and once you get one, it will be worthwhile to care for them until adulthood!

, When he is around 7 years old, the Matchmaker will appear on your screen. She will present a character of the opposite gender, and give you a few seconds to consider it. Then the screen will say LOVE?" and you can either pick YES or NO. If you pick YES, fireworks will appear on the screen, music will play, and then a little excited beep will happen, and then your Tamagotchi will appear on the screen with an egg!

, In the morning, you will name the baby, and you will start a new generation! If you click the status button, and scroll to the page where it says GENDER: (girl or boy)

, Every egg your Tamagotchi gets, you are starting a new generation!

, You ignored it's hunger, it's messes, it's illness, and you didn't turn off the lights when it went to sleep (if it's a new version it does it automatically). Even though a Tamagotchis are very easy to take care of it does die. To create a new egg hold the first and last buttons (A and C) until you hear a long beep. You will then get a new egg and you will start the Tamagotchi life cycle again!

,