 Sometimes, one of the hardest things to do is actually recognize when you are in over your head or when you could use a helping hand. You may have been trying to take on the role of superhero, doing everything for everyone. However, such a mentality can lead to burnout or resentment in the end.


Be willing to admit when you're having a hard time and give your loved ones the chance to support you. Take a look at your day-to-day life. In what areas are you struggling? Now, think about the people you can trust to offer you non-judgmental assistance. These may be friends, family members, neighbors, or people who go to the same church as you do. Make a list of all the people you trust and put it on your fridge so that it is easy to find when you need it.
In this step, you don't have to take any action. All you need to do is become aware of some of the things you're having trouble with and identify some people who might be willing to help.;
, Think about what you struggle to do on your own. Be honest with yourself about the areas of your life where you need the most practical or emotional support.For instance, if you have just gone through a breakup, you might need someone to keep you company and lend a sympathetic ear.
Or, maybe you have been caring for a sick loved one for a while and could use some help running errands and cleaning.
Another possibility is that you have experienced a loss, such as the death of a loved one, friend, or pet. Perhaps you could benefit from someone making meals for you during this time.
 Be polite but straightforward when you ask for help. Don’t feel bad about making the request. We are biologically, emotionally, and cognitively designed to be social beings. It is normal to need help sometimes. Remember that these people care about you, and they’ll probably be happy to support you.For instance, if you’re dealing with depression, you could say to a friend, “I feel better when I leave the house, but it’s hard to get motivated to do that by myself. Will you start going for walks with me in the evenings?”

, If you have a written plan for what to do in the event of a physical or mental crisis, make sure everyone in your support system has a copy. Include details like your doctor or therapist’s contact information, any medications you need to take, and anything you will need help with while incapacitated.For instance, your crisis plan should include information about how to take care of any pets you have.
 When someone reaches out to help you, let them. People usually enjoy being able to do something for a friend or family member. Avoid feeling guilty or awkward, and let the person know how much you appreciate their gesture.If you’re used to being the person who does everything for other people, it may take some time to feel comfortable accepting help. Think about how you feel when you help others, and realize that’s how the people in your support network feel, too.

