 The best way to get nutrients is through a well-balanced diet. If, however, you are on a restricted diet that prevents you from getting the necessary nutrients, you should talk to your doctor about which supplements may be right for you.
 Sometimes, you get almost enough of your micronutrients through your diet but need only a little top up. The body is incredibly savvy and will pull what it needs from a multivitamin and excrete the rest as waste.Vitamins A, B2, and B6 might also have roles in supporting the immune system.
More isn’t necessarily better and your body excretes extras, so instead of high doses of many individual vitamins, a multivitamin is often a smart choice.
 It also may reverse some of the aging damage done by weakened immune systems.It can be hard to get enough vitamin E through diet (mainly in avocados, seeds, vegetable oils, and grains) and your multivitamin might not have as much as is recommended so take up to 400 milligrams a day in a supplement.
 Spirulina is a blue-green algae and one of the world’s best superfoods. It comes packed with protein, vitamins, minerals, and nutrients such as B vitamins, beta carotene, vitamin E, iron, zinc, and selenium. As a result, spirulina may promote cell regeneration, fortify your immune system, protect against allergies, and help iron-deficient anemia.Spirulina usually comes in a dried flaked or powdered form that is easy to add to smoothies. Although there is no specific science to recommend a standard dosage, two grams a day is generally suggested.Buy spirulina from a trusted brand, as the algae, if not sourced wisely, could be contaminated with heavy metals and toxins., The science verdict is still out on the effectiveness of echinacea. This plant in the aster family is available in supplement format and is often taken to boost the immune system and fight off colds.Exercise caution when taking echinacea. Children under 12 may develop rashes. People who have allergies or take blood thinners or ibuprofen/naproxen may have serious side effects.
Do not take echinacea on an ongoing daily basis. Take 300 milligrams of powdered extract (or an equivalent tincture or tea) three times a day, only for the first few days of a cold., There are hundreds of healthy bacteria naturally living in your gut. Probiotics, such as lactobacillus acidophilus, have been shown to increase immune cells and correct deficiencies.The research on exactly how probiotics help you is still evolving but one theory suggests that, as probiotics help break down food in the intestine, they make the environment unsuitable for “bad” bacteria.Scientists agree that you're doing good for your gut by choosing yogurt and other food products fortified with probiotics.Depending on the source of the probiotics, whether you take a supplement or get them through fortified dairy products, one to 15 billion culture forming units (or CFUs) are suggested to maintain digestive health., Some people advocate taking DHEA, which comes from a hormone naturally made in the brain’s adrenal gland. Lower levels of DHEA have been found in people with altered immune function but little research has been conducted on the effects of taking DHEA regularly to promote immunity in healthy people.No more than 50 milligrams of DHEA a day is advised.
 Some people advocate the use of colloidal silver, tiny particles of silver – the same kind in your jewellery – floating in a liquid that you drink, inject, or apply to your skin. There is no scientific evidence to support using silver to boost your immune system.Silver is not an essential mineral. There is no need for silver in your body.
Silver builds up in your body, since your body has no use for it, and can lead to kidney damage and seizures.

