 You don't want to be stuck carrying around 50 lbs. of luggage especially if you are flying alone. An old trick to pack light is just plan to do laundry when you get there. If you can not stand laundry, then plan to wear a shirt two or three times, if it isn't dirty.;
, Stick to sweats and a T-shirt. This will make you very very comfortable. Also, wear tennis shoes, never heels. From walking around the airport, your feet will get sore. If you have glasses, wear them, but you can always bring contacts when you get to your destination. This can save you from dry eyes, and you can sleep in comfort.
 About $50 in cash for use on the plane and in the airport is appropriate. In the airport, you can buy snacks to take on the plane, and you can buy a large water bottle. Don't buy soda, because that can get you all jittery. If you want carbonated drinks, buy ginger ale instead. When you are at the airport, or buy one from the dollar store, get a bag of lollipops. Dumdums are good because they are small and don't have much sugar.. If you don't like lollipops, then bring some M&Ms or skittles. Sucking on sweets can reduce stress a little.
 Bring Kleenex, extra hair ties, a brush, a toothbrush and toothpaste, eye drops, face wash, Wet-Ones, deodorant, band-aids, and headache capsules.
 Even though most airlines provide them, "washing" them isn't on their high priority list.
 You can play games, watch movies, play music, do some homework, and whatever you want. Some airlines, if your flight is over the time requirement, offers internet access. If you don't have a laptop, bring an iPod or mp3 player, (iPods are better because you can play movies on them) and a DS or a Game Boy.
 If you are going for Christmas or another school holiday, bring all your homework so you can get it done before your vacation starts. Bring mechanical pencils, regular pencils break and they are a pain to sharpen. Doing homework can also be a great waste of time, and when you're done, a lot of people like to go to sleep after that.
 You don't want to be stuck in the middle of a row, not being able to do anything. My advice, take a row that is least filled, if possible. Get an aisle seat, if you want leg room, or a window seat, if you want to sleep. When you are seated, and don't like your seat, look for an empty row. Then, when the cabin door closes, go for that empty row you've been spotting.
 It's best if you go early instead of waiting until the last minute, and have to wait in line. After that, walk to the front of the cabin and then walk back to your seat. This will get your blood flowing.
 If you find someone that looks like your age, and they have no one sitting by them, ask them if you can sit down beside them and then introduce yourself. You may find yourself a new best friend.
 Some flights have a video screen that you can use to watch movies, t.v. shows, and play video games. Some airlines also let you request certain items like extra food, blankets, seats, and cards.
 Sometimes on a plane your ears can pop and it can get annoying. Chewing gum helps out. Doing this also freshens your breath.

