 Ideally, everyone in the household should be supportive of the child learning and using another language, even if not everyone speaks the language. Sometimes, one person in the household wants to teach the child another language, while others may object, or be indifferent or unsupportive. If this is the case, and assuming that you are the one who wants the child to be bilingual, discuss the benefitsof multilingualism with other members of the household. The important thing is that when the child uses another language, everyone rewards and encourages it, rather than "correcting" them with the primary language.


Example: A toddler sees a carrot, points to it and says "zanahoria!" (which is Spanish for carrot). A bad response would be to scowl or look confused and say "No, carrot." A good response would be to smile and say "Yes! Zanahoria. Carrot. Good job!"
Other members of the family, especially the other parent, may be worried about feeling left out if you and the child have your own language. If this person isn't willing to learn the language, you can suggest that they take on an activity with the child that you are not interested in so that they have something that's their own as well.;
,,,, Ask them to use that language when speaking to the child, and to encourage the child to use it as well.

How to Find a Nanny
How to Choose a Good Babysitter

, Use peer pressure to your advantage! If you can't find an appropriate playgroup, consider starting one: How to Start a Local Playgroup. Or search for any other "organization" where you have an environment in which the secondary language is spoken, such as cultural associations., In a home where more than one language is used, a pattern might emerge where another language is spoken to the child, and the child understands it, but he or she doesn't know how to speak it because he or she responds in the primary language. Make it a rule that the child must respond in the language in which they are spoken to. In this regard the "one parent - one language" rule is quite helpful for raising bilingual children - define as a parent what language you use to speak with your child, and then stick to it (while the other parent does the same with the other language).Another option is to set aside a day or half day a week when only a particular language can be used. Another option is to use one language at home, and another one outside the home.
 There will probably come a time when the child doesn't want to speak the other language. It might become a big point of contention, especially as a child gets older. How you handle it will depend on your parenting style: Will you strictly enforce usage of another language? Will you continue speaking the language even if the child refuses to speak it back? Will you take your next family vacation to a neighborhood or country where the other language is commonly used?

