 This blush closely resembles the blush you would buy in a store, except that it lacks all of the dangerous chemicals. You can apply it like you would any other pressed powder blush with a brush or makeup sponge. This section will show you how to make pressed powder blush.;
, You will need a small bowl to mix all of your ingredients together. Make sure that the bowl is clean, or you will risk contaminating your makeup.
 You will need 3 tablespoons of water. The amount of food coloring you use will determine how dark or how light you want your blush to be. Here are some proportions to get you started:For a light pink blush, use 1 to 2 drops of red food coloring.
For a medium pink blush, use 3 to 4 drops of red food coloring.
For a dark pink blush, use 5 to 6 drops of red food coloring.
 You leave your blush a traditional pink, of you can add other colors to get the shade you want. Yellow food coloring will give you more of an orange tint, while blue will give you more of a purple tint. Start with one drop at a time, and be sure to mix between drops. Do this until you get the color you achieve.If your blush ends up too orange or too purple, then add in a drop or two of red food coloring.
If you are aiming for a light-colored blush, you may have to balance this out by adding a few drops water.
 You want to end up with a thick paste. Try adding 1 to 2 teaspoons of baby powder at a time. If you do not have any baby powder, you can make your own by combining cornstarch and arrowroot powder. The blush will be damp and have a darker color, but it will lighten a little once it dries.
 You can use any container you want, but a shallow container, such as an old makeup pallet, will work best. You will be applying this blush with a brush. Make sure that your container has a lid.
 When you first put your blush into the container, it may be lumpy. Use a spoon, knife, or spatula to smooth the surface down so that it is flush with lip of the container—just like a store-bought blush. You may end up with some excess blush during this process. If you do, either discard the excess blush or transfer it to another container to make more blush.


Consider pressing the blush. If the blush is still too lumpy and moist, you can place a paper towel onto the blush, and then pressing down on it with something hard and smooth, such as a spice bottle or a wooden block.
 Set the blush in a warm, dry, and preferably sunny location. Open the lid and leave it for 24 hours. After this, the blush should be dry and ready to use. Note that, depending on how much water you added, your blush may require more drying time.
 You can apply your blush as you would any other store-bought powder blush, using a brush or a makeup sponge. Be sure to keep the lid on your container closed when you are not using the blush.

