 The Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994 outlines the rights of both employers and employees with respect to accessing driving records. Among other aspects, this law forbids any state's Department of Licensing from providing personal identifying information about any driver without their consent.State statutes may govern these practices where you operate your business. It's a good idea to find out before requesting any records. This information should be available from the website of your state's government.
 Getting consent will shield you from potential legal liability if an employee ever tries to sue you for violating their privacy.Documentation may be required to actually obtain the records, and written consent is a stronger legal safeguard than oral consent.


An easy way to do this is to simply specify on the application that allowing you to check potential employees' driving records is a condition of employment.
You can also use a driving record release form. The form should include information like the following: “I understand that driving a company vehicle (or my own vehicle) is required for this position. Furthermore, I acknowledge that having and maintaining a satisfactory driving record is a condition of employment and will remain one. Therefore, I agree to allow to check my driving record, both before making a hiring decision and periodically thereafter. I understand the company will use this information for employment purposes and will not furnish the information to third parties without my prior written consent. Furthermore, I agree to release and its employees and agents from any liability for damage which may result from furnishing the requested information.”Then include a signature block for the employee to print name and date of birth, driver’s license number, and signature and date.
 Just as is the case for viewing your own driving records, you'll need to know your employees' full name, driver’s license number, and possibly a variety of other information including their social security numbers, addresses, dates of birth, etc.


Again, using the job application to collect this information is an efficient way to make sure you have all the information you need.
 You can request employees' driving records through your state, as described in Method 1, above. However, this may be a slow process, especially if you need a large number of records. If time is an issue, you may wish to use a private company to obtain the records you need.DMV.org suggests using drivingrecords.com to check employees' records, but there are many other services available, too.
For example, http://www.drivingrecord.net/ specializes in driving record services for businesses. If you are running a business that conducts 7 or fewer driving record checks per month, this site will allow you same-day access to the information you need for employment screening purposes.
Yet another site that allows you to check both your own records and those of your employees is http://www.4safedrivers.com/. This site also provides information about additional documents required by some states to access the records of others. That information is available here.

