 Free up your hands to do work by resting your guitar on its back. You can use a table, a box, your guitar case, even your own lap. Alternatively, if your guitar has a neck strap, wear the neck strap and turn the guitar face up. Make sure the guitar's head is not touching anything to ensure that your tuning pegs don't get messed with in the process, and ideally place it on a block to stabilize it.;
, Some people prefer to use a paper towel, microfiber cloth, or dry dish towel that they fold into eighths; other people prefer to use a clean cotton diaper.Any number of cloth or paper products will work, you just want to make sure that it's clean, dry, and relatively soft. Instead of applying the cleaning solution directly to the strings, which will also result in your guitar being sprayed, spray the solution onto your rag first. This will prevent any excess cleaning solution from gathering and being difficult to remove.For a guitar with nylon strings, a non-dampened towel or one slightly dampened with water will suffice.
For guitars with steel strings, there are guitar string cleaners that are manufactured for use like Fast-Fret String Cleaner, Dunlop Ultraglide, Dr.Stringfellow, and the like. However, you do not have to use these products if you cannot afford them. 70-90% rubbing alcohol can also be effective, as can pre-shaving gel., With your rag now wet and ready to clean your strings, slide half of the sheet underneath the guitar strings near the bridge or bottommost portion for the strings. Then fold the remaining half of the cloth over so that the entire cloth covers both sides of the strings.
 You want to make sure that you go all the way from the bridge/saddle area up to the nut of your guitar. Pay special attention to the portions of string located on the fingerboard as you most assuredly touch these every time, and, if you finger pick your instrument, the portions over the soundhole. Apply downward pressure to clean the top portion, and pull upward some to be sure that you get the underside as well.


It is important to clean both sides of the strings just as it is important to clean both sides of your teeth.
Don't worry if the head gets lifted off its mount; even if the tuning pegs get a little messed up you can always retune your guitar.
You will probably notice that your guitar strings change color a little, or that the cloth comes away with grey streaks.This is a sign that your efforts are working.

