 If a difficult person's behavior affects your day and interferes with your happiness, it's time to confront the situation head-on. Be honest about what's bothering you. For example, if your sister is constantly complaining about your parents, tell her that her negativity is starting to get you down, and that from now on you don't want to hear anything more on the subject. It's not going to be an easy conversation to have, but it might be just what's needed to create a better dynamic in your relationship.


Don't confront the person in front of other people. The person might feel embarrassed and put on the spot, so it's best to find a private time and place to have the discussion.
Try not to express anger during the discussion. This could cause the conversation to spiral out of control, which is the last thing you need.
 This technique enables you to give an honest critique of a person's behavior without attacking him or her on a deeply personal level. Your goal is not to make the person feel rotten, it's to put a stop to the destructive behavior that's affecting you (and probably others). Point out specific examples of behaviors that are problematic.


For example, if your boss never gives you positive feedback, and as a result your morale is low, have a meeting with your boss during which you ask specifically for more feedback on what you're doing right. Say it would be helpful to know what's going well in addition to what you need to improve.
 While this technique might not be the most effective one to use at work - giving your boss an ultimatum probably won't go over so well - it can be a useful way to deal with a difficult family member or friend. Give the person a specific boundary and make it clear that if they cross it, there will be consequences.


For example, if you visit your great aunt twice a week, and she spends your time together complaining about her life and people in your family, tell her that you'll have to limit your visits unless she cuts out the negative talk.
In order for this tactic to work, you'll have to be willing to do what you say you're going to do. That means that if Great Aunt Eloise keeps complaining, you might have to skip a visit or two until she understands that you mean business.
 If you're dealing with someone who cuts you down, you must stand up for yourself and never cave in. If someone accuses you of something you didn't do, for example, say "that is not true" and present evidence to the contrary. If someone cuts down your appearance, say "I like the way my hair looks" or "I don't agree with you opinion." Do not stay quiet, and do not apologize for things that are out of your control. Critical types tend to thrive on weakness, and they'll get satisfaction if you cave in when they tell you there's something wrong with you.
 Bullying should never be taken lightly, whether it's in the schoolyard or an office setting. Bullies are usually bullied themselves, but that's no excuse for their harmful actions. Over time, being bullied can lead to feelings of depression and low self-esteem, so it's important to confront the issue as soon as you recognize it for what it is.


Confront the bully without losing your temper. Bullies want to get a rise out of their victims, and they pick on people they perceive as weaker than them. Try not to show that you're angry or sad about the situation.
If confronting the bully isn't effective, you might have to take further action to protect yourself, like cutting off contact with the person.
In a work setting, consider informing your manager about the situation. If you have a bullying boss, you may need to start looking for a new job.

