 As you're packing your lunch, paying attention to the texture of your foods can help ensure that everything maintains its consistency through the morning, and that lighter or crispier food isn't crushed by something heavier and denser.Use containers that have compartments that allow you to separate foods, or use a large kale or lettuce leaf as a divider.
For denser foods such as sweet potatoes or rice dishes, you often can pack them side by side without worrying too much about them mixing.
In addition to texture, you also should consider whether foods have to be heated. Keeping cold foods in a separate container from foods that have to be heated will save you prep time at work.
 Particularly if you're packing something that will need to be heated up, glass often works better than plastic. It's also better for the environment, easy to clean, and won't alter the flavors of your foods.Tempered glass dishes can be just as durable as plastic. However, they are heavier and can be bulkier. For these reasons, glass may not be the best option for you if you walk or bike to work.
Get containers with lids rather than covering your dishes with plastic wrap. They'll keep your food fresher and you won't have to worry as much about them coming off.
 When you're thinking about packing a vegan lunch for work, sometimes it helps to literally think outside the "box." Containers, such as mason jars, that aren't typically used for packing lunches can work well for vegan dishes.For example, you can use a mason jar for salads. Simply put your ingredients in the jar, and when you're ready for lunch, all you have to do is shake the jar to evenly distribute them. If you're using a salad dressing, you can add it to the jar, put the lid back on, and shake to evenly coat the entire salad.
Other jars and containers that aren't typically used for food can be used as well. For example, you might use travel-size toiletry bottles for sauces or dressings. Just make sure to use brand new ones that have never had soap or other toiletries in them.
 Bento boxes provide a handy way to keep your foods separate as well as ensuring you're using appropriate portion sizes and including enough variety in your lunch.Another advantage of bento boxes is that you can see everything laid out in front of you. It gives you the opportunity to plan your lunch in a balanced way, while also inspiring creative presentation.
You can find bento boxes at many discount or department stores, or at specialty kitchen stores. You also may be able to find them online at lower prices.
If you find a particular container that you like, buy two or three of them when you can so that you can rotate them. That way they won't wear out as quickly.

