 We all wish we could have control over people in our lives sometimes! This is, however, impossible. You can’t stop your friend from making other friends. You can’t control who your friend hangs out with.


Practice mindful meditation. To get better at letting go and accepting whatever happens, try learning to meditate. Mindfulness meditation has a lot of proven benefits, but for your purposes, it can help you be comfortable with uncomfortable feelings.Letting go of the desire to control other people is a lifelong process. Everyone feels this way! Being aware of this feeling can help you manage it.;
, Try your best to have a good attitude in a tough situation. The only thing you can control is your reaction.


Look at this situation as a learning opportunity and a chance for growth.Look for the bright side. Maybe your friend spending more time with this new person means you have more time to pursue your own interests. Maybe your friend finally has a buddy to watch horror movies with them, which is good, since you hate horror movies!
Just as you can’t control other people’s actions, they cannot control yours. Think of what a powerful message staying calm, peaceful, and positive sends to your friends and peers.
 Knowing what you are feeling can help you figure out what to do next. For example, if you are confused about why your friend is hanging out with this person, you can have a conversation. If you are angry, maybe you want to take a few days to calm down before addressing it.



Keep a journal. A journal is a safe, private place where you can let all your frustration and crazy feelings out. Writing things down helps you make sense of what you are feeling and can bring some clarity to the situation.Talk to someone. Talk to an adult you trust about what you are feeling. Almost everyone has experienced friendship drama growing up and can understand what you are feeling. Talking to someone helps you feel supported and not alone.Just be careful talking to other friends if you are worried what you are saying could get back to your friend and the other person.
Knowing what you are feeling also helps you take care of yourself.Are you stressed out about your friendship problems? You can exercise to help reduce stress. Are you sad? Have a good cry with someone you trust.
 Have they done something to you in the past? Have you noticed bullying behavior? Or are you simply jealous of a new person spending so much time with one of your favorite people? Knowing why you do not like the person may help you decide what to do next.
 Imagine the roles are reversed and you have met a really fun, interesting new friend. But your old friend doesn’t like your new one, and is worried about losing you. How does that make you feel, and what would you do about it?


This helps you develop empathy for your friend. Empathy means being able to understand the feelings of another. It helps strengthen relationships and increases cooperation.