 If you are reupholstering an existing bench, you will need to unscrew the legs and reattach them later.


If you are reupholstering a bench, you will also need to remove staples at the back of the base with needle nosed pliers. Then, remove the fabric, batting and foam so that you can replace them. It is a good idea to replace them unless they are relatively new.
Keep your piece of fabric to use as a template for your fabric bench cover.;
, If you are creating a bench from scratch, you can customize it to the space you want to fill. Measure the area in inches.
 Ask the store to cut it to the exact size that you measured.
 Your foam core should be at least three inches (7.5cm) thick to assure comfort. Purchase one and a half times the size in upholstery or outdoor fabric.


Just as home improvement stores will cut plywood for little to no cost, large fabric stores can cut foam core to size.
Use an electric knife to cut foam core at home., It is easiest to upholster a bench if you are able to slide the fabric and batting along a smooth surface.
 Practice attaching them before you start upholstering to ensure they work for your piece of furniture. You will need a drill and screws for this process.
 You will need two and a half times the amount of batting as you need foam core.
, Then, get ready to layer your foam and batting.
 Make sure to apply an even, thin layer atop the wood base. Let it sit according to package directions.
 Apply an even layer, and then wait for it to dry.
 Lay and center a large piece of batting on the table. It will need to wrap around the base and foam to create the upholstered look.
 Center it on the table so that you will have more than enough batting on every side to wrap around the back of the base.
 Plug in the staple gun, as needed, and refill it with staples., Affix the batting to the base with staples within the first inch and a half of the edge of the base.
 Work from the center of each side out toward the corner Use a hammer to knock loose staples into the wood.
 Create square corners by folding one side of the batting in toward the other side of the corner. Then, pull the batting up on the second side and affix it with several staples to the base.
, Make sure not to cut below the staple line.
 Place your material upside down on the table. Center it.
 Center it as well.
 Pull it taught before you staple it.
 Fold the corners in either by creating two darts on each side or by doing a square fold. Staple at least every inch, with more staples in the corners.
 Use fabric scissors to ensure a straight, even cut.
 Cut a piece of fabric that is one inch smaller than your wood base on all sides. Choose interfacing, cotton or synthetic fabric.,,