 If you and your child are aware of what is expected of them, it makes it easier to discipline and correct behavior. Make sure your child is aware of your rules and the consequences for breaking those rules. That way, if they misbehave, you don’t have to come up with a threat because you both already know the consequences.Think about including your child when making a list of rules and consequences. Kids can be more likely to follow rules if they had a say in creating them.
If you are doing something new, you may need to talk about new rules. For example, if you are going to someone’s home, you may let your child know they cannot run in the house or jump on the furniture. If you go on vacation, let them know they cannot run off without a parent or guardian.
 Instead of threatening your child, even if you will follow through, consider giving your child choices to alter the behavior. Offer an alternative to the behavior or ask them how you can solve the problem together.For example, if your child is jumping on the furniture, try giving them choices of alternative behavior. Try saying, “I know you’re having fun jumping on the couch, but the furniture is not meant for jumping. Would you like to go jump outside, or would you like to play with some toys in your room?”
You can ask your child how to fix the problem. You can say, “I know you want to go play outside, but I need to finish dinner. What can we do to solve this problem?”

, You can avoid making threats by changing the way you approach misbehavior. Instead of giving a cause and effect threat that is based on the continued bad behavior, tell the child what they are going to do to correct the behavior. Use a firm voice that isn’t raised in volume, and help them do the correct action if possible.For example, if your child won’t stop playing outside and come inside for dinner, don’t say, “If you don’t come in I will throw your dinner away.” Instead, tell your child, “It is time to come inside for dinner.” Wait for them to do it, and if they do not, go out into the yard and calmly lead them inside.
If you tell your child, “It is time to put your toys away and get ready for bed,” then help them put their toys away if they need a push to the correct behavior. Model correct behavior rather than rushing to punish.

