 To dodge, NEVER duck. Ducking slows you down, for you have to be upright to dodge and run better. Instead, listen to these dodging skills that will hopefully make you a better dodger. They are just a simple change in direction. Don't, however, move in one direction too long.;
, This will help if you have noticed the shot a bit too late and you are in a rush to prevent yourself from getting wet. This is also a great time to pump your gun with the pressurizer. But be careful, don't move back too long.
 This is a good move in an open area, and will let you strike/shoot when your opponent's shot of water runs short. However, do not run left and then turn right. The slight stop when you change direction is enough to let your opponent get a better idea of where you are and shoot you. In that slight stop. Instead, run left, back, then right.
 This means you get closer to your opponents shot and you will have less time to dodge. It is the way I mostly get soaked.
 Hold your shot for 2 seconds at a time, making sure that you catch your opponent when he/she dodges. Here are the tips for aiming your gun.
 If yo do, the water you squirt will be hard to control, especially if your opponent is dodging side to side. Instead ignore your opponent when they dodge side to side, and dodge yourself.
 If they move a little to the side get them so they turn to the other side. When they do, squirt them.
 Pump the gun with your air pressurizer 3 times before you pull the trigger. The more you pump the better!

, If your trigger broke, when you pump your gun squirts. It will only work on the mode High Powered Steam, or the thin stream. It takes a while to increase distance, but will squirt as long as needed or until the water's out.
 The best way to build dodging skill is to have your friend try to squirt you when your disarmed. Practice this 3-4 times a week. Then play armed to increase aim, which you should practice 2-3 times a week. Then play gun to gun combat with your friend, which you try to do as much as you can.

