 If you are experiencing severe chest pains or what you think might be a heart attack, then you should call 911 and visit an ER immediately. For less severe symptoms, see your doctor as soon as possible. In either scenario, a medical professional will have access to the equipment necessary to make a proper CHD diagnosis.


Describe your symptoms in detail to your doctor, including what seems to bring them on, anything that makes them worse, and how long they last.
 For less immediate cases, your doctor may order a stress test to help diagnose CHD. This will involve monitoring your heart while having you exercise (typically run on a treadmill) in order to look for signs of abnormal blood flow.
 An EKG (or ECG) will continuously monitor your heart. A professional at the hospital will look for changes associated with ischemia (your heart not receiving enough blood)., If you are in a hospital for monitoring, the staff will likely check the levels of cardiac enzymes called troponin, which the heart releases when damaged. Expect three different test of these levels spaced out by eight hours.
 X-rays can show signs of heart enlargement or fluid in the lungs due to heart failure if you were rushed to the hospital. In some instances, your doctor may order an x-ray in addition to heart monitoring.
 For certain abnormalities on the other ordered tests, you may end up speaking with a cardiologist about having a cardiac catheterization. This means the cardiologist will feed a wire with dye into your femoral artery (a major artery located in your groin and running to your legs),. This process allows the team to produce an angiogram (pictures of the blood flow in the arteries)., If your doctor feels that your specific case doesn’t require surgery, you will likely be put on medications to help manage your CAD. Aggressive cholesterol management has been shown to shrink some coronary plaques (atheromas), so your doctor will likely find a cholesterol medication right for you.If you also have high blood pressure, then your doctor will prescribe one of the many medications available for the condition, based on your specific case history., For narrowed arteries that are not yet blocked, your doctor will likely discuss the option of angioplasty. This procedure involves your doctor threading a thin tube with a balloon attached to the end into the affected artery. By inflating the tiny balloon at the site of the narrowing, the balloon pushes the plaque out against the wall of the artery and restores blood flow.The increased blood flow will reduce the associated chest pain and reduce the amount of damage done to your heart.
Your doctor will likely put a stent, or small mesh tube, into your artery during this procedure. This can help keep your artery open after the angioplasty.Coronary stent placement is sometimes done as its own procedure, too.
 Rotablation is another type of non-surgical procedure to help clear arteries. It uses a tiny, diamond-coated drill to sand plaque out of the artery.It may be used on its own, or as a complementary procedure with angioplasty.This procedure may be used with high-risk or elderly patients., If the left main heart artery (or a combination of two or more arteries) have severe blockage, then the cardiologist will likely discuss bypass surgery with you. The procedure involves harvesting healthy blood vessels from your leg, arm, chest, or abdomen in order to bypass the blockages in your heart.This is a very serious operation that typically involves spending up to two days in an intensive care unit and up to a week in the hospital total.

