 The plaintiff will start the lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. The complaint lays out the facts surrounding the dispute and asks the court for relief. After a lawsuit is filed, the plaintiff will send you a copy of the complaint and a summons.


Read these documents carefully. The plaintiff should explain what contract term you breached and how you breached it.
Note the response date on the summons. This document will tell you how much time you have for responding to the lawsuit.Write down the date and commit to responding before then.;
, You should read the contract to make sure that the plaintiff has accurately stated the contract terms. For example, the plaintiff might have forgotten that the contract allows you to cancel the contract if you give written notice.
 The plaintiff might claim that you subsequently amended the contract by making additional promises. You should find all of your correspondence with the plaintiff and check to see if anything looks like a promise.


Promises need to be sufficiently definite that the plaintiff could rely on them. Simply stating, “I’m thinking of changing our contract” is not definite language.
However, saying “I’ll pay you $15 an hour starting September 1” is sufficiently definite.
 The plaintiff also might be suing for an “implied” contract. An implied contract is inferred from the circumstances.These circumstances can be your actions or words that fall short of creating an express contract.


For example, you might have created an implied contract by giving the plaintiff a bonus each year. If the plaintiff reasonably comes to expect this bonus, then you may have created a contractual obligation to provide a bonus.
Accordingly, you should look at your course of dealing with the plaintiff. Your contract might state that you make delivery every week on Friday. But if you have consistently made delivery on Wednesday, then a judge might find that the course of dealing has amended the contract.
You should also check if you substantially performed under the contract. If you have performed all of your obligations but for a small part, then the plaintiff probably cannot simply refuse to pay you., You can raise many different defenses to a breach of contract claim. These defenses can excuse your failure to uphold your end of the contract. You should raise these defenses in the answer that you file.Common defenses are:



Impossibility. It may have become impossible to perform the contract. For example, if the goods you were supposed to deliver were destroyed in a storm, then you are excused from performance.

Fraud or misrepresentation. You might argue that the plaintiff made misrepresentations during contract negotiations. If true, then you could argue that you would never have made a contract except for the fraud.For example, you might have agreed to buy someone’s car, which was described as being in “mint condition.” If the car is actually a lemon, then you have been defrauded.

Unconscionability. You can also argue that the contract terms are grossly unfair. This type of defense works best if you and the plaintiff have unequal bargaining power.The plaintiff filed too late. Each state sets a maximum amount of time a plaintiff has to file a lawsuit. This is called the statute of limitations. If the limitations period expires before the plaintiff files the lawsuit, then you can request that the judge dismiss the case. To find your state’s limitations period, search “statute of limitations breach of contract” and “your state” on the Internet.
 In order to hold you liable for breaching the contract, the plaintiff must have fulfilled his or her obligations under the contract as well. A contract is a two-way street, and a plaintiff who fails to perform a required condition excuses your own failure to perform.


Accordingly, go through your business relationship with the plaintiff and see if the plaintiff fulfilled his or her obligations. For example, the contract might have required that the plaintiff give you payment before you deliver goods. If the plaintiff failed to do so, then you can argue that you refused to deliver goods because of the plaintiff’s failure to perform her obligations.
 Even if you want to defend yourself, you might benefit from a half-hour consultation with a lawyer. An experienced attorney can listen to the circumstances of your case and offer expert advice about how to defend yourself. To find a lawyer, you can contact your state’s bar association. Ask for a referral.


You can limit legal fees by hiring an attorney to perform only certain tasks. This is called “limited scope representation” and most states allow it. For example, you could have a lawyer look over your motions or represent you in court. You can also hire a lawyer to simply coach you.When you get a referral, you should call the lawyer and ask if they offer limited scope representation.
If you have low income, then you might qualify for legal aid assistance. Legal aid provides free legal representation to those in financial need. To find a legal aid organization near you, visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website at www.lsc.gov. Once there, click on “Find Legal Aid” (at the top of the page) and then enter your address.
 You must respond to the plaintiff’s lawsuit. To do so, you should draft an answer. This is a motion that you file in court. Many courts now have printed, “fill in the blank” answer forms that you can use.If not, then check with your local legal aid organization, which might have created a form the public can use.


If you need to draft your own answer, then look for a CD or book of legal forms and revise the form to suit your needs.
In the answer, you admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge about each allegation. You can also raise your affirmative defenses., You should make several copies of the answer once you complete it. Take the original and the copies to the court clerk and ask to file.The clerk should date stamp each copy.


You may or may not have to pay a fee to file an answer. Ask the court clerk for the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 You should send a copy of the complaint to the plaintiff’s lawyer (if he has one) or to the plaintiff (if she doesn’t have a lawyer).The court clerk should tell you what are acceptable methods of service.


Generally, you should be able to mail a copy or have someone 18 or older who is not a party to the lawsuit deliver it personally.
You will also need to fill out a proof of service. This could be a separate form that you get from the court clerk.Ask the clerk and fill it out. Alternately, you might need to type up a certificate of service and attach it to your answer. The certificate of service could read:

“I certify that I mailed a copy of the attached answer by first-class mail on to: .” Then sign and date the certificate of service., ADR is a set of techniques that allow you and the plaintiff to resolve your dispute without stepping foot in a court. The most common are:



Negotiation. You and the plaintiff meet during settlement negotiations to hammer out a deal. Negotiation is a voluntary, confidential process controlled by both parties. There are many benefits to negotiation. For example, negotiation can preserve and enhance your relationship with the plaintiff, if that is important to you. Also, you retain flexibility with respect to the settlement terms.Mediation. Mediation is like negotiation except you and the plaintiff will meet with a mediator. This is a third-party neutral who listens to the dispute. He or she is not a judge; instead, the mediator’s job is to listen to all sides and help nudge you and the plaintiff to a solution you both can agree on. Mediation is typically voluntary, so each side can walk away at any time and continue on with the lawsuit.

Arbitration. In arbitration, you present your case to a neutral third-party, the arbitrator, who acts like a judge. Arbitration is the closest ADR technique to a trial. Unlike a trial, the proceedings are private and sometimes can go faster. One negative of arbitration is that you probably will give up your right to appeal should you lose.
 During discovery, you and the plaintiff will exchange information in each other’s custody. With a breach of contract dispute, there might not be much to discover. Both parties should have the contract and evidence of what they did or did not do.


You can request documents from the plaintiff. If he or she mentions a communication in the complaint, you will want to request a copy. You should also get any documents that support the plaintiff’s claim for damages.
You can also ask questions in written form (interrogatories) or orally (in a deposition)., After the end of discovery, you can file a motion for summary judgment. The purpose of the motion is to get the lawsuit dismissed. In it, you argue that there are no issues of material fact in dispute and that you are entitled by law to win.Summary judgment motions are complicated. If you have a lawyer, you should ask him or her to draft it for you.
If you are representing yourself, then you should look for copies of summary judgment motions on the Internet. You can search for “breach of contract summary judgment motion” and “your state.” You can then use this sample as a guide when drafting your own.
A sample summary judgment motion for breach of contract is available at the Public Citizen website at http://www.citizen.org/documents/McCrae-v-DC-Plaintiff-Motion-for-Summary-Judgment.pdf.
 Each trial is conducted according to certain rules. If you are representing yourself without an attorney, then you should learn these rules as best as you can. In particular, you should read your state’s rules of evidence. You can usually find these online.


Pay attention to the rule against “hearsay.” Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered in court for the truth of the matter asserted in the statement.For example, a witness who testifies, “My wife told me that the contract was destroyed” has offered hearsay. The out-of-court statement (what the wife said) is being offered in court to prove that the contract was destroyed.
Some out-of-court statements are not hearsay. For example, any statement made by you or the plaintiff can be admitted as a party admission.
If you hear hearsay being offered at trial, you will need to object. Stand and say, “Objection, Your Honor. Hearsay.”

, You should have clean copies of any document you want to introduce at trial as evidence. You will probably introduce:


a copy of the contract itself
any other relevant communications between you and the plaintiff (such as emails, letters, or demand notices)
proof of impossibility, such as an insurance claims adjuster’s report stating that the object you were supposed to deliver was destroyed
evidence that you have substantially performed the contract, such as delivery receipts or pictures of the work you have done

, If you want a witness to appear and testify on your behalf, then you need to serve the witness with a subpoena. You can typically get the subpoena from the court clerk. On the subpoena, you list the date, time, and location of the trial.


You must also serve the subpoena on the witness. Acceptable methods of service will vary depending on the court. Ask the clerk for details. Generally, you can serve subpoenas in a variety of ways:personal delivery by hand
email to last known address (return receipt requested)
certified mail to the last known address (return receipt requested)



, You should get to court early. Try to be at the courtroom with at least 15 minutes to spare. Remember that you will need to find parking (if you drive) and pass through the courthouse security.


Turn off your phone before entering the courtroom. Anything that beeps or makes a noise will make you look less professional in the eyes of the judge or jury.
 If you are in regular civil court, then you might decide to have a jury hear your case. Jury selection is called “voir dire.” During voir dire, the judge calls up a panel of prospective jurors and asks each questions about whether they can be fair. If a juror is biased, then you can ask the judge to dismiss the juror.


You also can use “peremptory” challenges. With these challenges, you can remove a prospective juror from the panel without giving a reason., You will begin the trial by delivering an opening statement. This is the “roadmap” of evidence that you will introduce and what the evidence is supposed to prove.You will deliver your opening statement after the plaintiff does.


Try to provide the jury with key facts. For example, you can say, “The evidence will show that on March 12, the plaintiff and I formed a contract for the weekly delivery of 50 pounds of grain. Per the contract agreement, payment would be made on Wednesdays and delivery would occur on each Friday. But on June 5, 2014, the plaintiff did not make payment. The defendant then refused to make delivery on Friday.”

, The plaintiff presents witnesses first. You will want to elicit any information that is helpful to you. You also want to try to undermine the testimony of witnesses who are not helpful.


You can undermine the witness in a couple of ways. First, you can highlight how the witness couldn’t have observed what he is testifying about. If someone claims to have listened to your contract negotiations, you can try to get the witness to admit that he left the room repeatedly and accordingly did not hear all of what was said.
You can also weaken a witness’s credibility by pointing to prior inconsistent statements. If the plaintiff stated in her deposition that you sometimes make deliveries on Wednesdays and sometimes on Fridays, then you can impeach the witness with this statement if at trial she states you “always” make deliveries on Fridays.
 You will get a chance to present your own witnesses and evidence second. You should already have thought in advance of who you would call and what evidence you would present based on your defense.


For example, if your defense is impossibility because the goods were destroyed by fire, then you can introduce videotaped evidence which shows the destroyed goods.
By contrast, if you are arguing that you have substantially performed a contract, then you can introduce photographic or video evidence that you built most of a house or other building.
 After you and the plaintiff have presented your witnesses, you each will give a closing argument.Here, you sum up the evidence and argue that the plaintiff has not proven their case that you breached the contract.


You should remind jurors of the evidence. For example, state, “Remember when the plaintiff was on the stand? How she said I always made deliveries on Wednesdays? That turned out not to be true. I read to you the statement she gave in her deposition that sometimes I delivered on different days. So you can see that I didn’t change the contract based on conduct.”

, The jury retires for deliberations after the judge gives them instructions. In most state courts, the plaintiff can win if nine or more jurors find for them. If you are in federal court, then the verdict must still be unanimous., Should you lose at trial, then you might want to bring an appeal. You usually only have 30 days in order to appeal, so you should meet soon with an attorney and discuss whether an appeal would be worthwhile.

