 If someone in your household has the stomach flu it is a good idea to keep all hard surfaces clean and disinfected in order to prevent the spread of the flu. You can use a number of disinfectant cleaners or a mixture of two cups bleach to one gallon of water. Surfaces to pay attention to include: Counters
Doorknobs
Faucets
Tables
Toys

, You can help prevent the spread of the stomach flu by washing all laundry that comes into contact with the flu. For example, sheets, towels, and linens used by a sick person in your household should be washed immediately. You should also wash all linens and cloth that come in direct contact with vomit or bile.


Handle these materials carefully and quickly place them in the washing machine without shaking them and potentially spreading the germs.
Wear rubber gloves while touching contaminated linens to protect yourself.
Wash your hands immediately after handling.
 A good way to prevent the flu from spreading within your home is by taking out the garbage frequently. For example, tissues, vomit, and bile should be cleaned up quickly and removed from the house. Always wash your hand after handling contaminated waste.
 In order to prevent the spread of the flu you should always use your own personal items. Don't share utensils, plates, toothbrushes, or towels. These items come in close contact with your mouth and should not be shared especially with someone showing flu symptoms. , If your child goes to daycare or another childcare facility, make sure there are separate areas for diaper change and for food preparation to avoid cross contamination. The transmission of the virus is fecal to oral, so it is important these things are kept separate.
 It is quite common to come into contact with the flu while outside of the home, particularly at work. You should do your best to maintain a clean workspace by disinfecting your office supplies regularly and washing your hands frequently while at work.


Take care to wipe down items such as your keyboard and phone.

