 Start by choosing a name for your product line, if you haven't already. Make sure your name is simple enough that customers understand its meaning, but catchy enough that the name sticks with the customer. It has to be unique and help you stand out at the same time. A good name can help you sell your product, especially if it's catchy and memorable.Try to avoid pun names, as they can become cheesy and devalue your name.
Pick something that reflects your business, but that allows you to play off it for your line. For example, a name like "The Cat's Meow" would give you an opportunity to use names like "Cat Paw Cream" and "Whisker Moisturizer" for your products.
Take some time to brainstorm different ideas, and then run a few past friends and family to see if any of them stick.
Make sure the name reflects the style of your business. "The Cat's Meow" wouldn't be a great name for sophisticated line, but it would work for a whimsical line of products.
 Next, you need to create a logo that establishes your brand. A logo tells your customer something about your brand. You can use a text-based logo or a picture-type logo that shows what you do. Whatever you choose, your logo should say who you are to your customers.Your logo should establish not only what your brand is, but also it should show the type of company you are. In other words, if you're selling high-end products, your logo needs to be sophisticated, while if you're selling a family-friendly line, you need to design something more playful. In other words, your logo does some of the selling for you.
Keep it simple. If it's too complicated, it will clutter up your packaging and not send a clear message to your customers.
If you're not comfortable with design work, you can hire a designer to create a logo for you.
 A website represents your brand to your customers and establishes a web presence. The first thing you need to do with your website is to decide what its purpose is. It can be merely informational, redirecting customers to purchase items on other websites, but it can also be a place customers can shop, though an estore is a bit more complicated to set up. Either way, the end goal should be selling your product, whether on the website you create or on another website built for selling.You'll need to choose a domain name and a host. The domain name should reflect your business, but it must be unique. You'll need to purchase your name through a domain register, once you confirm no one else has the name you want. If you can't get the name you want, you might consider using a .net or .biz domain instead of a .com domain.
You'll also need to decide on a host. Generally, you'll pick a shared hosting site, where your website is hosted with other businesses, and you pay a yearly or monthly fee to stay on the server.
Once you've determined where to host your site, you need to build it. Once again, if you're not good on graphic design, you can hire a web designer. However, you can use any number of programs to help you design your own site without having to deal with code.
Make sure you provide enough information about your business, including an "About" section, as well as information about your ingredients. However, the information should be grouped into smaller chunks so it's more readable. Also, your site should be easy to navigate, so that customers can find what they need.
 Business cards are a physical item you can hand out for people to remember you with. They should feature your logo, your business name, your name, and contact information, such as your web address and email. You can also include a business phone if you would like. Hand out business cards wherever you are selling products to help people remember you.Business cards can also help with repeat customers. If someone likes your product, they have your information on your business card, so they can easily purchase your product again.

