 Your doctor or should give you detailed directions on the type of injection you will administer as well as the technique. When you are ready, review the detailed instructions that come with the medication as well as the directions given to you by your doctor, nurse, or pharmacist. If you have any questions or doubts about how and when to administer the injection, talk to your doctor, nurse, or pharmacist. Ask questions if you are not sure about the correct syringe, needle length, and needle gauge before proceeding.Some medications come ready-to-use, while others require you to fill the needle with medication from a vial.
Be very clear on the supplies you need for the injection. Some people receive more than one type of injection at home.
It is easy to confuse the syringes and needles needed for one injection with those intended for use with another medication injection.;
, Not all injectable medication packaging is the same. Some medications may need reconstitution before administration. Many come packaged with everything you need including syringes and needles.Again, it is imperative that your healthcare provider teaches you about your medication and any preparatory steps specific to that medication. Simply reading the instructions or a "How To" is not sufficient — you must have access to a direct link to ask questions and become educated on your medication and the administration.


Once you have talked to your doctor, you can also review the product literature, which will give clear step-by-step instructions on anything you need to do in order to prepare the medication for administration. Again, this is should not be considered a replacement for talking to your healthcare provider about how to prepare and administer the medication.
The literature will also tell you the recommended syringe size, needle size, and needle gauge, if those are not included in the packaging.
Give a medication packaged in a single dose vial. Common manufacturer packaging for many injectable medications is done by putting the medication into a vial called a single dose vial.
The label on the medication vial will say either “single dose vial” or will contain the abbreviation, SDV.
This means each vial contains only one dose. There may be fluid left in the vial after you have prepared the dose you need to give.
The remainder of the medication in the vial is to be discarded and not saved for another dose.
 Other medications are packaged in a multi-dose-vial, which does allow for more than one dose to be withdrawn from the vial.


The label on the medication will say “multi-dose vial” or contain the abbreviation, MDV.
If the medication you are using is packaged in a multi-dose vial, use a permanent marker to write the date it was first opened on the container.
Store the medication in the refrigerator between doses. Do not freeze the medication.
Small amounts of preservatives may be used in the manufacturing process for medications contained in multi-dose-vial. This helps to minimize the growth of any contaminants, but only protects the purity of the medication for up to 30 days after the vial is opened.
The vial should be discarded 30 days after the first date of opening has passed, unless your doctor advises you otherwise.
 You will need the medication package or vial, the syringe that comes with the product if available, a purchased syringe-needle unit, or separate syringes and needles that are put together at the time of administration. Other items you need include alcohol pads, a small gauze pad or cotton ball, a band-aid, and a sharps container.Remove the outer seal from the medication vial then wipe the rubber top of the with an alcohol pad. Always let the area air dry after wiping with an alcohol pad. Blowing on the vial or wiped skin can cause contamination.
Use the gauze pad or cotton ball to apply pressure on the injection site to reduce bleeding. Cover this with a band-aid.
The sharps container is used as an important safety measure to protect the patient, caregiver, and community from biohazardous materials. The container is a thick, plastic, bin designed to hold used sharps. Sharps are lancets, syringes, and needles. When the sharps container is full, arrangements are made to transfer it to a place that destroys biohazard equipment., Be sure you have the right medicine in the right strength, and the expiration date has not passed. Be sure the medication vial or package has been stored according to the manufacturer’s guidelines. Some products are stable when kept at room temperature before use and others may need refrigeration.Check the packaging for visible damage such as cracks or dents in the vial that holds the medication.
Look at the area around the top of the vial. Check for cracks and dents in the seal around the top of the medication container. Dents can mean that the sterility of the packaging may no longer be reliable.
Look at the liquid inside the container. Check for particulate matter which is anything unusual or floating inside the container. Most injectable medications are clear.
Some insulins appear cloudy. If you notice anything other than clear liquid inside the container, other than some insulins products, then discard it.
 Thoroughly clean your hands using soap and water.Include washing your nail area, between your fingers, and your wrist area.
This helps prevent contamination and reduce the risk of infection.
It is recommended to wear FDA approved gloves such as Medint Latex Examination Gloves prior to an ejection as an extra barrier against bacteria and infection.
 Be sure the syringe and needle are in unopened, sterile packaging that shows no evidence of damage or deterioration. Upon opening, check the syringe for cracks in the barrel or discoloration of any part of the syringe. This includes the rubber top on the plunger. Any damage or deterioration indicates the syringe should not be used.Examine the needle for any evidence of damage. Be sure the needle has not been bent or broken. Do not use any product that appears damaged including damage to the packaging that might indicate the needle is no longer considered sterile.
Some packaged syringes and needles have a visible expiration date, but not all manufacturers provide this on the packaging. If you are concerned that a product is too old to use, contact the manufacturer. Have any lot numbers available when you call.
Discard damaged or deteriorated syringes, or those that have expired, by putting them in a sharps container.
 Be sure to use a syringe designed for the injection you are giving. Avoid interchanging different types of syringes as this can result in serious errors in dosing. Use only the type of syringe recommended for the medication you are giving.Select a syringe that holds a little more than the amount you need to administer.
Follow the manufacturer’s recommendations regarding the needle length and gauge
The needle gauge is the number that describes the diameter of the needle. Larger numbers mean skinnier needles. Some medications are thicker and need a smaller gauge, or larger diameter needle.
Most syringes and needles are currently manufactured as a single unit for safety reasons. When you select your syringe size you are also selecting your needle length and gauge. Be sure you have the proper equipment to administer the injection. This information is detailed in the product literature, or is available by asking your pharmacist, doctor, or nurse.Separate syringes and needles are still available. If this is what you have, then assemble the syringe and needle. Make sure that the syringe is the proper size and the needle is sterile, unused, and the correct length and gauge for the type of injection you're performing. Intramuscular and subcutaneous injections use different needles.
 Follow the packaging instructions if available or proceed with filling the syringe from the medication vial.Sterilize the top of the vial with alcohol and allow it to air dry for several minutes.
Prepare to fill your syringe. Know exactly how much liquid medication you need to withdraw and administer for your dose. Your syringe should contain exactly the amount of the prescribed dose. This information is available on the prescription label or the instructions provided by the doctor or pharmacy.
To fill the syringe, pull the plunger back to fill it with air equal to the exact amount of fluid you will need.
Holding the vial upside down, insert the needle into the rubber seal, and push the plunger to inject the air from the syringe into the vial.
Pull the plunger out to withdraw the fluid to the exact amount needed for administration. Sometimes air bubbles are visible in the syringe. Tap the syringe gently while the needle is still in the medication vial. This moves the air to the top of the syringe.
Push the air back into the vial then withdraw more medication if needed to be sure you have the exact amount you need to administer.
 Consider icing the area before administering the injection to reduce pain, particularly if the patient is a child. Let him or her sit in a comfortable position with the area exposed.Be sure you can comfortably reach the area of administration.
Have the person remain as still and relaxed as possible.
If you wipe the area with alcohol, wait several minutes for the area to air dry before inserting the needle into the skin.

