 Smoking is a major risk factor for lung inflammation, emphysema, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, and lung cancer. Chemicals contained in smoke are not only cancer causing, but also change how the immune system functions. Quitting smoking can be challenging, but with the correct support and planning, it is possible. There are many factors which may contribute to lung inflammation over which you have no control, but smoking is not one of them — quitting is something you can actively do to help keep your lungs healthy.


Consider writing down your goals and what you don’t like about smoking.
Gather a support system. Discuss your plans to quit smoking with you friends and family. Surround yourself with those who can support you.
Consult a smoking cessation professional. Smoking cessation professionals can help you create a plan of attack to be successful.
 A major risk factor for developing pneumonia is a weakened or suppressed immune system. Those individuals who have HIV/AIDS, are organ transplant recipients, or who have been on long-term steroid therapy are at highest risk. There are some steps you can take to ensure your immune system is functioning as well as it can.


Ensure you have adequate intake of Vitamin C. Vitamin C and zinc have been shown to improve the human immune system and also to improve the outcome of pneumonia and other infections. Get enough sleep. Studies have shown that individuals who do not get enough sleep are more susceptible to infections and recover more slowly after becoming ill. , Though no study in humans has directly linked lung inflammation to obesity, studies in animals demonstrate a link between inflammation in the lungs and chemicals produced by fat tissue. It is thought that obesity can also increase susceptibility to infections and lung damage caused by environmental factors.Get 150-300 minutes of moderate exercise per week. Brisk walking and swimming are examples of moderate exercise.Plan to eat healthy. Eat foods high in nutrient content. Avoid processed foods and alcohol. If you need help creating a healthy eating plan, talk to a dietician.Be consistent. Sticking with your healthy eating plan, exercise, and surrounding yourself with a support group can make long-term success a reality.
 The muscles surrounding your lungs can be strengthened with exercise. This can prevent infections and pneumonia, for which many people are at risk following surgery.Taking deep, even breaths can keep your lungs clear of secretions and can strengthen your lungs. In some cases, you will receive an incentive spirometer and a list of exercises. It is important to follow your healthcare provider’s recommendations with regard to exercising your lungs.

