 Observe your cat when it’s walking around your home. Look for aimless wandering, bumping into objects, and trouble finding its food and water bowls.See if it has any trouble following its toys, like a feather on a fishing pole, during playtime.These could indicate gradual blindness or vision loss. Having it examined by a vet will give you an accurate diagnosis. Cats adapt well to vision loss as they age, but you should take steps to make sure it can easily access it food, water, toys, and litter box.
 Look for cloudiness in one or both eyes, with or without enlargement. These signs could indicate that your cat has glaucoma. Glaucoma isn’t one specific disease, but a condition caused by blocked drainage ducts and fluid buildup that puts pressure on the optic nerve.Symptoms usually develop gradually, so they can be hard to spot. If you do notice any enlargement in one or both eyes, you should bring your cat the vet immediately.
Checking your cat’s eyes regularly at home, calling the vet at the first sign of any problems, and getting annual vet exams are the best ways to diagnose and treat glaucoma and other vision problems.
Glaucoma can be painful and cause blindness, but there are medications that can relieve the pain and reduce fluid pressure.
 Point a flashlight indirectly at your cat’s eyes and check for opaque or milky haziness in the irises, or colored parts. Whitish, milky haziness is a sign that a cataract is developing on the lens, blocking light from reaching the retina.A bluish-white haze, rather than milky and opaque, is due to lenticular sclerosis, which is when the lens starts to lose moisture. This is a normal part of aging that typically appears in cats over age 10 and rarely requires treatment.
Cataracts are less common in cats than in dogs or humans, but you should bring your cat to the vet if you spot any abnormalities.
 Notice if your cat’s pupils are always widely dilated and if it seems hesitant to enter a dark room. These could point to retinal atrophy or detachment. These conditions result from degeneration of the retina or of the tissue that holds it in place.Retinal atrophy and detachment are usually associated with high blood pressure, kidney disease, or an overactive thyroid gland. Seeing a vet promptly is vital to treating both the retinal disorder and the underlying condition that causes it., Cats’ eyes are prone to a number of treatable infections, and an older cat’s weaker immune system can make them more vulnerable. Check for signs of infection like redness, crusty buildup, discharges, and swollen third eyelids. Take note if you see your cat repeatedly pawing or scratching at its eyes.Infections like conjunctivitis and keratitis are usually treated with eyedrops. Complications don’t often develop, especially with prompt treatment.
Uveitis, or infection of the middle area of the eye, is more serious and usually leads to gradual blindness. Signs of uveitis include eye enlargement and swollen third eyelids., Eye infections are often associated with germs like feline immunodeficiency virus and feline herpesvirus. Getting your cat vaccinated when it’s young is vital to preventing vision problems and other health issues later in life.Even if you have a mature cat, talk to its vet about getting it vaccinated.
 Feeding your cat a healthy diet can help prevent kidney and heart conditions that can cause or worsen vision problems. If your cat gains weight, consider feeding it twice a day instead of leaving food out. Make sure treats account for less than 10 percent of its daily calories., Losing too much weight can also put stress on the kidneys and other organs. If your senior cat is underweight, you might have to switch its food to a higher calorie variety, like food marked for kittens. Talk to its vet about the healthiest ways to help your cat gain weight.