 Observe and record the behavior you’re changing. Monitoring yourself and holding yourself accountable will move you more closely toward your desired outcome. Keeping a record will also encourage you to keep moving forward.If you’re trying to eat healthier or improve your nutrition, track your progress in a food diary or using a food log/calorie tracker application on your phone.If you’re trying to lose weight or exercise more, mark on your calendar every time you go to the gym, use a fitness tracker application on your phone to log your workouts, or use a fitness tracker band such as a FitBit, which can track your workouts, your steps, your weight, and your heart rate. Another way to record your progress is to write down your body measurements and weight.
If you’re trying to stop smoking, keep a journal of your progress and any frustrations or obstacles along the way., Ask for help if you need it. Supportive friends and family members can help to hold you accountable and keep you motivated.Consider involving others to join in on your changes by:Going to the gym with someone if your goal is to lose weight or exercise more.
Joining a support group if your goal is to stop smoking or drinking.
Asking a friend to eat with you at home if you’re trying to eat out less or eat healthier foods.
 Reward yourself for all of your hard work in trying to change your behavior. A reward can be a great motivator to keep moving forward with behavior changes. Keep in mind to:Choose rewards that you enjoy. Go to a movie, see the exhibit at the museum you've wanted to visit, or buy yourself a new item of clothing.
Choose rewards that are immediate. Choose something that you can do soon after you have accomplished your goal. If you can't currently afford to reward yourself with a new pair of shoes, pick another reward you can do right now, like letting yourself binge-watch your favorite show.
Choose healthy rewards that won’t be opposite to your goals. If you're trying to lose weight, rewarding yourself with an ice cream sundae doesn't support your goal. Instead, try rewarding yourself with some new songs for your workout mix.
 Experiencing too much stress can keep you from being able to successfully change your behavior. For instance, feeling stressed or overwhelmed may cause you to talk yourself out of the positive behavior, like going to the gym or eating healthy, because you might convince yourself you don't have time or you deserve to cheat, or can cause you to crave unhealthy comfort foods. Work on developing healthy stress management techniques, like exercising. That way when a setback occurs or an obstacle gets in your way, you’ll be better able to handle it and not have it affect your goals.


Avoid people who are negative or who enable you to engage in bad behavior.Schedule time for fun and relaxing activities.Make sure you’re getting enough sleep to re-energize and reduce anxiety.Enrich your spiritual side by making time for praying, meditating, volunteering, or connecting with nature., Setbacks during the change process are normal for everyone. If you beat yourself up for these setbacks, you’ll be less likely to try to get back into changing your behaviors. Re-evaluate your goals if you have a setback. Make a new plan or consider if your behavioral changes were realistic.Plan ahead to avoid setbacks. For example, if you’re traveling, but your goal is to try to eat healthier and exercise more, you may research healthy restaurants near your hotel. You could also plan to stay at a hotel that has a gym. You may also want to pack healthy snacks if you’re planning to travel by car, rather than eating out at restaurants along the way.A setback could be a sign that something in your plan is not working or needs improvement. Did you convince yourself that you could handle going to a bar with everyone smoking and offering you cigarettes? Did you forget to pack healthy snacks for a long trip? These slips can teach you ways to strengthen your resolve and your success in the future.
 Once you’ve been successful at making small changes, consider revisiting your goals. Think of how you could expand upon your success and continue modifying your behavior.For example, if your goal was to star exercising and you were able to walk consistently five days a week, consider adding something additional to your routine. You may want to add in strength training, flexibility exercises, or additional cardio.