 Your sleep cycle should include the right amount of sleep each night. This usually changes if your sleep cycle gets off. If you are a teenager, you need about nine to 10 hours of sleep a night. If you are an adult, you should get seven to nine hours a night.If you don't have this much time a night, you should think about changing your priorities to where you can get the recommended amount of sleep each night. If you don't your productivity and overall health will suffer.This might mean fewer commitments — you may have to say no to late night dinners with your friends, or moving your schedule around, like switching your super early workout at the gym to after work. You may also want to talk to your partner if you are overloaded with obligations at home — splitting up the work can lessen your load so you both get to sleep on time.;
, If you are trying to reset your sleep schedule to a different time, you need to start small and slowly. Starting from your current bedtime and wake up time, shift the time by 15 minutes. This will allow you to change it slowly, which will make it easier to do over time.


For example, if you used to go to bed at 11:30 pm and get up at 7:30 am but now have to get up at 6:30 am because of a new job, start going to bed at 11:15 pm and getting up at 7:15 am. After a night or two of this new schedule, shift it another 15 minutes, repeating until you reach your new sleep times.
If you need to shift your schedule quicker than this or change it by a large amount, you can shift your sleep time by 30 minutes., One of the most important factors in resetting your sleep schedule back to what it once was is to be consistent with your bedtime and wake up time. If you are consistent, your body is more likely to pick your typical sleep cycle back up.


During the week or so it will take to reset your sleep cycle, try not to sleep in, even on the weekends. The more consistent you are with your schedule during this time, the faster your sleep cycle will reset. If you want to sleep in during your reset, only allow yourself an extra hour of sleep one night per week. After your sleep cycle is reset, you can sleep in about two hours during the weekend.
 While you are trying to reset your sleep schedule, try to avoid taking naps. This will confuse your sleep cycle and make it harder to return to the schedule you had before it was disrupted.


If you are too tired, or if you work in a job where you need to be extremely alert, you can take naps; however, do so sparingly so your sleep cycle won't keep getting disrupted and it will take longer to reset it., If you are having a hard time adjusting to your new sleep cycle, you may be able to use melatonin supplements to help reset your sleep cycle. The dosage you need may vary, depending on how much you naturally produce. Adults should start with two tenths of a milligram and increase as needed, up to 5 milligrams. Children should start with an even smaller dose — consult your doctor first.Only use melatonin while you are trying to reset your sleep cycle. It should not be used except for a short period of time.
Do not use if you are pregnant or nursing.If you don't want to take a supplement, try a glass of cherry juice about two hours before bed. Studies have shown that cherry juice can increase melatonin levels.Also try taking a hot bath or hot shower. There have been some studies that suggest your melatonin levels may be increased after a hot bath. This activity can also help you relax as well., A recent study was done that suggests that you can reset your sleep cycle overnight by shifting the time that you eat. Your body naturally thinks it is time to be awake when you eat first thing in the morning. In order to fool your body into changing this cycle, avoid eating for 12 to 16 hours before you want to get up.


For example, if you need to get up at 6 am, avoid eating after 2 pm (16 hours) to 6 pm (12 hours) the day before. Once you wake up the next morning, eat a big, healthy breakfast to kick start your system into being awake.If you have any medical problems, ask your doctor before going this long without food.
 There are many different herbs that can help you sleep better. These may be helpful if you find it hard to adjust to your new sleep cycle. Herbs such as chamomile, lemon balm, and valerian root can be taken in supplements or as a tea to help you get to sleep, which in turn will help your reset your sleep cycle.


Always talk to your doctor before using herbal remedies.