 This list is only meant to help give a brief list of brainstorming ideas and the brainstorming process.;
, You must be in 6th, 7th, or 8th grade (a Cadette) and must be a Girl Scout to participate in the Girl Scout Silver Award; and also the girl scout must have completed a Girl Scout Journey, which includes a Take Action Project.
 Look around at your community. Is there anything that you think could be fixed, or anything you want to improve? This is a great chance to prove your leadership skills. For example, you could say, "I want all the low-income children to have an access to good education."

, Here you need to make the important decision. You may work in groups of 2-4 or by yourself. Group projects can be more fun because you have your friends to support you and you don't have to do everything by yourself. However, each of you still need to put in 50 hours of service minimum. Solo projects can be less fun, but you are in more control, and you can decide for yourself what pace you want to move at.
 Look around your community, as said previously. Is there anything you'd like to fix? Make sure you are passionate about your project and that it is something you'd really like to improve.
 Make your project more broad. Instead of saying, "I want to reduce the litter in the park," think broadly. For example, instead of picking up litter, you could say, "I will start an annual Recycling Fair at my neighborhood park to educate the public about recycling."

, Contact the necessary individuals you need to talk with. The first few times may be nerve-wracking, but you'll get the hang of it after the first few calls. Email is just as important. Record all conversations down and keep track of all hours on a separate Spreadsheet. Collect an army of volunteers. If working in a group, each of you can go recruit your own friends. Offering incentives is always a good idea.
 Make sure all of your forms are turned in! You need to keep track of your budget and of your hours, etc. Don't leave anything out!

, Congratulations! You have now completed your Silver Award Project! Now is the time to reflect on what you learned about your project! Did everything go as you expected? What did this project teach YOU?

