 There is nothing either of you can do to change the fact that she's taller. Think about what is really important in a relationship--Do you get along? Do you have chemistry? Do you have similar interests? Don't let something superficial and beyond your control ruin what could potentially be a wonderful, fulfilling partnership.Think about who actually cares about your height difference. Are you afraid people are going to laugh or make comments? Don't let other people's pettiness stop you from finding happiness.
If you truly can't get over the fact that she's taller than you, you may have some soul-searching to do. Ask yourself why it matters to you and if it truly makes a difference in the quality of your connection with someone.
If she turns you down because you're not tall enough, then forget about her. If she's not willing to see beyond a superficial difference, you're better off finding someone else.;
, You may think it's cute or cheeky to tease her about her height--opening with a line like "What's the weather like up there?" or "Wow, do you play basketball? Can you dunk?"--is going to make you look insecure and make her feel awkward or even angry.She knows she's tall, and she's probably heard those lame jokes a million times. Make it clear you're interested in getting to know her and her personality and that you're not hung up on something superficial like her height.


One tall lady suggests treating a tall woman's height as you would a woman with an ample chest--even if it's part of her appeal, you would never walk up to a woman with large breasts and ask about her bra size.Unless she brings it up first, don't mention her height until you've gotten to know each other. Then you can tell her how her long legs are super sexy.If she addresses your height difference, tell her you don't think it's an issue. Let her know you think it's an asset, but it's not something you spend a lot of time worrying about., The most attractive characteristic in a man or woman is self-confidence and feeling good about who you are. If you are insecure about your height and constantly remind her of how much taller she is, or if you ask her not to wear heels because it makes you feel uncomfortable, you're going to look like you're not secure with who you are. It may also make her feel like you think something is wrong with her.Dating a tall woman will actually make you appear more confident. If you're a short guy and you're comfortable with your tall lady wearing heels, it will be clear that you feel good about yourself and your relationship, and that you have a great connection that is greater than stupid taboos.
Don't try to always stand somewhere so you're taller than her--like on a curb or one step above her on an escalator. She will notice what you are doing and it will suggest to her that you are not comfortable with yourself or the fact that she's taller.