 Fasten a headband or a colorful scarf around your head so that it comes horizontally across your forehead.


Use beads, a garland of flowers, braided cord or leather, or anything else you can tie around your head as a headband.
 Stick to the classic “love beads” and peace symbol trends of the ‘60s, or just go for colorful and bold pieces made of natural materials like wood and leather.


Put on an ankle bracelet with bells for a fun and musical addition that was popular in this decade.
When in doubt, wear jewelry with a peace sign on it!

, Aim for a goal of the most low-maintenance and natural hairstyle possible, even bordering on messy. Keep it down or in small braids, and grow it out if you can.


If you have straight or wavy hair, grow it out as long as possible, part it in the middle, and consider bangs. If you have curly or kinky hair, let it achieve as much volume as possible, whether that’s an afro or a wild mane of curls.
Stick a real flower into your hair or create a garland of flowers for your head to finish the look., If you’re out in the sun, go for some big, round sunglasses. Top your head with a kerchief, a wide and floppy sunhat, or a top hat a la Stevie Nicks.


Even if you aren’t in the sun, try the John Lennon style of round glasses, which often came in light colors like pink or orange and were less of a functional shade from the sun and more of a fun accessory.
 Pick a wide leather belt or a chain belt to wear with pants, dresses, or skirts of all kinds.


If you don’t have a belt or want to try something different, try using a thin scarf as a belt.
 Wear a pair of leather sandals or boots, including cowboy boots. Choose comfortable moccasin flats or boots with plenty of fringe detail.


Or, wear no shoes at all! Go barefoot for a true carefree hippie look.
 Skip the makeup altogether for an easy going hippie look. If you do choose to wear some makeup, stick to an eyeliner pencil to line your eyes and mascara on both top and bottom lashes.


Avoid lipstick or heavy foundation, as these are too heavy for the light and natural look of the hippie.
Stay away from most perfumes and artificial fragrances. Stick to essential oils like patchouli and sandalwood if you want to wear a scent.

