;
, A good country/Christian saying is, "My days are filled with an easy country charm. Thank God I'm a country girl."

, Go to church every Sunday and Wednesday and study the Bible and read it good.
 When people say, "I hate country" don't get mad or sad about it. Simply ignore it and walk on and be friendly. Don't go up and be rude and mean to people. You don't want them to have or to hold anything against you.
 Country girls wear blue jeans,wear guys' Harvey shirts, ole western tee's, cut off jeans, and shorts (modest, not necessarily Daisy Dukes).
 Love your braids, pig tails, ponytails, or wear hair down. Country girls can style around brown, reddish, or blonde hair -- or whatever.
 They are great for rodeos, horseback riding, farm working and other good country girl things.
 A country girl knows and loves their football. Country girls like to watch and play football. Know your favorite teams, and try to watch as many games as possible. If you don't have a favorite football team, then cheer for your home team.
 Be polite, open, bubbly, funny, sweet, and patient to your family, friends, and neighbors.
 Put on a little bit of makeup, such as a little bit of powder and blush. Then put on some mascara. Apply some light neutral eyeshadow. Put a little bit of gloss on.
 Country girls usually don't sit inside watching TV or playing video games. They are outside working on the farm, hanging with friends, horseback riding, or just simply lying in the sun taking in some vitamin D or tanning.
 "Yes ma'am," "No sir" should be in your vocabulary with "please and thank you." You also should say y'all, ain't, fixin' to, and coke. Call everyone "honey" or "darling."

, Ride horses and love 4-wheeling and exploring nature, watching the sunset. Go get some fresh air.


Get involved with football. A country girl knows and loves their football. Know your favorite teams, and try to watch as many games as possible. If you don't have a favorite football team, then cheer for your home team.
 True country girls learn how to cook southern like gran does. They know how to cook cornbread, ham, steak, bacon, biscuits, pies, and greens and almost everything meat.
 Country girls try to stay clean. Shower daily, brush your teeth twice a day, and don't forget to floss, and use a squirt of a sweet country apple perfume.
 Dolly Parton, Carrie Underwood, Taylor Swift, Miranda Lambert, Jason Aldean, Reba McEntire, Rodney Atkins, and Dierks Bentley should be some household names to you.
 That's what some southern girls do on weekends.


Never turn down a chance to get down in good, clean dirt. Country girls may love to get dirty because country girls are often tomboys. Never turn down this fun to "save your nails" or your 'do.
 Have lots of pets especially farm pets. Such as horses, dogs, goats and pigs.
 Never step up to a country girl with an attitude unless you really want to back it up.
 Go to school and study. Learn about the country and country animals; look it up.
 Never treat your boys bad.
 Country girls generally work on the farm all the time, know how to and do clean and shoot guns, feed the animals, etc.

