 There are several natural therapies that have been studied and shown to help relieve pain from menstrual cramping. One of the most common and easiest methods to use is heat. Heat can be just as or more effective than over-the-counter pain medications, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen.The heat aids in relaxing the contracting muscles that cause cramps. You should apply heat to your lower abdomen. You can also apply it to your lower back. Try a heating pad or a heat patch. Heat patches are adhesive, non-medicated pads that give off heat for up to 12 hours. You can apply them to skin or clothing, but make sure you read the directions.


Heat patches come in different shapes, sizes, and say they are for different uses, though you can use any patch for menstrual cramps. Some brands even have patches specifically for menstrual cramps, such as ThermaCare heat wraps.
Patches are more convenient than heating pads because they are portable, so you can apply it and go about your day.
If you don't have a heating pad or a heating patch, then you can try soaking in a hot bath or taking a hot shower to help relax you and relieve cramps.
 It may be helpful to develop certain kinds of behavioral intervention coping strategies, especially if you have persistently bad cramps. These strategies include relaxation training, which uses a repetitive activity, such as deep breathing, reciting a prayer, or repeating a word or sound, in combination with clearing your mind, ignoring distractions, and taking on a positive attitude. This is supposed to help you relax and let go of the pain.


You can also try imagery intervention, which uses positive thoughts and experiences to change your emotional state and distract you from and relieve the pain.
Hypnotherapy is another method that uses hypnosis to induce relaxation, decrease stress, and relieve pain.
Since cramps affect the same muscles as child birth, some women find it helpful to use Lamaze exercises to relieve menstrual cramps. Try the rhythmic breathing used in Lamaze exercises to help relieve or lessen the pain.
You can also attempt biofeedback, which is a method where you learn to control physiologic parameters such as heart rate, blood pressure, and temperature along with relaxation techniques to help train your body to control symptoms., Distraction is one of the most powerful and readily available painkillers. If you have intense cramps, then do something that normally absorbs you completely, such as socializing with good friends, reading a book, playing a computer game, watching a movie or TV show, or spending time on Facebook.


Make sure you pick something that will keep your mind off of the pain and convince your body to focus on other things.
 Acupuncture has been used as a pain relief method for over 2,000 years. In this method, hair-thin needles are placed into the skin on specific locations on your body. The needles do not cause pain for most people, and some women find that it reduces menstrual cramps.


Despite some word of mouth testimonies, studies of this are inconclusive., Sometimes, it helps to put gentle pressure on the affected areas. Lie down and prop your feet up. From your reclined position, gently massage your lower back and abdomen.Make sure you don’t press too hard. You don’t want to cause more pain instead of relief. This can help relax the muscles and relieve the pain.

