 Each council or housing association comes up with the terms of its tenancy agreement. While there are many common features discussed below, reading the fine print of your tenancy agreement is recommended to discover any special requirements that may apply.
 If you are offered council housing for the first time, it may be an offer of introductory tenancy. This is a "trial period" that typically lasts 12 months. If you stick within the terms of your tenancy, you will become a longer-term tenant automatically at the end of that period, but until then you may not be allowed to make alterations to the house, rent out rooms, or swap housing. Read your tenancy agreement or contact the council to find out your specific terms.Contact the council to find out whether you are allowed to rent out part of the property.
 A flexible tenancy grants you housing in that property for the amount of time specified in the tenancy agreement, usually 5 years or longer. A secure tenancy grants you permanent housing.Apart from these differences, the two tenancies grant similar privileges:


You may rent out part of your house, but you may not move to a different property and rent out the council house.
You may apply to buy the property you are living in, if it is eligible.
If you are a secure tenant, you may be allowed to pass on the tenancy to a family member living with you., Apart from the above rules, almost all tenancy agreements include provisions that allow the council to evict you if you demonstrate anti-social behavior. Show respect to your neighbours and resolve disputes with them peacefully, or the council may take away your housing., If you get permission from your council or housing association, you may exchange tenancies with someone in another council house or housing association property. Most councils maintain a list of people interested in swapping, but you usually have to visit the council office in person to see it. There are also many online swap sites, but be wary of websites that require a payment, as these may be scams.

