 For some people, eating a low-carb diet may actually be beneficial for dealing with other health problems; however, there may also be some health problems that could be exacerbated by a low-carb diet. Therefore, it is a good idea to talk to your doctor about carb cycling before beginning the diet.This is true for any major lifestyle change, not just carb cycling. It is important to learn how certain lifestyle changes might interact with any health conditions you may have before taking them on.
 Typically, carb cycling diets don’t restrict what you can and cannot eat. However, it stands to reason that when you do eat carbs, you should aim for foods that are healthy and unprocessed. For example foods such as rice, potatoes, whole grain bread, legumes, and other whole grains all provide a good source of healthy carbs.These are also known as resistant starches.
Some people also recommend limiting yourself specifically to what are called “complex carbohydrates.” This is in comparison to refined carbohydrates, which are usually highly processed and don’t contain much fiber. Examples of complex carbohydrates include whole grains, fruits, vegetables, beans, legumes, and nuts. These will be processed by your body more slowly and will keep you feeling full for longer., In order to stick to any diet over the long-term, you’ll have to allow yourself a reward. If you don’t, you will more than likely get frustrated and give up. Thus, you should allow yourself a cheat meal once per week. This doesn’t mean an all-out binge meal, but if you want to have a dessert with your meal or something that you normally wouldn’t eat, then allow yourself to have it.When you have your reward, try to really savor it. Don’t just gobble it all down without even tasting it.
 If you are on a low-carb day, you may think that an easy way to cut out some carbs (and calories) is to simply skip breakfast. However, you should not skip breakfast regardless of whether it is a low-carb day or a high-carb day. Eating breakfast is important for your overall well-being, and it often is helpful for losing weight.If you don’t have much time for breakfast, keep it simple. You can make oatmeal in a microwave in only a couple of minutes. If you are really running late, grab a banana.
 The idea behind carb cycling is to prevent the negative side effects that may occur as a result of a low carb diet. That said, there are risks that come with not getting enough carbohydrates in your diet, and some negative side effects may occur. If you notice any of the following symptoms, you may need to adjust your carb cycling schedule to balance out your diet.Headaches, weakness, bad breath, feeling tired, and constipation or diarrhea may all occur if your body is not getting adequate carbohydrates.

