 Flint will likely appear black or dark gray. This is the only physical difference between flint and chert.Chert doesn't have a particular identifying color, but it usually appears in a combination of a few different shades depending on the other minerals that are present. Shades of maroon, tan, yellow, white or occasionally a deep blue are all common among types of chert. Sometimes these colors may form bands along the surface.


Other types of quartz to learn to identify that can also be used in place of flint could be carnelian, agate, bloodstone, jade and chalcedony.Surrounding rocks can impact the appearance of flints. When flints are buried in chalk, a white patina or film can form over the flint., Flint can be found in natural occurring nodules or as a fragment that has been worked into a shape.


Flint nodules can appear in various smooth, rounded shapes embedded in chalk or limestone. When you find flint that has been embedded in a chalk bed, it is common to find an imprint of shells cast into the surface.Look for rocks that have been split like broken glass. Flint fractures differently from many crystals. When the pieces come apart the tend to look like glass shards, with curves and sharper edges.In addition to looking for natural nodules of flint, be sure to look for flint that has been worked into a shape. You can control the way flint splits easier than other rocks, which is another reason why people used to used flint to shape tools and weapons. Sometimes flint may have edges that seem to have been chipped away or have a point, indicating they have been used as a tool.
 Flint often displays a natural, glassy luster. If it was just broken, the luster may seem dull and somewhat waxy to the touch. You can usually rub away or sand this cortex to reveal more of the surface luster.
 If you have a glass bottle, try to scratch it with the sharp edge of the flint. If the rock is strong enough to scratch glass, it is as hard as flint.


Be careful when striking glass with a rock. Using gloves to protect your hands is a good idea.
 If sparks fly after several attempts, then you might have a piece of flint.


The "sparks" produced are actually just the tiny fragments of iron breaking off the iron surface. The sudden exposure to air generates a rapid oxidization where the fragment can not dissipate the heat as fast as it generates it. The spark is only a glowing piece of freshly exposed iron.If the rock doesn't have a very sharp edge, you will want to create one to test for sparks. To check the inside of a rock use a larger rock as a hammer to flake of pieces from the thinnest end of the rock.
When striking your flint of metal, make sure the stone is dry, as a damp stone may not produce sparks.
Other rocks, such as quartz, that have a hardness of seven on the Mohs Scale of Hardness will create sparks when struck against a carbon metal. If you are only looking for a rock which you can use to create sparks and start a fire, try learning what other rock types will also do the job.

