 The most important component to a trampoline is the frame. Choose a trampoline with the strongest and thickest frame. The most common round trampoline frame thickness is 1.2 to 1.5 mm. The stronger the frame, the longer that trampoline will last. You’ll never need to worry about the frame ever bending or warping, due to excessive usage or being pushed around. With stronger frames, you can also use stronger springs, for better bounce.

A quality round trampoline frame thickness should be at least 2.0 mm. 
A quality rectangle round trampoline frame thickness should be 3.0 mm. 
Make sure the frame is fully galvanized, both inside and out. Galvanization helps protect the frame against rust and corrosion.;
, Welded joints, over time, will crack. After excessive jumping and vibration, the integrity of the welded joints will give. If possible, go with t-joints. T-joints are much more durable. If anything happens to the t-joints, they’re always replaceable and very cheap. However, when welded joints crack, the entire top rail piece has to be replaced., PVC material lasts much longer than PE material. PVC material is more like plastic, which is the same material inflatable bouncers are made from. PE material is a cheap tarp material that will deteriorate after 5 to 7 months, from sitting in the sun. PVC material, if taken care of properly, can last 4 to 6 years. 

If the weather cover is used and a UV protectant spray is applied regularly, it can last a very long time. 
The thickness of the pad should be 1 to 1.5 inches (2.5 to 3.8 cm) thick. The thicker the pad, the better protection there will be against anyone getting caught in the springs or hitting the frame.
 There are two styles of safety net enclosure, outside and inside styles. 

The inside net enclosure wraps around the inside of the spring cover, completely preventing the jumper from ever being exposed to the springs. However, the flaw with inside net enclosures is that they have a very high defective rate, because it’s very easy for jumpers to land and fall against the net, thus ripping very easily. 
With the outside net enclosure, if the spring pad is thick and wide enough to cover the entire trampoline entirely, it should be just as safe.
 Ask questions and read up on the specifications. There are many things to consider when choosing the right trampoline, so always ask questions and do your research.