 And yet the best place is to arrange a kid’s party in your local park. Children will love it the most. They can have plenty of space to play with friends. Just take a bench or two and decorate it with some streamers, balloons, festoons etc. Surely it will be less expensive and more joyous. However, see to it that - if required - permission from civic authorities is obtained beforehand.;
, Sometimes we make a guest list without thinking. While making a guests list we often end up with a list with all our friends and relatives' names on them. That's not at all necessary; review the list again a few times to tune down the number of guests.
 The more people you invite, the harder it will be to manage. So choose carefully whom to invite and limit your guest numbers. Most importantly invite only those who are comfortable around lots of kids. This way everyone can enjoy the party.
 The foods no wonder take a huge part in a celebration. Food has to be tasty and enough for everyone. There is no need to go for a full meal. Just a beautiful cake, pizzas, burgers, some juice, sweets and snacks are good enough to make a kid happy.
 A child is easy to amaze. You can organize a magic show for the little guys. That will keep them busy throughout. You have many options in this field.
 If the cash permits you can even hire a Bouncy Castle!

, They have boundless energy and can be up to pranks you can't imagine!

, Some of us try to hide from limelight. In this case you should get an entertainer. Anyone who can juggle or can paint faces, or sing. Sometimes the dad or an uncle disguised as a clown can be life of the party. He can tell jokes and make everyone laugh.
 Drama students sometimes act in parties to earn few bucks.
 Don’t spend extra money on paper invitations. It is not that fast a service and requires mentioning of the mailing addresses. In present day, use modern technology and send invitations via e-mail or on-line invitations. Of course, traditional mail can be used if you don't have the e-mail addresses or social network/messaging IDs. You can find lots of party graphics on internet. Just jazz it up and it becomes a personal invitation to your guests.
 Most of the time kids don’t mind sharing a party as long as they can enjoy. So you might even get together two or three kids who share the same birthday or have birthdays coming soon. Combined birthdays can be even more fun to celebrate. It inculcates a spirit of sharing and building comradeship among kids. Besides, the expenses get reduced by being shared among parents! And the kids? The party will give them a time like no other!

