 Nervous thoughts are often irrational. If you're having trouble shutting them out, challenge them. Think about the ways in which your worries are not reflected in reality.Look at the evidence. What evidence do you have that a particular thought is true? Are there more realistic ways of looking at the situation? Think about outcomes that are actually likely, rather than worse case scenarios.
Examine any irrational thought patterns you have. You may, for example, engage in all-or-nothing thinking. For example, "If I don't ace this job interview, I'll be unemployed forever." You may also label yourself. For example, "If I stumble during this presentation, I'm a loser."
Try to see the gray area instead. There are very few absolutes in life. You are not likely to encounter many situations that will completely alter the course of your life. When you engage in negative thoughts, replace them with positive ones. For example, "I am going to do my best on this interview. Even if I don't get the job, I'll be proud of how hard I tried.";
, You may be prone to anxiety if you are unable to embrace life's uncertainties. If you have to know what's happening at all times, this will cause a spike in nervousness. Work on accepting and coming to terms with what you do not know.It is not possible to be certain about anything. You cannot predict the outcome of any given situation, so there's no sense in speculating. You don't know how tomorrow's job interview will go, so live with that. Do not assume it will be a disaster.
Challenge yourself when you find yourself searching for certainty. Ask yourself, "What are the benefits of me knowing this information for sure? Will it really change the outcome that much?" You should also look at what you assume is certain. For example, do you always assume things will go wrong? If so, this is not entirely rational.
You should always come back to asking yourself the question, "Is it possible to be certain about everything in life?" The answer is always "No." Therefore, you may realize constant speculation is not serving you any good.
 You want to see if there are any triggers for feelings of nervousness. You can work on approaching certain situations and people differently if they tend to affect your nerves. Try to be aware of your emotions throughout the day and pinpoint moments when you feel anxious.It can help to keep a worry diary. Carry a small notebook with you and jot down your thoughts when you start to feel anxious.
Notice how you feel around others. You may find certain people tend to increase your anxiety. It may be a good idea to lessen contact with those people.
 Mindfulness requires being aware of the present moment and tuning into your senses. This can keep you grounded and prevent you from engaging in thoughts that may trigger anxiety.Do not try to ignore anxious feelings. It's important to remain aware of your emotions. Acknowledge nervousness, but do not dwell on it. Think something like, "I am feeling nervous at this moment." Remember, feelings are fleeting.
Pay attention to the present. Tune in to the sensations in your body. Pay attention to all your senses throughout the day. What does this moment smell like, taste like, sound like, look like? Pay attention to any sensations you experience. This can keep your thoughts from spiraling out of control.
 There are some physical preparations that you can make to help prevent nervousness as well. Some things that you can do to physically prepare yourself include:


Getting plenty of rest. Aim for 8 hours of sleep every night so that you are well rested. This may help to prevent nervousness.

Exercising. Try to get 30 minutes of cardiovascular activity every day to help prevent nervousness. For example, you can take a walk, go for a swim, or ride a stationary bike.

Eating a healthy meal or snack. Hunger may produce symptoms that look like nervousness, so make sure you have eaten something. Try having a sandwich or an apple if you have not eaten in a while.
 It may sound strange, but it can actually help to make time to worry. If you're prone to ruminating over nerve-inducing thoughts, try giving yourself a set time each day to engage in worrying. This can be especially helpful if you're preparing for a big event. You can give yourself a little bit of time each day to indulge in nervous over a job interview or public speaking.Telling yourself to stop worrying may not help. In fact, you may actually worry more if you put pressure on yourself to completely shut out your nerves. Instead, try to indulge them in a controlled setting.
Set aside 20 minutes a day to worry. For example, after work, allow yourself about 20 minutes to worry. You can focus on general anxiety, or nerves about a big event. Promise yourself, after 20 minutes have passed, the rest of the day will be worry-free.
If you have trouble shutting out your worries, try distracting yourself after your worry period is over. If you shift focus to a particular activity, this can help lessen worry.
 If you have a big event coming up, you will feel less nervous if you're more prepared. Instead of indulging in your worries, do something productive. Prepare for the event at hand.If you're, say, presenting a speech at a conference, there are many things you can do to prepare. Write several drafts of your speech. Have a friend look it over and offer feedback. Look up transcripts of past speeches and papers presented at the conference.
People often feel more nervous if they feel underprepared for a given event. If you go into an event feeling like you've done all you can, you're less likely to feel nervous.
 Uncertainty can increase feelings of nervousness. Try to gather as much information as you can about an upcoming event. This way, when the event arrives there will be fewer surprises that could potentially trigger nerves.For example, say you're going to a job interview. Research the company, it's values, and the person who will conduct your interview. You can even look at images of the building online. Having a sense of the physical location can help you relax.
You can also figure out things like wardrobe. If you're uncertain of what to wear for an interview, call Human Resources and ask.
 If an event is coming up, try rehearsing. If you have some idea of what you'll say, you will feel less nervous about going into the event.For a job interview, practice giving answers to common interview questions. If you're giving a speech, rehearse your speech every night leading up to the event.
You can even do this for social events. Rehearse what you might say on a first date. Practice conversation starters before going to a big party.
 It's normal to feel anxious before a big event. However, try not to focus too much on your nerves. Doing so can create a situation in which you're nervous about being nervous.Try to think of the positive side of nervousness. If you're a little anxious before an event, you can channel that anxiety into excitement and charisma.
Accept some nervousness is normal. You can reduce nerves by focusing on the fact what you're experiencing is not unusual. Instead of thinking, "I'm going to screw up because I'm nervous," think, "What I'm experiencing is completely normal. I should not be embarrassed or ashamed."

, A classic way to reduce tension and nerves is to simply channel your breath. When you feel nervousness arising, tune into your breathing.Place one hand on your chest and the other on your upper stomach. Try to take deep breaths that direct your breathing towards your diaphragm. If you are doing diaphragmatic breathing, the hand on your stomach will rise and the hand on your chest will remain relatively still.
Try to spend three or four seconds inhaling, and seven to six seconds exhaling. Focus on the rhythm and sensation of breathing to take your mind off your anxiety.
 Progressive muscle relaxation involves tensing and releasing various muscles in the body. This can be a great way to quell nerves in the moment.Tighten a specific muscle group for 5 seconds, and then release for 10 seconds. For example, start by tightening and subsequently releasing the muscles in your toes.
Move throughout your body, tensing and releasing your muscles. You can move from your toes, to your legs, to your thighs, and so on, until all your muscles have been tensed and released.
 Guided imagery involves imaging a relaxing scene. You can find audio programs online that guide you through a variety of calming images.You can download guided imagery routines on an iPod or iPhone. When you feel nervous, you can listen to a guided imagery routine.
It's important to engage with the routines. Pay close attention and utilize all your senses.
You can also use your own imagination to guide your imagery before certain events. For example, on the way to a job interview, close your eyes on the train and imagine yourself acing it. Engage with all your senses so you go into the interview feeling positive rather than nervous.
 Relaxing your mind is a simple relaxation technique that can help ground you when you experience nerves. Simply close your eyes and focus on your breath.As you focus on your breath, think soothing phrases to yourself. For example, "I feel quiet" or "I feel safe."

, Even doing a few minutes of cardiovascular activity may help to relieve tension and prevent nervousness. Try doing something that will get your heart pumping and that you can easily do in your environment.


For example, you could take a brisk walk around the block, do some jumping jacks, or do some squats.
Stretching may also help to relax you. Try doing a forward bend to stretch your legs and back.

