 There are many different writing exercises one can use to get inspired. If you’re feeling really stumped and don’t know where to start, try a writing exercise. Having a specific set of instructions can take the pressure off and get those creative juices flowing.


If you feel intimidated, try telling yourself that you’ll only write for five minutes. If, after five minutes, nothing comes out you’ll know that you’ve at least tried. However, more often than not, you’ll find yourself settling into the writing process after five minutes and you’re likely to come out with at least a few ideas you’re happy with.
 This is a songwriting exercise called “Choose an Object” used at the Berklee College of Music and can be very helpful in generating new ideas.


For this exercise, simply choose an object at random (a potato, pencil, mountain, or article of clothing are all valid options) and spend ten minutes or so writing down any memories you associate with it.
Don’t worry about making it sound good or even writing complete sentences. Instead, focus on using as many different senses as possible (such as taste, smell, sound, emotion). You’ll end up with an unusual list of diverse images and emotions but any or all of it may be great raw materials to craft a song out of later., Bowie has described one of his methods for songwriting and you may want to give it a try to see if it works for you. This exercise can be particularly useful for those times when you just have no idea what you want to write about.


Write down a paragraph or two describing different subjects to create a sort of short story. Obviously, this will be a very rough draft. The point is to simply get anything onto paper, even if it doesn’t make complete sense. Then, cut the sentences into sections of four of five different blocks, then mix them up and reconnect them. They may not make sense or they may form a completely new idea altogether.Either way, given Bowie’s successful career, you might as well try one of his methods to see if it works for you too.

