 Twist all the Oreo cookies so it can be one cookie that is not stacked with two. Be careful not to twist too hard or the cookie will break. Remove the frosting on the cookie using a spoon.


You can choose whether to eat the frosting or throw it out.;
, Place all the marshmallows in a baking tray and have them bake in the oven on broil. Do this until they are melted slightly, but not roasted. It should just take a minute. You want the marshmallows to melt slightly to make it easier to place on your s'more. Take caution not to burn your marshmallows as they melt easily. When done, remove from oven.


Do not heat the marshmallows for too long; they are going to get roasted when the s'more is made. Heating them slightly just helps make them easier to handle and stack on a s'more.
 Cover one Oreo cookie with your favorite spread - think of it like spreading mayonnaise on a sandwich. Use a butterknife to cover the cookie thoroughly. Only cover the "top" part, not the bottom.


You can use different spreads for each of your s'mores. Feel free to be creative.
 Stack a mini chocolate bar or a mini chocolate candy right on top of your s'more. The chocolate should stick because of the spread. Only add one chocolate piece since Oreo cookies are small, and putting in any more than one means that you will struggle to close your s'more.
 Place a roasted marshmallow on top of your chocolate. Only add one, as your s'more will not close well otherwise. Close your s'more with a plain Oreo cookie. Gently press on it so it can stick and not fall apart.
 Repeat the same steps: covering the Oreo cookie with your spread, adding the chocolate, and closing it with a marshmallow and cookie. Continue to do this until you are all out of cookies.
 You can either place the s'mores in the oven again until the marshmallows roast and chocolate melts slightly, or you can use a cooking torch to slightly roast the marshmallows. It is recommended to use a cooking torch to avoid the cookie from softening while baking. When using a cooking torch, lightly heat the sides only to melt the marshmallows. Serve on a plate with a glass of milk.
