 You do not need to melt the coconut oil, but it should be at room temperature. The heat created by all that whisking will soften the oil up some more on its own.


You are making enough deep conditioner to last you a few uses. If you plan on using this just one time, use only 2 tablespoons of coconut oil.;
, If you can't find any jojoba oil, you can also use argan oil, grapeseed oil, or olive oil.If you plan on using this deep conditioner just once, use 1 tablespoon of jojoba oil., While this is not completely necessary, it will give your deep conditioner a nice smell. You can use any type of essential oil you want, such as clary sage, geranium, lavender, peppermint, rosemary, or peppermint.Some people find tea tree oil to be especially moisturizing when it comes to hair.If you are making a one-time-use mask, you will only need 3 to 4 drops of essential oil.Consider testing the essential oil on your inner arm first to see if you have an allergic reaction., You do not need to apply all of the deep conditioner' you made enough to last several treatments. At most, you will only need 2 to 3 tablespoons in order to coat your hair.


If you have very long hair, you may find it helpful to divide your hair into smaller sections first.
If your hair is very oily, do not put any oil on your scalp. If you tend to get dandruff, however, massaging the oil into your scalp may help relieve some of it., This will help trap the heat and moisture, and make the mask more effective. If you do not have a plastic shower cap, a plastic bag will also work.
 The heat from the towel will cause the hair follicles to open up. This will make it easier for your hair to absorb the oil. You can also simply heat your hair with a hair dryer for a few minutes, just don't take the shower cap off!

, If you wrapped a hot towel around your head earlier, leave it on as well.If you wish to get even more benefits out of this deep conditioner, leave it on for 15 to 30 minutes.
 You may have to shampoo your hair twice in order to get all of the coconut oil out. When you are done, simply style your hair as you usually do. Thanks to the deep conditioning you did earlier, you do not need to use any conditioner afterwards., You can use this deep conditioner once every three weeks.If the oils separate, simply stir them up again with a spoon.

