 Go to Google or any other search engine and on the search engine type in "History Of Chain Letters". You'll be surprised when you know the real reason they were created. Chain letters exploit every human emotion and desire there is, from alarm to humor to outrage and sadness, all to achieve one goal, to get people spreading them. A few sites that deal specifically with chain letters of all kinds: Break The Chain Truth Or Fiction and Snopes.com These sites are extremely useful when a naive friend sends you that scary headlight gang initiation story or that sad Amy Bruce dying kid hoax. Neither of those are true, and these sites have information about them and much much more.;
, Have you ever broken a chain before? Nothing bad happened to you then, so why is this time different? Also, why wouldn't they display an article in the newspaper about something bad happening to someone who broke a chain letter. The chain may claim there was a news report when there really wasn't. This is a bid to look more believable. Hoax-busting sites deal with many chain letters that masquerade as news, going as far as to claim that CNN or NBC or some big name news outlet reported on a story that didn't actually happen. Just think to yourself about all the things that would happen if there really was some type of killer email or letter out there; News-reports, public warnings, etc. Remember that technology is not magic. No email can kill you if you don't forward it. It is just an ominous, sad or other emotion-yanking message designed to push your buttons so you will forward it. We don't like people pushing us around in real life, so why in the world should you let some anonymous chain letter hoaxer push you and your friends around via the internet? That's all a scary chain letter is, a con that uses you and your friends fears to make them pass around a bogus story or claim.
 Did you recently break up with someone? What's really going on in your mind? Did something bad happen to you recently? If you answer yes to any of these, your mind might be thinking deeper thoughts than you think, and you are more prone to be scared or upset, even by things that simply aren't real.
 Read a good book, hang out with a friend, cuddle a pet (If this is possible), watch television or just do something that you enjoy doing.
, Back it up with a reference to an article on a hoax-busting site such as Break the chain if you can. They might respect your feelings and stop.
 We are all human and one of our many emotions happens to be fear. Just calm yourself down and relax. Nothing will happen. Some might scare you initially, But think past the computer about the loser who is writing it.
 The person who wrote it added threats to it precisely for naive people who actually believe them, so the chain letter reaches more and more people. Now, how likely it is that the event mentioned in it would actually happen? And how do you think a spam can influence the course of your life? Millions of people receive chain letters; the person who sent it can't predict the future of everybody who receives the chain letter, so let's just face it: chain letters are jokes people send to annoy others. There's absolutely nothing true about them.
 Doing so, you're only scaring people like yourself, who believe in them, or annoying those who don't. Do you really want them to be the victims of this joke? Probably not.
 It only is scary AFTER. There's no switch or something that knows that you read it and you are going to have bad luck.

