 If you realize you are binge eating, do not be hard on yourself. Forgive yourself and recognize that there is likely something going on in your life that is affecting your emotions, which is causing you to binge eat.To forgive yourself, follow the following steps:Admit to what you have done (in this case, binge eating).
Accept that you did the action, and that it is in the past.
Reflect on who you have hurt (in this case, yourself).
Move on. Let go of your guilt and try to learn from your experience.;
, One of the immediate steps you can take to cope once you realize that you are bingeing is to change your environment. This action will get you out of the physical space where binge eating is happening. Take a walk by yourself or with a friend.


Walking outdoors, especially with someone else, can boost your mood and help promote improved mental health.Walking after meals can also help your body process the nutrients from the food you have eaten., Talking with someone will help draw you away from your bingeing and give you a chance to talk it over. A trusted friend or family member who knows your history with binge eating can help get you through this difficult time.


If you call a friend on your cell phone, try going for a walk outdoors while you talk on the phone.
 Sit in a comfortable chair with your feet flat on the floor. Close your eyes. Begin taking long, deep breaths, inhaling for a count of 3 and exhaling for a count of 3.
 Your stomach may not feel very good after binge eating, so calm your stomach by drinking water or peppermint tea. Peppermint tea is used to aid in digestion, along with soothing other ailments., Don’t resort to vomiting, skipping meals, or counting calories in order to compensate for binge eating. Instead, start fresh by eating a healthy meal the next time you are hungry.
 Even if it’s lunchtime, don’t eat until you feel hungry again. Your body is processing the food that you ate during the binge, so give yourself some time to digest.


When you do eat, try for protein, such as an egg or some chicken. Protein will make you feel full for a longer period of time.
 Getting some rest will allow your body to recover and you will begin to feel better. It is also a great chance to start again with a new day/afternoon/evening ahead of you.


A lack of sufficient sleep can cause you to feel hungry and crave high-fat or high-carbohydrate foods, which may contribute to further binge eating in the future., It can take up to 3 days to recover from a food binge, so give yourself time to feel better. Be patient and gentle with yourself.

