 If you realize that you can’t make your payment, then you should call the bank and let them know. You should commit to being honest about your financial situation.Tell the person on the other end what you can afford and ask if the loan can be modified.


Sometimes you can refinance. A 60 month loan, for example, could be stretched out to 72 months. This would lower your monthly payments even though you would end up paying more over the life of the loan. Always get new contract terms in writing., In some states it is illegal to hide a car to keep it from being repossessed.For this reason, you are better off calling the lender as soon as you know you will be late with a payment. If you can make full payment but at a later date, then let them know.
 Maybe you splurged and bought a car that is too expensive for your budget. If so, then you will need to get rid of the car. However, if the car is in good condition and you think you can afford it, then you should prepare to negotiate with the lender.


You can ask for your loan to be modified. For example, you could extend the loan, or change the payment structure so that you will pay less now but make larger payments toward the end of the loan.
 If the lender won’t refinance or otherwise modify the loan, then you could ask whether you can sell the car yourself. By selling the car yourself, you can be assured that you will get the highest price possible. Typically, a lender will sell the car at auction and may settle for a lower price.


If you can sell the car yourself, then you might be able to avoid a deficiency.For example, if you owe $15,000 on the loan, you might be able to sell the car for $15,000, thus wiping out the money owed to the lender. If the lender sells the car itself, then it might settle for $11,000 at auction. You would be left with a $4,000 deficiency.
 Another option is simply to surrender the vehicle to the lender. Before doing this, though, you should try to negotiate something in return from the lender. Specifically, try to get the balance of the loan forgiven.For example, if the lender repossesses a car and sells it for $10,000, it might leave you with a $5,000 deficiency. See if the lender will forgive the remainder of the loan.
If the lender agrees to forgive the balance of the loan, then get this agreement in writing., You will have a stronger negotiating hand if you can identify illegal acts taken by the lender. Typically, you would raise these defenses at trial, when the lender tries to sue you for the remaining balance of the loan. However, you can also raise them during negotiations. By doing so, you alert the lender that a lawsuit could be very time-consuming.


For example, the lender may also have failed to give you written notice of your deficiency as required by the loan agreement. Read this agreement carefully and check if the lender followed the rules.The lender might have miscalculated how much you owe. You should bring this to the lender’s attention. In court, a lender may be embarrassed to have to defend sloppy record keeping. To avoid that situation, the lender might be willing to negotiate with you.
Also, a lender must get a court order to repossess a car if you are in the military.
You can also note illegal acts taken by the repo man (if the car has already been repossessed). For example, if the repo man broke locks or damaged property in order to repossess the car, then he “breached the peace.”Take photographs of any damaged property to show the lender.

