 This fold, which looks a little like a hair braid, is a space-saving, visually appealing way to store scarves on an ordinary coat hanger. To start, all you need to do is fold the scarf in half. However, unlike above, you don't need to align the edges with each other — a loose fold will do, as long as there's about the same amount of material on either side of the fold.
 With this fold, you'll either tie the scarf directly to your coat hanger or tie it to a metal or plastic ring and then hang this on your coat hanger.If you want to use a ring, grab one before beginning — specially-made "scarf rings" are sold at many fashion boutiques and specialty retailers online, but you can also use metal binder rings. Regardless of the ring you use, slip the scarf through it so that the ring sits at the folded part of the scarf before continuing.


If you're not using a ring, just slide your hanger between the two ends of the scarf and up to the fold. In this case, you may ignore references to rings in the rest of this method's instructions.
 Grabbing your loosely-folded scarf, twist each end in opposite directions. After a few twists, the scarf should be a little firm and "ropey." Continue twisting — you want the scarf to get quite tight.


Most scarves should be plenty resilient for this fold. However, if you notice your scarf begin to tear or strain under the stress of the twisting, stop and try a different fold — you don't want to ruin your scarf.
 After it's gotten fairly tight, your scarf should begin to curl up on itself with each subsequent twist. Within a few more twists, the scarf should look like a long, knotty, braided lock of hair. The ring should be in the fold at the top of the twisted scarf — if it has slipped, just slide it back to the top.
 Finish by taking the two ends of the scarf and tying them to each other in a basic knot. This should keep the tension in the "braid," ensuring that it stays twisted. Congratulations — you should now have a fairly compact scarf "braid" with a convenient hanging ring that should be a cinch to slide onto a coat hanger along with as many other scarves as you wish.

