 These medications block histamine, a substance your body makes as a response to allergens. Histamine is responsible for the symptoms of allergic rhinitis (sneezing, itchy eyes, and itchy, runny nose). Several antihistamines can be purchased over-the-counter and are taken once a day. Second-generation antihistamines, like loratadine, fexofenadine, and cetirizine are all designed to minimize drowsiness, a problem with first- generation antihistamines (like diphenhydramine or chlorpheniramine).If seasonal allergies are the cause of your sinus headaches, try taking intranasal corticosteroids. These over-the-counter medications are the most effective at treating the allergies. Take fluticasone or triamcinolone spray daily, using one to two sprays in each nostril., You can take these medications topically (as nose sprays like oxymetazoline) or orally (as pseudoephedrine) to relieve nasal congestion. Topical decongestants can be used every 12 hours, but not for more than three to five days or you may develop rebound nasal congestion from decongestant overuse. Oral decongestants can be taken once or twice a day. These can be combined with antihistamines like loratadine, fexofenadine, and cetirizine.


Because it a major ingredient of methamphetamine, or speed, pseudoephedrine, alone and in combination with antihistamines, is highly regulated and kept behind the pharmacy counter to prevent stockpiling by methamphetamine manufacturers., You can take aspirin, acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or naproxen for short-term relief of sinus headaches. Even though over-the-counter pain relievers will not treat the underlying cause of a sinus headache, they can help reduce or remove the head pain associated with sinus trouble.


Be sure to take them as directed on the packaging or by your doctor.
 Your doctor may prescribe antibiotics to treat a bacterial infection that can accompany or cause sinus headaches. Symptoms of a bacterial sinus infection include a sore throat, yellow or green discharge from your nose, nasal congestion, fever, and fatigue. Acute bacterial sinusitis is treated with 10 to 14 days of antibiotics while chronic bacterial sinusitis needs three to four weeks of antibiotic treatment.


Your doctor may also prescribe triptans, medications used to treat migraines. Research has shown that the majority of patients with sinus headaches had significant improvement in symptoms with triptans.Examples of triptans include sumatriptan, rizatriptan, zolmitriptan, almotriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, and eletriptan.
 Your doctor may recommend allergy injections if you don't respond well to medication, have significant side effects from medication, or have allergen exposure that's unavoidable.An allergy specialist (allergist) will typically administer the injections.
 You'll meet with an Ear, Nose, and Throat (ENT) specialist who can determine if you need surgery to prevent sinus headaches. Nasal polyps or bone spurs that might cause sinus infections can be surgically removed or your sinuses can be opened.


For example, balloon rhinoplasty involves inserting a balloon into the nasal cavity and inflating it to enlarge the sinus cavity.