 Pain relief has an important role to play in the treatment of lameness. Modern painkillers (analgesics) have a dual action of reducing pain and inflammation, and belong to the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory group of drugs (NSAIDS).


NSAIDs work by inhibiting the action of cyclooxygenase enzymes (COX1 and COX2). It is the COX enzymes that release prostaglandins that cause inflammation and pain. By blocking COX enzymes the mediators of inflammation (prostaglandins) are reduced and so pain is reduced.
The most commonly used NSAID pharmaceuticals for the relief of bone and joint problems in the horse are aspirin, flunixin, and phenylbutazone.
 Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) is effective against mild pain, swelling, and discomfort. Some aspirin products are available over the counter from pharmacies which makes them a useful first option treatment for mild lameness.AniPrin contains powdered acetylsalicylic acid mixed with a palatable molasses flavor base, designed to be mixed into the horse's feed. The dose is 10mg/kg once daily.
For a 500kg horse this equates to 5,000mg (or 5 grams) of AniPrin. Two scoops are supplied with the product: the larger measures out 28.35grams, and the smaller 3.75grams. Thus, a typical 500kg horse requires 1.5 small scoops of AniPrin once daily on food.
Never give aspirin to a horse that is taking other medications without first consulting your vet, and always provide a plentiful supply of fresh water.
 Commonly known as "bute" amongst horse owners, phenylbutazone reduces pain and fever. Phenylbutazone is a prescription NSAID and needs to be prescribed by your vet. It should not be used in combination with other NSAIDs, steroids, or given on an empty stomach.


Phenylbutazone interacts with some medications (such as phenytoin, sulfonamides, warfarin, barbiturates, and digoxin) so always speak to your vet before starting treatment.A typical equine preparation is of phenylbutazone is Butazolidin. The dose for a 454kg horse is 2 to 4grams once a day with or after food. It is available as 1gram tablets, an oral paste, or an oral powder containing 1g of phenylbutazone in a 10gram sachet. The manufacturer advises not to exceed 4g rams a day, and to administer the lowest effective dose where possible.
 Flunixin is another prescription NSAID, sold commercially as Banamin.


Banamin is a potent cyclooxygenase inhibitor which inhibits prostaglandin and therefore brings down inflammation. It is rapidly absorbed from the stomach and small intestine, and each dose works for 24 to 30 hours.
The dose of Banamin is 1.1mg/kg once daily by mouth. Therefore, a 500kg horse requires 550 mg (0.5g), which is equivalent to one 20g sachet which contains 500mg of flunixin.
 NSAIDS can reduce the blood supply to the stomach and kidneys. While this should not be significant in healthy, well-hydrated horses (especially when the medication is given with food), NSAIDs should never be given to dehydrated animals because this could concentrate the drug and amplify its damaging effects on the kidney.


Other side effects of NSAIDs include gastric ulceration and possible worsening of pre-existing kidney disease. This can manifest itself as a loss of appetite, and increased thirst. The treatment involves stopping NSAID medications and giving drugs such as activated charcoal in order to protect the stomach lining.
A horse diagnosed with renal disease may need intravenous fluid therapy to flush the accumulation of naturally occurring toxins that the kidney has not got rid of out of the system.

