 You will need several ingredients, plus a few tools to make this mascara recipe. Before you get started, you will need:1 teaspoon of vitamin E oil
1 teaspoon of coconut oil
1/2 teaspoon of beeswax
1 tablespoon of aloe vera gel
3 activated charcoal capsules
1/4 teaspoon of bentonite clay (optional)
a small glass bowl
some hot water
a medium glass bowl
a spoon;
, Measure out one teaspoon of vitamin E oil, one teaspoon of coconut oil, and 1/2 teaspoon of beeswax and put them into your small glass bowl. Stir them together with your spoon., Fill the medium sized bowl about ¼ of the way full with hot or boiling water. Then take your small bowl and place it over the water so that it is nesting inside of the medium sized bowl. The small bowl should just float on top of the water. If the water level is too high, then pour some out.Let the small bowl sit on top of the water until the ingredients in the small bowl have melted.
Then, carefully remove the small bowl from the water. Be careful because the glass may get hot from the hot water.
 Next, measure out three teaspoons of aloe vera gel and add the aloe vera to the bowl along with the ingredients. Then, use the spoon to mix the aloe vera in with the other ingredients until they are well combined.To make a preservative-free mascara, use aloe vera gel straight from the plant, as bottled aloe often contains preservatives., Take your three activated charcoal capsules and break them open over the bowl one at a time. Then, mix the charcoal in with the other ingredients. Keep stirring until the mixture looks uniform. This may take a few minutes of vigorous stirring.Be aware that activated charcoal is not an approved colorant for eye cosmetics.If you are concerned about using activated charcoal, then you can replace the charcoal with equal quantities of an eye-safe black (or other color) mineral powder or mica., Bentonite clay is optional for this recipe, but it may help to prevent smudging. Coconut oil melts at 76 degrees Fahrenheit, so it is not ideal for warm weather. However, bentonite clay can help your mascara to dry faster and stay on your lashes.If you decide to add the bentonite clay, then add 1/4 of a teaspoon to the mascara mixture and stir until the ingredients are well combined.

