 Long-term programs are typically one to two years in duration, and admission can be very selective. These positions usually come with a small living allowance, and often require a college degree.This type of project is typically on-going, so you might not see the end results by the time you leave.
Most programs require a college degree, professional experience, or specific skills.
Plan a “test run.” If you've never volunteered overseas before, you may want to do a short trip first and apply to a longer program for the following year.
 Give yourself enough time to raise the money you might need and deal with logistics. You'll want at least 2-3 months to make plans and get everything together.
 The UN has more than 4,000 volunteers at any given time, working in a range of job types all over the world. Workers are posted in mostly rural areas and on the outskirts of major cities. UN volunteer work falls into four main categories:Working with small governments that are short-staffed in certain vital departments.
Helping communities become self-reliant by improving infrastructure.
Supporting human rights and peace-building initiatives.
Humanitarian projects to provide relief and hasten community rehabilitation.
 For over 50 years, the Peace Corps has sent volunteers all over the world, to work with local community leaders on different types of projects. Their field projects are designed to fight HIV/AIDS in developing nations, fighting hunger in impoverished communities, preserving the environment, and providing improved access to the internet and technology.94% of Peace Corps openings involve 2 years of service, plus 3 months of training beforehand.
Volunteer positions are open to any US citizen 18 years of age or older, who can leave the country within 9-12 months of being accepted.
The Peace Corps lists all their available openings online, where you can search by country, job type, or skill set.
2-year volunteers receive free housing, a small monthly living stipend, and over $8,000 at the end of the project to help them readjust.
Some government issued student loans are eligible for deferment or forgiveness upon completion of a 2-year program.
The Peace Corps also covers your medical and dental expenses during the volunteer period.
 If you will be leaving for a longer period of time, you might want to get rid of unnecessary belongings. Place an ad on craigslist, or have a yard sale.


It costs money to store your belongings. Sell or give away any large items if you can, so you can rent a smaller, less expensive storage unit.
This will also give you more money for your trip.
 Most short-term volunteer programs do not require a visa, but some longer assignments will. It depends on which country you will be visiting. If you are paying for a short-term volunteer trip, the program facilitators will handle your visa paperwork.For example, Australia requires a visa for short-term volunteers.
Costa Rica, Peru, the UK, and South Africa do no require a visa for short-term volunteers.
 Go through your monthly bills, and see if there are any services you can cancel. You'll want as few bills as possible when you are living abroad.

