 Before dyeing, wash the fabric but do not dry it. This removes any dirt and oil that could keep the rub from penetrating evenly.


You can wash the fabric with the rest of your clothes or just wash it by itself, depending on your preference.
Be sure to follow the washing instructions of the fabric, if provided.
 You will need the used grounds of the coffee that is brewed. A good method to use for this is to use a French Press or use a coffee maker.


You will need enough coffee grounds to cover the entirety of the fabric that you are dyeing. You may need to brew several pots of coffee for this purpose.
Pick a dark roast to dye the fabric darker and a lighter roast if you do not wish for it to be very dark.
This is a great way to make use of your used coffee grounds. If you are a regular coffee drinker, you can save the used coffee grounds for this method.
 Once the grounds have cooled, add the coffee grounds to a large bowl and then add water. You will need about a tablespoon of water per cup of grounds.Stir the water into the grounds with a wooden spoon so that the water has evenly penetrated the mix. It does not need to be a fine paste so stirring spoon 7-8 times should be enough.
 Lay the fabric to dry on a water-proof surface. Be sure to cover the fabric completely with the coffee grounds and rub the coffee into the fabric. This can be done with a wooden spoon or similar utensil, or you can use your hands for this part.


This can be messy so you will want to do this somewhere where it is acceptable to make a mess, such as in a garage. You can also lay down plenty of newspaper to protect the floor or carpeting.
 Hang the fabric up to air dry in a place that is shaded. You will want to wait for the fabric to dry completely. This may take anywhere from several hours to an entire day. You can also dry the fabric in the dryer on low heat for approximately thirty minutes.Do not let the fabric air dry in the sun because the sun will fade your fabric., You can brush off the grounds with your hands, shake the grounds off by shaking out the fabric, or use a brush with natural fibers to remove all of the grounds. If the fabric is still not dark enough, repeat the process until it is to your liking.
 Using an iron will remove wrinkles from the fabric.


The fabric will need to be completely dry for best results with the hot iron.

