 Spaying and neutering your rabbits can reduce hormone-driven behaviors which can interfere with the socialization process. If possible, adopt a rabbit who has already been spayed or neutered. If your rabbit has not been spayed or neutered at adoption, talk to your vet about making an appointment.In addition to helping with socialization, spaying female rabbits reduces the risk of uterine cancer., Most rabbits will bond for life after the initial introduction process. However, if your rabbits are separated for a long time repeat the introduction process. Rabbits have decent memories and will probably remember their cage mates. However, it's better safe than sorry. You do not want your rabbits to fight with one another, which can lead to injury and even death.Rabbits do grieve. In the event one of your rabbits dies, wait a few months before getting a new rabbit. Your surviving rabbit may react poorly to a new cage mate if he is still mourning the loss of his friend., Rabbits eyes are placed on either side of their heads. This means rabbits cannot see directly in front of themselves. Never approach a rabbit directly in front, as he will not be able to see you coming. This can be very scary. Always approach your rabbit from the side so he knows you're coming., If your rabbit has bonded with you, he may be more friendly with other people. However, you should still err on the side of caution. With new people, allow your rabbit to choose when and if he wants to interact with others.


If you have a new household member, allow that person to spend some time alone in a room with the rabbit. Instruct that person to follow a similar regimen to the one you used to bond with your rabbit. Allow the rabbit to come to the new person first. Encourage the new person to use treats and toys to win the rabbit's favor. If your rabbit has already been socialized with you, the process may go quicker this time around.
If you have friends over that want to see your rabbit, encourage them to allow the rabbit to sniff their hands before they pet or handle him. Coax your rabbit out of the cage if your friends want to play with him. If he seems skittish or unhappy, inform your friends your rabbit needs some space. Leave the rabbit alone for an hour or so before trying to introduce him to your friends again.

