 If you want to enable a two-way sync between your Outlook Calendar and your Google Calendar, you'll need a special piece of software. This free, open-source program can sync your two calendars so that changes in one appear in the other.

This method only works on Windows computers.
,, This depends on your browser's security settings., The program should only take a few seconds to download. You'll see it at the bottom of your browser, or you can find it in your Downloads folder.,, You may be prompted by Outlook to allow access. This may not happen with newer versions.,,, If you only have one calendar, it will be Default Calendar.,, A web browser window will open., Log into your account in the browser window that just opened., This will give Outlook Google Calendar Sync the ability to edit your calendar events, but it will not have your Google account password., The code may scroll beyond the field., You can press Ctrl+C or right-click the selection and click "Copy.", This window appeared once you clicked Retrieve Calendars.,,, You can only choose one Google calendar per account, so make sure you consolidate your events if you have them spread across multiple calendars.,,, This will set Outlook Google Calendar Sync to sync you calendar information to both of your calendars, so that they are always the same regardless of where you enter events., This determines how often your Outlook calendar will update with information from your Google calendar.

If the value is set to 0, you'll have to manually sync your calendars.
 This will update your Google calendar within a few minutes of changes being made in Outlook., These are not included in the sync by default., Checking the following boxes will ensure that Outlook Google Calendar Sync is always running in the background and keeping you calendars up to date:

Start on login
Start in tray
Minimise to tray instead of taskbar
Close button minimises window instead of terminating application

,,, The sync will begin and you'll see the details in the readout. If you have a lot of events, it may take a while to finish., Your events should now be appearing in both your Google calendar and your Outlook calendar. When you make a change to one, it will be updated on the other when you sync next.

Syncing will happen automatically according to the sync interval you set earlier.

