 Building a solid "sit" command places you in control of a whole variety of situations. For example, if your dog hears the doorbell and rushes to bark, you can interrupt this behavior by asking it to sit, then rewarding the "sit," and removing the dog to a back room where it won't bark.


To teach sit, show the dog you have a treat in your hand. Show it the treat at nose level, then arc the treat up above its nose. Say "sit." Your dog's head will follow the treat, leading the pup's head to go up and it's bottom to go down. The moment the pup's bottom hits the ground, click-clack the clicker and give it a reward.Once your dog is doing this regularly, start to skip the treat. This builds unpredictability in the dog's mind about whether he or she gets a reward or not and stops it taking them for granted. This means the dog works harder. Eventually, just reward every fourth or fifth command.
Once your dog is sitting regularly on command, ask him or her to do this when out and about, before putting its food down, and at the curbside before crossing a street.
 Stay is taught in a similar way to "sit". Get the dog in a sit first, then take one step away. Say "stay", and when the dog doesn't move, click-clack and reward, plus give it lots of fuss. Gradually increase the distance, until you are eventually able to leave the room without the dog moving., To teach recall, start in a small space, so the dog is never terribly far away. When it turns and takes a step towards you, give a cue "here." As the dog continues moving toward your click-clack, and when it arrives, give him or her a big fuss and a treat. Keep repeating this, until the dog understands what you want it to do. Tell it to come whenever you feed it or under any other circumstance that it will come to you regardless.


Make coming to you a good thing for your dog. Be excited, and reward often. Start with short 'come' distances and be sure to release the dog quickly to go to what it was doing.
Recall is a commonly the cause of much confusion for dog and owner alike. The problem is that it's human nature to reprimand the dog when it eventually comes to you after 30 minutes of calling it. This teaches the dog that when it comes, you get cross, and therefore the dog would really rather not come back at all. Telling the dog off gives him or her conflicting instructions. Instead, no matter how long it takes, always be pleased to see your pet and make a big fuss of him or her.Once the dog has mastered the command in a small room, try it in the yard. A word of warning though, unless you are completely confident of your dog's recall don't let him or her off leash in the park. Keep the dog on a long line so that you can reel it in if it doesn't obey.
 If the dog is poorly house trained, then go back to basics and retrain in the same way you would teach a puppy. Give the dog plenty of exercise, and then back home keep him confined to a small room or a crate (teach him to love the crate. How to Crate Train your Puppy ) Take him outside every hour, and when he squats or relieves himself, say the cue word "Potty" or "toilet" and when he's finished give him a big reward. Also do this first thing in the morning and last thing at night. Eventually he will realize it's a super easy way to get a treat, is to spend his bladder and bowel contents in a particular place in order to earn a treat.


If he does have an accident in doors, don't scold him or tell him off. Instead, calmly clear it up using an enzymatic clear, so there are no scent clues left for him to return to the spot. Avoid using household cleaners, especially those containing bleach, since ammonia is part of urine and you can unwittingly reinforce the smell. , To teach the dog to "drop it", start with something the dog may pick up but that isn't his or her all time favorite toy. Let the dog pick the object up, then offer it the ultra tasty treat in return. Your pup has to drop the object to get the treat, so as its jaw relaxes its grip say "drop it." Click as the dog drops the toy and give it the treat. Keep repeating this as with other commands.


Once trained, if you come across something that you do not want your dog to eat and it seems interested, tell the dog to leave it alone. Praise it when it switches its attention towards you.
While training the dog, remove temptation from his or her path. However, if the dog does pick something up, especially if it could potentially harm it if swallowed, then push on its cheeks near the back of the jawbone and praise it for dropping it. Again, never use force to pry a dogs mouth open to retrieve something unless its dangerous, like medicine of something sharp.
 If your dog climbs on furniture or jumps on you without permission, tell it to get off in a scolding manner and praise it when it does. If necessary, shove it off the furniture. If it jumps on you without permission, make a disapproving noise and move your knee forward to bump it. Keeping a lead attached in the house is also a good way of removing the dog, but without getting in danger if he is inclined to snap when removed from furniture. Limit the verbal interaction until the dog is down.
 To teach a dog to get down, use treats and a command, such as "off". If this doesn't help, use a canister of compressed air that has a motion trigger, in front of the furniture, so the dog gets a remote punishment when he goes to jump up.

