 This is the very first step. At this early stage, don't be too concerned about the story. Your goal here is to generate as many fresh ideas as you can. Don't worry too much about the quality of the ideas. An idea that appears good now may turn out to be a really bad idea later on. Write your ideas down so that you can go back and pick one to write on later.;
, For content to be interesting, you need to pick a topic that is fresh. Everyone likes novelty. It's easier to create interesting content when you are writing about a cool mobile gadget that is about to be launched in the near future. You can, of course, with good writing skills, turn a mundane topic into something interesting. But that requires more effort and skill. Imagine having to write about doing the dishes. How interesting do you think your article will be?

, Too many writers try to impress their readers. As a result, they use flowery words or jargon that very few people can understand. Having a wide vocabulary is great. But misusing that range is never a good idea. Always strive to communicate your ideas clearly. This applies to all forms of writing - press releases, blogs, and even novels.
 If you want your writing to come to life, be as descriptive as you can. Being descriptive is especially useful for fiction writers. Having all those little details simply allow the reader to paint a more vivid image in his or her mind.
 Be clear about your target audience. Who are you writing for? If your writing is meant for the general public, then make it easy for everyone to understand. Use short sentences and simple words. If you are promoting your corporate website using a press release, write in a formal style.
 Nobody likes to read stale content. If you are having difficulty having original ideas, start by stating your own opinions.
 There are often opportunities for a writer to let the reader get a sense of who you are. Let your writing reflect your personality.
 If you are making an argument in your article, try to back up your argument with facts and figures. Concrete statistics can help bring credibility to your writing.
 If you are borrowing content or ideas from an external source, be sure to cite all sources at the end of the article. It's about respecting the rights of other writers. Being respectful makes the Internet a much nicer space for everyone.

