 Make sure that your computer can actually burn DVDs, as older computers may not have the capability.;
, If the AutoPlay window doesn't appear, click the Start menu and select Computer. Right-click on the DVD drive and select "Open".
 This can help you identify what's on this disc later. Including the date in the name can help organize your discs.
 There are two options when it comes to burning a data disc: Live File System or Mastered.


Using the Live File System allows you to add, edit, and delete files on the disc as long as you're using it with other Windows computers. If you select this option, the disc will be formatted before you can start adding files to it. This formatting process may take a few minutes.
Mastered finalizes the disc when you're done adding files so that it can't be changed, but will allow you to use the disc in any computer or device that supports data DVDs.
 Once you've selected your disc format, you can start adding files to the disc. Single-layer DVDs can fit 4.7 GB of data. There are a couple of different ways that you can add files to your blank disc:


Click and drag files into the blank DVD's window.
Right-click on a file or folder and select "Send to" and then your disc drive.
 If you're using the Live File System format, the files will be burned to the disc as soon as you copy them. This may take a few moments for larger files.
 When you're done adding files to your disc, you can finish the process by either closing the session (Live File System) or by burning the disc (Mastered).


Live File System - Click the Close session button at the top of the disc's window. This will finalize the disc which allows you to continue using it like a USB drive in other Windows computers.
Mastered - Click the Burn to disc button at the top of the disc's window. You'll be given the opportunity to name the disc again and select your recording speed. The burn process may take several minutes to complete. At the end of the burning process, you'll be given the opportunity to burn the same data to another blank disc if you need copies.
 You can continue to add files to your burned DVDs as long as there is still free space available. You can do this regardless of which format you created the disc in. Follow the processes above to add more files.


Live File System - Every time you open a new session on a disc, you lose about 20 MB of usable space.
Mastered - Files added to an already-burned disc cannot be deleted.
 DVD-RW discs are rewritable, and can be erased even if you chose the Mastered format. To erase the disc, insert it and open Windows Explorer. Select your DVD-RW in your list of devices, but don't open it. Click the Erase this disc button at the top of the window.