 Decide how much longer you want your curtains to be than the window.
 Measure the circumference of the curtain rod and add 1 inch/2.5cm to allow for a seam.


How full your curtains are is a matter of personal taste. The average fullness is calculated by taking the total length of the curtain rod (sized to fit your window) and multiplying that number by 1.5. You can multiply by 2 for fuller curtains.
 This gives you the size of each of the 2 curtain panels you need. Again, this is a matter of taste. Two panels are normal, but, if you want more, just divide the total width by the number of panels you want to hang.


You need to add 2 inches/5cm for each panel to the width of the curtain panels for seams and finishing.
 Add the length plus 4 inches/10cm plus the circumference of the curtain rod.
 Take the measurements with you so you know how much material to purchase. Material on bolts comes in 2 widths - 45 inches/1.125 m and 60 inches/1.5m. Home decorating fabric is mostly found in just the 60-inch (1.5 m) size.


Convert the measurements into yards (meters), since raw material is sold by the yard (meter). To do this, divide the total width and length by 36 (100 for metric).
Also purchase thread to match the material.
, Be aware that sheer material can be hard to cut. Make sure the scissors are sharp and you will want to stabilize the material on each side of the cut line with something heavy such as a book.



Fold over 1/8 inch/3mm and press with a warm iron.
Fold the remaining 7/8 inches/2.2 cm and press.
Stitch it to make a 1-inch/2.5 cm side seam on each side of each panel.
 Fold over 1 inch/2.5 cm and press. Fold over 2 inches/5 cm more and press and then stitch the seam for a hem. This will leave you with the circumference of the curtain rod, plus 1 inch/2.5 cm for top sleeve and seam allowance.
 Fold over 1/8 inches/3mm and press. Fold over 7/8 inches/2.2 cm plus the circumference of the curtain rod, press and sew the curtain sleeve seam.
, It's now time to hang your new curtains.

