 To start out, you may want buy some old Metallica (Ride the Lightning and Master of Puppets) or Megadeth (Peace Sells..., Rust in Peace). If you don't feel like buying the album or you want to listen to some of the music first, go to YouTube and listen.;
, Just like firearms, metal comes in a variety of forms and styles. If the heaviest thing you've heard is Fall Out Boy, and you go and listen to Behemoth, you'll be put off of it forever. Ease yourself into it and start to learn your sub-genres. Below is a list to get you started and some of its bands:


Death: Death, Morbid Angel, Immolation, Kataklysm, Necrophagist, Cryptopsy, Cannibal Corpse, and Nile.
Doom: Saint Vitus, Black Sabbath (early influence), Witchfinder General, Pentagram, Earth, Sleep, My Dying Bride, and Candlemass.
Thrash: Metallica (first 4 albums), Slayer, Megadeth, Kreator, Exodus, Anthrax, Metal Church, Overkill, Exodus and Flotsam and Jetsam.
Classic: Iron Maiden,Judas Priest, Saxon, Black Sabbath, Dio, KISS, Yngwie Malmsteen, Ozzy Osbourne, and Alice Cooper.
Glam: Motley Crue, Ratt, Van Halen, Poison, KISS, Pantera (earlier) and Twisted Sister.
Black: Immortal, Emperor, Mayhem, Burzum, Bathory, Enslaved, and Dark Funeral.
Avant Garde Metal: Meshuggah, Dog Fashion Disco, Sigh, Fantômas and Sleepytime Gorilla Museum.
Groove Metal: Pantera (later stuff), White Zombie, Exhorder, and Lamb of God.
Power Metal: Blind Guardian, Iced Earth, Manowar, HammerFall, Rhapsody Of Fire, Kamelot,Accept, and Helloween.
Melodic Death: Dark Tranquility, In Flames Countess, and Wintersun.
Gothic: Theatre of Tragedy, Tristania, Sirenia, Moonspell, Chalice, and The Sins of Thy Beloved.
Grindcore: Napalm Death, Pig Destroyer, Carcass, and Brutal Truth.
Metalcore: Avenged Sevenfold (older music), As I Lay Dying, Kill Switch Engage, and Chimaira.
Deathcore: All Shall Perish, Suicide Silence, Job For A Cowboy, and Winds Of Plague.
Symphonic: Nightwish, Therion, Epica, and After Forever.
Folk: Ensiferum, Moonsorrow, Eluveitie, Wolfchant, and Turisas.
Progressive: Symphony X, Dream Theater, and Queensrcÿhe.
 People will call you a poser.
, You can check out MySpace for some metal bands.
 Be yourself. Don't try to be someone you're not. There are some smart metalheads out there.
,,,,, That's the most important thing!

