 Remembering information in sequences (ex. alphabetically, by size or linearly through time) can help you retrieve it. Give yourself instructions in the order you need to do the activities throughout the day: eat breakfast, mail off a bill, walk the dog, go to the library, go to the store, ect. Alternately, you can have someone repeat the instructions to you so you can hear them orally.
 LTM is most often stored when you make associations with what you are trying to remember and another item or concept that means something to you. The association must be memorable in some way (either fascinating, inspiring or amusing to you). For example, if you need to mail off an electricity bill in the morning, imagine a mailbox flag that can turn your house lights on and off when it is lowered or raised.
 Take the first letter of each thing that you have to do and come up with an acronym. For example, EMWLS, for eat breakfast, mail bill, walk dog, library, store can become Elephants Must Wear Long Shirts. Now when you recall your acronym and the letters, you can remember what you are supposed to do and in what order.
 Come up with a narrative in your head that tells the story about someone doing what you need to do, but with an interesting twist. Melissa the Witch has to consume toads and put her magic recipe in a safe place after she wakes up. Then she has to take her pet dragon with her to read new spell books and buy a root from the apothecary.
 If you don’t want to write down in words what you have to do, try drawing a quick picture or map. Mark important points that remind you what you need to do, such as the street, the library or store, with a star or dot. You could also just sketch a few telling images like a bowl, a dog, a book or a basket. Draw and mark items on the picture in the order that you need to do them.
 Record yourself or someone else saying what you need to do. You can record on a tape player, computer, tablet, phone or other device. Play it a few times throughout the day and before you go to bed to boost your memory the next day.
 Walk around a room or take a walk down the street while you repeat what you need to do to yourself. This method can utilize both sides of your brain and help encode and store the memory long term. It works really well if you are a kinesthetic encoder.
 Think about what you have to do in terms of colors. Eating breakfast is brown like cereal, mailing is grey like the mailbox, walking the dog is black like your dog, the library is red like a book and the store is green like the apples you need to buy. Then think of the colors to remember what you have to do more easily.
 You can mentally come up with a big oak or pine tree and assign a task to each branch. The lowest branches will be the things you need to do first and move up until you reach the end of your day. Try to visualize decorations, colors or some other clue that will help you remember more about the tasks. For example, you might imagine a bulb with a cereal bowl, one with a mailbox and another with a picture of your dog on their respective branches., Go ahead and act out a play of you doing the things you need to do later. Mimic exactly what you will do and try to visualize each task being completed and the location you will do it at. Picture the mailbox, pretend to hold a letter in your hand and drop it in. Feel how cold the metal is, the weight of the envelope in your hand, the street and time of day.
 If you don’t want to write down what you have to do by hand, you can input it into a digital device. There are many apps and built-in software programs that can help you keep track of to-do lists, meetings and appointments. Examples of devices or apps that you can use include digital organizers, cell phone reminders or sticky notes on a computer.
 The more you remind yourself about what you need to do, the more likely you will be to remember it. The more you refer back to your methods, such as the story, relationships or tree, the more automatic it will be to recall what you need to do. Do the repetitions until you can remember what you need to do later or the next day easily.


You can use auditory repetition by repeating what you need to do over and over again out loud. Do this 10-20 times.
Repeatedly look at visual cues that remind you of what you need to do—such as the picture or map you drew. This will help you if you are a visual encoder.
Be sure to move around every time you think about what you need to do if you are a tactile or kinesthetic encoder.
If you remember best semantically, then practice your acronyms, stories and recall the relationships you thought up before you need to do something or go to bed.

