 When you are handling a conflict, you should tell the other person how you feel. This should be done in a calm and respectful manner. Keep your words focused on how you feel instead of the other person. This will help you not accuse them or attack them.Try starting with something like, “I've noticed___ lately, and I have been feeling___. I'm wondering if there is another way we can do this..."
Use "I statements" to help keep everything about yourself. “I think…” or “I feel…” are good ways to start.
For example, don’t say, “You are lazy and do nothing around the house.” Instead, you can say something like, "I feel used and unappreciated when you come home from work and leave your socks and work stuff all over the living room. I would feel like you're helping out if you'd take all that stuff into the office or bedroom instead."

, As you deal with the conflict, listen to what the other person has to say. This is essential to handling conflicts in relationships. Conflict arises when there are problems on both sides. You should listen to what the other person says and hear their concerns or thoughts.As you listen, figure out what is important to the other person. Think about what needs of theirs are not being met.
 When dealing with conflict, you may find yourself upset or angry. In the heat of the moment, you may want to yell or call the other person names. You may want to use hurtful words. None of these things are healthy ways to deal with conflict. Try to remain calm and use neutral words.You may say, “I feel hurt by your behavior” instead of “You’re a jerk and an awful person.”
Steer clear of generalizing language as well, such as saying things like, “You always…” or “You never…”
Don’t hit below the belt, such as by picking at things that your partner is sensitive about. This can be extremely hurtful and damage the trust between you and your partner. For example, if your partner is sensitive about their weight, then making a weight related comment would be hitting below the belt.
Don’t exaggerate. Stick to the facts and do not try to make something seem like a bigger issue than it is. This can interfere with a helpful discussion of what is actually bothering you. For example, if your partner forgot to take out the garbage, but you are really upset that he hasn’t taken you on a date in a while, then don’t act like you are just mad about the garbage. Say what is actually bothering you., If you can, give examples to support your position. This may give the other person an idea about where you are coming from. If the other person has done something wrong or hurtful, examples can help them see what behaviors have hurt you.For example, you may start by saying, “I feel that you take me for granted around the house.” Then you may follow that up with, “I was really frustrated when I asked you to take out the trash while I was washing the dishes and you didn’t.”

, The best way to handle conflicts is to remain respectful. Acknowledge that the other person has feelings and those feelings are legitimate. As you talk with the other person, remain calm. Speak in a calm voice and keep any feelings of anger under control.Don’t respond in a defensive way. Try to refrain from yelling, saying hurtful things, shutting down and refusing to speak, walking out, or accusing the other person.
Try saying, "I understand what you are saying" or "Your feelings are valid even if I do not agree."

, Sometimes, when you are telling someone how you feel about an issue, you may find that you want to hurt them because they hurt you. This means you may poke at an area you know that upsets them on purpose. You may accuse them of things to get a rise out of them. Try to avoid this kind of behavior because it can lead to resentment, distrust, and anger.Try not to exaggerate your feelings to make them more than they are or make up lies. These false statements can hurt the other person and damage the relationship.

