 Capitalize on the excitement the Olympics can inspire and head to the local park or your backyard. There are tons of fun, free activities your kids can do that require little or no equipment. Put a towel down on the grass and try to jump the length of it, or jump over a cardboard box. Find an open area to practice throwing and allow your child's imagination to come up with various objects to throw. Play catch or kick a ball towards a goal. If gymnastics appeals to your kids, set up some blankets or yoga mats and practice somersaults, cartwheels, headstands and balance beam.

Join in on the fun! Your kids will be especially excited to get involved if you are willing to participate and play with them.
Siblings are naturally competitive, so you might want to mediate any running and jumping matches. Just remember to keep it fun and light-hearted to encourage young children to participate.;
, Discus throwing and shot put are popular Olympic sports. You and your child may want to watch the Olympians compete for the medal and then go out into the yard and have your own competition. You can throw frisbees like a discus or a ball like a shot put.Go to the park or in your backyard and set up your own mini Olympics course.
 The winter Olympics contains many popular winter sports, including snowboarding, ice skating, and skiing. You can take a trip to a ski resort and take skiing or snowboarding lessons with your child.


If you live in an area where it snows during the winter your child may be able to join a ski or snowboarding team.
 Your child may be fascinated by the archery competitions they see on the Olympics. Archery can be a great skill to learn. You can take your child to an archery range or buy a Nerf bow and arrow set to practice in the backyard.You may also consider buying a bow and arrows for your child. You can also buy targets filled with foam or straw for your child to shoot at.
 Open water sports are fascinating activities to watch during the Olympics. They may be even more fun to try as a family. Rent a kayak or canoe and visit a local river or lake to paddle around.Many state parks offer canoe and kayak rentals.
A kayak or canoe club might offer lessons on safety and offer guided outdoor adventures.
 Watching Olympic equestrian sports can be entertaining and exciting. While you may not be ready to buy your child a horse, you can let your child go for a ride on a horse. Many riding schools and horse farms offer individual lessons where you can take your child for a ride.If you have a friend or family member who own horses, ask if you can bring your child around so they can ride the horse.
 Tennis is a fun Olympic sport that can be played easily at most local parks. All you need is a tennis court, two rackets, and a ball. Take your child to a local tennis court and hit some balls. You might do more running than actual tennis playing, but you’ll get some good physical activity.If your child wants to learn how to play tennis, consider letting them take lessons or teaching them yourself if you know how to play.
 Track and field is a common summer Olympic sport. You and your child can go outside and start running. Go to a local track and time how long it takes to do a 50 meter, 100 meter, or 200 meter dash. Work towards a “marathon” by running longer distances.You can also set up a relay with your family, or set up obstacles to jump over like hurdles.
 Encourage your child to be like an Olympian and go for a ride along a designated bike path. Lay out a course around your yard, street, or neighborhood. You may also want to take your child to a local park or bike trails.You may get your whole family in on the activity by taking the whole family for the bike ride.
 Swimming is another popular summer Olympic sport that your child can partake in. If you have a pool in your backyard, swim laps like an Olympian. If you have a diving board, watch as your child safely dives into the water. If you don’t have a pool, many communities and gyms have public pools.If your child has never swum before, you may want to sign them up for lessons.
 Basketball is a fun sport to watch on the Olympics and a great sport for kids. Your child can go to a local park and shoot some hoops with you or their friends. Your child can also play HORSE or try to work on their skills as they dribble down the court.If your child has never played basketball, you can find a friend or family member to teach them.

