 Many people immediately want to scratch sand flea bites because they can cause an itchy irritation on the skin. Avoid scratching the bites because this can actually open up the bites, making you more susceptible to infections., One way to relieve the itchy irritation caused by the bites is by applying calamine lotion to the area. This lotion can be found at your local drug store and will work to soothe the skin and relieve the itching.In order to apply calamine lotion, read all of the instructions provided and then gently rub a small amount onto the injected area. Do not use on eyes, mouth, or genitals.Talk with your doctor before using calamine lotion on children under the age of six months. You should also consult a physician before using the lotion while pregnant or breast feeding., You can also relieve the itching by applying hydrocortisone cream to the area. This will help to prevent you from scratching the bites. Hydrocortisone cream can be purchased at your local drug store.In order to apply the cream, you should read all of the instructions provided. Then, gently rub the cream over the infected area. Wash your hands afterwards.
If you are pregnant or taking any other medications you should speak with your doctor before using hydrocortisone cream.Speak with a doctor before using on children under the age of 10., Baking soda mixed with water can help soothe itchy and irritated skin. In order to use baking soda and water to soothe sand flea bites:Pour 1 cup of baking soda into a bathtub filled with cool water. Then, soak your entire body in the tub for approximately thirty minutes to an hour.Alternatively, you can mix 3 parts baking soda with 1 part water. Stir together until a paste is formed. Then, rub the paste onto the irritated skin. Leave the paste on the skin for approximately 30 minutes and then wash off with water., You can also relieve skin irritations and itches by soaking in an oatmeal bath. Oatmeal contains antioxidants, which have soothing effects on the skin. In order to create an oatmeal bath, simply add one to two cups of oat flour or oatmeal to a tub filled with warm water. Then, soak in the tub for approximately one hour.Do not use hot water. This can actually cause greater skin irritation.
 Aloe vera is excellent for soothing and healing a number of skin irritations. You can purchase aloe vera gel from your local drug store. Gently rub the aloe vera over the irritated area. This will help to soothe your skin giving you a bit of relief., Certain essential oils, such as lavender oil, tea tree oil, eucalyptus oil, and cedar oil may help to reduce the skin irritation caused by sand flea bites. In order to use, apply the essential oils directly to the irritated skin. Follow the directions supplied on the package for the correct dosage.Always consult a doctor before using essential oils for medical purposes, especially if you are pregnant.
If you have known allergies or sensitivities, perform a patch test first on a small area of unaffected skin.
Most essential oils need to be mixed with a carrier oil before being used on the skin to prevent irritation. Avoid using undiluted essential oils on the skin unless specifically directed to do so by a professional.