 You can choose plain, vanilla, or chocolate depending on your flavor preference. For a healthier shake, choose unsweetened almond milk and let the other ingredients add the sweetness.


If you want to create an almond milk smoothie, rather than a shake, add 8 oz. (237 ml) of non-fat yogurt. Reduce the almond milk to 3/4 of a cup (177 ml). Use almond, soy or coconut yogurt to make the smoothie completely lactose-free.;
, If you do not like bananas, you can omit them or replace them with another thick fruit, like mango. The banana gives the shake a thick consistency and flavor.


For a thicker smoothie, use frozen bananas.
 If you don't like strawberries, you can use another type of fruit instead. If the fruit is larger, like a peach, make sure that you slice it first. Some great choices include:


Blueberries
Mangos
Peaches
Strawberries

, This will make your smoothie nice and thick. If you are already using frozen fruit, however, then you can omit the ice, unless you like your smoothies extra-thick.
 If you are not a fan of agave nectar, you can use another sweetener instead, such as stevia; if you are not a strict vegan, then you can try honey instead.


If you used a flavored almond milk, such as vanilla or chocolate, then you do not have to add the honey or any other sweetener

, You can use almond extract to enhance the almond flavor of your shake, or you can add baking spices instead. Cinnamon and nutmeg are great options!


For a chocolate-y milkshake, try 2 to 3 tablespoons (30 to 45 grams) of cocoa powder.Add 1 tablespoon (15 grams) flaxseeds for extra thickness and fiber.For extra almond flavor, add 2 to 3 tablespoons (30 to 45 grams) of almond butter. If you would like to cut down on the sweetness of the smoothie, use salted almond butter., Depending on how much you added into the blender, this will take about 30 to 45 seconds. From time to time, you may have to open up the blender, and push the mixture down the sides with a spatula. This will ensure that everything mixes evenly.
 For a fancier touch, pop a straw into each glass, and use some left-over fruit as garnish.
