 Although this is important for everyone's dental health, tooth brushing is especially important for keeping a smoker's teeth white. Brush your teeth twice to three times a day, being sure to brush for at least two minutes each time.Use a whitening toothpaste if you would like to get an extra level of whitening action.


Smokers tend to have poorer oral health and a higher risk of periodontal disease, so it's important to focus on keeping your mouth healthy.In addition to reducing the risk of problems in your mouth, like gum disease, brushing will whiten your smile.
Try brushing right after you smoke. This will remove the tar and other chemicals deposited on the teeth quickly instead of letting them set it.;
, There are special toothpastes for smokers. These toothpastes contain more abrasive ingredients, such as baking soda or alumina than normal toothpastes. This helps to get at the tar and nicotine embedded in the teeth.Because these toothpastes have additional abrasive, they can wear down your enamel faster. If you are concerned about your enamel wearing down, consider using smoker's toothpaste some of the time and regular toothpaste the rest of the time.
 There are specialty mouthwash products that are made to reduce the amount of tar and chemicals in your mouth after smoking. They are made to be used after each time you smoke.Using a normal mouthwash won't keep your teeth white but it will improve your overall oral health. Use a regular mouthwash even if you can't get your hands on an anti-tar mouthwash. Just be sure to pick a therapeutic mouthwash that actually fights gingivitis and freshens your breath at the same time, as opposed to a mouthwash that just freshens your breath. You should be able to tell the difference because therapeutic mouthwashes include fluoride and antimicrobial agents., It's important to floss your teeth before you sleep or after brushing. In addition to improving your general oral health, it will also help to remove nicotine and tar from your teeth. This will decrease the risk of staining in the areas between teeth.


Pick whatever type of floss you like. The type of floss matters less than how you use it to clean between your teeth.Floss your teeth once a day. It does not matter when you do it, just do it.
 If you are a smoker you should schedule dentist appointments more often than if you didn't smoke. Consult with your dentist about how often he or she thinks you should come in.Your dentist will give your teeth a thorough cleaning during your regular visit, which should take away any light staining and lessen any deep staining.
If you are interested, your dentist can also give you information about smoking cessation, including giving you information on the ill effects smoking has on oral health., It may sound or taste weird, but for the sake of white teeth, you should try it. Brushing with baking soda will make a visible difference in the whiteness of your teeth.


To clean your teeth with baking soda, sprinkle some baking soda on your toothbrush and brush as normal.
Don't leave the baking soda on your teeth for too long and also you shouldn't brush too hard. Baking soda left on too long or scrubbed on too hard can erode the enamel on your teeth, causing more harm than good., Just add a few drops of hydrogen peroxide to baking soda until it creates a paste. Then use the paste as you would commercial toothpaste. The addition of hydrogen peroxide whitens your teeth even more than baking soda alone.Because this combination can be very abrasive, you should only use it for a few days and then discontinue use for a few months. This will assure that you don't damage your tooth enamel.
 The simplest to use is whitening toothpaste, as it can be used like normal toothpaste. However, there are a wide variety of other teeth whitening products. They usually come in the form of teeth whitening gels, strips, or bleaches that are applied with teeth trays.These products are very effective for getting rid of smoking stains.Use gels and bleaches sparingly. Stripes are okay to use on a regular basis.
 There are a variety of natural products that are said to whiten teeth. These include banana peels, strawberries, and apple cider vinegar. You can even swish coconut oil around in your teeth.To use strawberries, mash several strawberries up and mix with some baking soda. Use as a toothpaste. This may be effective because of the malic acid in strawberries.
Rub the inside of banana peels on your teeth to whiten them. The inside of the peel has a variety of minerals that can help the health of your teeth.
One part apple cider vinegar can be mixed with three parts water and then mixed into your normal toothpaste. If you then brush as normal, the stain-fighting power of your toothpaste will be enhanced.
To use coconut oil put a tablespoon of the oil in your mouth and swish it around for up to 15 minutes. You may need to do it for less time at first, in order to get used to the feeling. Be sure not to swallow the oil, which can take some focus on your part. This process with help promote saliva production and eliminates bacteria in the mouth., This is a very effective way to get rid of stains. A cosmetic cleaning can get out more staining than your normal dental cleaning.This can be done between your regular dental cleanings, but should not be used as a replacement for them.


Professional teeth whitening uses harsh chemicals to brighten your teeth. After this type of cleaning, your teeth will be very sensitive for a period of time.
 If you stop smoking, the staining caused by the nicotine and tar staining should fade over time.


If you want to stop smoking, consider seeking help in doing it. Smoking is addictive and you can use as much help and support as you can get.

