 Try an alternative to inlays made of stone or shell in a guitar fretboard by purchasing stickers made to look like the real thing. These are easily applied and stay put under strings and fingers.


Try different shapes, designs, or even custom words for each fret.Carefully remove the strings on your guitar, clean and dry the surface of the fretboard, and center the stickers evenly on the frets to apply them.
You can also buy stickers meant for the headstock of your guitar, which you can even personalize with your name like a famous musician!

, Add a pickguard to your guitar in a fun color, shape, or pattern. The pickguard is used to protect the surface of your guitar face from scratching of the pick, but it can also be a highly decorative, customizable piece.


Applying a new pickguard is easiest to do on a guitar that doesn’t already have a one, but it may be possible to replace an existing one by carefully removing it with a bridge removal knife and a little heat from a lamp., Replace your current strings and tuning knobs with colorful varieties or different finishes.


Make sure you don’t sacrifice quality when replacing guitar strings. Use the same gauge and steel or nylon material of your current guitar (or upgrade to better quality!), or you will end up with a completely different sound and feeling while playing.Electric guitars have even more options for knob customization, as you can replace knobs on the face of the guitar as well with special shapes and materials. Just make sure you check whether your guitar has solid shaft or split shaft pots before you buy new knobs., Replace the pins that hold your guitar strings on the bridge of your guitar. Customize with unique pins that contain shell, bone, brass, or other materials that give them color and shine.


Bridge pins made from bone and wood can also change and improve the quality of sound from your guitar strings., If you have an electric guitar with pickup covers that can be replaced, try a new color or finish for them.


All you should need is a screwdriver to replace removable pickup covers. They come in all different colors and finishes to complement your guitar any way you want.