 There are several versions you can choose from. Some of them include the movie version, Broadway version, book version, etc... If you don't know what each look looks like, then Google "Erik from the Phantom of the Opera", and click Images. For example: Erik from the Phantom of the Opera, Broadway version";
, Once you have decided which version of Erik you wish to dress up as, then find a black dress coat, black dress pants, and a white dress shirt that looks like what your version of Erik is wearing.
 You can find a black cape at a thrift store, Party City, or at any other Halloween store. If you prefer to make your cape, you can also do that as well. A good place to find materials to make your cape is a fabric store, or, you may be able to improvise with some old velvet curtains.
 You can also make a white half mask for a lot less trouble depending on how much time you have. To do that, you must first find a white full mask with a rubber band along the back. (You can often find them at Michael's.) Then, carefully remove one end of the rubber band from the left side of the mask. Next, you cut the mask from left to right across the forehead to the bridge of the nose, around to the underside of the nose and continue down to the mouth, around it, and down to the chin. Finally, reattach the rubber band to the top of the mask with a stapler. You may need to use trial and error to make sure the mask will stay on your head.
 Again, you can find them at pretty much any thrift store for a good price.
 Gloves that are a leather type work well for any version of Erik that you are dressing up as. You can also find these at the thrift stores or, you can make them. If you can't afford leather gloves, you can also use ones that are made out of fabric. Example: Cotton, silk, ect.
 You can do this by using purplish make up to make your eye with the mask off look like it is messed up. You can use red and/or pink make up to make small circles that look like scabs. (You can put the "scabs" anywhere as long as the mask is hiding all of them!)

,