 The best way to change your dog's fearful behavior is to sidetrack it with an activity it enjoys. What does your dog like to do the most? Maybe it's tugging on a toy or playing catch. Whatever it is, try doing it during a storm.


You, and your dog, may get wet from walking or playing in the rain, but it will be worth it if your dog is sidetracked from its fear.
If your dog is behaving well, and responding to commands correctly, this is a great time to give it a treat. This will reinforce the good behavior, and not the bad.;
, If your dog tears things up out of fear during a storm, then give it something to focus its destructive attention on. This could be a stuffed animal, a chew toy, or a rawhide bone. Whatever you give your dog, make it something that will grab its attention and allow it to focus its nervous energy., Do not cuddle and act as its protector. This doesn't mean that you can't give it a pet, give it some comfort, and act nicely towards it as usual. You just shouldn't act as if it does have something to be afraid of. If you do this, it's going to assume that protection is needed.


In addition, if you act like the dog needs protection, your dog will also assume that you are available to protect it whenever it acts nervous and scared. This can lead to an escalation in bad behavior. If it learns that cowering in the corner during bad weather yields hugs and kisses, it may form the habit of doing that every storm.
Some animal behaviorists disagree with the idea of not comforting a distressed dog. They say that you should comfort your dog in any way that you can. This comforting should be combined with redirection, so that the dog is sidetracked from its fear., Just as you don't want to overly comfort the dog, you don't want to punish it for being scared. That only gives your dog another reason to be afraid. Remember that fear is a


Instead, go about your normal routine and act as if everything is normal. This doesn't mean ignore your dog, it just means that you should interact with it as normal.Ignoring the thunder and lightening, as well as the dog's nervousness and fear, will eventually teach your dog that nothing is wrong. This can be hard to do, however, as the dog's behavior is the meantime may be erratic and fearful.
 A dog that has extreme reactions to loud noises may respond to gradual desensitization. This means that you expose the dog to a variety of noises, gradually increasing the volume so the dog gets used to it.There are CDs that you can purchase that make the noises of a thunderstorm. Play them at various times of day, starting with the volume very low. Make it louder and louder until the dog is used to it. This will only partially desensitize the dog, since there are also electrical disturbances in a storm that can't be mimicked by a CD.
Expose a young dog to a variety of noises from an early age. If your dog is very young and is experiencing thunderstorms for the first time, you will have a much easier time keeping it calm if it is used to a wide variety of noises already.

