 While you may initially want to sit on the inside of the raft, this will actually increase your chances of getting thrown overboard.Instead, sit on the outside rim of the raft and use the cross tubes or foot cones to plant your feet inside of the raft. If your raft has foot cones, place your foot closest to the inside of the raft under it. If your raft has cross tubes, sometimes referred to as a thwart, you can place one foot under them to help stabilize you. Your other foot should be wedged under the outside tube for stability.Sitting in the middle position will minimize your chances of getting thrown overboard.
Do not push your feet too deeply into the cross tubes or foot comes, or they may become caught if your raft flips over.
Those sitting in the front will get to see the most downriver but must also have skills to steer the raft for the rest of the group.;
, An improper grip on the paddle while your raft goes downstream could be a safety hazard for others around you. One hand should be placed firmly on the shaft of the paddle while your other hand should be at the end, covering the "T" grip.The "T" grip can cause injuries to the face and body of other rowers if it flys out of your hand.
Practice alternating with both hands to see what feels most comfortable for you.
 Using only your arms will tire you out quickly. Instead of using your arms alone, lean into the stroke as you paddle and use your body weight to lean back. Synchronizing your paddling with others will give you more control over your raft. You should also lean into the stroke when you perform a backstroke. To perform a backstroke, lean forwards and pull your paddle backward as you use your leg to anchor you.Paddle hard while you go down the rapids to help stabilize you in the raft.
Those in the raft should try to synchronize their paddles with the people in the front.The paddle in the water creates a resistance that makes another bracing point for you, which is the reason why increases your stability., Often an instructor or experienced white water rafter will yell "bump" if your raft is about to go over a hard object such as a rock. In this case, you should pull your paddle out of the water and lean in towards the center of the raft.Place the "T" grip on your paddle on the ground and maintain your grip on it as you go over the rough spot.

