 Since very few oxygen systems work the same way, typically your doctor or medical supplies provider will show you how to work your specific system. You may even be able to have your medical supplier help you set up your system in-home so that you don't have to do it on your own., Oxygen can facilitate combustion, so it is important to avoid open flames and easily flammable materials such as petroleum while using supplemental oxygen. Avoid the use of matches, lighters, candles, cigarettes, and other flammable products in your home.You may choose to place “no smoking” and “no open flame” signs around your house to help remind both you and your guests that you should not use an open flame in a house with supplemental oxygen.
Lotions and creams that use petroleum are more likely to ignite in the presence of pure oxygen. Opt for water-based products instead to help keep you safe., While other heat sources that do not use an open flame can be used in an environment with supplemental oxygen, they should be used with caution. At least five feet of distance is recommended between the oxygen source and the heat source., Your tank or concentrator should be stored upright in an area where it will not be an obstruction, such as areas where people typically walk through a room. Use a secure cart or stand to help you store your tank upright. Do not allow a tank to stand or lean in an upright position, as the tank will be easier to knock over, which could harm you or your home. Do not store your oxygen near heat sources or in a confined, unventilated area such as a closet. Store extra tanks by placing them flat on the floor in an area where others are unlikely to run into them, such as your garage or in a spare bedroom.
If your tank does fall, it is likely still usable. Check for dents or a hissing noise that may indicate damage to the tank. If none are found, return the tank to an upright position and continue use.
 Most portable tanks and concentrators can come with you in your car when you travel. You can even use the seat belt to help hold it in place. They should still be stored upright and secured in the vehicle. Avoid leaving your oxygen in a hot car, and do not smoke in your vehicle while transporting oxygen.