 Alcohol, drugs, and tobacco don’t help ease anxiety. They might be psychological short-term band aids but don’t really help you with the situation causing you anxiety. They can actually make you more on edge so avoid these crutches when you’re feeling anxious.Stay away from liquid courage – or drinking alcohol to beat social anxiety when hanging out with friends. Being your own natural self is the best way to be. The pressure from friends to drink can be hard. Try offering to be the designated driver if you have your license.
Smoking pot can actually make you more anxious, despite what people think about it making you mellow. It’s always a good idea to have one friend stay clean while other friends are getting high so that someone can call for help if there’s trouble, so you can offer to be that friend.
 Caffeine in pop, coffee, and energy drinks can actually make you feel more agitated and anxious than you already are. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that you get no more than 200 milligrams of caffeine a day and stay away from energy drinks entirely.Caffeine also has negative effects on teen brain development, such as preparing the brain to more easily become addicted to drugs., Sleep is the body’s time to rest and regenerate so you can be better prepared to deal with your day. In your teen years, you need about 9 hours of sleep a night. If you don’t get enough sleep, you can have low energy, memory problems, and difficulty thinking, and be irritable.Avoid sugary snacks, vigorous exercise, and screen time one hour before bed, and avoid caffeine after noon, as these can all interfere with your ability to fall asleep.
If you just can’t put down your smartphone, get a blue light filter for your screen. These stick on filters can be easily ordered online. The blue light filter prevents interference with melatonin, which regulates your normal sleep-wake cycle.
Try to go to bed at the same time every night and wake at the same time every day. A regular schedule helps regulate the sleep chemical in your brain called melatonin.
Relax before bed. Chill out to music, do some meditation, or read a good book. Cuddle your pet or write in your journal. Relaxing before bed sends the message to your brain that it’s time to go to sleep.
 Don’t get “hangry” (hungry and angry). Keep your body fuelled throughout the day to prevent getting irritable, run down, confused, and even drowsy. Make sure you get your fruits and vegetables, protein, and have 6 to 8 glasses of water a day.Eating right will prevent you from comfort snacking and having a sugar crash.
 Your brain needs oxygen to cope and the best way to get it there is through exercise. If your brain isn’t getting enough oxygen, you’ll be on edge, irritable, and tense.Getting more exercise also means reduced tiredness, increased alertness and concentration, and clearer thinking.Exercise releases endorphins, the chemicals in your brain that make you feel good, and is therefore recommended by doctors for everyone who has anxiety or depression.Exercise can also help in having you cope in a fun way, and possibly getting more social interaction.
Walk home from school instead of taking the bus. Go dancing with friends. Even 15 minutes of exercise can help ease your anxiety.
 Knowing how your body reacts to anxiety – by thinking that anxiety is a threat - will help you cope with these perfectly normal feelings.Symptoms of general anxiety include tiredness, restlessness, difficulty sleeping or eating, irritability, and tense muscles.
 If you have experienced a racing heart and worried that you were having a heart attack, you might have been experiencing a panic attack instead. Understanding how your body works to protect you can help you manage these symptoms.Your fingers and toes will tingle as blood rushes away to feed larger muscles as your body prepares for what it thinks is an attack.
Your pupils dilate to let in more light so you can see better, though it might actually make things look blurry.
You might hyperventilate (breathe faster) to send more oxygen to your brain so it’s ready to react.
Your heart races as it sends blood across your body so your muscles are prepared to act.
Your mind races and you feel like you are dying or that you might “go crazy” or “lose control.”Your stomach gets upset as digestion shuts down, saving precious energy for the rest of the body.
 Sharing how you feel can lift a load off your mind and release some of the tension of carrying around a secret burden. Tell someone you trust, like a best friend, or a trusted adult.You might also want to talk to your doctor about your anxiety. A doctor will be able to make sure that there isn’t anything else making you feel this way.
 If you are a music lover, keep your earphones with you. If you are a gamer, play a bit and distract yourself until you feel calmer.Distraction works only in the short term, however, and doesn’t get to the root of the problem causing you the anxiety.
 Spend quality time with friends and family. Share the good times and the bad. You have people to talk to and to let loose and have fun with.You’re not alone and you never have to be. Just reach out.
It doesn’t have to be organized activities, just hang out and have some company.
 Research shows that people who spend time in nature – whether it be a picnic on the grass, a game of football, or a bike ride or hike in the woods – feel better, more relaxed, and mentally grounded.Choose to go somewhere safe where you know your surroundings. Let someone know where you’ll be.
Bring a friend or family member to be connected to other people.
Choose something active to do and get the added benefit of exercise.

