 It can confusing when you have all your notes from all your subjects crammed into one notebook. So you might want to think about have a separate notebook for social studies so it doesn't get mixed up with your math and language arts notes.;
, It doesn't matter if the last section stopped halfway through a page, that subject of notes has ended and you need to start a new page. This will prevent any confusion about what subject is what when going back to your notes to study off of later.


When a subject is continued onto a new piece of paper, add the word continued next to the title. For example, "The Civil War Continued."
And make sure you title your page at the right-hand side of your paper and date it on the left-hand side of your paper.
Use an arrow-preferably in a different color, such as red - at the bottom of your page to indicate that your notes are continued onto the next page.
And always, always, always use the back of your paper, not only will it save trees, but it will also save money too. And who doesn't want to save money?

, Taking notes isn't inscribed in ancient text, and there is no right way to take notes. But there is a more efficient way depending on where you taking notes from, such as a lecture, book, or textbook. There are four good ways to take notes and they are:


An outline. An outline is good for when you taking notes in class because you have an organized format to layout subheadings, key concepts, keywords. vocabulary, details, summaries, etc.
Cornell Method. The Cornell Method is a good note-taking strategy for taking notes during a lecture because of the way it is designed. The Cornell Method divides your paper into three sections: the "Cue Column", the "Note-Taking Section", and the "Summary Row". The Cue Column is written before class because this is where you write any questions you may have, anything you do not understand, and for key details. The Note-Taking is taken during class, this is where you write all your notes. and the Summary Row is written after class because you will summarize everything in the Note-taking Section and the Cue Column.
The "T" Method. The "T" Method is good for when you are taking notes in class because of the way it is formatted. The "T" Method divides your page into two section instead of three like the Cornell Method. The right-hand side is used for subheadings and key concepts of that subheading. And the left-hand side is used for an expansion your notes in the right-hand side.
The SQ3R Method. The SQ3R is a useful note-taking method for taking notes from a textbook because it makes you really think and comprehend what the text is about. SQ3R stand for: S.urvey, Q.uestion, 3 or the three R's R.ead: R.ecite, and R.eview.
Mindmapping. This note-taking method is good taking notes on a book, textbook, or lectures/in-class discussions. Mindmapping is a good note-taking method for visual learners because it is a way to visualize your notes.

