 There are many companies that add calcium to breakfast cereals and orange juice, so this can be an easy way to add calcium into your weight loss diet first thing in the morning.Check the nutrition labels to verify how much calcium is included in a single serving. You also can find out fat and calorie information there so you can figure out how to incorporate calcium-fortified foods and drinks into your weight-loss diet.
Check the nutrition information for the amount of sugar in the cereal as well. Try to find one that has a single digit amount.
 There are many spices that are good sources of calcium. Although you probably won't use a significant amount, a dash of calcium-rich herbs and spices such as garlic, basil, and oregano can give you a small calcium boost.Garlic and oregano are common herbs used in Italian sauces. Basil, thyme, rosemary, and parsley also are rich in calcium.
Cinnamon is a good source of calcium as well as helping you lose weight by preventing increased storage of fat.Sprinkle cinnamon onto your breakfast cereal, or add it to your tea for a calcium boost. One tablespoon of cinnamon has 8% of your daily value of calcium., Almonds have more calcium than any other nut, and are a good snack when you're on a weight-loss diet. These nuts also are high in protein, fiber, healthy fats, and nutrients such as magnesium, manganese, and Vitamin E.Just one ounce of almonds – about 22 nuts – provides 8 percent of your recommended daily allowance of calcium.
In addition to the calcium boost, almonds also can help lower your blood pressure and body fat, decreasing your risk of developing a metabolic disease that would interfere with your weight loss goals.
While you can eat almonds by themselves as a snack, you also can sprinkle crushed almonds into your yogurt or on your salad to add calcium into your weight loss diet.
 Chia seeds are a good source of calcium and several other nutrients that are important for strong and healthy bones, such as phosphorus and magnesium. A one ounce (28 grams) serving of chia seeds provides 18% of the RDA of calcium.Because chia seeds have a relatively bland flavor on their own, they are easy to incorporate into your diet, such as by sprinkling them on your cereal, yogurt, salad, vegetables, or rice.
Chia seeds also may lower your risk of heart disease and Type 2 diabetes. If you're overweight, you already are at increased risk of developing these diseases, so chia seeds are perfect to mix into your weight-loss diet.
If you want to add chia seeds to your diet, include about 1.5 tablespoons with two meals. For example, you might sprinkle chia seeds on your oatmeal for breakfast, then add them to your salad at lunch.
 Dark greens such as romaine hearts, kale, and mustard greens are particularly rich in calcium. Beans and legumes such as edamame and black-eyed peas also add a boost of calcium to your meals.Flavoring your vegetables with oregano, garlic, basil, or thyme will increase the calcium you get from these foods.
Collard greens, broccoli, and turnip greens go well in a soup, casserole, or stir fry. Beans and legumes also work well here, or can be added to chili along with a light protein such as chicken or turkey.
If you're having a salad for lunch, include dark leafy greens such as arugula, romaine hearts, or red leaf lettuce to add calcium. A light dressing with dill or basil will increase the calcium.
 Salmon is a lean protein that is a beneficial part of any weight-loss diet. It is not only a good source of calcium, but also Vitamin D, which helps your body absorb calcium and regulates the amount of the nutrient in your blood.Sardines also are a good choice. Both sardines and salmon have edible bones, which greatly increases the calcium content in these fish. Just a single can of sardines can provide you with up to 35 percent of the calcium you need each day.
You also can get these fish canned, which makes them an affordable and convenient way to add calcium into your weight-loss diet. Add canned salmon to your salad, or mix it into a stir fry or casserole.
 In addition to calcium, your body also needs phosphorus, which works with calcium to build strong bones. Whole grains are a good source of phosphorus, and whole-grain bread is a good choice if you're trying to lose weight.Keep in mind that too much phosphorus can be toxic, so watch your intake if you're taking a vitamin supplement that includes phosphorus.
In addition to calcium and phosphorus, whole grains also provide a variety of other nutrients that your body needs.
You might have a sandwich on whole-wheat bread for lunch, or try making whole-wheat waffles or pancakes for breakfast.

