 To determine if you have high blood sugar, your doctor may order a fasting plasma glucose test, a test two hours after giving you 75 grams of oral glucose, or by checking your hemoglobin A1c. All of these tests can be performed in medical setting to establish if a person has diabetes. Hyperglycemia is generally defined as a blood sugar level that is greater than 180 mg/dL.You can purchase a digital one-touch tester at any major retailer or pharmacy for as little at $15. Make sure that you use sterile lancets (purchased in a pharmacy) for the device. You will also need single use alcohol pads to use prior to pricking yourself. Use a pad to wipe your fingertip and then let it dry before pricking yourself with the sterile lancet.
You should also check your blood sugar in the morning before you eat. This will give you a sense of how your body is processing sugar.
 A diet with at least 50 grams of fiber can help lower blood sugar levels. It will also boost your metabolism and cultivate probiotics in your stomach and intestines.You can get fiber from a wide variety of foods. Try whole-wheat pasta, bran, oats, citric fruits, berries, beans, nuts, or roughage vegetables like artichokes, spinach, or broccoli.
If consistent blood sugar elevations are suspected, see a healthcare provider. Uncontrolled diabetes can cause long term damage to target organs including the eyes, heart, kidneys, and peripheral vascular system.
 A reduction in dietary sugar has a direct effect on the blood sugar level. A physician may recommend that a severely hyperglycemic or diabetic patient eliminate sugar from his or her diet.Avoid candy, soda, baked treats, and added sugar.
Avoid foods with white carbohydrates which turn into sugar after they’re metabolized. This includes white breads, pasta, potatoes, and cereal.
 Most foods, especially processed foods, will have some amount of sugar in them. Unless you’re severely hyperglycemic, this should be fine in moderation but can be problematic if you take in a lot of sugar at once. Smaller meals can also help to keep the blood sugar in check.Always be sure to check the sugar content of any processed food you eat.
 Prolonged activities, such as biking or running, can effectively lower the blood sugar level as the sugar is consumed for fuel. Cardio exercises and weight training are highly effective at burning sugar.If you don’t have time for a full exercise at the gym, try going for a walk or even just standing up when you would normally sit.
 Refrain from aerobic exercise if your blood sugar level is above 240 mg/dl and your urine also contains ketones. This combination of conditions can cause the ketone levels in the blood to rise to dangerous levels during exercise.If your urine is excessively dark in color, this is potentially a sign of high ketone levels and you should go to see a doctor right away.
 If you are diagnosed with diabetes, then your healthcare provider should create a plan to help you keep your diabetes under control. This plan may include regular blood sugar tests, insulin injections, and lifestyle changes like diet and exercise. Diabetics with severe hyperglycemia may need an injection of insulin to quickly lower the blood sugar level in an emergency. You will need a prescription from your doctor.Always swab the injection site with rubbing alcohol first. Be sure to ask your doctor about proper injection procedures if you don’t know where or how to inject.

