 Bossiness and the need to control other people often stems from a lack of control in one’s own life. Bossy people lash out to control others because they are insecure with themselves, and controlling their friends gives them a sense of power. Understand that the bossiness is not intended to be cruel or hurtful (in most cases), but is a complicated part of the person’s personality.Being empathetic means that you make an effort to understand the feelings of your bossy friend, but does not mean that you should allow them to boss you around.
 Many bossy and controlling people either do it without realizing that they are being bossy, or have no idea how to stop themselves. Discuss your frustrations with your friend and attempt to open their eyes to how their actions hurt those around them. You are likely to find that your friend is willing to work on their bossy bad habits.You might try having a private conversation with your friend and approaching it gently by saying something like “I know you just want to help me, but sometimes you can come on a little too strong with your opinion.”

, If your friend truly wants to change their bossy behaviors, it might be helpful if you politely point out to them when they are crossing a line. Be sure that you discuss this beforehand and come up with a subtle way to let your friend know that isn’t embarrassing in crowds. Belittling your friend when they are being bossy will only damage their self-esteem and fuel the need for controlling others.For example, your might point out when your friend is being bossy by saying something like, "That thing we talked about is happening."
Or, coming up with a code word to let your friend know when they are being bossy can work well. For example, you could tell your friend that you will say "squirrel" every time she starts to get bossy.
 Be careful to keep your defensiveness in check. If a friend is trying to give you advice that is based on facts and sound reasoning, this might not be a case of someone being bossy. It doesn’t mean that you have to do as your friend suggests, but you should recognize when a request is built on sound logic rather than guilt or emotional manipulation.A friend who is trying to give you sound advice might say something like “I’m not sure it’s a good idea to take that apartment across town. Rent is $1,000 per month and you only make $1,200 per month.”
A friend trying to be bossy might say something along the lines of “You can’t move across town and abandon me! What will I do if you bail on me? You have to stay on this side of town.”

