 Drones are the key units of the zerg arsenal, as they gather vespene gas and minerals, as well as evolve into the zerg buildings, such as spawning pools, hatcheries, roach warrens, etc.;
, Scouting allows you to find your opponent as well as gain knowledge of their building plans for further on into the game. Sending a drone or even a team of 2 zerglings should be good for scouting. Overlords are options, but are very slow, and if they are caught on the battlefield by a couple of marines or stalkers, will not escape, which will also damage your supply room.
 Macro is focusing on your economy and the "late" game by aggressively expanding and making drones. To build up your macro, work on building expansions as early as you can. As Zerg, depending on the scouting information you receive you will want to adjust your strategy accordingly. For a forge fast expand, you are safe to go 3 hatch fast expansions by the 5 minute mark, but for a 4 gate, 3 rax or early pool push you will want only your main and natural expansion fully saturated (sometimes less depending on timing). After repelling an early push, you will want to expand, and as a rule of thumb you always want to keep one base ahead of your opponent, except Vs Zerg. Set these hatcheries on hotkeys 1, 2, and 3 to jump back and forth between them, or as some of the pro players do, hotkey a queen with each hatchery in each slot, ie: 1, 2, 3 and jump back and forth between them, always trying to not miss an inject. Use the "S" key to select larvae and the keys for building units like zerglings, roaches, etc. Learn to constantly jump back and forth between bases, because this will help you manage your expansions. Another helpful hotkey is a Location hotkey (Ctrl+F1, F2, etc) where you can jump back to a specific location on the map.
 This is, perhaps, what sets a pro gamer aside from an amateur one. Zerg's nature is to be responsive to what is happening in the game. Many games are lost by not adapting to what the opponent is doing. Roaches and hydras are back to being the bread and butter of Zerg in HOTS but for example, if your opponent is going heavy Colossus, you must switch to Corruptors, or Vipers. A lot of Zerg players get comfortable going hydra/roach and often forget to tech to tier 3 (Brood lords and Ultras). This too can be a costly mistake.
 Upgrades will make your units faster and stronger and will give them better armor. Upgrades are researched at Evolution chambers. Often times you will only have the chance to upgrade one type of unit (melee or range) so you must decide early on on your strategy.Whether you will eventually get Ultralisk, then melee will be desirable even if you are using ranged units at the time.
 Blizzard keeps a map rotation every couple of seasons. Knowing the lay of the land will give you a great advantage or disadvantage during the game. Upgrades are specially important on maps where resources are hard to get or are limited.