 Set a specific bedtime for yourself that is eight hours before your alarm normally goes off. Continue this bedtime ritual for several weeks (including weekends). Over time you will start getting a good understanding of your body’s natural sleep requirements.


Keep a notebook next to the bed where you can log each day when you fell asleep, how easily you fell asleep, whether you woke up before your alarm went off or not - notate any and all information about your sleep/wake cycle.
After establishing your natural sleep patterns, you can start training your body to wake up earlier, since you'll know how much sleep your body naturally wants.;
, Our bodies make and secrete into our bloodstream a hormone called melatonin, which stimulates sleep and controls sleep/wake cycles.Melatonin supplements are available to buy over the counter at almost all pharmacies and grocery stores (look in the vitamins and supplements section). To help reset your body’s clock, try taking a low dose of melatonin (0.5 to 1.0 milligrams) approximately five hours before bedtime for several days in a row.


After a few days of this, your body will reset its internal clock, allowing you to get to sleep earlier and also wake up earlier the next day.
Melatonin supplements are generally considered safe for everyone, but always consult your physician before adding a new supplement to your daily intake, especially if you have any serious health conditions or take other medications., Determine what your new wake up time will be and set that as your goal. Keep your current wake up time, and start waking up earlier by one minute each day. Your body’s internal clock will begin to naturally reset itself.


For some, this method might seem too slow. However, keep in mind that the least jarring and most successful sleep schedule changes happen slowly and gradually., The continued repetition of a consistent sleep schedule will ensure that the habit of waking up earlier is established within your body’s internal clock.


Studies show that having a specific sleep schedule during the week and sleeping later on the weekend to recover can actually cause a person to feel tired and jet-lagged once the new week begins.This throws off all of the progress you made during the week!

