


You may be limited to a certain number of guests based on the capacity of your ceremony site or reception hall. While every guest you invite won't attend, you need to have an absolute maximum number. You need to know the most guests you will be able to invite before you can start trimming your guest list.
Cost may also determine how many people you will be able to invite. Determine how much it will cost per person and set a budget based on the most you are willing, and able, to spend.;
,


Just because you were best friends with people in elementary school doesn't mean you have to invite them to your wedding if you don't have contact with them anymore. Even good friends from high school and college can be left off the list if you haven't been close with them since. A good rule to go by is if you haven't talked to them in the last year, and you don't see yourself hanging out with them in next five years, then you probably can leave them off of your wedding guest list.



Every family has distant relatives that live far away and aren't as close with the rest of the family. Yes, you may be related to them, but no, you don't have to invite them to your wedding if you are trying to trim down your wedding guest list. The truth is, they may not even find out about the wedding until way after the fact if they aren't in touch with those family members you are closer with.



Someone is bound to be hurt he or she wasn't invited to your wedding, especially if, at one time, you were invited to his or her wedding. Your relationship with that person may have been different at the time he or she got married or perhaps he or she wasn't as careful about the guest list. Either way, you can't worry about how everyone is going to feel about your decision. If you feel like you can leave someone off of your wedding guest list, then you are probably making the right decision.



If it is getting too difficult to narrow down your wedding guest list, elope. This way you can just take your closest friends and family with you and not have to worry about making all of the decisions it would take to trim down your guest list.

