 You may already have everything you need to make a Christmas tree ornament, but take a moment to check. You will need:


A ball of green yarn (medium weight).
A size J (size 10) hook.
Embellishments of your choice, such as pompoms, sequins, buttons, ribbon, etc.
A pair of scissors.
White glue or hot glue.
 One of the easiest ways to make a Christmas tree ornament is to crochet a triangle first. There are a few different ways that you can do this, and the method you choose depends on how you you’re your tree to look.For example, you could create a circle and then crochet outwards to make a rounded triangle shape, or you could create a foundation chain and then crochet in rows, decreasing with each row until you have created the shape you want.
 When your triangle is complete, you can stop there and just add some embellishments, or you can crochet a square to use as the tree stump. Use some brown yarn to create your tree stump.To crochet a square, create a foundation chain of four stitches and then crochet across the chain suing a single crochet stitch. Continue crocheting back and forth until the square is the size that you want it to be.
Secure your tree stump to the bottom of the triangle using a darning needle and some brown or green yarn.
 Next, you will need to decorate your tree. You can use any kind of embellishment that you want, such as pompoms, ribbon, sequins, or buttons. Use some white glue or a hot glue gun to attach your embellishments to the crocheted tree.If you are using white glue, then make sure that you let the glue dry overnight. You may also want to place a book or other heavy object over the tree to press the embellishments into the yarn and improve the bond.
 To complete your project, attach an ornament hook or a piece of yarn to the top of your tree. You can loop an ornament hook through the top of the tree or thread some yarn through the top and tie it in a knot.


Hang your crocheted Christmas tree ornament on your Christmas tree, and you are all done!

