 Revealing details about yourself beyond run of the mill small talk can create a more intimate bond between the two of you. This could be something as simple as telling him how many siblings you have, that you come from a small town, or that you love jazz music. Disclosing personal details shows you are starting to trust him. If he responds with intimate details of his own, you are both clearly working toward building a more serious relationship.Be careful not to reveal too much too soon. Telling him more about yourself over a period of time or over several dates can help to grow your mutual attraction to each other.
Deeper questions like, "How's your relationship with your mother?" Or "what do you think about kids?" should only be asked after several dates and once you have built up trust and mutual understanding.
 A good conversation can be a big turn on for a guy, especially if you both talk about things you enjoy or can agree on. The rule of no talk of religion, politics, or money during a date may be outdated. But focusing on topics like your favorite travel destinations or your favorite television shows can be good ways to keep the conversation going and make it enjoyable for both of you.Finding common ground also shows him you are interested enough to try to find ways to connect with his tastes and preferences. Though you may not agree all the time, working towards a mutual understanding can strengthen your relationship.
If you know he is a big sports fan and you are also into sports, ask him: "So, what did you think of last night's game?" Or if you are more interested in pop culture, bring up the latest show you're obsessed with on Netflix, or share your celebrity crushes.
 Avoid being passive in the conversation or saying “yes” to everything he says. Voicing your opinion shows you have the intelligence to think for yourself and aren’t afraid to be honest. A smart woman who knows what she wants and how to get it will attract men everywhere she goes.If he asks you a direct question, like "What is your favorite place you've ever traveled to?" or "What do you look for in a person?" Give him an honest answer and then ask him the same question. This will show you are interested in keeping the conversation going. It will also show you have a straight forward and honest attitude, a big turn on for most guys.

