 Before professing love for someone else, it is important to determine how the other person feels about you and how your relationship is going. The "L word" can create some strong emotions, so you want to be careful about who you say it to. Try to reserve it for people you have an intimate, enjoyable relationship with. If the relationship is fairly new, it might not be the best time to jump into "I love you's."


When gauging your relationship, actions will tell you more than words can. Does he always seem to want to be around you? Do you feel like things are just more fun when you're with him? Would you give the world for him? These are all signs that love may be appropriate to bring up.;
, An "I love you" confession shouldn't be an absolute surprise. Make sure the person you're smitten with at least knows that you like him. In other words, you should already have some sort of romantic connection. Subtle but romantic hints like cuddling during a late night movie, kissing his forehead, and locking eyes when he's telling you about his day are good signs of affection to start with. If he's comfortable with these, discussing love may be out of the question.


Like the acts of affection above, you'll usually want to reserve "love" for your boyfriend or significant other. While some relationships start with a profession of love between two people that aren't in a relationship, this is less common.
 Make sure it'll be somehow where you're both alone. Other people being around will only increase your anxiety. You don't have to plan to be at a cheesy "rom-com" setting like an ocean cliff, but it shouldn't be in a dirty alleyway either. Someplace reasonably romantic, like a private spot at a scenic park, should do.


Make sure you're completely sober ahead of time so there are no Freudian slips.
 when it comes to love, there are no rules. Each relationship is unique. Some couples can say they love each other within hours of meeting. For others it may take years. No one knows you, your partner and the relationship better than you do. Use your best judgment and plan to speak from the heart. Once you've made up your mind, try to think of the consequences — good or bad. If it goes well, great. If it doesn't, at least you got it off your chest.


Here is a good rule of thumb for figuring out whether you have too high of expectations: Imagine that you confessed your love and he told you he didn't love you back. Would you still want to have said it? If you wouldn't, then you may not be ready to utter those three little words.

