 Add the water to a tea kettle and heat it on the stove over medium to medium-high heat until it reaches a boil.


Many tea kettles will whistle when done, but some do not, so you may need to be vigilant.
You could also use a small saucepan or electric hot pot to boil the water.
Note that you can boil water in the microwave, but you should boil the water in short 1 to 2 minute intervals to avoid superheating it. You should also make sure that a wooden chopstick or other microwave-safe object is placed in the water as you heat it.;
, Measure out your loose tea leaves into a teapot and pour the boiling water over.


For this type of tea, oolong tea tends to be the favored variety. You could also use green tea or black tea, but white tea tends to be too delicate.
For a non-traditional yet appealing taste, you could also try an herbal tea blend. Floral teas, like rose tea, are especially suitable. For an herbal tea, you should add about 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of loose-leaf tea. If you prefer a stronger tasting tea, add more leaves rather than steeping the tea for a longer period of time.
If you do not have a teapot, you could add the leaves directly to a saucepan of boiling water. Turn the heat off when you add the tea leaves to the water, though.
 Cover the teapot and let the tea leaves steep for 1 to 5 minutes.


Green tea should be steeped for roughly 1 minute, while black tea can be steeped for 2 to 3 minutes. Steeping these types of teas for a longer period of time can result in a bitter taste.Oolong tea should steep for 3 minutes ideally, but it responds better to being over-steeped and will not take on the same bitter taste that green tea or black tea will develop.
Herbal tea will need to steep for 5 to 6 minutes and will not turn bitter if left unattended for slightly longer.
 Add the milk to the tea as it steeps, stirring gently after each addition.


Do not add the milk all at once. Doing so will cause the tea to become watery.
If possible, avoid letting the milk reach temperatures above 60 degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 degrees Celsius). When milk heats for too long, the denaturation of protein causes it to develop an odor.
 Pour the tea through a tea strainer and into your serving cup.


If you do not have a tea strainer, a sifter or any fine mesh strainer will work just as well. Some form of strainer is necessary, though, to prevent the tea leaves from entering your cup.
 Stir the sweetener of your choice into your tea to sweeten it to your liking. Enjoy the tea while it still remains hot.

