 Being alone and doing things alone is one of the keys to becoming mysterious. If there is a day off from school, such as the weekends, find interesting things to do alone. If you're an only child, its even better. Some things you could do include riding a bike or skateboard, drawing, writing a story, going into the woods to make an imaginary world, play games with your dog, etc. Try to choose strange, unique activities.;
, Clothes are not very important, but they do say something about you. Basically, pick plain colored shirts, vests and sweatshirts. Dress very simply. Always have blue jeans on, preferably ripped or distressed. For accessories, wear peace signs! Also, get buttons at Hot Topic to put on your clothes. You can make arm warmers, too. Good colors are greens, oranges, blues, greys, whites, yellows, and purples. Avoid pink. Get a pair of Vans or Converse shoes. Wear them a lot.
 Hair is of barely any importance. It could be any length and any color. Do it however you want. However, you may want to try to avoid sharp & scary side bangs.
 Okay, so when you are in public, let's say at school or at the store, here is how you should act. You should be quiet, but when you speak, speak lowly. Be kind of funny, and almost sarcastic sometimes. Other times be sweet and engaging. Adjust to the conversation. When someone asked you a question, remain silent for a second, then reply with your answer. It will make you seem lost in thought. However, don't take too long to answer! Push your eyebrows together a lot, making a confused or wondering face. Do it throughout your day.
 Be good at at least one subject in the arts. Dance, drawing, painting, sculpture, writing, poetry, singing, playing instruments etc... Also, have a wide imagination. Think of world in your head. It's fun to do it as you fall asleep.
 It could be any cause you liked. Some good ideas are, wildlife conservation, saving abused animals, recycling, cleaning up nature, helping those less fortunate, etc. Try to keep your cause earthy.