 Before you start preparing your home, you need to decide what the guests will see. Will you commit to decorating the outside of the house, or will you focus on the inside? Will you decorate all the rooms in the house, or just a few key rooms and the hallway that the guests will pass through? Here's what you should consider:


The haunted house can be as big or small as you want it to be. You can decorate every room in your house or just focus on one room, or even the garage. In fact, a series of condensed rooms can easily give anyone the creeps, because they will know that there could be a ghoul hiding just a few feet away!
Once you've planned the path, you can think more about the tone you want to set in the home. Will this house be aimed to make people laugh, or will it freak people out?
Think about who will be following your haunted path. Will the audience be filled with little kids, or older adults? This will also determine what you put in your house.;
, It will be nearly impossible to pull off making a haunted house on your own. Not only will your friends be able to decorate, but they will also be able to guide and spook your guests throughout the haunted house. Here are a few things your friends can do:


They can dress up as ghosts or goblins and grab your guests at random times when they least expect it.
They can randomly shout or make noise in the haunted house when it's eerily quiet.
They can help "guide" the guests through the different haunted rooms, and can be in charge of different activities or games.
If you don't have any friends who want to participate, consider hiring actors.
 The more specific your haunted house, the more scary it will be. Decide if you want a traditional haunted house, or if it's the house of a serial killer, or even an abandoned insane asylum or hospital. Your theme will determine how you decorate your haunted house. Another good idea for a theme is something really cute but with scary things hidden in the details. Your guests would not expect a scare from a seemingly cute and innocent house. If you want this can be just one room.


If you really want your haunted house to be authentic, come up with a story for why the house is haunted. Is it haunted by an old lady whose husband disappeared into thin air? Is it haunted by a family that was brutally murdered in the basement?
You can tell your guests the haunted story as they enter the haunted house.

