 You will most likely need several surgeries to obtain the desired hair coverage, and healing between surgeries usually takes several months. Your hair may also fall out after transplantation, but new hair will grow, although it may take a while for the appearance of new growth.Other risks of the procedure may include:Infection
Excessive bleeding
Scarring
Hair follicle death resulting in no new hair growth
An unnatural-looking patchy hair growth pattern;
, If you have a bandage on the incision area, then that is usually removed the following day.The day after the surgery, remove the bandanna and surgeon’s cap, but do not remove the headband. Be careful when removing headgear to avoid pulling out a graft.
 Keeping the head elevated after the procedure will limit swelling on the scalp. Add an extra few pillows to your bed and sleep on your back. If possible, sleep in a reclining chair so as to limit movement during sleep.
 For a few days after your hair transplant, you’ll experience slight pain, swelling, or redness on or around the scalp.However, if you give yourself an appropriate level of rest and closely follow your surgeon's instructions, these symptoms should go away after a few days. If pain, swelling, or redness increase, you might have an infected graft, and you should call your doctor immediately.


Other signs of infection include feeling feverish, chilled, or running a fever. You might also see a yellowish pus coming out of the graft site or suture line. In any of these cases, call your doctor.
Use an ice pack to reduce swelling.Do not place the ice pack on the actual grafted area. Instead, place it on the back of the head or the forehead.
 Take them in the prescribed dosage for the prescribed amount of time. These medications may help with your recovery. Your doctor may prescribe:


An anti-inflammatory to help with swelling.
Prescription or OTC pain reliever for tenderness and pain in the scalp.
An antibiotic to help prevent infection.
 Avoid scratching or picking on the scabs or you might dislodge a root hair. If you do accidentally dislodge a hair, do not try to put it back.


If the site where the hair came out is bleeding, hold a clean cotton swab on the point until bleeding stops. Call your doctor to let him or her know what happened.
If the itching is too difficult to control, consult your doctor. He or she might be able to give you medication to limit itchiness.
 Depending on your surgeon and the procedure, you should be able to wash your hair within two days of the procedure.For the first few days, use a gentle cleansing solution like baby shampoo. Use your hands to lather up the shampoo. Hold your lathered hands just above your scalp and move the lather around on the surface of the scalp with gentle circular motions. Avoid rubbing the scalp itself. Rinse indirectly with clean water by, for instance, filling a small bowl with water and pouring it slowly over your scalp.


Do not use a high pressure shower, or expose your hair to either very hot or cold water. Pat dry.
If your surgeon provided you with a specialized shampoo, use it according to the provided directions., Stick to buttoned shirts or loose-necked tees instead.

