 Foods like fruits that are naturally sweet can help satiate your sweet tooth while balancing natural sugar with necessary nutrients like fiber and antioxidants. Replace processed snack foods high in sugar with whole foods like fruit to help balance your cravings.Dried fruit and 100 percent fruit juices can also help replace refined sugars with natural sugars, but often they have a higher overall sugar content and lack many of the nutrients of a piece of fresh fruit. Be careful of overusing these products.;
, Get three to five small meals comprised of whole foods throughout the day, and snack on healthy snacks such as nuts, fruits, veggies, or small portions of cheese or peanut butter. Eating regular, balanced meals will help curb cravings in daily life.


Often, lack of protein or healthy fats can cause sugar cravings. Incorporate some proteins such as lean meats or nuts into your meals, as well as healthy fats like avocado or fatty fish.Remember that these meals should be properly portioned. Look at nutritional guidelines and recommended serving sizes to ensure that you aren’t eating too much or too little.
 Indulge in a small amount of sugar when you crave it most. For example, having a small scoop of ice cream right after dinner could actually help curb cravings for the rest of the evening. Have small, regulated amounts of sugar to help keep cravings in check.Make your treat about quality over quantity. Pick something you know you will truly savor and appreciate and have that in a small amount rather than trying to pack in as much low-calorie dessert as you can.
This may mean having a small scoop of your favorite ice cream instead of eating a whole pint of a low-calorie but less satisfying health food brand ice cream.
A single “fun size” candy bar or an individual square of chocolate are good options when you want to indulge in a small treat.
 Sweeteners do nothing to eliminate your desire for sweet tastes nor do they include any additional nutrients to help prevent such cravings from returning. Avoid foods that are sweetened with artificial sweeteners, such as diet sodas, and instead opt for no-sugar-added products.


If you need a sweetener to replace sugar for an activity like baking, try stevia or raw, unrefined sugar., When you look at food labels, don’t just look for sugar or high-fructose corn syrup. Terms like dextrose, corn syrup, fructose, lactose, maltose, xylitol, sorbitol, and many more can also indicate the presence of processed sugars.Consuming added sugar generally only makes sugar cravings worse. Look carefully for sugar by all of its many names in food labels before you eat.

