 He or she is used to her parents' quirks and foibles, and may be unaware of how they bother you. Be honest but diplomatic in sharing your concerns.


Use phrases like “I feel” and always avoid being derogatory toward the mother / father. Children, even when grown up, can get defensive about parents, especially when they hold close relationships.Strong communication skills between spouses will allow you to face many hard life-long problems, long after you find a workable solution for dealing with your mother-in-law's critiques of your less-than-spotless house.
 Even if your in-law's behavior bothers you and not your spouse, establish that you need to present a united front in broaching the subject. Your in laws are more likely to respond positively to comments and suggestions that come from their own child, or at least with his / her clear support.


Create family boundaries with your spouse. Discuss topics that won’t be shared with either set of parents, such as financial issues, sex, and family planning. Agree to enforce them together as a family unit.Talk to in-laws as a team, rather than alone. Large issues, news, and plans should be dealt with together in a united front., At some point, you're probably just going to have to tell them that their "harmless" jokes about your heritage or insistence on Christmas "their way" is a problem. When the time comes, be clear, firm, but calm.


Usually it is probably best for your spouse to be present to demonstrate a united front, but take the lead as needed so as not to demonstrate weakness.
Take the same tack as you did with your spouse, and speak in feelings rather than accusations. Try saying, “I realize you are trying to help; however, it hurts my feelings when you criticize me.”Brutal honesty can catch someone off-guard, but you must be brave enough to deal with backlash.
 If your in-law's dealings with your kids go beyond relatively harmless spoiling and countermand your rules and expectations -- watching TV shows you deem inappropriate, permitting excessive candy or snacks, etc. -- clearly but kindly bring your concerns to your in-law's attention.Let them know that you appreciate their affection for your children and eagerness to please them, but firmly but kindly remind them that ignoring your parenting rules undermines your authority with your children.
Likewise, if you receive constant, unsolicited parenting advice, use the "that's a good idea, but ..." tactic, clarifying that you value their perspective but need your parental authority to be respected for the good of the children.
 Yes, saying "We'll have to agree to disagree" might seem too cliché, but sometimes it is the best way to go. You don't agree on everything with your spouse, and you certainly won't with his/her parents, so accept that fact and move on when feasible.


Try saying, “I respect your opinion, but in this case I disagree.” Let them know you value what they believe and say., Allow your in-laws to air their problems in the open. Sometimes you just need to clear the air and start fresh.


Perhaps they are too emotionally smothering toward your spouse because they think you are too emotionally distant, for instance. Allowing them to tell you this directly may be the first step toward a mutual understanding.
Allowing in-laws to vent may offer a measure of respect, but it can also backfire and deepen the rift, so wait until you've tried less confrontational methods without success.