 Reading the job posting thoroughly can help you decide if the position is a good potential fit for you, and then how to tailor your application and/or responses to interview questions.


For example, if a job posting mentions that the search committee is looking for an “independent worker,” make sure to stress how you have been able to complete projects successfully on your own.
Expect specific questions about your technical writing skills. Prepare to discuss any computer programs you use, such as Microsoft Office, Adobe Framemaker, Dreamweaver, and Visio. If you have experience with databases, prepare examples.
Summarize examples that show how you organize information and projects, handle revisions and collaboration, and prioritize your tasks to meet deadlines.;
, If you are invited to interview for a position, make sure to reread your application very carefully, especially if you have recently been applying to many jobs.Look at your application materials (such as a cover letter and resume) together with the job posting, and think about how you have the skills or knowledge requested in the posting. If you think that you do not have enough experience in a particular area requested by the posting, be prepared to explain. You might emphasize other skills or experiences that will make up for any deficiencies.


For example, if a job posting requests “five years in-house technical writing experience,” and you only have four, you can emphasize your diversity rather than a lack of experience by mentioning any other writing experiences that have enriched your training beyond in-house work.
 It also helps you determine whether or not the company is a good fit for you. You can find out information about a company by visiting its website, by reading any of its publications, from other people who have knowledge of the company, or other means. Look to find information to answer questions like:How is the company organized?
How many employees does the company have?
Who manages the company? The department you would work for? What kind of educational and professional background do they have?
What kind of projects has the company worked on?

, It should be well-rehearsed, so you know exactly what to say, but it should not sound stilted or unnatural. The “elevator pitch” provides a quick and easy way to describe yourself to potential employers and colleagues.


You may have the opportunity to give your “elevator pitch” in the course of an interview, but be prepared to give it informally—you never know if you might end up next to your interviewer on an elevator, in a coffee shop, or elsewhere.
 Your responses should be specific and meaningful without rambling. Make a list of key points you want your interviewer(s) to know about you and plan on working these into your responses during the interview. Common questions you may be asked during an interview for a technical writer position include:“Tell me about a recent project.”
“What experience do you have working with subject matter experts?”
“Describe your knowledge of X industry.”
“What experience do you have working as part of a team?”
“How well do you work independently?”
“What do you like most about technical writing? What do you like least?”
“What content development tools are you familiar with?”
“What instructional design methodologies have you used?”
“What markup languages (graphics tools, page layout programs, desktop publishers, etc. are you familiar with?”
“Do you belong to any professional associations?”
“What do you like to do in your free time?”

, Once you know how to answer potential questions, you should practice giving your responses again and again until you are very familiar with them. They should be well-rehearsed, yet still sound natural during the interview.


You can begin by practicing in front of a mirror. That way, you can also pay attention to your body language as you give your responses.
You can also have a friend ask you the potential questions, and listen to your responses. Your friend can tell you whether or not everything sounded clear, if you were speaking too fast or too slow, how your body language appeared, etc.
 Even if you already submitted writing samples or other work as part of your application, bring a portfolio with extra copies to the interview, so that your interviewers can review the work as you talk about your skills.


Include some of your best work in your portfolio, but also consider showing the diversity of work you have produced, if it is relevant to the position.
 Many technical writer interviews include some form of writing test.This is so that your employers can get a sense of your skills and preparedness for the position. You can ask your search committee beforehand if there will be a test as part of your interview, and if there is one, what the format will be.


A test will assess your writing and computer abilities. The writing test will likely ask you to take some technical specifications or other material and develop a paragraph or two that explains them. You might also be asked to use programming language, such as Java or Visual Basic, and to demonstrate a knowledge of HTML and other web writing codes.
 This is often a signal that the interview is coming to an end, but it is also an opportunity for the interviewers to gauge your interest in the position. Don't ask questions that will put your interviewers in an awkward position; for example, if you ask them if the company has resources for professional development, the answer might be “no.” In many cases, it is also considered aggressive to discuss salary unless the interviewers bring it up first.Questions to consider asking include:


“Tell me about your management style.”
“Can you tell me about one of your recent projects?”
“Who are your typical customers or clients?”
“Do you use a particular style guide?”
“What role does technical communication play in your company?”
“How do you train new writers?”

, Unless explicitly told otherwise, you should dress for the interview in “business wear”: conservatively and professionally, in a suit or equivalent clothing. Dressing too informally for an interview will be taken as a sign of unprofessionalism or a lack of interest in the position.


Pay attention to your grooming. Make sure your nails are trimmed, your clothes are clean and pressed, your breath smells good, and your hair is neat. You want to make a good impression at the interview.
If the interview does not take place in-person, but rather via a video-conference, you should still dress appropriately. Even if the interview takes place over the phone, dressing as though the interview were in person will put you in the right frame of mind.
 You should also make sure to eat beforehand, so that you are not hungry or weak during the interview. You may not want to eat a large meal, but a protein-rich snack at least will give you some energy.
 If your interview takes place in person, remember to bring a portfolio with samples, copies of your resume, as well as your notes and any other materials (such as a pad and pen to take notes) for the interview. If the interview takes place over the phone or a videoconference, be sure to charge your device(s) beforehand., Try arriving for your interview about 10 minutes early. This will give you some breathing time to mentally prepare for the interview. If the company has a receptionist or assistant, you can let him or her know that you are there for an interview while you wait.


If your interview takes place over the phone or a videoconference, have everything set up in a quiet, private, professional location at least 10 minutes before the interview is supposed to start.
 Making eye contact and shaking hands firmly helps show your confidence. Speaking clearly makes you easy to understand, and also conveys confidence. Being positive suggests to your interviewers that you will be a good fit, so avoid talking badly about previous employers, work projects, etc.
 during the interview.Sometimes, search committees interview many people, and so referring them to specific documents can help you stand out. Even if you are one of only a few candidates, the specificity is beneficial.
 You may want to have a pad and pen with you during the interview so that you can take notes. Jotting down a few notes can help you keep track of the questions you are being asked—just make sure that you don’t appear distracted, or stare at your notes instead of making natural eye contact with your interviewers.

