 You will be sitting with them for quite a while (you could always switch seats with other friends while at a rest stop). Put your backpack or whatever use in the luggage rack above your seat or give it to them to pack in the storage compartment. If you brought a "Bus bag" then put it in the seat with you.
 Or talk to your friends. If the trip leaves in the evening (overnight ride) then you can sleep too. Eat/drink any snacks you brought. Once you get to a rest stop text/call your parents and let them know what's up. Sometimes the bus will even have television so you will spend a lot of time watching it.
 As you go on the trip, lots of stuff can go past you. You can count red cars, bicycles, hefty lorries, or you can also play an alphabet game where you try to find all the letters of the alphabet on billboards, shop signs, or license plates.
 Anyone can participate and the winner could get some free snacks.
 Even better, sing it with your friend(s)! Even have a singing contest!

, If they're asleep or unable to talk to you, a good idea is to look out the window or talk to other friends in front, behind, or across the aisle from you.
 You can play hangman, tic tac toe, MASH or any other travel games. Bring compact/travel games such as cards. If you're really lucky your bus will have a TV and a DVD player on it so you can watch a video. Most schools rent buses with luggage racks, very nice spacious seats, and TVs with DVD players.
 If you ran out of snacks or forgot to pack some, then go into the rest stop and buy some from the vending machines. Use the bathroom when you need it. Remember to take some pictures of your friends and scenery to remember it by! Try to hurry so you don't miss the bus!

, If you and your friend both have a DS then ask to borrow a game/trade one for a while. Try to take pictures of your friends or maybe trade iPods with one of your friends for a change in music.
 Make a new friend! Maybe that shy, but sweet girl, who's a total nerd? Don't judge! You may have a lot in common! If it is an overnight trip but you can't seem to fall asleep then put earphones on and snuggle up in a blanket and fall asleep.
 Sometimes people will wave back at you or maybe they will wave first!

