 Clean any stickiness or surface bacteria from the ribs by rinsing them under cool, running water. Pat dry with clean paper towels, and separate the pieces by using a knife to cut in between the bones.


You should use spare ribs instead of prime ribs. Both will offer you the same flavor and nutrition, but spare ribs are less expensive and benefit more from the slow, low cook time.
You could also use pork bones. Pork bones are meat-covered bones that come from the limbs of the big rather than the rib cage. They contain more of the nutritious marrow but less meat, so adding pork bones will produce a richer broth but a less meaty soup.;
, Place all four ingredients into a large stockpot and bring it to a full boil over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally.


Make sure that the ginger has been peeled and sliced into thin pieces. You can also chop or mince the ginger.
Note that the ginger in this version of the recipe creates a more fragrant soup and pungent flavor than versions that use garlic and black pepper.
You could also use pork broth instead of water, but the pork bones or ribs should produce plenty of flavor on their own, so it is not necessary.
 Reduce the heat to medium-low and cover the stockpot. Allow the contents to simmer at this temperature until the pork is tender.


Stir the soup periodically as it cooks.
As the dish cooks, you will likely notice brown foam or scum at the top of the soup. This is normal, but it should still be removed. Scrape it off using a large mixing or serving spoon and discard in the sink. Rinse the sink well afterward to prevent it from turning into an obnoxious smell.
 Once the pork is tender and just about falling off the bone, add the string beans and the fish sauce. Stir these new ingredients in and continue cooking for another 5 to 8 minutes, or until the string beans become warm and tender-crisp.


You can adjust the amount of string beans you add according to your own tastes. Make sure that the string beans are clean, but otherwise, they require no preparation and should be added to the soup whole.
Taste the soup and adjust the flavor accordingly. You can add more salt or more fish sauce.
Note that if you buy the fish sauce from an Asian market, it might be labeled as "patis."

, When done, remove the soup from the heat and spoon it into separate serving dishes immediately. It should be enjoyed while still fresh and hot.


This soup is traditionally served with a side of hot, cooked white rice.

