 Keep these available for reference as you learn to play Hendrix songs and make corrections, innovations, and edits as you go. Often seeking a Jimi Hendrix albums will lead to more discoveries. Some versions of the same song can be harder than other versions. Many sites when your downloading or viewing a video also have notes available in .pdf or Ebook format for downloading.
 Review the steps above to make sure you are doing everything right. It's always a good idea right before playing to review the notes, chords and techniques to make sure you know the right notes and right positions of the fingers. Reviewing the materials will make sure you have all the right accessories ready to go and in good condition.


Have your guitar ready! Inspiration can strike anytime or anywhere. It should be sitting on the stand with the tuner clipped on top. Throw the guitar strap over your shoulder, do a quick tune, strum some chords. Have a guitar chord chart where you can do a quick reference -- back of a bedroom door, inside a cabinet door, inside a closet door, on the back of the front door. A glance can teach you something new.
 Break out! Sit around with your guitar and experiment. Have a recording device turned on so you can remember what you did. Record everything! Call out what you're doing -- changing tuning, changing equipment, chord names, where your hands are. It will make it easy to duplicate something that sounded good. Otherwise, it could be lost forever. Don't forget to jot things done with pen and paper and to have back up files for song samples just in case the originals get destroyed.


Take breaks often. It's also good to have a drink of water or juice on hand as guitar playing can be strenuous at times like an workout exercise routine. If you fell yourself getting angry and anxious put down the guitar and walk away for a few hours.
 Foxy Lady/Fire are short easy to play. Voodoo Chile (Slight Return),Changes and Purple Haze are the next step requiring the use of the Wah Pedal. These will be pretty easy once you get techniques of the Wah Pedal. Little Wing and Hey Joe have strangely arranged notes. Also these songs are longer and in some parts very fast. All Along The Watchtower is a cover of Bob Dylan which is also pretty easy to learn.
 One song If 6 was 9 is pretty easy until the solo starts. Another one Machine Gun is like 20 minutes or more long!

