 Honey is a natural cough suppressant and soothes irritated throats and is also known to reduce many of the allergy-related causes for chronic cough. Stir some into some hot tea for comforting cough relief.You can also eat a spoonful of honey before bed to help calm coughs.You can safely give honey to children aged 2 or older. Honey has been found to be as effective as dextromethorphan in children.However, you should never give honey to infants under 12 months. This can cause infant botulism, a serious type of food poisoning.Studies have shown buckwheat honey to be helpful.Honey harvested from your local area can also help fight allergens common where you live., A saline spray can help loosen the mucus in your nose or throat, which may decrease your cough. You can purchase commercial saline sprays or make your own.


To make your own saline solution, combine 2 teaspoons table salt with 4 cups of warm water. Stir until thoroughly dissolved. Use a neti pot or nasal syringe to irrigate your sinuses.Use this spray when you feel congested, especially before bed.
Try using the spray before you feed infants or young children.
 Warm saltwater gargles help moisturize your throat, which can quiet coughs.You can make a quick saltwater gargle at home:Mix ¼ tsp to ½ tsp of kosher or pickling salt with 8 ounces of warm distilled or boiled water.
Take a large sip of the mixture and gargle for one minute. Spit out the gargle. Don’t swallow the saltwater.
 Peppermint’s active ingredient is menthol, which is a good expectorant. It can help loosen phlegm and relieve coughing, including dry coughs.Peppermint is widely available in commercial preparations, essential oils, and herbal teas. You can also grow your own peppermint easily.


Drink peppermint tea to help relieve coughs.
Don’t ingest peppermint oil. Rubbing a little on your chest can help you breathe more easily.
 Eucalyptus has an active ingredient called cineole, which acts as an expectorant to help relieve coughs.You can often find eucalyptus in commercial preparations, cough syrup, lozenges, and ointments. Eucalyptus oil is usually available at health shops and pharmacies.


Don’t consume eucalyptus oil by mouth; it can be toxic when ingested. Rubbing a little under your nose or on your chest can help you feel less congested, which can help fight the urge to cough.
You can try a eucalyptus cough syrup or lozenge to help fight coughing spells.
Brew a eucalyptus tea by steeping a few fresh or dried eucalyptus leaves in hot water for 15 minutes. Drink this tea up to 3 times a day to help soothe a sore throat and calm coughs.
Do not use eucalyptus if you have asthma, seizures, kidney or liver disease, or low blood pressure.
 Chamomile tea is a very popular for people who don’t feel well. It can help treat chest colds and help you sleep.You can also purchase chamomile oil at health food shops and pharmacies.


Add chamomile oil to a steam inhalation bath to help you relieve a cough. You can also add chamomile oil to a “shower bomb” to help clear your congestion and soothe coughs.
 Ginger can help calm coughs.Make a hot ginger tea to help soothe a chronic cough.Make a hot ginger cinnamon tea by simmering ½ cup thinly sliced fresh ginger, 6 cups water, and 2 cinnamon sticks for 20 minutes. Strain and serve with honey and lemon., Thyme is a natural expectorant and can help clear mucus.Some studies suggest that thyme can help treat bronchitis and chronic cough.Brew a thyme tea to help soothe a cough.Steep 3 sprigs of fresh thyme in 8 ounces of water for about 10 minutes. Strain and stir in 2 tablespoons honey. Drink to relieve coughing.Do not ingest thyme oil, as it is toxic. You should consult with your doctor before using thyme if you also take blood-thinners.
 This is Althea officinalis, not the puffy white marshmallows that you put into hot cocoa. Marshmallow leaf and root are available at many health food stores. Taking marshmallow supplements can help reduce a cough caused by ACE inhibitors.Brew a hot marshmallow tea. When combined with water, marshmallow leaves and roots produce mucilage, which coat your throat and help reduce the urge to cough.Brew a few dried leaves or roots in hot water for 10 minutes. Strain and drink the tea.
 Horehound is a natural expectorant and has been used to treat coughs since ancient times. You can take horehound in a powdered or juice supplement, or brew a tea from horehound root.To brew a horehound tea, steep 1-2 grams of horehound root in 8 ounces of boiled water for 10 minutes. Strain and drink up to 3 times per day. Horehound is very bitter, so you may wish to add honey.
Horehound is sometimes found in hard candies or lozenges. These can be good to suck on if you have a persistent cough.

