 Most Minecraft PE servers will update to the latest version of the game within a couple days of the update's release. Make sure that you've updated your app so that you can join the servers.

iOS - Open the App Store and tap the "Updates" tab. Tap the "Update" button next to Minecraft PE if there is an update available.
Android - Open the Play Store and tap the menu button. Select "My Apps" and look for Minecraft PE in the "Updates available" section. Tap the "Update" button to download and install the update.;
, There are lots of websites online that act as listings for various Minecraft PE servers that you can connect to. Different servers will have different game modes, and varying player counts. Some of the most popular listing sites include:


Listforge - minecraftpocket-servers.com
MCPE Hub - mcpehub.com/servers
MCPE Universe - mcpeuniverse.com/pocketmine/

, If you're already in a game, return to the title screen.
 By default, your player name will be "Steve." Most servers will kick people with the same name, so if you don't change your name you're likely to get kicked when someone else joins.


Tap "Options" on the title screen and tap the "Name" field. This will allow you to change your name. Pick something unique, but make sure you don't use your real name or age.
Return to the title screen after changing your name.
 This will open the world selection screen.
 You'll find this button in the upper-right corner.
 This is at the top of the screen, next to the "Advanced" button.


If you don't see this button, your Minecraft PE app needs to be updated. Open your App Store or Google Play Store and update the app from its store page.
 This can be anything you'd like, as the server will also display its official name in the world list.
 You'll find this on the server listing page. It may be a set of numbers, or a more traditional web address. Make sure you type the address exactly as displayed on the listing page.


Make sure that the server is running the same version as your game. Servers usually run the latest version available, so update your app if you haven't recently.
If the server address has a colon followed by a number, this is the port (e.g. ":19132"). Don't include this with the server address.
 Most Minecraft PE servers will run on port 19132. You'll only need to change this if the server listing specifies something different. If the listing doesn't specify a port, you can leave it as is.
 This will add the server to your world list, but it will not be displayed immediately.
 After adding the server, you'll be taken back to the New World screen. Press Back to return to the world list.
 If you have a lot of worlds, you may have to scroll to find it. If the server is online and entered correctly, it will have a green indicator and show how many players are connected.


It may take a moment for the server to load its information.
If the server doesn't load properly, check that you entered the server address correctly.
 If the server isn't full and you entered the information correctly, you'll be connected to the server. Most servers will have a starting area where you can get acquainted with the server rules.


Note: If you and another player on your same local network try to join a server, one of the players will not be able to connect. This is because the server sees both you and the other player as the same IP address. There is no easy way around this, short of setting up a VPN for the second player. See Connect to a VPN for information on finding and connecting to a VPN from an Android or iOS device.
 Many servers ask that you register in order to stay connected. Follow the instructions that are displayed on your screen to register. This usually involves typing commands into the chat window.

