 Skipping breakfast is never a good idea for anyone — teens or adults; however, if your teen sleeps in late and rushes off to school without eating, it's important to help change that habit to include a nutritious meal before school.


Teens need breakfast for several reasons. It helps provide the energy needed to concentrate and pay attention in school and helps keep weight in check. In addition, studies have shown that teens who eat breakfast do better academically compared to those who don't.Although it may be a great idea to have your teen prepare their own breakfasts each morning, that might not be realistic. Help your teen get in this important meal by making breakfast yourself (especially if they're unwilling).
Always include a source of lean protein and some carbohydrates to give your teen a source of long-term energy.You can make a smoothie with fruit and greek yogurt, make a scrambled egg sandwich on a whole wheat english muffin or a bowl of oatmeal with fruit or greek yogurt with fruit.;
, Even if you want your teen to take charge of making their own nutrition decisions, you're still the adult who is most likely in charge of bringing home food for the week. Stock your pantry and refrigerator with nutritious foods to help provide those options for your teen.


When you're grocery shopping, think about how you can stock your home with the right types of foods for your teen and family. Choose items that are not only nutritious but also something your teen enjoys.
Have easy-to-grab or prepare snack foods for your teen. When your teen gets home from school or sports practice he or she may be feeling a little hungry. Having ready-to-eat foods can help your teen grab something nutritious without thinking twice.
Stock up on items like: cheese sticks, fruit, pre-cut vegetables (or you can cut these yourself) and dip, whole grain crackers, hummus, individual yogurts or 100% whole grain granola bars.
 When you're making meals for your family, its important to serve nutritious foods like lean protein. This helps your teen understand this is an important part of a meal and a nutritious choice.


Lean protein will provide your teen with the energy needed during the day but also the fuel to promote proper growth and development.Teens need very similar amounts of protein as adults. Making sure your teen chooses a lean protein at each meal and snack will ensure they're getting enough. When serving dinner or other meals, make sure you provide a 3 – 4 oz serving (about the size of a deck of cards) of lean protein.
Lean protein is a great choice as it's lower in unhealthy fats, calories while being a great source of protein.Choose items like: poultry, eggs, lean beef, pork, seafood, eggs and low-fat dairy.
 Other important food groups to include at each meal and snack are fruits and vegetables. This is where your teen may be lacking the most and will benefit from you preparing and serving these foods often.


Fruits and vegetables are the biggest sources of vitamins and antioxidants in anyone's diet. They're also a really great source of fiber.Serving a portion of vegetables and fruit with every meal and snack will help you and your teen get in the recommended five servings daily. Measure out 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad greens or 1/2 cup of fruit per serving., Grains are an important food group for teens — they'll help provide them with energy and a source of fiber.Encourage your teen to choose these nutrient-dense grains whenever possible.


Although adults may choose to avoid grains for the sake of weight loss, teens need to include grains regularly to help provide adequate energy for daily fuel.
Serve your teen 100% whole grains. These grains are minimally processed, contain higher amounts of fiber and minerals compared to refined grains like white flour or white rice.Measure out a 1/2 cup or about 1 oz of whole grains per serving.Choose grains like: oatmeal, brown rice, millet, farro, quinoa or whole wheat bread.
 Even if your child has an overall healthy diet, it's still important to make sure they're meeting all of their nutritional needs. You may want to consider giving your teen a vitamin supplement to ensure they're meeting their needs.


Always talk to your child's doctor or pediatrician before giving your teen any type of vitamin or mineral supplement. The physician will be able to tell you whether or not it's safe or necessary.
Teens, especially girls, may need additional iron (especially if they've starting menstruating).Calcium, magnesium Vitamin D are other very important nutrients needed for teens as their bodies continue to stock up calcium to build strong and healthy bones.Vitamin D and magnesium are essential to the absorption of calcium, so make sure they are meeting their daily needs.
Typically, a multivitamin will take care of all of the nutrient needs your teen has. If your teen needs additional supplementation, your physician will advise you what to give them.
 The grocery store is a great place for you to go and get your teen interested in healthy foods and a more nutritious diet.Bring your teen with you to the store to get involved in making some of the choices for the meals and snacks you're going to serve during the week. Ask your teen what they want to eat and have them pick out a few items.
Talk to your child about how each meal should have some protein, whole grains and a fruit or vegetable. You can even ask them to pick out the ingredients for an entire meal.
If you typically stock up on some healthy snack foods, ask your teen to pick some of those out as well.
 Another way to get your teen involved in their own health and nutrition is teaching them how to cook. Cooking and prepping meals is an essential skill — they'll need to learn eventually — so start teaching them now.Have your teen hang out with you in the kitchen as you prep dinner. It's a great time to have one-on-one talking sessions and allow your teen to assist you in prepping the meals.
Let your teen prepare some of the meal as well. Maybe they're in charge of making the salad or steaming the broccoli.
Also, if there is a favorite cuisine or favorite dish of your teen, offer to make that together.
Have them pack their own lunches as well. After dinner is cleaned up, show them how convenient it is to pack their lunch the night before so it's ready for them to grab on their way out the door.
 As you may know, the nutrition fact panel and ingredient list is where you'll find out the "real story" of what's in a food or packaged item. Showing your teen how to read a food label will be extremely beneficial to his or her overall nutrition knowledge.When you take your teen to the grocery store with you, show them the food labels. Talk about what you find important and why you choose certain foods. For example, show that you choose greek yogurt over plain yogurt because the protein content is much higher
Teach them the basics — there's no need to get over detailed with your teen. Show off the important things on the label. For example, point where the total protein, fiber and serving size are listed.
You can also have them practice with you at the grocery by comparing two different products and choosing the one they think is more nutritious.
Look at the ingredient label as well. Teach them that added sugars go by many different names (over 60! — and there may be more than one kind in a particular item), dangerous trans fats are often written as "partially hydrogenated oils," and that ingredient lists should be fairly short. Also mention that the ingredients are listed in order of quantity — so if the first item listed is a form of sugar, that means sugar is the #1 ingredient in the item. The last item on the list is present in the least amounts.This will be incredibly important if your teen wants to be a vegetarian, has a food allergy or intolerance.
 Teens, unlike younger children, can understand the reason for proper nutrition a little bit better. If you talk about nutrition and the benefits of nutritious foods, you can help your teen better understand why a healthy diet is important.


They most likely won't relate to long-term health consequences (like diabetes or high blood pressure), but you can still teach them about how their food choices will affect their current lifestyle.
Don't lecture to your teen about healthy eating and nutrition. This might turn them off. Talk about the benefits of nutrition in passing and try to relate the benefits of healthy eating directly to your teen.
For example, you can tell them: "After track practice, it's important to refuel with a nutritious snack like an apple with peanut butter to help replace the energy you spent during practice and build strong muscles. It'll help you perform better at your next competition." You could also tell them, "Make sure to eat breakfast today, it'll give you the energy to concentrate on your final exams."

, If your teen enjoys purchasing school lunches or goes out to meals with friends, give them some easy tips to help them choose better options.


Your teen won't necessarily respond well to "choose a low-calorie item or a low-fat item." You need to make nutrition simple and easy to follow.
Tell them to always have a fruit or vegetable at each meal and snack. Suggest grabbing a piece of fruit from the lunch line or asking for a side of green vegetables if they purchase a school lunch.
You can also suggest being more active on the days they choose to eat out or choose a less nutritious food.
Suggest that if a portion is large to bring home leftovers for another meal.
 Although teens typically are "king" of doing whatever they want and making their own decisions, it's still important to show them what "healthy eating" should be as an adult.Your teen may no longer mimic you as they did when they were younger, but they're still aware of what you do and don't do — including when it comes to mealtimes and food choices.

Show your teen how you should eat instead of only telling them. Show them how to shop for healthy foods at the grocery store, show them that you read food labels and compare items for the most nutritious choice and show them how you plan out a well-balanced meal.
Also show them that you eat a lot of lean protein, fruits and vegetables. And instead of picking more processed snack foods, show them that you typically choose a healthier choice like whole grain crackers and hummus.
 Get your family on board with healthy eating by encouraging everyone to pack their lunch and drink more water. Purchase lunch boxes and water bottles for everyone to bring to work and school.


Encouraging your teen to bring their lunch instead of buying a school lunch can help them stay away from some of the more processed foods or less nutritious foods that are typically offered at school lunches.
Allow family members to pick out a lunch box that they like and will feel happy about bringing with them to school.
The same goes for water. Let your child pick out a fun water bottle they can tote with them to class to help encourage them to drink more hydrating fluids like water.
 Cooking together with just your teen is a great idea; however, it can be even more fun and educational to get your whole family involved in making meals.


Assign everyone a job to do. You teen can make the salad, your spouse can set the table and you can finish up the rest. Getting everyone involved makes it a team effort to put a nutritious meal on the table.
It might also be a good idea to assign everyone a night to make dinner. You could have your teen choose all the ingredients and prepare the meal (maybe with your help).
 Many studies have shown that eating dinner together as a family is incredibly important for your child's overall health. Plan to have as many meals together as you can.


Studies have shown that kids who ate dinner together with their family are 35% less likely to engage in disordered eating patterns, 24% more likely to eat more nutritious foods and 12% less likely to be overweight.It can be difficult finding a night to eat dinner together with sports practices, after school clubs and homework. The weekends are a great time to review your family's schedule and plan in dinner at a time that will work for everyone.
Even if you're forced to grab a bite to eat out at restaurant, go as a family and sit down instead of eating in the car.
The weekends are another great time to eat together. You can do breakfast, lunch or dinner on weekends when everyone is home.
 Don't stop at healthy eating when it comes to teaching your teen about health. It's also important to teach them about an overall healthy lifestyle.


Physical activity is a huge component (in addition to diet) that makes for a healthy lifestyle.

Do activities together as a family. For example, everyone can go for a walk after dinner. Or get involved in a family sport — like going skiing, hiking or kayaking.
Be a good role model when it comes to exercise as well. Show your teen that you know the importance of being active regularly by scheduling physical activity for yourself.

