 Your website doesn't have to be elaborate in order to grow your e-book sales. Use free blog publishing software available at sites such as Wordpress.org or Blogger.com to tell the world what your book is about and why they should buy it. If you have researched your audience carefully, you will know what keywords and bullet points will get their attention in order to sell your e-book.
 Set up a Facebook fan page, a Link'd In profile and a Twitter account to help increase e-book sales by allowing people to share your page within their networks. Update these outlets daily by sharing small bits of the topic addressed in your e-book.
 These sites allow you to publish your book in their directory so that other people can sell it on their websites and receive a small commission in return.
 Participate regularly in blogs and discussion forums related to the topic of your book. Be subtle; don't overly sell your book when commenting. Simply offer your perspective on the topic related to your e-book and include your book title in your signature line.
 Give interested buyers downloadable previews of chapters and provide a few free sample pages from your book. Including several reader testimonials about how your e-book affected them will help grow your e-book sales too.
 Each business card you hand out is another way to take advantage of free advertising that can grow your e-book sales.
 Remember to include a cover letter with well-written content that they can use in their review. To get the word out to reporters, send out press releases on distribution websites such as Free Press Release.com., You can grow your e-book sales even more if you make it available as a Portable Document File (PDF) for those who don't have an e-book reader. A PDF can be read on any computer that has the free PDF reader software installed on it.
 For example, offer bonus chapters, worksheets or promotional materials to buyers. You can sell more e-books if you make people feel as if they get a bargain on your e-book.
