 Once you have your beautiful natural hair, be kind to it. Continue to gently comb your hair, buy great products, do weekly deep conditioning treatments, and use limited heat. Even if you can't adhere to all of these changes, do as many as you can. The more consistent you are with healthy hair habits, the better results you will have.


Keep a diary. Spend some time every two weeks and write down how your hair is doing so you can watch for improvements. This will also help you figure out which products are working well for you and which ones aren't.
 Washing your hair every day strips oil from your scalp and hair leaving them both dry.Generally, curly hair does not tend to get too oily and as a result, less dirt gets attracted to the hair. This means there is no need to wash your hair everyday.You'll have to do some experimenting, but cleanse your scalp anywhere from every two days to every three weeks.
For hair under 4 inches, oily hair of any length, dandruff management, or jobs that involve a lot of a lot of physical activity or dirt, wash every two to three days.
For medium length hair that is not oily, try washing your hair every one to three weeks.
 Use your fingers tips or a soft bristled brush to gently massage your scalp. This is a good technique not only for stress relief benefits, but it also boosts circulation to the scalp and hair follicles. Better circulation leads to more oxygen which promotes hair growth.


Do this either before you wash your hair or while you are shampooing in the shower.
 Finding quality shampoos and conditioners makes a huge difference in the quality and texture of your hair. Stay away from cheap hair products. Check out the products sold where you get your hair done or ask your stylist for help on what to buy and where you can get it.


Look for natural hair products. This way you can avoid any unnecessary exposure to hair chemicals.Customize your shampoo and conditioner by using products that work with your hair type. Whether you have have frizzy, course, fine, oily, or dry hair, there are shampoos and conditioners specially designed to treat your hair type.
 There are so many gorgeous styles that can be achieved without the use of heat so keep the flat iron at the back of your shelf and use it sparingly. Forced heat applied to your hair causes the hair cells to break down and eventually break off. Your hair will look healthier and stay stronger by using more natural methods to achieve the same looks.
 Hair can become broken on your pillow and sheets as you toss and turn your head. Wrap your hair every night with a silk or satin scarf to sleep in. Another option is to use a silk or satin pillowcase. Doing this will help reduce friction against your hair which prevents split ends and damage., Hair thrives off certain vitamins found in a healthy diet. Biotin promotes healthy hair by increasing the hair’s elasticity, protecting against dryness, and producing keratin, a primary component of healthy hair. Vitamin A helps to produce healthy sebum, an oily substance secreted by the scalp, which keeps hair hydrated. Vitamin E is an antioxidant that helps neutralize free radicals. In addition, it helps the body’s blood circulation by increasing oxygen uptake, which helps the body produce new hair.For biotin, include brown rice, bulgur, green peas, lentils, oats, fruits and vegetables into your diet.
For vitamin A, add cod liver oil, krill oil, carrots, spinach, and peaches into your diet.
For vitamin E, try beans, soybeans, leafy greens, wheatgerm oil, and nuts.
Take vitamin pills to supplement any of these vitamins you may not get in your diet.

