 Refill the water source every day and consider getting a drinker. A drinker is different from the usual bowl. It can hold more water and automatically refill the drinker - though keep in mind you'll still need to refill the drinker, just less often.


Make sure the water is cold. Consider keeping a big bottle of water in the fridge for when you have to refill the water source. This way the water can stay cold.
Keep more than one water source. Also make sure the water is close to the hens and is easily accessible. You might want to make sure the water is under shade or inside the chicken coop.
Consider keeping sprinklers in/around the chickens run. This is a great way for the chickens to cool off and it's guaranteed they'll love it. It's also good for the grass.;
, No body likes a stuffy home - the same goes for chickens! Make sure enough air goes through. A coop that isn't ventilated is bad for the chickens and can cause problems in them.


Fans can be installed in the coop if the weather gets really bad. A lot of chicken owners have been known to install fans in the coop and have said it helps a lot. Try to install the fan in the nesting areas.
 The coop should be accessible to the chickens. If the chickens have no shade outside move a table or bench there for the chickens. In the future consider planting a tree there or moving the chickens to an area with trees and bushes.
 If you fill a small tub (eg. icecream tub) or a large plastic bottle with water and let it freeze overnight, you can later on chuck it in the chickens run. The chickens will lay beside the frozen blocks and water bottles as a cooling method.
 This includes frozen fruits and vegetables or watery types of foods to keep the chickens hydrated. Watermelon is a great treat to give them on those hot days.
 Be sure all the grass, bushes, shrubs, etc are wet. The chickens will love pecking around and laying in the grass. Though try to avoid any mud or sand as this will make the chickens dirty.
 Chickens like to dust bathe in hot weather as it's another cooling method for them. Provide a tub of dry sand or dirt and the chickens should soon begin to bathe in it.

