 Manx cats have four different tail varieties. “Rumpies” have no tail at all, and instead sport a dimple at the base of the spine where the tail would normally extend. “Rumpy-risers” have a stubby tail of only one to three bones. “Stumpies” have a short tail that is curved or kinked. And finally, “longies” have tails that are almost as long as those of regular cats.Most breeders cut the tails off of longies, so unless you’re a breeder, you probably won’t encounter a longie.;
, Manx cats are muscular and compact, with a sturdy skeleton. They are medium to large in size with a wide chest.Their hind legs are noticeably longer than their front legs, giving them an appearance some have likened to rabbits.Males might be somewhat larger than females.
 When viewed from behind, the ears appear as a cradle or rocker shape. The ears are broad-based and taper to a rounded tip.Manx cats have broad faces.
 There are two varieties of Manx coats. Short-haired Manxes have a long overcoat with a dense, fluffy undercoat. The hair of the overcoat might feel coarse even though it looks fluffy. If you pet the cat during summer or late spring, the fur might feel thin due to spring shedding. The long-haired Manx has a silky coat of medium length, and tufts of fur between its toes and around its ears.White Manxes might have a softer coat than Manxes of other colors., Manxes have large, round eyes. The outer corners of the eyes will point up slightly toward the ears, while the lower corners will angle down and inward slightly toward the nose.Eye color in Manxes varies. Green, hazel, gold, copper, and blue are all common. Some Manxes are odd-eyed (that is, each eye has a different color).
 Male Manxes weigh around 10-12 pounds (4.5-5.4 kg). Females weigh about 8-10 pounds (3.6-4.5 kg). Weigh your cat on a scale to determine if it falls within or near breed averages.Manxes feel surprisingly heavy when lifted.
 Manxes come in a wide variety of colors, so using color to identify one can be difficult. Common colors include tabby, calico (multicolor), and tortoiseshell. You can eliminate certain colors, though, since Manxes do not come in chocolate, lavender, or pointed (light coloring on the body and dark coloring on the limbs, tail, and face) varieties. They also do not come in any of these colors plus white.