 Meatier, crisper, thicker leaves of lettuce will hold up better to the heat of the grill. For this reason, radicchio lettuce is the preferred kind for grilling, though you might also have success grilling comparable varieties, like Belgian endive.Along with your lettuce, you'll also need:


Balsamic vinegar
Black pepper (fresh ground preferred)
Cow's Milk Cheese
Kitchen knife
Olive oil
Sea salt
Serving plate
Tongs (or spatula)
Treviso radicchio lettuce (2 heads)

, If, after washing your lettuce, some moisture remains on it, use a clean dishrag or paper towel to pat it dry. Then, using a sharp kitchen knife, cut your two heads of lettuce into quarters. Spread the quarters onto a clean serving dish and drizzle each quarter with olive oil to lightly coat each one.


The olive oil will help your seasoning stick to the lettuce, so this is the perfect time to add salt, pepper, or other seasonings to your lettuce., First check your grill to make sure it has gas and that its equipment is hooked up correctly. A loose hose can cause a dangerous gas leak. After that, set your grill to a medium heat and allow 5 to 10 minutes for the grill to heat up.


To protect against your grill charring your lettuce too much, you may want to cook the lettuce on the grill in a heavy cast iron pan., Add the lettuce to the surface of your grill. While it cooks, turn it often with a spatula or pair of tongs. When the lettuce is somewhat soft, browned, and a little charred, remove it from the grill. This often takes about 12 minutes of grilling.


While your lettuce is grilling, you might want to take a quick minute to rinse off your serving plate. This way, you can reuse it for serving the lettuce when it's done., Using a pair of tongs or a spatula, take your lettuce from the grill and return it to your serving plate. Use your kitchen knife to cut 2½ oz (75 g) of your cow's milk cheese, then add the cheese atop the lettuce. Over top this, sprinkle 2 teaspoons of balsamic vinegar.


The remaining heat in your lettuce should cause the cheese to melt atop it. If your lettuce has cooled too much, you might return it to the grill for a moment or melt the cheese in your microwave., Following a few minutes of cooling time, your grilled lettuce will be ready to eat. You might want to sample a piece before serving to test the seasoning. If you find the flavor lacking, now's the perfect time to add a dash more of whatever seasoning you've used.