 Katy recently came out with her InstaGlam Makeup Collection by Covergirl.With several shades of foundation, concealer, lip color, and nail polish, there is bound to be something that suits your skin. Especially when choosing a foundation, pick a shade that makes your skin light and young, just like Katy’s makeup., Katy’s famous eyebrows are strong and full. Whether or not that look is for you, your brows still need to be on point. Using tweezers, gently remove any stray hairs. When you’re content with the shape, use an eyebrow pencil (for beginners) to gently stroke outwards into the shape of your brows.Use short strokes to keep a natural look. This will keep them looking full and soft yet defined.


If you are a novice or expert, try using an angled brush with a powder instead of an eyebrow pencil. This gives you more control and allows you to better shape your brows.If you’re having trouble seeing your brow shape, try gently brushing your eyebrows directly upwards. This will help bring out their natural shape and allow you to fill them in easier., It’s no secret that Katy has thick and wild eyelashes. To help define your lashes, apply your mascara in small back-and-forth motions across the eye, while spinning the brush up and out.This helps coat your eyelashes evenly. Continue this all the way to the tips of your lashes for added length.


If your lashes are particularly thin, angle the mascara brush upwards and apply your mascara. This helps apply a larger coat of mascara while keeping your lashes from clumping.Still not enough? Dust baby powder with a brush onto your lashes and then apply mascara. The microscopic flakes of powder will add dimension and thickness to your natural lashes., Katy often wears toned down eye makeup and big eyelashes finished with a bold lip. Experiment with greens, blues, reds, purples, and yellows. If you feel unsure about such bold colors, initially try a soft pink or coral lip. Remember, there are no rules to lip color.Another option is to try a colored gloss or stain instead of a lip stick.Gloss will often be less bold while a stain is great for lasting throughout the entire day.


To maximize lip color, blend concealer onto your lips before applying lipstick. This gives your lipstick boldness and prevents it from bleeding off of your lips.Another option for staying-power and boldness is dust a layer of translucent powder atop your lips in between application. This keeps the lipstick from sliding around and retains the color.