 First, this method won’t work for Macs, as they all have lithium batteries.Your battery has to be NiMH or NiCD in order for this method to work. If you do this method with the wrong battery, the battery will likely be destroyed.


Turn the computer off, then open the battery cover (typically on the bottom of the laptop). If the battery says something like Li-ion, Li-on, Li-ion II, Lithium, LiPo, you do not have the proper battery for this method.
If you are unable to read the text on the battery (perhaps it rubbed off), call your computer manufacturer to find out, or use a different method.
If your NiMH or NiCD battery no longer holds a charge at all, this method may only get you an additional 30 minutes or so of battery charge capability, which is much better than 0 minutes. If the battery is simply draining too quickly, you may be able to get better results with this method.;
, The battery should come out without having to use much force.
 Any high-quality sealable bag will work. It’s important to make sure the bag is completely sealed and contains no holes.
 Don’t leave the battery in there much longer than that, as freezing it for too long could cause it to explode.
 Take the battery out of the bag and let it warm up to room temperature, drying it occasionally with a towel if it appears damp. Let the battery warm back up to room temperature for up to 30 minutes before continuing.
 If there is a cover that goes over your laptop battery, slide it securely into place as well.
 Without turning the computer back on, plug the machine back in to a power source and leave it this way overnight (or for several hours during the day).
 To drain the battery quickly, it’s best to turn the computer on, unplug it from the power source, and do something system-intensive, such as watching a video with the screen brightness turned up.
 Do this step at least twice, but preferably 4-5 times. Once you’ve followed these steps, your formerly-dead battery should now hold a charge for a least a half hour, hopefully more.

