 Use your web browser and go to http://www.canon.com/cig/.
 Click the “Sign up” button. You will be brought to another page where you need to enter and confirm your email address., You will be sent an activation link via the email you entered; check your email and click on the link.

You must activate your account within seven days from the date of the email.
Be sure you have an eligible Canon camera before registering for this free service.
 After clicking the activation link, you will be brought to another page where you need to complete your registration, including setting of a password., Use the email address and password you used in registering to log in., Turn your camera on by pressing the “Play” button at the back., At the back of the camera, press the Wi-Fi logo on the top of the circular button. This will bring you to the camera’s Wi-Fi menu., From your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, select the cloud icon. The camera will start looking for available Wi-Fi networks in the area., From the list of available networks, select the one you’d like to use. Make sure you have access to this network as you will still need to input the necessary security parameters for it., When asked, input your network’s password. Press the “FUNC SET” button to bring out the keyboard. Use this to enter the password.

Once confirmed, your camera will be linked with your network, and it has stored it under an Access Point.
 Go back to the web browser. Instructions on how to configure the settings to enable posting to the web services from your camera will be displayed., Turn your camera on by pressing the “Play” button at the back. Press the Wi-Fi logo on the top of the circular button to open the camera’s Wi-Fi menu., From your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, select the cloud icon. Since you’ve connected it to an Access Point in Part 2, it will no longer look for a new network and will use the one it has stored., In order for Canon Image Gateway to properly identify your camera, a virtual handshake needs to happen. This is done through an authentication code.

From your camera, select the “Authenticate” button. The camera will look for an Access Point, so be sure a Wi-Fi connection is available within the camera’s vicinity.
An authentication code will be displayed on your camera’s screen. Copy this.
 On your web browser, still on the Camera Settings page, click on the same cloud icon from Step 3. Under the “Authentication Code” field, input the code you got from your camera from Step 4. Click the “Next” button to proceed., A confirmation number will be displayed. This is a six-digit number. Take note of this. Check your camera to see if the same confirmation number is displayed. If it’s the same, select the “OK” button on your camera., The “Confirm” button on the page on your web browser will be disabled until the server receives the OK from the camera. Once it’s enabled, click on it to proceed., Once the connection has been successfully completed, you will see a confirmation page. Your Canon IXUS 265HS has been successfully configured and linked with Canon Image Gateway., Canon Image Gateway will be added to your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, in the same area where the cloud icon is. The cloud icon will also be slightly different with a refresh icon on it., Press the Wi-Fi logo on the top of the circular button. This will bring you to the camera’s Wi-Fi menu., Select “Canon Image Gateway Library” from the list., The camera will look for an Access Point and connect to Canon Image Gateway., Once a connection has been established, you can now select the photos you’d like to upload to the Library. Start by choosing the “Select and send” button from the screen, and then view the photos one by one and mark the ones you’d like to upload with a check mark.

Selecting and marking is done by pressing on the “FUNC SET” button in the middle of the circular button.
Press the “MENU” button when you’re done.
 After you’re done with your selection, choose the “Send” button from the screen. The selected photos will be uploaded one by one. You can view the upload progress from your camera’s screen.

The upload time will depend on the speed of your Wi-Fi connection.
 Once the upload is completed, “Transfer completed” will be displayed on the screen. Choose the “OK” button to exit.

Your selected photos can now be accessed from the Canon Image Gateway Library.

