 Six days prior to your intended six day treatment, conduct a patch test on a small area of your facial skin (about 2cm by 2cm) so that you can determine how your skin will react to the formula. You don’t want to continue using it, especially on your entire face, if it is going to give you an unpleasant reaction.Instead of applying the crème to the entire facial area, only apply a small amount of the peeling formula (Cerate 39XXX) to a small area of your face. It is usually best to choose an area between the chin and the neck.
Leave the crème on for 30 minutes, then rinse it off. Wait at least six days before beginning the full course of treatment to ensure that there are no unwanted side effects on the area you tested.
Be sure to always only use these products on your face. And don’t apply these products to skin that has been freshly peeled – either from similar products or from damage due to a sunburn.;
, Once you have successfully completed the patch test (and waited six days for the results), begin the next step by washing your face with cold water. Be sure to avoid using any soap or cleaner – just cold water – for this part of the process.Pat your skin dry and wait for five minutes before moving on to the next step.
 Apply the entire contents of one of the jars of peeling cream over your entire face using the applicator. Do not rub the cream in. Instead, create a thick coating of the cream on the surface of your facial skin and let it sit there.Upon application of the peeling cream, a hot stinging sensation often occurs.
Be sure to avoid contact with the delicate parts of your face – like your eyes, eyelids, lips, and inner nostrils.
Make sure you wash your hands after each application. The peeling cream is only intended for use on your face, so you don’t want to leave it on your hands for too long.
 Leave the cream on your face for 90 minutes. Once the time is up, remove the cream with the included applicator. To remove any excess cream, put some Vaseline on your face and wipe it off with tissues or cotton pads.At this stage, your skin may become a deeper red and, in some cases, a dark tan. Your face may also begin to feel tight.
 Wait at least eight hours before rinsing your face after you’ve used the Vaseline to remove the excess peeling cream. Your face needs the Vaseline to keep it supple during this intense peeling process. Once you’ve waited eight hours, you can gently rinse your face with warm water first and then cold water.Be sure to avoid using any soap or cleanser on your face at this point.
 For the first four days of the peel, you’ll need to repeat the above steps (numbers 2 through 5) during each application. This means that each you will clean your face, apply the peeling cream, remove the cream with Vaseline, and rinse your face.


Once you finish the fourth day, you should move on to the second phase.
 Before you begin on days 5 and 6, take a moment to gently rinse your face with warm water, followed by cold water. You can use a washcloth or cotton ball to gently pat the water dry on your facial skin.Be sure to avoid using any cleanser or soap on your face during this part of the process when your facial skin can be so sensitive.
 For days 5 and 6, apply a thick layer (about ¼ of the jar) of the Normalizer Cream to your entire face. Leave it on for 90 minutes and let it soak into your skin.Be very careful not to pick or pull at old skin during this stage as it could cause permanent or unsightly damage to your skin.
As your skin continues to peel, keep using the Normalizer Cream every day until the peeling is complete.
 Leave the Normalizer Cream on for 90 minutes and then remove it with cotton balls or tissues. When your skin is done peeling, you may discontinue use of the Normalizer Cream.You may also rinse your face with cool water and pat it dry with a towel. Remember not to use any cleanser or hot water on your face.
If peeling continues beyond the sixth day, don’t worry. This is a normal part of the process.
 You need to make sure you are storing these open containers carefully so that no one gets access to them who shouldn’t. You wouldn’t want a beloved child or pet getting a hold of these products and accidentally ingesting or using them.Be sure to store the skin peel products in a cool, dry place.
These products should always be stored out of the reach of children.
 While you are using this product, it’s normal to feel a bit of irritation or even a slight burning sensation. However, the peel treatment should not be outright painful. If you begin to feel pain, immediately discontinue use of this product.


Consult a doctor if you are worried about the pain or experience any other concerning side effects.
 During your treatment plan with this product, your face will begin to peel and you’ll need to cut back on other products that you may normally use on your face. Until the peeling process is complete, you shouldn’t apply any other preparations, treatments, soaps, or makeup to your skin., Avoid shaving or waxing your face while using this product. The skin peel takes layers of old skin off of your face, and shaving with a razor could seriously (and easily) damage your currently delicate facial skin. Wait to continue shaving your face until you have completely finished using the skin peel product and have given your face a bit of time to heal.You should also refrain from picking at your skin while using this product. The dead skin should loosen and come off on its own. Picking at it could damage your sensitive skin.
 During this time, especially because your skin is so sensitive, use an SPF15 or higher sunblock on your facial skin. The sunblock will help protect your delicate skin during this transitional time and prevent further damage.


Continue to use the sunblock for at least thirty days after the peeling treatment, regardless of weather conditions.

