 Acupuncture requires the use of special needles on certain parts of your body to release stress or tension in the area. Studies have shown that acupuncture can help to increase bladder control and reduce your frequency of urination. Always see a certified, reputable acupuncturist to ensure the treatment is safe and effective.You can also speak to your doctor about the use of acupuncture for your bladder issues. Your doctor may be able to recommend an acupuncturist that you can see for treatment.
 Biofeedback is a treatment that is often done under the supervision of a physical therapist. During biofeedback, electrical sensors are used to monitor your pelvic muscles and help you get a sense of why you are having bladder issues. You can then make adjusts to your habits based on the results of the biofeedback.You can ask your doctor for a referral to a physical therapist who can perform biofeedback for you.
Before you do biofeedback, you should confirm the treatment is covered by your medical insurance. The treatment can be expensive if you have to pay out of pocket.
 Kegel exercises require you to flex the muscles that you use to stop yourself from urinating. Doing Kegel exercises can help to strengthen your pelvic floor and maintain more control over your bladder. You can do Kegel exercises at home once a day to try to address your bladder issues.You can ask your doctor or a physical therapist to show you how to do Kegel exercises. Squeezing and releasing your pelvic floor muscles once a day for six to 12 weeks can lead to improvements over your bladder control.
 There are several yoga poses that can help to strengthen your pelvic floor. You may try doing a series of these poses to address your bladder issue on your own at home or in a yoga class under the guidance of an instructor.You may try doing Mula Bandha, where you tighten the muscles that control your urethral sphincter in time with your breathing.
You can also do poses like the Fish, the Pike, or the Crow to increase your pelvic strength.

