 Antacids, except for those that contain aluminum, are generally safe during pregnancy. You can take antacids containing calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide, but make sure to read the label to ensure they do not contain aluminum.


Liquid antacids may work a bit faster than tablets, and both are effective.
Antacids that contain sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) or sodium citrate may cause water retention and they can also be toxic to your baby. You should avoid them.
If you are going to take antacids, make sure you take your prenatal vitamins at least 1 hour away from them., H2 blockers appear to be safe during pregnancy.This includes over-the-counter medicines like Tagamet, Pepcid, and Zantac. The pills you can buy in the store are contain lower doses. If you want a higher dose, see your physician so he can prescribe a higher dosage. When using H2 blockers, make sure to follow manufacturer’s instructions. You should discuss taking H2 blockers with your doctor.


Side effects of H2 can include constipation, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, hives, nausea or vomiting, and problems with urination.If you experience any of these side effects, stop using the H2 blockers and call your physician right away.
 If your heartburn is bad enough, you may consider proton-pump inhibitors, such as Nexium, Prevacid, Prilosec, Protonix, Aciphex, and Dexilant. They are thought to be safe during pregnancy.However, before taking PPIs, make sure to consult your doctor.


Some PPIs, like omeprazole (Zegerid) may cause fetal toxicity, and therefore shouldn’t be taken while pregnant. This is why it’s important to discuss your options with your doctor before taking them.
Side effects of PPIs include headache, constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain, rashes, and nausea., This medication can help to increase the speed of your digestion and reduce acid reflux and heartburn. It is also effective for treating nausea. It is safe for pregnant women to take metoclopramide, so talk with your doctor if you are interested in trying this medication.This is a short term medication that you can take for up to 12 weeks.

