 Use a search engine such as Google or Bing for pictures of Darth Vader that show his entire body, as well as close-ups of different parts of his costume (e.g. mask, cape, suit). Use these as a guide when purchasing or finding supplies.;
, You want to make sure you are prepared and acquire any necessary materials or supplies you might not have at home. Divide the costume into 6 sections: helmet, dark clothes, dark boots, dark gloves, cape, and accessories.


Decide what type of costume you want - something that is 100% accurate, something that is comfortable, or something that is quick and easy to make.
Decide what parts of the costume you can make at home, and what you need to buy from a toy or costume store.
 Black is Darth Vader's signature color, and black clothing is a key element of the costume. You can save money by buying black clothing from a thrift store. You will need a long-sleeve shirt or sweatshirt, sweatpants or cargo pants, and socks.


Think about where you will be wearing the costume when selecting clothing items. Purchase heavy, bulkier clothes if you plan on wearing it outside as a Halloween costume. For a costume party, look for cotton items that are thin and loose to help keep you comfortable indoors.
If you are planning on adding armor or padding (e.g. football pads) underneath your clothes to give you a muscular look, consider buying things in a size or two larger than you normally wear.
 You will need thick black gloves and boots. As a result of his deformities, Darth Vader kept his body covered-up at all times, including his hands and feet.Motorcycle gloves and boots work very well because they are big, thick, and typically black. Large leather or pleather gloves, and/or cheap black snow boots work as well. You can also make your own "boot" covers to wear over your shoes. Here are the directions:


You can sew your own boot covers using pleather material, 1/4 inch elastic, and a sewing machine.Make a pattern by tracing your shoe and pants from the bottom of the sole to your knee. Do this for your right and left leg.
Trace the pattern onto your fabric, making sure to include the width of the shoe at the toes and heels, and adding fabric as needed. Leave a 1/2 inch of fabric along one side for a seam. Do this twice for each side and then cut-out your tracings.
Sew the two halves together for each boot, only sewing along the sides and keeping the top and bottom open.
Cut four pieces of elastic that are the same length as the bottom of your boot. Place one end of the elastic near the right seam and the opposite end next to the left seam. Secure with flat pins and machine stitch elastic to the bottom of your boot. Put the boots on by pulling them over your shoes and pants.

