 Medical research has found that cough syrup works no better than honey. Chances are, you may prefer the taste of honey over the taste of cough syrup. If that is the case, swallow 1 tablespoon of honey up to 3 times per day to help coat your irritated throat and slow down or stop your coughing., Mix 1 teaspoon of regular, everyday salt into a glass of warm water. Make sure the salt is completely dissolved and then take a sip and gargle. Gargle for about 15 seconds and then spit the salt water out. You can continue to gargle until you’ve used up all the water in the glass. If you have a leftover salty taste in your mouth afterwards, just rinse with regular water., Do you know that feeling of complete relief you get when you have a nice hot shower while you have a cold, and for those few brief moments you can actually breathe? This method is similar, but adds some soothing ingredients to help alleviate your cough as well. Put boiling water in a medium-sized bowl and let it cool down for about a minute. Add 3 drops of tea tree oil and 1-2 drops of eucalyptus oil and stir. Lean you face over the bowl, set yourself in a comfortable position, and just breathe! Put a towel over your head and around the bowl to help keep the vapours close to your face. You can do this for 5-10 minutes at a time, up to 2-3 times a day.You can also add 3-6 drops of your favourite essential oil to a humidifier or a bath to help relieve congestion., For this chest paste you’ll need ½ cup of cold-pressed castor oil, 1-2 cloves of garlic (crushed), 1 tablespoon of freshly grated ginger, 3-4 drops of eucalyptus oil, and ½ teaspoon of cayenne pepper. Add all the ingredients together in one bowl and mix thoroughly. Apply the finished mixture to your chest - ideally under an old t-shirt that you won’t mind getting messy.Alternatively, you can just use castor oil without any other ingredients. Put the castor oil directly onto a soft cloth on your chest, and then put plastic wrap over top of the cloth. Then you can you place a heat source over the plastic wrap for 30-60 minutes.Castor oil is an anti-inflammatory, and, according to some research, an immune booster.
 You’re sick after all, you can eat whatever you want! Eating 50-100g of dark chocolate will actually help to reduce a cough due to the ingredient theobromine. While milk chocolate also contains theobromine, it doesn’t contain as high a concentration and therefore won’t work as effectively as dark chocolate.