 Many colleges and universities offer you the chance to work full-time or study abroad while still earning credits. The downside is that you (or your parents) will still be paying tuition towards a degree that you're probably not even sure you want (or will ever use).


Another option to consider is taking a leave of absence. That way, if you decide to come back to that school, you can re-integrate more seamlessly than if you just drop out.;
, What were you expecting college to be like? How has your current school not satisfied your needs? Could those needs be fulfilled by attending another school? More importantly, what do you want to spend your life doing? And is it likely that having a college degree will help you in getting there? In other words, if you have a sneaking suspicion that your life's calling is to be a painter, then a degree in medical toxicology will probably do more harm than good (although a degree in graphic design would make better sense).
 Whether it's an emotional stake (a classic one being that your parents want you to have opportunities that they never did, even if they are opportunities you're not interested in at all) and/or a financial stake (are they footing the bill or the loans?), you have a better chance of enlisting their support if you ask for their input and outline your reasons before you take a leap.
 The last thing you want to do is mope around the house waiting for the next step to fall in your lap. It'll never happen, and you'll be well on your way to living in your parents' basement for the rest of your life. And if it's a job you hate, that's all the more motivation to go back to school so you can get a job that won't make you this miserable.
 Now that you don't have professors and deans hanging over your head, threatening you with failure, you have to learn push yourself. This is, by far, the most important lesson you can learn in taking time off from school. Sit down and write out some goals for yourself, and start moving towards them ASAP.
 It's good to see what's out there, and the perfect school you never knew existed might be waiting for you. Go online and pull up course catalogs and find out what courses of study are out there. If you find one you're interested in, contact schools that offer it and.
 There's nothing like getting paid to test the waters. It's much easier to switch jobs than it is to switch schools, so before you go back to college thinking for sure that you want to be an airline pilot, or a professional chef, or a clarinet player, work in the field for at least a few months and ask yourself: "Can I imagine myself doing this for the rest of my life?"

, Otherwise, you'll be back to square one within a semester or two, wondering "What am I doing here again?" With a renewed sense of motivation, and some real life experience under your belt, you'll be a better student than ever.

