 In order to find placement at a sober living home, you need to be in active recovery from an alcohol or substance abuse disorder. If you are not currently sober, you need to first seek treatment at drug or alcohol treatment rehabilitation center and successfully complete the program. Sober living homes are not treatment centers, they are maintenance facilities that help you transition into living independently in sobriety.Understand that sober living homes will not hold you as accountable as your treatment facility did. If you are newly sober and are struggling to stay that way, you may need more support structure than a sober living home can provide. For the best chance of success, you may want to have some recovery experience and some successful strategies you can use to help you stay sober.;
, Different homes are structured in different ways. The type of home you need may depend on what you can afford, the type of structure you need, and your need for privacy. Sober living homes may be in single-family residential homes, which may feel more communal, or in an apartment building, where clients get more privacy and independence.


Some homes may offer group or individual therapy opportunities. Homes may insist on attendance at a 12-step program meeting as long as you are living there. Others may not have a meeting requirement.Determine what kind of structure would benefit you. Remember, the fewer days of sobriety you’ve had, the more support you will likely need.
Consider finding a home with residents of your same sex. Co-ed housing makes it more likely that romantic relationships will develop and residents will lose sight of their sobriety goals., Figure out what you can afford to pay in rent and other fees. While length of residence varies, the average stay at a sober living home is between five and eight months.Residents in many sober living homes are allowed to stay in the home as long as they need to, so long as they remain sober and follow house rules. Residents can decide to leave when they are ready for more independence.Make sure you plan for at least three months. Longer stays mean less likelihood of relapse., If you already have a job, find a place that is convenient to your work. If you are currently unemployed, you may wish to consider a home near lots of job opportunities. Consider how you will get to and from work and other commitments -- is the home accessible via public transportation, or will you need to have a car?


Think about what kind of environment you’d like to live in, and what environment would help you better maintain your sobriety. Would you prefer the activity of a city or the calm of a suburban or rural environment?

, If you are finishing up treatment at a rehab facility, ask your case manager if they recommend a few sober living homes. See if your case manager can help arrange a tour for you.


Be aware that the quality of sober living homes varies and their regulation is spotty. Many states do not require that they be licensed, as they are considered cooperative living arrangements.Look online for homes other than the ones recommended by the treatment center. Treatment centers and insurance companies may receive undisclosed referral fees from some transitional living facilities, so make sure you broaden your search beyond places recommended by your facility.You can also ask for recommendations from a community health department or mental health agency.
Narrow down your list to a few top choices to tour. You may want to base your decisions on location, type of living arrangement, cost, or other factors important to you. Try touring at least three homes to see variations of sober living communities.
 Attend a 12-step meeting near the homes you are looking at and ask participants what they know about those places. Find out if the place has a reputation -- good or bad -- from people who have the most knowledge about struggling with sobriety.


You could ask questions about safety at the home, ethics of staff and residents, what the neighborhood around the house is like, or any other concern you might have.
You could say, “I’m going to tour this house next week. Do you know anything about it? Is it known to be a good program and place to live?”
If a sober living home has a bad reputation in the 12-step community, it is best that you look at other sober living homes.
 Call the sober living home and ask for a tour and a meeting. Bring a list of questions you want to ask. Meet with staff and get copies of all necessary paperwork for your reference.


You could call and say, “I’m recently out of a treatment facility for an alcohol addiction, and I was hoping to schedule an appointment to see your facility. Is there a time this week I could come by?”
Make sure the sober living home currently has beds available. If not, you could ask, “Do you have any idea of when a bed may open up? Is there a waiting list I could get on if I am interested?”

, Talk to some of the residents about their experience in the sober living home. Find out where they work, where they go to meetings, and things they like and don’t like about living in the home.


Understand that if there is an employee of the sober living home around the residents might not feel they are able to speak freely. You could ask the employee, “Is it okay if I talk to this person alone for a few minutes? I want to get an honest perspective.” Be wary if the employee denies access to the resident.
 When you are on your tour, examine the facility. Is it clean and in good repair? Are the common areas tidy and inviting? Do the kitchen and bathrooms appear sanitary?Ask to see a resident’s room. Find out about cleanliness and upkeep expectations of residents’ personal spaces.
Ask about the cleaning schedule. If residents are responsible for cleaning, ask how chores are determined and divided up among the residents.
 Ask about house rules and the expectations for residents living there. You may want to ask about meals, curfews, or permissible behaviors.For example, if you are a smoker, find out if you are allowed to smoke in the house, in a designated area outside the house, or if smoking is not permitted anywhere on the property.
Ask if the house has a curfew or if guests can stay overnight.
Find out about meals. Do residents eat together, or are meals on your own? How do residents keep their food separate?

, If you like what you see and think the home will be a good fit for you, request to be interviewed by staff or residents. Expect that you will be drug-tested as part of your interview and as condition of your residency at the home.While you may interview with staff, at some sober living homes like an Oxford House, you will be interviewed by the residents of the home. Oxford Houses are supported by an umbrella agency, but are democratically run by each individual house’s residents. Rules at each house are set independently.Ask when you will be notified of a decision about your acceptance. You could say, “When can I follow up with you about this interview?”

