 You would never want someone to apologize to you if you were in the middle of watching a movie, much less cramming the night before a big exam. Rather, you should bide your time (within reason, mind you) and wait for an opportunity where the girl is free and relatively relaxed.


Again, you won't want to wait too long before going in for your apology. If you wait too long, it may be considered by the girl as a conscious decision on your part not to apologize.
 The way you approach a girl to apologize in person will have a big influence on whether or not the apology is accepted. Approach her quietly and calmly. Don't let yourself be distracted by anything else; your apology should have your whole attention. As you approach, make sure to make steady eye contact. Don't smile too much or act too loosely; you want to tell her with your body language that you acknowledge the seriousness of the situation.


The question of approach is easier if you are apologizing over a text message or the phone, though you should keep in mind that an apology will only be at its most effective and affirmative if it's done in person.
If you're not in a position where you'll be able to run into her easily, ask her to meet up. Keep your invitation simple and to the point, but give her reason to believe the reason you're meeting is to give you a chance to apologize. If she's too angry at the moment, give her some time; hopefully she'll come around and give you an opportunity to fess up.
 Before you go into anything else, you should let her know from the start that you're sorry. If you try to explain why you're sorry before she actually knows you're apologizing, she may interpret it as an invitation to argue. Once you've approached her, take no time to let her know you're sorry. Any explaining can wait until after you've made the basic point. Being straightforward sounds easy on paper, but when there are emotions flaring up from both sides, it can be hard to see it through all the way. Don't let yourself get too worked up over it; if need be, remind yourself that this is a step in a process towards reclaiming your connection.


Your apology need not be elaborate; in fact, it's probably best that you keep it in as simple terms as possible. No need to be poetic or calculated here; just say "I'm sorry." The more complicated you get, the higher chance there will be that the apology will be misconstrued as something else.
 Something as simple as "I'm sorry" will go a farther ways than you think, but it won't be enough for the more serious things. Once you've opened up the conversation like that, it's time to go into greater details as to why you are sorry and how you understand the way she's feeling. If it develops into a more balanced conversation and the blame wasn't one-sided, you might take the opportunity to express some of your own feelings as part of the healing process, but only once you know the apology's been accepted.For example, as a general template, you might say: "I'm really sorry for what I did. I was being really selfish at the time, and the way I see it's affected you has made me realize just how bad it was. I know I can't undo what happened, but I want you to know that I wish I could take it back, and I won't let it happen again."

, Petty grievances probably aren't worth fussing over too much but more serious issues will probably beget a response to your apology. Once you've laid your cards all on the table, it may come time for her to tell you how she feels. Look her in the eyes, remain calm whatever you do, and process everything she says. Even if what she says makes you angry, try to empathize with her; she may still be feeling angry from what happened, and this may colour the way she reacts towards you in a less-than-pleasant manner., Regardless of the specific type of relationship you're in, a hug is almost always appropriate. Hugging at the end of your apology will give the woman a physical show of how you feel, and her acceptance of your hug will offer some closure to the both of you.
 An apology is just words if it isn't taken to heart. If you are apologizing for something you did, work on preventing it in the future. Doing things to fix the problem at hand has two benefits; first, it will practically reduce the chances of the situation happening again, and second, she will see you putting your apology into tangible actions. If you make a habit of rinsing yourself of apologies once you make them, you'll have a much harder time getting your apologies accepted in the future.For instance, if you are apologizing for being late all the time, set your alarm ten minutes earlier than you usually do. This will make your actions more prompt, thus reducing the risk of being late again. Letting the girl know the steps you've taken will prove to her that your apology was sincere.