 Single-shot shotguns are generally the least expensive. They hold one shell at the time, which means you'll have to reload between shots, which can be a negative if you're hunting and need multiple shots.


Double barrel shotguns come in two varieties: over-unders (O/U) with one barrel above another, and side-by-sides, in which the barrels are located horizontally. Some people prefer one style, some the other; neither is ultimately better, and both styles are expensive. Some custom guns will run over $10,000.






Both of these types of guns are "break action" shotguns, which means a level will hinge the barrel and the stock open to load and unload manually.
 Pump-action shotguns hold 3-5 ammunition shells at once. To reload, you "pump" the slide on the stock and advance another shell into the chamber, ejecting the spent shell and loading another from the magazine tube. This inexpensive gun is known for its reliability and the distinctive sound the pump makes when reloading.


Semi-automatic shotguns load automatically every time the gun is fired. They range anywhere from $300 to $5000 and up.
 For a skeet, target, or hunting shotgun, a long barrel with a choke on it is probably preferred, whereas a home (or personal) defense, a shotgun should probably have a short barrel with little or no choke.


Long barrels allow more of the powder's pressure to accelerate the shot which in turn means higher muzzle velocities and because the pellets have more time to move in a straight path they spread out less. It also makes the shotgun heavier and more difficult (or at least slower) to swing around to aim at fast moving objects. Short barrels are great for close quarters and other situations when pellet spread means less.
 Bore size is also a big consideration as the the heavy 12-, or even 10-, gauge shotguns can be painful to shoot for a weak, small, or untrained user. 16- or 20-gauge shotguns are available which have much less kick and thus are easier to handle for a wider range of users.
 A choke is a section at the end of the barrel which slightly constricts the diameter of the muzzle. The size of the choke changes how wide the spread of the pellets will be. The tighter the choke the tighter the pattern. Loose patterns allow for greater accuracy error, but it also means that at a closer distance your pellets will no longer be affective against your target.


The two types of chokes are fixed chokes and screw-in chokes. Fixed chokes are part of the barrel design and cannot be changed or removed (without major work). The screw-in choke means the end of the barrel is threaded (inside the bore) to allow many different sizes of chokes to be easily replaced.

