 Set your oven temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to heat fully. Next, grease two 15-inch by 10-inch (38-cm by 25-cm) shallow baking dishes with nonstick cooking spray and set aside.You can grease the baking dishes with softened butter if you prefer.
 Add 8 cups (64 g) of popped popcorn, 1 cup (125 g) of salted peanuts, and 7 ounces (198 g) of mixed dried fruit bits to a large bowl. Toss the ingredients to ensure that they’re fully mixed.Make sure to pick out any unpopped or burnt kernels from the popcorn.
You can substitute your favorite nuts, such as walnuts or cashews, for the peanuts.
You can usually find dried fruit bits with the raisins and dried cranberries at the grocery store.
 Add 1 cup (340 g) of honey, ¼ cup (59 ml) of water, and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of lemon juice to a medium size saucepan with a heavy bottom. Heat the mixture on medium high to bring it to a boil, which should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.Keep an eye on the honey mixture to ensure that it doesn’t boil over.
 Once the honey mixture comes to a boil, allow it to boil for another 2 minutes. Stir the mixture constantly to ensure that it doesn’t burn onto the bottom of the pan., While the honey mixture is still hot, add it to the bowl with the popcorn, peanuts, and dried fruit. Use a wooden spoon or spatula to toss the ingredients so they’re evenly coated with the honey mixture.Be careful when tossing the popcorn because the honey mixture will be extremely hot and may burn if it gets on your skin.
 Once the popcorn is coated, add an even amount to each prepared baking dish. Place them in the preheated oven, and allow them to bake for 15 minutes.Stir the popcorn every 5 minutes while it’s baking to ensure that it’s not sticking to the dishes.
 Remove the baking dishes from the oven, and stir the popcorn immediately. Next, allow it to cool completely, which should take approximately 20 to 30 minutes, before eating.Store the popcorn in an airtight container. It should stay fresh for up to a week.

