 If you are considering permanently relocating to Canada, you will need to apply for a visa. Contact a reputable government agency or company that provides immigration information and services if necessary.;
, Most positions require a minimum of a high school diploma for entry-level work. Some jobs may require certification, licensing and passing an examination.
 Expand your search to include the subject of finance and investment as openings may be listed under several categories. Make notations and bookmark those links with the best prospects.
 Read about the companies, the type of work that they do and check for possible openings for banking jobs. Keep a listing of those companies that provide some promising opportunities for a banking job so that you can revisit them later to apply for a position.
 Many Canadian banks offer summer programs as well as scholarships for college students seeking to gain valuable skills and acquire some knowledge in the banking industry while still in school.
 Most colleges and universities get actively involved in placing students within internships, setting-up appointments and interviews.
 There are different formats to follow when creating a resume, including chronological as well as functional. The best format for you will depend on your employment history as well as educational background.


Consider a chronological resume if you have several years of work experience as well as having graduated from high school or college. A chronological resume is formatted based on your history and includes specific dates for employment and training.
Consider a functional resume if you do not have a great deal of work experience and are still in college or have just recently graduated. A functional resume will highlight your skills and abilities and focus less on past work experience.
 There are many websites that will provide you with free access to samples and resume templates. A few links are provided at the end of this article to help you in formatting your resume.
 You may be able to apply for most positions online. Some positions may request that you formally mail your application and resume using the postal service.
 Briefly mention your desire to work for the company and that you believe that you have the qualifications and necessary experience to successfully do the job. Be enthusiastic but also professional in your tone and your approach.

