 Consider on-campus housing opportunities like dorms, co-ops, fraternity or sorority houses, or university-owned apartments. Know whether you're guaranteed on-campus housing and what kinds of housing are available to you on campus. Then consider off-campus housing like a rented apartment, house, or room. Make a list of these options so that you can consider them further.;
, Know how much money you can afford to spend on housing. When creating a budget, consider the costs of food, laundry, and furniture as well as the cost of the housing itself.
 For example, living with your family at home, if you go to school locally, will allow you to benefit from Mom's cooking, but you'll miss out on some of the campus experience. A dorm will be right on campus so your commute to class will be almost nothing, but you won't have very much space, you'll likely have to share with a roommate, and the atmosphere can feel stifling. Living off campus will allow you much more freedom and independence, but you'll have a much longer commute to class, you'll have to cook for yourself, and you'll be farther away from your friends.


Make a list of the pros and cons of each option, taking into account important factors like cost, commute, meal plans, and proximity to friends.
 Which would cost you less? Driving from home costs gas money. But dorms also usually provide extra services a student needs like Internet, utility costs, and some other things. In an apartment things like this can also be included in the lease, or not. But you might be able to pay for these things in apartment yourself and have it ending up cheaper than the dorm.
 How far is your house from college, and is there a lot of traffic on the way? What does the dorm provide, and is best for your wallet? Look for apartments around the area, and look at what the landlord wants for rent.
 When renting a house or apartment off campus, sharing it with others can drastically reduce the cost. If living on campus, you'll almost definitely have to share a room with at least one other person. If you get along with your roommates, they can make your life much easier and more fun, but living with roommates you don't like can make every day a fight. Talk to friends or meet other people you'd be interested in living with.

