 Banks will send their recruiters to meet with potential employees at job fairs. Attend local job fairs to consult with recruiters in your area. Approach these tables, and introduce yourself. Hand the recruiter a copy of your resume, and ask any questions you might have about getting the job.


A good introduction is brief. It states your name and your interest in the job. For example, “Hello, I’m John Smith. I’m interested in applying to your bank, and I was wondering if you could give me more information.” Be sure to hold out your hand for a firm shake.
If you are attending university, you may have information sessions hosted by recruiters on campus. Take advantage of these, as it means that recruiters are actively seeking out students from your university., If you are in university, you will likely have access to a wide alumni network through Career Services. Make an appointment with a career counselor. They can search the alumni network for potential contacts. Once they have identified people in the industry, you should send an email to introduce yourself.Your email should be short. It should introduce you, provide a brief survey of your experience, and ask the alumni to meet.


For example, you can write, “Dear Mr. Jones, My name is Laura Green, and I am a senior at university. I received your information from Career Services. I am very interested in a career in finance, and I would love to be able to speak to you sometime about this career path. Please let me know if you would be willing to meet or talk on the phone. Thank you very much for your time. Best regards, Laura Green.”
Be sure to attach a resume to any email you send potential contacts.
 Identify banks in your area that you might want to apply to. Visit these banks in person to inquire about job openings. Ask to speak to the branch manager, if you can. They may be willing to sit down with you and talk about the application process. Some good questions you can ask the manager include:


“What types of experience or skills do you look for in an employee?”
“What is the application process like?”
“Are you currently hiring?”
“What are the options for advancement in this career?”

, There are dozens of professional organizations covering every aspect and specialization of the banking industry. Joining one or a few of these organizations will allow you to network with other members while exposing you to job openings and opportunities. Organizations like Rotary Clubs or Lion's Club chapters also often include business professionals as members, making them good networking opportunities.Many of these associations have websites where you meet people digitally. Some good professional organizations for bankers include:


Association of Financial ProfessionalsAmerican Bankers AssociationNational Bankers AssociationMortgage Bankers Association, You may meet people at these events whom you want to stay in touch with. You might add them to your social media pages such as Facebook, Google Plus, or Twitter. This helps you build a relationship with them, and it keeps them in touch with you.


You might meet people online on job search websites or through banking association forums. Be careful, though, about friending people whom you have not met in real life.
Do not friend strangers. They may not accept your friend request, and even if they do, they might not realize it's for networking purposes.
You might want to post updates on your job search to help keep people in your professional network up to date about your career. Keep these messages positive. For example, instead of posting, "ugh, got rejected again," you should post, "I'm still on the lookout for that dream banking job! I've got a good feeling about this one."

