 Bun makers are virtually all the same, so there’s not much decision making when it comes to picking a bun maker; it basically boils down to the size of bun you want. Choose a bun maker that matches your hair color. Bun makers generally come in blonde, brown and black colors. Since bun makers vary in size, choose a bun maker size that seems practical for your head size and how large you want your bun to be.


If your hair moves slightly, and the bun maker shows through, you'll want the color of the bun maker to blend into your natural hair color as much as possible.
 Gather your hair and tie it in a ponytail using an elastic hair tie. The ponytail can be at any height and location on your head.


If you want the bun to be sleek, make sure the ponytail is tight and without flyaways. You could use hairspray, mousse, or gel to smooth out your hair and prevent flyaways.
If you want a softer look, loosen the ponytail and possibly pull out the shorter, wispy bits at the side of your face. This will be a much more casual looking bun.
 With the bun maker around one of your wrists, grab the base of your ponytail with the hand that has the bun maker around your wrist. Then pull the bun maker off your wrist while still holding the ponytail, and feed your ponytail through the bun maker so the bun maker is sitting at the base of your ponytail and your hair falls down normally.
 Spread the hair from your ponytail around the entire bun maker so your hair looks like a fountain. You can smooth the hair over the bun maker by using a brush or a comb. Once the hair is evenly covering the bun maker on all sides, place a hair elastic over the bun maker and your hair. The elastic will pull the hair inwards, toward the base of the bun, underneath the bun maker.









Now you should have the perfect shape of your bun, with the ends of your hair sticking out the sides.
 Wrap these leftover pieces of hair around the bun, and use bobby pins or other hairpins to tuck them away out of sight. The bobby pins will also secure the bun to your head.









A good bun security test is to shake your head, quite hard. If you feel the bun wobble at all, try adding a few more pins to the base of the bun.
Your bun should be secure if you can shake your head and you can't feel much movement.

