 This will give your aging parents time to stretch, use the bathroom, eat, and get something to drink as needed.


Getting out of the car also helps prevent deep-vein thrombosis (blood clots that can cause swelling) in the legs. This is also a problem on planes. You may want to encourage your parent to get up and stand or walk around a bit while on the bus or plane.
If you’re traveling by bus, you’ll have no control over how often you stop, but most buses stop every two hours or so. Encourage your aging parents to get off the bus and stretch when the bus stops.
 Test the brakes, heat, and air conditioning. Take the car to a mechanic for a tune-up, and explain to him or her that you’re going on a trip and want the vehicle in shipshape. Nothing will make the trip more unpleasant -- or, depending on the weather, dangerous -- than a car that breaks down.
 Pack jumper cables, a tire iron, and a spare tire in case the worst happens.


Other things that might come in handy include a GPS, an ice scraper, a quart of two of motor oil, and a spare gallon of gasoline.
 Therefore, try to plan your trip in such a way that accommodates their natural rhythms. Book passage on a bus or train that leaves early, or plan on getting in the car early in the morning. This will give you time to unpack, eat, and relax at the end of the day.
 Bring pillows and blankets, especially if traveling during cold months. Bring a portable DVD player or tablet to watch movies. Books are also a good way to pass the time on a long trip.
 However, there are tour agencies that offer “gentle” tours. Talk to your travel agent about the availability of tours specifically aimed at older folks, or tours that move at a more relaxed pace.


Cruises make excellent, slow-moving trips for elderly people.Cruise ships offer many comforts and amenities on board, and allow passengers to explore the various ports of call at their own pace for a limited amount of time. Talk to your parents about going on a cruise together.
 Call ahead and ensure that the hotel has an elevator and/or wheelchair ramps. You might also need to consider booking hotel rooms with disabled access or safety-equipped bathroom facilities.


It is important to give both your parents and yourself a comfortable amount of privacy when traveling. Book separate rooms for you and your parents., While it is often difficult to know exactly where you’ll encounter steps in a historic city or tourist attraction, try to anticipate which places will be off-limits. Mom and dad will probably want to pass on, say, tours of lighthouses and castles.


Look for workarounds for areas that seem impassable due to the presence of stairs. Going around the block or looking for ramps could help.
If steps are an issue, opt for subways and taxis rather than trains and buses.

