 iTunes is built into the Mac operating system, but Windows users will need to download and install the software from http://www.apple.com/itunes/download.


Click “Download Now” to download the setup software. Once the software is downloaded, run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions.
If you’re using Internet Explorer and run into trouble downloading iTunes, you may need to adjust the filter level of your pop-up blocker. Go to Internet Explorer’s “Internet Options” menu and click “Privacy.” Click “Settings” beneath Pop-up Blocker and set the filter level to “Medium.”;
, The first time you run iTunes, it will scan your computer for music and add it to the Library. If you’ve added more music since then or don’t see your files in the Library, there are two other ways to do this:


Drag the folder into iTunes. If you’re using a Mac, open Finder and click Music, then drag-and-drop the desired folders onto the iTunes library. Using Windows, press ⊞ Win+E to open the File Explorer, located your music folder, and drag-and-drop onto the iTunes Library.The other way (on either operating system) is to open the File menu and click “Add to library.” Select the folder or folders you’d like to add and click “Ok.”
If you don’t know where your music files are stored on your Windows computer, press ⊞ Win+F to open Windows Search. Type *.mp3 (or .ogg, .flac, .mp4, etc) in the search box and press ↵ Enter. When the files are returned, right-click on one and choose “Properties.” The full path to the file will appear next to Location.
 Using the USB cable that came with your device, plug your device into your computer. If it’s your first time doing this, your computer should begin to install drivers automatically.
 As long as your Mp3 player is compatible with iTunes, it will show up in the software automatically. If you run into any issues, make sure you’re using the latest version of iTunes. iTunes 10 and below: Your device will appear on the left side of the screen under the “Devices” menu. It may show up as the manufacturer of your Mp3 player (i.e., “Sony Mp3”) or your name (“Maria’s iPod”). iTunes 11: On the upper right corner of iTunes, an icon will appear near the iTunes Store link. It will have a small icon representing an Mp3 player with the name of your player next to it.
iTunes 12: On the upper left corner of iTunes, click the Mp3 player icon.
 You can click and drag songs to the device individually or several at a time.


If you’re not able to drag music to your device, double click on your device and select “Summary” from the left sidebar. In the menu that appears, scroll down to Options and put a check in the box that says “Manually manage music and videos.”
If you’re still running into trouble, try disconnecting, then reconnecting your Mp3 player. If that doesn’t help, try restarting iTunes.
 Select your device in iTunes and press ⌘ Cmd+E if you’re on a Mac, Ctrl+E if you’re using Windows. Unplug your player.
 This should happen automatically once you’ve disconnected it from the computer. If the files don’t show up in your Music menu, restart the device to initiate the scan.

