 It allows the user to sight up targets in low- or no-light situations. The problem with any night sights used in nearing dusk, or early morning, when there is not enough light to adequately illuminate the white rings, and it is too bright to see the tritium, at this point the sights are very difficult to accurately line up. But any darker (when most shootings take place) the night sights are very visible.
 Tactical, attached lights not only are able to light whole rooms, but can also give bad guys a short period of blindness if used on them. The problem is that they add weight to the gun, and can possibly throw off the balance. Some argue that they also give the bad guy a nice easy target to aim at (but honestly, just try looking at the light for a few seconds — they may know the direction to shoot, but they won't see what they are shooting at). Buying a cheaper light will almost guarantee it breaking after a while. For a duty or concealed weapon, this can be left off, but for home defense use, it may help identify your target before taking action.A separate hand-held light can do most of what an attached light can do.
 Often lightening the trigger pull, or shortening the length of the pull. This is great for target shooting or match shooting, but a trigger pull that is less than three pounds can quickly become unsafe if you are carrying the gun a lot. It can also help a lot with quick follow up shots, making them more accurate. This is a change that should only be made to the gun if the trigger pull is grossly heavy or long.
 For people with very large hands, this is a must to allow for a solid fit on the grip. The grips have problems though. They can move, affecting accuracy and requiring constant adjustment. Most tactical-style handguns have groves and hatches in the grip to allow a firm grip even with sweaty hands; the rubber makes the gun a bit slippery when sweaty. Additional maintenance is also required, as sweat and dirt will build up under the grip, which require the rubber to be taken off and the grip and rubber washed thoroughly.