 Addressing your correspondence to the right editor, by name, will get you faster responses to your queries and establish you as a professional.


If you’re having a difficult time locating an editor for a particular department or topic, try contacting the managing editor or the articles editor. They would be the best resource at pointing you in the correct direction.Another option for tracking down an email address of an editor is to look it up on the magazine’s website. There should be a submissions page or a contact page that should provide the useful information.;
, If the magazine doesn’t accept unsolicited queries or pitches, send the editor a short email introducing yourself and summarizing your story idea in 1 to 2 sentences.


A brief introduction of yourself can sound like this: “Good afternoon, Mr. Jones. My name is Jane Doe and I am a freelance writer who is interested in writing an article for your magazine. I am currently working on a story about the consequences of fracking on small towns. Would you be interested in this story being published with Readers Digest?”

, Your email should be equivalent to 1 to 1 ½ pages and should be in the body of your email, not as an attachment.The first paragraph should feature either a short summary of your article or an excerpt that communicates what the story is about. This paragraph should be written in a compelling style, one that grabs the attention of the reader.The second paragraph should give the main reason why the magazine would want to feature your story and why its readers would care about the story to be covered in your article.The third paragraph should give a secondary reason to care about the story. If there is only 1 reason, omit this paragraph, as this may seem redundant and unnecessary.The fourth paragraph should tell the editor how you plan to cover the story: whom you'll interview, where you'll visit, and other sources that show you have researched and are prepared to write your story. Be succinct, but specific.The fifth paragraph should tell the editor why you're writing the piece and how the magazine's readers will benefit from reading it.Additionally, it may be helpful to end your pitch with a short biography of yourself, a list of other publications you have done for other magazines, as it relates to your current pitch. Inform them that you are willing to send clips or videos upon request., You should not expect an immediate response to your query, but if you don't hear anything within 1 to 2 weeks, send a short follow-up email to remind the editor. Don't repeat the entire pitch, but do ask if the editor has had a chance to read it.