 This day-to-night style works best on a dry hair, so it’s ideal for hair that hasn’t been washed. To ensure that your hair has volume and doesn’t look greasy, though, start by applying a dry shampoo to your roots and rubbing it in to give more body to the crown of your hair.If your hair is clean, you can substitute a volumizing powder for the dry shampoo.
This style looks very nice with softly curled hair, so you may want to use your curling iron to add some loose waves to your locks before creating your ponytail.
 Once you’ve boosted the volume at the crown of your hair, pull your hair back into a ponytail. Make sure to keep the ponytail low at the nape of your neck, and secure it with a hair elastic.You don’t have to worry about the hair elastic matching your outfit because it won’t be visible when you’re done styling your hair.
 Poke your finger through the hair right above the hair elastic for your ponytail to create a hole. Take the end of your pony, and pull it through the hole to create a twist around the elastic for a polished, but simple daytime look.You may want to spray your hair with a light, flexible hold hairspray to keep your style neat all day.
 When you’re ready to head out for the evening, take the end of your ponytail and carefully roll it back towards the twists surrounding the elastic. The roll doesn’t have to be perfect, but try to keep it as neat as possible.You’ll have more control over the hair if you roll the ponytail back as tightly as possible.
 When you’re rolled the hair all the way back toward your head, use your fingers to spread it out neatly to cover the twisted portions of hair around the elastic. Use several bobby pins to secure the hair in place for an elegant updo that’s perfect for an evening out.If you want to add extra details to your evening hairstyle, gather some hair from the sides of your head, twist them slightly, and pin them in place on either side of the updo.
You can spray your updo with a flexible hold hairspray to ensure that your style lasts all evening.

