 First, you will need to know whether your television even has the features required to make it mountable.


Find out if your plasma TV is VESA compatible to ensure that it can be mounted. There is usually a VESA label on the TV or on the packaging box.
If the TV is not VESA compatible, look for a mounting system attached at the back of your television or packed separately in the television's packaging box. The mounting system is usually a rectangular piece of metal with 2 bars running across it. In other cases it can be a metal base with a rod coming out of it that has an attachment contraption at the end. Your television should at least have some holes at the back for screws to go in to indicate that it is a mountable TV set.;
, Ask yourself how high you want the TV to be and how easily you will be able to connect it.


The TV should be near an electrical socket and at a comfortable viewing angle (a few inches above the height of your head while it is in the viewing position).
The viewing distance should be at least 3 times the screen width. For example, if you have a 42 inch TV (106 cm diagonal length) the viewing distance should at least be 126 inches (318 cm).
 The best way to do this is to run the wires through your walls. This can be easily done through drywall but can be difficult on other types of walls like brick walls because it requires drilling holes. If you want to preserve your walls you can use external wiring and just use wire clips to run the wires along the edges of the walls.
 Some generic mounting systems are compatible with many televisions but you should still make sure to get a TV mount that matches your exact TV model. Your TV should be compatible with wall mounts, ceiling mounts, or both.


Wall mounts come in a variety of styles ranging from basic to tilting and swiveling. If you want to hang a plasma TV over the fireplace you may want to use a tilting or swiveling system since you may need to frequently adjust the viewing angle.
Ceiling mounts are good for locations where you want to save space and mount your TV at a height. They are ideal for putting a television in the corner of a bedroom but may not be suitable for other areas where you will be sitting up instead of lying down.
 Usually the instructions tell you to attach 2 separate pieces, one at the back of your television and the other to your wall. The 2 pieces can then be locked together to fix the TV to the wall. Some televisions and mounts come with installation kits to make the job even easier.
