 A strongyle infection will have an impact on your horse's health. If your horse has an advanced strongyle infection it may lose weight, have diarrhea and abdominal pain, exhibit unusual weakness, or even suddenly die.The symptoms of a small strongyle infection and a large strongyle infection are very similar. However, the main difference is that large strongyle affect more body systems because they travel throughout the body during their lifecycle.;
, The discomfort caused by the parasites not only affects the physical well being of the horse but physical discomfort can impact the mental well being of the horse as well. Thus, horses with severe strongyle infestations may become depressed and withdrawn and show signs of general discomfort.Pay attention to signs that your horse is withdrawn. For example, its posture may change and its response to you appearing at its stall may change from excited to indifferent., If you suspect that your horse has a strongyle infection, then it should be checked out by a veterinarian. Your veterinarian will be able to give you a definitive diagnosis and instructions for proper treatment.


If you suspect your horse has a strongyle infection you should keep a record of the horse's symptoms and when they occurred, so that you can give this information to your veterinarian.
A diagnosis is usually done with a flotation test or inspection of the horse's feces to identify eggs and worms.The flotation test can show a general strongyle infection but a fecal culture is needed to figure out if the infection is small or large strongyle., Large and small strongyle are treated with a antiparasitic drugs, such as pyrantel pamoate, ivermectin, and oxibendazole.Follow your veterinarian's instructions for dosing and length of time to give to your horse.


Dosage and the length of treatment will vary depending on the severity of the infection and the regional conditions that could affect the infection. For example, in regions that have high rates of infection, your horse may need to be on anti-parasitics for a longer period of time.
There is a risk of developing parasites that are resistant to antiparasitic drugs if these drugs are given too often or in too high of doses. Because of this, only horses with active infections should be given the medication, even if you have other horses in the same area.
 With small strongyle, the larvae can embed themselves in the lining of the intestine, protecting themselves from the immune system of the horse, as well as many deworming medications. These larvae can emerge from the intestine wall all at one time, flooding the system and potentially even killing your horse. Because of this, treatment with fenbendazole or moxidectin should be given in high doses if a severe infection is diagnosed. Discuss the need for aggressive treatment with your veterinarian. If the infection is impacting your horse's health, aggressive treatment may be necessary. Weigh the pros and cons of the various possibilities for treatment with your veterinarian.
Treatment should be given in the winter particularly, as movement of the larvae into the intestine wall usually occurs during this time of year.
If the infestation is very severe, your horse may need additional treatment with corticosteroids to fight it off.
 Strongyle infections are very contagious, especially for horses that spend time in overcrowded pastures. This is because when the adult strongyles migrate out of the horse on feces, they move from the feces onto blades of grass. When other horses then eat the grass, the strongyles enter their digestive system, starting the cycle all over again.If you have an infected horse, and other horses have been spending time in the same pastures as the infected horse, then the other horses need to be checked for an infection.
Even if the other horses are not infected, you will need to put them on an preventative medication to eliminate the risk of infection.
 As with most infections, it is better and easier to prevent the infection than to treat it once it has been established. Routine anthelmintic treatments, which are antiparasitic drugs, should be given to prevent small and large strongyle infections.Additionally, pyrantel tartrate can be given to your horse daily to prevent a small strongyle infestation. This medication is put onto your horse's feed and it prevents larvae from developing once they enter the body.Be sure to administer these preventative drugs under the watch of a veterinarian, who can direct you about what medications are needed and when they should be administered.

