 When starting a new exercise regimen, it is easy to feel overwhelmed. You might think you don’t have enough time to dedicate to walking or you could feel intimidated by the suggestion to walk three to five days each week. If this is the case, start with one day per week and work your way up from there.
 In order to achieve your fat-burning goals while walking, it’s important to develop a training plan you can stick to. Go over your weekly schedule and choose between three and five days where you can dedicate time to your walking workouts. It’s best if you can schedule at least an hour on each walking day, but remember that a 10 minute warm up is better than no walk at all., It’s easy to get caught up in the day-to-day happenings of life and lose sight of your exercise goals. Make your walks a priority in your life by setting aside time to walk, no matter what. If someone or something gets in the way and you miss a day of walking, that’s okay! Just make sure you prioritize time to walk the following day., Sometimes it’s easier to achieve fitness goals if you have someone to walk with. Ask a friend, co-worker, or family member if they would like to start walking with you. This can help you be more accountable to yourself and it can also make walking more enjoyable.
 Burning fat while walking can be hard work and sticking to a regular walking plan takes dedication and perseverance. Try treating yourself for achieving your fat-burning walking goals. For example, if you complete two weeks of your walking plan, treat yourself to a new pair of sneakers or leggings. Try to avoid rewards that might undermine your fitness goals, such as unhealthy foods.
 If you can't commit to walking multiple times each week or if you can only commit to walking for shorter intervals, that's okay! Even if you don’t see a marked difference in your weight, any amount of walking will help you stay healthy and improve your overall health. A small amount of exercise is better than no exercise at all!

