 A Turkish Van has is a semi longhaired cat that needs regular grooming. You will need to brush your cat’s beautiful white coat at least once a week. Weekly brushing will prevent the Turkish Van’s coat from becoming matted and tangled., Start by brushing the Turkish Van’s abdomen and legs, softly combing the hair toward the cat’s head. Then comb the cat’s neck fur upward toward its chin. Next, make a part down the middle of the cat’s tail and brush the fur on each side., It is important that you brush your Turkish Van’s coat regularly. In order to make your cat accustomed to regular brushing, you will need to make sure you begin brushing its coat while it is young. If you wait until the Turkish Van is older, it may be harder to get the cat into a regular brushing routine., Turkish Vans can be prone to obesity. Help your cat stay within a healthy weight range by feeding them no more than 35 calories for each pound of body weight. You should also make sure they get regular exercise through playing, walking, and even swimming.A female should weigh between seven and twelve pounds, while a male should weigh between ten and twenty pounds.
 Turkish Vans can have dental problems, and need their teeth brushed at least three times a week. This will reduce plaque and buildup on your cat’s teeth. If your Turkish Van does not cooperate when you brush its teeth, talk to your vet about special foods, water additives, or sprays that can be used instead., It is important that your Turkish Van is up to date on its vaccinations. Make an appointment with your vet to ensure your cat is properly vaccinated. If your Turkish Van needs additional vaccinations, schedule them as soon as possible., Turkish Vans are intelligent, agile, and active cats that love to play. Make sure you set aside at least half an hour each day to play with your cat. Try tossing toys for the cat to catch in mid-air or playing with a fishing pole toy., The Turkish Van is intelligent and a natural problem-solver. Keep your cat mentally engaged by giving it puzzle toys. Try toys that reward the cat with a treat once it learns to manipulate them. You can also give your cat a treat after it solves a puzzle toy., Turkish Vans love to climb. Try putting a climbing tower made specifically for cats in your house. This will provide opportunities for your Turkish Van to climb and get exercise on a daily basis.
 Turkish Vans love water and are known for their superb swimming capabilities. If you have a pond, lake, or pool nearby, give your cat an opportunity to swim. You can also let your cat play with faucets and running water.Never let your cat swim unsupervised.
Never let your cat swim in moving water, such as a creek or river.

