 If you have a software that can create new layers, it’s always a good idea to create a new layer for each type of edit. A new layer will allow you to make edits and changes without disrupting the original layer. This way, if you mess up, you can go back without having to start over.


Not all programs let you create new layers. However, these programs usually offer a way to undo the effect easily so that you can backtrack a step or two without starting over.
 Getting the right white balance can be one of the best improvements you can make to a photo. Sometimes, you might not even have to do much else if you adjust your white balance correctly, especially on your camera when taking the photo. Start by adjusting the temperature of your photo, then adjust the tint for smaller corrections.


If your photo is too cold, showing more blues than you would like, bring the temperature up to counterbalance those blues with more red tones. If your photo is too warm, bring the temperature down.
The tint slider controls your magenta-green shift. If you need to cool your photo, bring the slider higher into the magenta range. If your photo needs to be warmer, lower your tint to the green spectrum.
 Certain colors pair well together, others do not. There are several types of color, but a basic understanding of how these types work together can help you immensely in the editing room. In the real world your primary colors are red, yellow, and blue. You mix these colors together to get other colors. However, on a computer, we deal with red, green, and blue (RGB) as primary colors.Start with a curves layer. Your curves will adjust your color by making your photo warmer or cooler. There’s no set answer to playing with color as each photo will require something different. Using a midpoint grey eyedropper tool, you can click on an area of your photo where the color seems off. The tool will change the color balance of that color or area so that balances with the rest of your photo.
Adjust your light and color with a color overlay channel. Take a single color channel, red, green, or blue, and create a new layer with that channel by copying it over your original photo. Then, adjust the opacity of that layer to find a nice contrast.
 Sometimes you’ll notice that your photo has a lot of grainy colored dots. This is known as noise. It’s easiest to adjust and lower the noise before you make most other adjustments, other than playing with white balance and color. One of the most effective ways to reduce noise in your photo is to sharpen the image. However, too much sharpening can bring back more noise.


Certain photo editing software like Adobe Lightroom provides a “Detail” panel that provides options for both sharpening and noise reduction. These two tools work together because reducing too much noise alone can make your photo blurry and you have to sharpen it. On the flipside, too much sharpening can cause more noise.If you have a noise reduction option, start with that and increase the luminance level. Adjust the slider and pay attention to how far you can go before the photo gets too soft or blurry., If your photo looks like it was shot with an old camera or has a lot of flash, you can adjust the levels of the photo to make it look much more polished. Adjusting levels will counteract the exposure from the camera. Whether your image is underexposed and too dark, or overexposed and too light.


The ability to adjust your photo’s levels isn’t the same on every program. On some programs like Apple’s Photos app, you can’t adjust levels the same way you can in Photoshop, but you do have eight options for adjusting different aspects of your photo. Level adjustment essentially gives you control over brightness in three levels: shadows, midtones, and highlights.When adjusting a photo’s levels in any program for clarity, the goal is to create the widest tonal range allowing the brightest pixels in your photo to be pure white, and the darkest pixels to be pur black.Adjusting your levels allows you to edit your photo so that the darkest pixels convert to black and the lightest pixels convert to white. This enhances the contrast to your photo. If you have the option to adjust the midpoint, the grey area, you want to lighten or darken your midpoints based on the color of the focal point of your photo. For example, if you are adjusting a photo of someone’s face, you may want to make the midpoint lighter if your subject’s skin tone is lighter. If your subject has a darker skin tone, you want to make the midpoint darker.

