 You can unlock your Samsung J7 using the Device Unlock app as long as you meet their requirements.If this method doesn’t work for you, try using an unlock code.

It cannot have been reported as lost or stolen.
Your account must be in good standing (or, if canceled, your balance due must be $0).
You haven’t requested more than 2 unlock codes per line in the last year.
If you’re on a monthly plan, you must have had T-Mobile service for the past 40 days.
If you financed your phone, it must already be paid off in full.
If on a contract, you must have made 18 consecutive monthly payments.
If on a prepaid plan, you must have either used the device with T-Mobile for over a year, or have spent $100 on refills.
If you want to do a temporary unlock (30 days), the return period for your phone must be over and you cannot have done 5 temporary unlocks in the past year.
If you’re in the military and being deployed, you’ll have to bring your deployment papers to a T-Mobile store first.;
, This app is already installed on your J7. Tap “Device Unlock” in the app drawer, and then tap “Continue” to connect., Once you choose your unlock type, the unlock process will begin. You have two options:Temporary unlock: This will unlock the phone for 30 days, and may be useful if you’re travelling. To use this feature, you’ll have to be connected to mobile data (not Wi-Fi).
Permanent unlock: This will permanently unlock the device, making it possible to use on other compatible networks.
 Once you see a confirmation that the unlock was successful, hold down the power button on your J7 and select “Power Off.” Once off, press the power button to restart the device. The device will still work on your current network, but now you can put another provider’s SIM card in without having to provide an unlock code.If you see a message that says “Unlock Failed: This mobile wireless device is not eligible for unlock,” your device doesn’t meet T-Mobile’s unlock requirements. Call 611 from your phone to speak with a support rep.
If you see the error “Unable to connect to the server at this time,” you may need to update the app in the Play Store.
 When you are ready to use your new SIM card:Hold down the power button on the side of your J7 and select “Power Off.”
Turn the phone over so you are looking at the back. Notice the small divot at the top left corner of the phone—that’s there to help you remove the back cover.
Insert your fingernail into the divot and pull the cover gently away from the phone. You will see two card slots just above the battery—the SIM card is in the slot on the left side.
Remove the battery: Insert your fingernail into the divot at the bottom right corner of the battery, then pull it outward.
Gently slide the SIM card down until it’s free from the metal holder. Put it aside.
Slide the new SIM card into the slot, gold side facing down.
Replace the battery and back cover.
 As long as you’ve set up service with your new provider, you should be able to use your new SIM card immediately.