 This could consist of fireworks, a huge bonfire, and music. If it's a professionally organized event, it's likely that the festivities will be spectacular and you don't personally have to trouble yourself with tending a bonfire.;
, Find a sizable amount of land that is free of trees. Make certain it is not inhabited by people, or has stores or houses close by. You'll also need to check that the local regulations allow the creation of a bonfire in your chosen area.
 Accuweather is a great place to check UK weather so you can be sure the the night will be rain free.
 Twigs and dry leaves will keep a bonfire going for quite a while. Invite friends and relatives and ask them to contribute materials to burn.


Never ever use petrol to start the bonfire, death can, and does occur from this mistake each and every year. Petrol is a highly flammable and extremely dangerous liquid! Instead consider using fire lighting fluid or fire lighting blocks which are made from much safer solidified hexane.
For safety precautions: Have a phone in hand at all times in case the bonfire gets out of hand. In the UK, dial '999' and request help from the local fire station.

Fill two buckets of water and have them in handy. Powerful hosepipes are ideal.
 Use authorized suppliers and only purchase fireworks that are considered to be safe to use by individuals in a domestic context. If the fireworks require professional handlers, leave well alone.
 About one hour before friends and relatives arrive, start the bonfire. Do this by placing the fire lighting fluid in the center of the bonfire. Dried leaves, newspapers and small twigs made ideal kindling if placed loosely around the fluid.
 The hexane will light in a controlled manner and will cause the kindling to light. As the temperature increases the flames will very quickly turn from a small fire into a raging inferno. Make sure than you have enough firewood to maintain your bonfire for the duration of the party. As a rough guide the bonfire will burn a pile of wood equal to the size of the fire every hour.
 When they arrive offer them a a drink and some refreshments. After a brief time of meeting and greeting, start lighting the fireworks. Follow the instructions provided with the fireworks and aim well away from people, animals and buildings; aim into the air.
 As with the bonfire, it needs to be somewhere that is free of vegetation or other flammable objects and should have a good area around it that is clear of any objects.


Make sure that it's legal to burn things in your area. Call your local police station to confirm before the burn.
 You can also sing the popular rhythm Remember Remember the Fifth of November. (The second verse is usually omitted).


Remember, remember, the 5th of November
The Gunpowder Treason and plot;
I know of no reason why Gunpowder Treason
Should ever be forgot.
Guy Fawkes, Guy Fawkes,
'Twas his intent.
To blow up the King and the Parliament.
Three score barrels of powder below.
Poor old England to overthrow.
By God's providence he was caught,
With a dark lantern and burning match
Holloa boys, Holloa boys, let the bells ring
Holloa boys, Holloa boys, God save the King!
Hip hip Hoorah !
Hip hip Hoorah !
A penny loaf to feed ol' Pope,
A farthing cheese to choke him
A pint of beer to rinse it down,
A faggot of sticks to burn him.
Burn him in a tub of tar,'
Burn him like a blazing star.
Burn his body from his head,
Then we'll say "Ol' Pope is dead."

, Dispose of the ashes appropriately.
 It's a great way to keep everyone entertained while waiting for the fireworks and makes sitting around the bonfire a bit more enjoyable. Some food suggestions include:


Baked potatoes
Sausage rolls
Hot dogs and burgers
Bangers and mash
Potato wedges with sauces or dips
Bread baked in the bonfire
Any camping food you'd usually shove in the fire (but only in the coals, at the edge!)
Chip butties
Fish and chips
Puddings and sweets of all sorts, from toffee to sticky date pudding (and toffee apples are an easy-to-carry choice for sitting around the bonfire and nibbling)
Hearty soups.
 While no doubt the beer will be flowing, not everyone will want beer all evening. Some hot chocolate, warm fruit drinks and other wintery drinks will be a good choice to keep everyone warm and toasty.

