 If you're lucky enough that your girl wants to give it another go, then you should try to start fresh as much as you can. Though you can go back to enjoying some of the same restaurants, TV shows, and things that you loved together, it's important to pick some new activities and relationship strategies so your relationship doesn't feel like another version of your former dating experience.


Though you can bring up the happy memories, try to avoid thinking or talking about any bad experiences you've shared, unless you can laugh about them.
Don't take her for granted. Just because you're dating again doesn't mean that you shouldn't take the time to let her know how much you care about her.
Take it slow. Treat it like you're starting a new relationship instead of jumping right back into an old one. Don't spend all of your time together right away, even if that's what you were doing before you broke up.
 Though you shouldn't constantly worry about the relationship ending, you should be conscious of whatever it was that made your relationship fail the first time. If it failed because you spent too much time with your friends and you find yourself hanging out with your friends all the time again, cut back a bit. And if it ended because of something that she did, have an honest conversation about it if it comes up again.


Remember how awful you felt when you made those mistakes the first time. You don't want to go through that pain again.
 Though you should be conscious of the mistakes you made, you cannot obsess over them or you will doom your relationship to failure before it has a chance to start off on the right foot. If a bad situation arises, you can remember what happened the last time and proceed with caution, but don't constantly worry about messing things up or you won't be able to truly enjoy your time together.


If you're always worrying about messing things up, your girl will be able to tell, and that won't make the relationship very enjoyable for her.
 Though if you needed to make a dramatic change (for the better) to be in the relationship, then so be it, but you shouldn't walk around like a dog with his tail between his legs because you're so set on making up on whatever hurt you caused that you can't relax. In the end, your girl started dating you the first time because of who you are, so don't forget to let her see the parts of your personality that she loved the most.


If you feel like you can't be yourself without causing a major problem to the relationship, then you have to rethink your priorities.
Have confidence. Remember that she loves you -- not just a more meek version of yourself who is desperate for her affection.

