 A drink could be a shot, a beer, a glass of wine, or a mixed drink. Whatever it is, try and only drink one per hour. This will prevent you from getting drunk, since your liver can metabolize the alcohol and get it out of your system in an hour.If you stick to this schedule you'll be able to drink casually but stay sober.


Sip your drink slowly. Try and enjoy it slowly instead of downing it.;
, Set your limit well in advance and stick to it. If you know that you're drunk after 3 beers, then you need to space those beers out far enough to avoid getting wasted. Everyone handles alcohol differently, so there is no perfect number to stick to. When in doubt, know that the recommended amounts are 3 drinks for men and 2 for women.Bring cash to the bar instead of a card, forcing you to stop drinking when you run out of money.
Women will get drunk faster than men due to differences in body type.The more you weigh, the more alcohol you can generally consume before feeling drunk., Drink for taste, not inebriation. Savor both the flavor and the aroma of the alcohol instead of downing it. Splurge on an expensive but extremely enjoyable drink, because it's going to be the only drink of the night. Whatever it is, appreciate its nuances slowly.


Bring the glass to your lips every now and then and tilt it. Instead of drinking, however, simply inhale the aroma.
Taste the drink as you swallow it. If it's not worth tasting then it's not worth drinking.
Everyone has a different alcohol tolerance, so drink for yourself, not to prove something or keep up with a buddy.
 Water is proven to help alcohol absorption and breakdown and gives you something to drink before refilling your cup.Aim to drink a glass of water before each drink, then have a glass between drinks as well.


Sip the water slowly to put more time between alcoholic drinks.
 Food, contrary to popular belief, does not prevent you from getting drunk. It can, however, slow down the time it takes the booze to make it to your brain. Eating also fills you up and prevents you from downing drinks in the interim., When drinking, stick to mixed drinks that you can control. You can, for example, use a half shot of alcohol instead of a full shot and fill the rest up with soda or mixer. This helps you stay involved in the party but prevents you from drinking too much too fast.Try a "shandy," which is a light beer mixed with lemonade, to enjoy a little bit of alcohol responsibly.
 See if a buddy is looking to drink the same amount as you and avoid getting drunk. You can look out for each other, gently cutting the other off if things seem to get out of hand. It also makes it easier to stay sober if everyone around you is getting sober, but you have your buddy on your level.
 Do not just accept drinks, especially at parties. While one drink an hour is normally a good guideline, mixed drinks at house parties and events can vary wildly in strength. They are also sweetened so much that the actual alcohol content is masked. If you find yourself in this situation, stick to beer, wine, or mixing your own drinks.


Don't mix types of alcohol, like liquor, beer, and wine, in the same night. It makes it much harder to know how much actual alcohol you're consuming.