 There may be limitations depending upon your current medications and joint problems. weightlifting can also increase your blood pressure.;
, You may need to schedule a few sessions to develop an appropriate beginning routine.
 This may entail buying extra equipment to use at home or in the gym.
 Not all gyms can accommodate every disability; however, there has been a move toward creating extra space around weight machines to accommodate people in wheelchairs.


If you are unable to find a gym that will accommodate you, then you may need to lift weights in a physical therapy facility or at home. Ask your physical therapist what equipment will be most beneficial to you.
 A spotter helps you avoid injury by taking the weight from you, if you are unable to perform a repetition. You can either ask someone else to lift weights with you or you can hire a personal trainer at a gym to serve as a spotter.
 This will help to reduce your risk of muscle strain and other injuries.
 Learn the proper technique from your physical therapist and ask for diagrams to remind you when you lift at home or in the gym. Keep your back straight and avoid bending or stooping.
 Small hand weights, resistance bands and light setting on weight machines train your muscles to get into shape with less pain and risk of injury than large weights. People who suffer from arthritis and other disabilities may choose to always lift small weights with more repetitions.


The Framingham Disability Study found that people who lift small weights in enough repetitions to trigger muscle exhaustion can build muscles without moving on to higher weights. This is especially advantageous for the elderly who cannot lift weights over 10 lbs.
 This is called the "eccentric contraction." Your muscles are actually stronger as you lower the weight than as you lift it.


If you are unable to lift a heavier weight, ask your spotter to lift it for you. Then, lower it to help build up your muscle. Do this for a number of repetitions a few times per week, until you are able to lift the heavier weight.
 You can decide to use different muscle groups on different days. You can also alternate your workouts with stretching and aerobic options to improve your overall health.
 Most people who start to lift weights will experience muscle exhaustion after their first few weightlifting sessions. It is likely to be painful and reduce your range of motion, but try to move normally and stretch your muscles gently.


Drink plenty of water and eat foods with plenty of protein. Protein helps to rebuild your muscle fibers.
 You can also add more weight. Although either can be attempted, start with increasing the repetitions by 2 to 5 repetitions until you are confident you are strong enough to lift more weight.
 weightlifting can prevent osteoporosis, increase muscle mass and prevent atrophy if it is done regularly. Aim to lift weights 2 to 3 times per week, and continue it even if you notice you have achieved the tone you desire.

