 Since grinding involves getting very close to your partner, people grinding will be gathered in a packed crowd. These groups most often form in the middle of the dance floor. If you need a partner, start there., When you find a potential partner, glance at them twice. Offer a smile. Don’t stare. Someone who is interested in you will give you a sign, such as returning your glance and smiling.If you want to dance with someone you know, such as your significant other, you can avoid searching for a partner.
 Work your way over to potential partners. At low-key dances or when you’re not already dancing, simply walk over and ask for a dance. At a club, you can set the mood by dancing over to them and monitoring how she responds. Ask them for a dance. If they turn away, move on.


Out on the dance floor at a loud, packed club, you may get someone’s attention by gently touching their shoulder. Keep in mind that this can be offensive to some people.
Remember to check the area around your potential partner for significant others or protective friends. Avoid this trouble and approach someone else.
 Out on the dance floor, you may see groups of people grinding together, usually a mix of men and women. It’s not unusual to see two women “sandwiching” a man, grinding against him from both sides. This is a simple way to help you find a dance partner or start grinding with a new partner.
 When you start dancing, time your moves according to the song. Some songs are better for grinding than others. These are usually upbeat, energetic songs instead of slow dance songs. No matter how you grind, keeping to the beat helps you dance better.
 Many front grind moves are less intimate than grinds from behind and are good when you or your partner don’t want to get too close. Face your partner. Flex your back so that your chest bumps into theirs. Move your body backwards and repeat., Stand face to face with your partner. Start by sticking your chest forward as you would in a bump. Let the rest of your body move forward gradually all the way down to your pelvis like a wave is running through you, then repeat the move., Hip rolls are similar to back grinding, except you face your partner. Move one side of your hips forward towards your partner. Roll your hips in a circular motion to the other side, back, and around., Wait until they turn around and start dancing with you. Grind dancing is sensual, so putting your hands on your partner’s hips is often a good move, but you need to make sure first that they’re okay with this.


Leave your hands on their hips and go no further. Don’t assume that this is anything more than a dance. Unwanted touching is still inappropriate.
 Bend your knees slightly and sway side to side at first. Follow your partner’s lead. Often, grinding starts by both you and your partner moving in circles. Keep your knees bent as you move your waist around in a circle.
 If you’re dancing with a stranger, they may not be comfortable with full-on contact. One way to grind in spite of this is to lean. Stand directly behind your partner. Lean in the opposite direction they lean, then dance as usual.You’ll know your partner is uncomfortable if they seem hesitant or pull away from you. It’s better in this case to lean away or move back a little so you apply less pressure.
 A normal grind dance is about being close to your partner. Get close enough to them while dancing so that your hips press against theirs. The more comfortable your partner is with you on the dance floor, the more willing they will likely be to increase this contact. Allow them to take the lead if you’re unsure if you should press more.
 It wouldn’t be very fun if you stood there and moved your hips in a circle for an entire song. To make the dance better, try changing your moves. Stay close to your partner but add in a move such as dipping from one side to the other. Use your hands to help guide your partner’s hips.

