 You can't leave anything in the crate while it is collapsed. This includes blankets or comfort pads, food and water bowls, toys, and any other things you or your dog placed inside.


The bottom liner needs to be removed as well. It is usually removed by sliding it out a small opening at the bottom of the crate where it was inserted in the first place.;
, If the crate is a bit dirty scrub it with a non-toxic cleaner. This is a great time to get it sparkly clean. If the other items are dirty this makes a great opportunity to clean them as well. Blankets and pads can be laundered and dried along with any plush or cloth toys. Food and water bowls can be washed just like any other dishes in the sink or dishwasher. Other toys can be cleaned with plain soap and water and rinsed.
 This includes the front door and any side or top doors or openings. Make sure they are latched fully using the provided latches.


The crate will not close properly without the door closed and latched securely.
 Since the process of collapsing a crate may be different for some models and manufacturers, it is best to consult the directions that came with yours. If you no longer have the instructions, or your crate did not come with instructions, you can contact the manufacturer to try and get a copy of them.
 Find the tabs that hold the short side panels to the top of the crate. Press down on the wire of the top panel to release these tabs., This is done by detaching the latches that connect the short side panels (at the front and the back of the crate) to the long panels. Push in on the short side panel while simultaneously pulling out on the long panel. This should unhook the connecting latches, releasing the panels from each other.


Do this on both the front and back short panels.
 Allow it to rest on the floor of the crate. Do the same with the other short side.
 This will cause the crate to collapse onto itself. The top will be lying to one side and needs to be folded on to the top of the collapsed crate.
 Use the latches attached to the crate.These will make sure that the crate does not come unfolded while you transport it.

