 Immediately press a clean, dry towel over the stain, flipping it over or moving to a new area when the current section has absorbed some of the stain. Use an absorbent towel such as terry cloth, or simply a paper towel.;
, Use a butter knife or other utensil to remove the excess mustard. Only scrape dried stains, not wet, to prevent the mustard from spreading. Shake the clothing afterward to remove flecks of dry mustard, which could cause additional stains when washed.
 Flush cold running water over the stain to remove as much as possible. Try to rinse from the back of the fabric, on the opposite side from the stain. This helps excess mustard fall away from the clothing instead of pushing through the fabric., Use a commercial stain remover if you have one, as long as it does not contain ammonia. Liquid laundry detergent is a fine alternative, as is simply rubbing the stain with bar soap. Use caution while rubbing to avoid spreading the stain further.


Ammonia reacts with turmeric, the ingredient in mustard that makes it yellow, and may make the color set further.Check the ingredients of commercial cleaning products first to help you avoid using ammonia-based products.
If you are not sure whether your clothing item can be washed, rub the detergent in an inconspicuous corner first, then rinse out. If the color or texture of the fabric is affected, you may wish to use a different method.
 If the clothing is white, use chlorine bleach, which should be quite effective in removing the stain.If the clothing is any other color, use color-safe bleach to avoid fading your clothing or covering it with white spots; this is a less powerful stain remover but may still succeed.


Bleach is typically added to a separate washing machine dispenser than your laundry detergent, which should also be added as usual. If your top-loaded machine has no dispenser, or if you are washing the clothes by hand, pour directly into machine or tub. Use 1 part bleach to 30 parts water, or about 1/2 cup (120 mL) for a typical laundry load., The hotter the water, the more effective it will be at removing stains. However, hot water may damage delicate fabrics, or cause light-colored clothing to fade and stain other items in the wash machine. Check the clothing tag to find the maximum temperature the clothing can be washed at. When in doubt, wash delicate items in cold water.


Wash as soon as you can after applying the detergent or stain remover. Letting the stain remover sit on the stain for too long may make the stain harder to remove., Do not place your item in a dryer or on a drying rack until you are sure the stain is gone. Drying the clothing may make the stain set further. If the stain is still present, continue on to the section on persistent stains before the clothing dries. If the stain is no longer visible, you may dry your clothing as normal.

