 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has a picture of an NFL player on it. Tap on it.
 Tap on the cards icon on the rightmost part of the bottom toolbar. You will be brought to the screen with your current inventory of cards.
 You can view your cards sorted differently. There are several sorting options available. Tap the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner. This will bring down the list of sorting options.


Sort by Team. Tap “Team” from the drop-down list under “Sort,” and your cards will be grouped and sorted by their respective real-world NFL teams identified by their cities, e.g., San Francisco, Chicago, Philadelphia.
Sort by Position. Tap “Position” from the drop-down list under “Sort,” and your cards will be grouped and sorted by their football positions.
Sort by Rarity. Tap “Rarity” from the drop-down list under “Sort,” and your cards will be grouped and sorted by their rarity in the game app, e.g., Super Rare, Scarce, Uncommon.
Sort by Heat Index. Tap “Heat Index” from the drop-down list under “Sort,” and your cards will be grouped and sorted by the heat indexes of the players, e.g., Hot, Warm, Cold.
Sort by Season PTS. Tap “Season PTS” from the drop-down list under “Sort,” and your cards will be grouped and sorted by the season points scored by the players.
Sort by Games. Tap “Games” from the drop-down list under “Sort,” and your cards will be grouped and sorted by the scheduled real-world NFL games the players and their teams play.
Sort by Duplicates. Tap “Duplicates” from the drop-down list under “Sort,” and your cards will be grouped and sorted with the most number of duplicates at the top.
Sort by Date Acquired. Tap “Date Acquired” from the dropdown list under “Sort,” and your cards will be grouped and sorted based on when you’ve acquired them, with the most recent ones at the top.
 You can further filter the view of your cards by identifying the players’ statuses. There are several filters available. Tap the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner, and the list of filter options will be displayed below the sorting options. You can filter your cards by tapping on the years they were made, or years your players are active in the game.


For example, tapping “Playing Now” will display all the cards of players currently active, while tapping on “2012–13 Cards” will display all the cards from players who were active during the 2012–2013 NFL season.

