 Let your friends and teachers know about what your issues are so they can accommodate you. For example: let your teacher know you can't work with loud noise so they might let you go to the library to do your studying.;
, Whether yours is the more typical accommodation therapy or desensitization therapy, give it your all, especially if your goal is to not need it anymore.
 Interacting with nature will engage your senses in a comfortable way, and the fresh air and sunlight can boost your mood. Here are some fun activities to do outside:


Swing
Play backyard sports
Jump on a trampoline
Take a walk with a friend

, SPD can be cruel when it comes to your feelings. It can make you listless, spacey and distracted as well as drain your self-esteem and make you depressed. So if you feel like your SPD is in control of you, let someone know, like a friend, teacher, or parent. Drawing, writing, singing, dancing, and playing an instrument are just a few of the ways to get your emotions out positively.
 Friends help you deal with whatever comes at you in life. And trust me, friends are also beneficial because they listen to the anger and frustration you would never unleash on your therapist.
 Share it with others. Help others with SPD and similar issues. If you're not comfortable sharing it with your neurotypical friends/family/peers, find a Sensory Processing Disorder forum online.


You can also find understanding allies in the autistic community. Many autistic people have SPD and can offer tips and support. Contrary to stereotypes, the online autistic community is quite welcoming and positive.
 Stim as much as you need to. Avoid the things that hurt you. Your comfort comes first, and you do not need to apologize for doing what you can to ensure your needs are being met.
 Living with SPD can be exhausting and frustrating. It's important to take good care of yourself. Take time every day to work on your hobbies, talk with people who make you feel happy, relax, and do whatever helps you feel grounded.
 You are not the face of SPD, you are the face of yourself—with SPD. Keep your priorities straight and your chin up, and you're going to go far.

