 Being prepared is your best line of defense when it comes to being confident while on your period. Make a calendar that charts your pre-period symptoms, when your period starts, how long it lasts, your heaviest days, and the last day of your period. This way, you can prepare for you period adequately.


There are phone apps that will help you chart your period, as well. For example, Period Tracker is a helpful app that bases its projections off of your last three periods. This way it can accurately predict when your next period will begin and alert you days in advance.You can also prepare for you period by recognizing your pre-period symptoms. Some common pre-period symptoms are tender breasts and abdomen, bloating, feeling sluggish, cranky, or emotional, and headaches.;
, Once you know when your period is about to begin, and which days are your heaviest days, you can prepare for your period by getting the adequate protection. For example, if your first few days are light, carry around tampons, panty liners, or light pads to prepare for the start of your period.If your period is heavy in the first few days, make sure to get pads that are long, have wings, and have good absorption. If you prefer tampons, there are tampons available in different sizes to suit your period needs.
Carry an extra pair of underwear or pants in case your period starts during an inconvenient time, like during class or an important work meeting. You can also carry a sweater or a jacket to tie around your waist in the event that you start your period without adequate protection or during an inconvenient time.
 Some women find that they feel better during their period if they wear clothes that fit loosely or comfortably. Try to wear something that is not too tight or restrictive during your period, or at least during the first few days of it., Carry pain relievers in your purse to prepare for the onset of PMS-related pain. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory pain relievers (NSAIDs), like ibuprofen and naproxen, are great for treating cramps, breast tenderness, backaches, and headaches. Or, you can carry around pain relievers that are specifically designed for relieving period symptoms like Midol and Pamprin., Some types of vitamins and herbal supplements may help to reduce pain during your period as well. Some of the supplements that may help to reduce pain from menstrual cramps include:Fenugreek.
Ginger.
Valerian.
Zataria.
Zinc sulphate.
Fish oil.
Vitamin B1.
 A heating pad can be helpful for reducing pain from cramps, but it is not always easy to use one, especially if you are at work or school. Adhesive heating pads are a good alternative because you can stick them on and wear them under your clothes for pain relief.

Try placing an adhesive heating pad on your lower back or lower abdomen to help reduce pain from cramps.

