 An immigration services scam could take different forms. If you feel that you have fallen victim to a scam, then you should document it as thoroughly as possible. Common scams include:Someone posing as an attorney. In the United States, notary publics are not attorneys. Instead, they witness documents being signed. In Mexico, by contrast, “notaries” are powerful attorneys with special credentials. If a notary offers you legal services in the United States, then you are probably being scammed.
Someone asks you to pay by phone. The United States does not require that you pay fees over the telephone. Instead, you can pay over a secure Internet connection or by using a check or money order.
You are charged for help when applying for immigration. Some websites claim to help you with the immigration process. Instead, they simply steal your money. The only person you should ever pay money to for help with immigration is a qualified attorney.
You are contacted by email about winning the Visa lottery. This is certainly a scam. The person contacting you probably wants you to send them money. The United States will never contact you by email about the Visa Program.
You are offered a job but must pay a fee. You shouldn’t have to pay money to get a job. If you are promised a job in exchange for money, then it may be fraud.
You are targeted as a student. Only accredited schools can sponsor you to come to the United States to study. If you pay money to a school that isn’t properly accredited, then it may have scammed you if it promised you would qualify for a visa.;
, If you have been the victim of immigration services fraud, or if you observe a fraud, then you should report it to the FTC. You can reach the FTC by calling 1-877-FTC-HELP.If you received an email as part of a fraud, you can forward the email to the USCIS Webmaster email box at USCIS.Webmaster@uscis.dhs.gov.
 In addition to reporting the fraud to the FTC, you should also report immigration services scams to your state office. You can find a list of offices by visiting the USCIS website, which has gathered a list of helpful links.Generally, your state’s Attorney General’s office is charged with investigating fraudulent schemes of all kinds. This includes investigating immigration services fraud.
 The FTC or your state agency may request that you provide any supporting documentation that would assist them in their investigation. You should provide copies of the following:


emails related to the fraud
letters related to the fraud
a description of the person committing the fraud
information about the person committing the fraud, including name, address, and contact information

