 You don’t have to wear anything other than eyeshadow, but it is helpful to plan your face makeup out if you do wear it. You could go with a subtle look of matte foundation, light blush, and nude lips. It’s also an option to take the look all the way and use colorful highlighter, contouring, and bright lips. Set out the makeup, but wait to do it until you’ve done your eyeshadow because it tends to fallout as you apply it.Rainbow highlighter is available in most beauty supply stores and online.
Choose a color of your rainbow eyeshadow, like red, for bright lipstick.;
, Use a primer that is specifically made to be underneath eyeshadow. Simply dab the primer on your lids where you will be applying the eyeshadow. If you don’t have a primer, put a little foundation and powder on the eyelids to achieve an even base. These additions will ensure the shadows don't fade too quickly.You can also add a white primer or white eyeshadow to make the rainbow eyeshadow pop even more when it is applied.
 Three brushes are ideal to use for this look. Get out a pencil type brush, a blending or crease brush, and a larger highlight color brush. Set out your eyeshadow after the brushes. Then, put out some cotton swabs, makeup remover, and foundation so you can correct any mistakes you may make.Make sure the brushes are clean because dirty brushes can harbor germs and will make your eyeshadow colors appear muddy
You can still achieve this look if you don’t have all of these brushes, but it may not be as easy.
 A bright pink eye or red shadow is a good option for the first color, but you can start with a different color. Just make sure the next color you apply can fade into the next. Dab the eyeshadow out towards the inner corner of the lid with a highlight brush.Tap your brushes off first before applying each of the next eyeshadows so you don't get fallout on your cheeks.
 Begin to add an orange eye shadow right next to the pink or red. The orange should be applied to the center of your eyelid. Again, use the highlighter brush to do this. Then, begin to blend the two shades together with a blending brush..


If you started with a different color, look at the colors of the rainbow and follow with a color that is close to the color you chose on the spectrum. For example, apply green next if you started with yellow.
Dab the eyeshadow application brush onto a paper towel between the two colors so the colors do not blend on the brush.
 Use the highlighter brush again to apply a yellow eye shadow. Put the yellow on top of where the orange has begun to fade. Fade the yellow slightly further along to the outer edges of your eyelid.If you chose a different color, apply a color that would follow that color on the spectrum. For example, apply blue now if green was your second color.
 For the green and blue part of the rainbow, apply the eyeshadow with a pencil brush. Apply the green eyeshadow just below your waterline and near your bottom eyelashes. Fade the color a little further along the lower eye. It should come to the middle of your bottom eyelashes.An indigo-like color would be the next color if blue was your last color.
 Apply a strip of blue eyeshadow slightly onto the green. Fade that almost to the inner corner of your lower eyelid. It should meet with the pink eyeshadow you started with in the corner of your eye.If indigo or violet was your last color, you could finish with a pop of red or pink.
 Look at the rainbow eye shadow in a mirror. Use your application brush to neatly blend the colors together. Don’t blend all of the colors together—just the colors the outer edges of the colors that are next to each other. To get the most seamless effect possible between colors, use a clean brush, or even a clean finger to lightly mix the colors together. This will create new colors to ease the transition.At this point you can use foundation or cotton swabs to correct any mistakes.
If you think a color does not look bright enough, simply go back and repeat a step until you're satisfied.
 This isn’t necessary, but it can enhance the look. Line the top eyelid, just above the waterline, with black eyeliner. Or, you can stay colorful and use a bright blue or colored eyeliner., Curl your lashes before applying mascara. A black, volumizing mascara would make the overall look bolder. You can also go for a subtler look with a clear mascara, or continue the colorful look with a deep blue mascara.It’s also an option to use false eyelashes.

