 If you are intending to contest a divorce, it is likely that you have been served a petition from your spouse. Contesting a divorce, in other words, assumes that you disagree with something in that petition and would like to contest it. Your petition will give you a certain time limit to file a response. Be sure to file your response within that time limit. The clock starts from the day you are served the petition. If you need legal advice on how to file a response, consult an attorney. The response is very important, in particular if you are in disagreement about certain matters with your spouse, so it is in your best interest to have a legal professional review your forms., The original forms will go to the court, while the 2 copies will be for you and your spouse., File your forms with the court clerk, who will keep the original forms and return copies to you for your spouse and yourself., You will have to pay a filing fee when you file your response. Ask the court clerk for the possibility of a fee waiver if you cannot afford the filing fee., Serve (i.e. formally deliver) a copy of your response to your spouse. You can have the papers served by mail or in person yourself or by someone else. When serving, ask the server to fill out a proof of service form or fill out a proof-of-service-by-mail form at the post office. File this proof of service form with the court clerk when you receive it., At this stage, you may wish to hire an attorney, who will help you through the various legal stages that are likely to arise in the future. These stages include discovery (the information gathering stages), pre-trial hearings, settlement proposals and negotiations between attorneys, and trial., At the discovery stage, there will be a process of information gathering. This process involves getting information from you, your spouse, and third-party witnesses and includes written questions, subpoenas (i.e. written orders to compel a person to give testimony) and depositions (i.e. sworn out-of-court testimony)., A pre-trial motion is a motion before the actual trial of a case. At a pre-trial motion, lawyers from both sides of the case meet before a judge to attend to various matters that must be decided before the case goes to trial, such as who can and cannot provide evidence or that certain evidence should not be allowed in court.If you try to contest your divorce in court, there will be a chance for both you and your spouse (represented by your attorneys) to make pre-trial motions., After pre-trial motions, there will be a stage when you are offered the opportunity to settle the case with your spouse. By settling the case at this stage, you avoid going to trial. The settlement phase involves proposals and negotiations between the attorneys of the two parties. If you come to an agreement at this stage, the case will be resolved. If you are unable to resolve your differences with your spouse, the case will go to trial., If you are unable to resolve your differences at the settlement phase, your case will go to trial. At the trial stage, both sides will present witnesses, cross-examine the witnesses, and present closing arguments. At the end of the trial, the court will issue a final order that finalizes the divorce., If you disagree with the trial judge’s decision, you will have the opportunity to appeal that decision.Appealing a decision can involve a legally complex procedure, and it is, therefore, in your best interest to seek legal advice from your attorney about the appeals process.

