 Slowly, bring the shrine and the particular deity into your consciousness, right from the time you get the idea to go on the trip. Search the net for articles and experiences of people who visited the same place and your urge to make it happen will become stronger.As that happens, the Universe will pave the way for you to reach your destination, and all the details will fall into place.;
, If a temple is closed between 1.p.m. and 4p.m.,you would not want a flight which arrives during those hours. Most pilgrim spots are small towns which have little to offer in terms of entertainment, so long hours of waiting could bring on serious boredom.For the same reason, keep your trip short and try to take the return flight as soon as you finish your visit to the shrine(s).
 Don't make luxury a priority and pay for facilities you might never use. Instead choose a hotel that offers acceptable levels of comfort and is located close to the temple.


If your hotel offers transfers from and to the airport, you're lucky. Otherwise, hop onto a local taxi or bus which will take you to your hotel. Choose a mode of transport that has been approved by a local government body. That way, you have less chances of getting ripped off by touts who abound in pilgrim spots.
 Some places require climbing several flights of stairs or long hours of walking or standing in queues.
 The road to temples is often lined with shops selling flowers, candles,lamps, holy threads, cloth pieces of holy colours, food items special to the place, etc. The shopkeepers often hound pilgrims into buying them and make it appear as though your trip will be meaningless without these offerings. Do not feel obliged or get talked into buying anything. Only buy if you feel convinced that you must follow the custom. Sometimes, managing all the paraphernalia in your hands can be distracting while you worship-so think before you buy.
 Many temples prohibit the use of mobile phones and cameras. You will be asked to deposit your gadgets at a special counter at the entrance,(sometimes for a fee) that many temples have, and collect them later.
 At least 10 minutes before you reach the main spot,avoid chatting or laughing with those around and make an effort to quiet yourself inside. Focus your energies on God and the reason you are there. If you know any prayers or chants,repeat them to yourself.
