 The more you play Combat Arms, the more you will get used to the controls, the guns, and the maps.;
, Oil Rig has a lot of options to go for, unlike Death Room, which only has 2 routes.
 These weapons are best for close-quarters combat. Some of these guns have a lot of recoil, making it more likely to get a headshot.
 For instance, avoid shooting into a group of enemies unless you have cover, as they will most likely all turn and fire at you. Rather than shooting, consider using a grenade or an RPG to deal area damage to all of them. Sneak up close behind your enemies to get a better shot, and then shoot fast before they can turn. When you see close-range gunfight between several players, stay back until either your enemies or allies are all dead. This keeps you from getting killed/wasting ammo and also allows you to pick off any weakened enemies easily.
 Never be the first person to enter a room. Let your teammates enter first, so you don't get hit with the brute force of the enemy's gunfire. Then, if your teammate has died go in while the enemy is reloading to catch them off-guard. Hanging behind your team can also help you avoid any traps, as your teammate will set them off first.
 Don't try to use specialist for Elimination, as many Elite Moderators will kick you and you can only use up to 2 weapons in addition to your primary.
 Avoid using Specialist, Dual Scorpion, Orthus, Minigun, Semi-Automatic Snipers or gas/flame in Elimination, unless you are an ELITE moderator.
 For example, for sniping, equip Steady Hand (ability) and Shapka (headgear) so you have good and undisturbed aim as your scope will stay still for some time.


For any gun you consider, first go to YouTube and search "Combat Arms (name of gun) review Baxstar." What Baxstar thinks, is what it is.
 Remember that they always make the GP versions weaker than the NX versions.
 For no-sniper matches, these guns work well for long distance: XM8, M417 SB, REC7 RANGERS, G36E, AUG A1.
 In this server the recoil is decreased and you face less challenging players. It is also a good place to practice quick scoping.
 They always cost way too much and do not do almost any help.
 UCD's Top 5 Players and Baxstar reviews give you great strategies as well.
 This backpack gives you a total of 4 more weapons to carry.
 Although many people say it does not work, they are wrong. For Quarantine Regen it helps you get away from zombies, and for Capture The Flag it does not let the enemy see you when you get their flag.

