 At the end of the jobs, you should have paid off around 2000 Bells.;
, Not really but if you shake down your trees, bells and items will drop!


You should also shake trees with no fruit on them too. There is a chance that you will get a 100 bell coin. If you go to the city and get your fortune read by Katrina and she says your financial luck will increase, go nuts because the 100 bells will become 300 bells. Repeat by going indoors and go back out again.
 Every day, check out the recycling bin in the Town Hall or check with Booker in the town gate. You can find furniture and clothes in the recycling bin, and you can find clothes and, Pitfall seeds and letter paper from Booker.
 Every Sundays from 6am to 12pm, Joan will wander your town and sell some turnips in the stalk market. Then on Mondays-Fridays, you can sell the turnips to Nook for profit. But remember, you have until Saturday to sell them or your turnips will spoil.
 Just go to the beach and you'll see some sea shells lying on the shore. Collect a few shells and sell them to Nook. The price varies depending on what type of shell you sell to Nook.


Conch: 350 Bells
Coral: 250 Bells
Dall's Top: 90 Bells
Pearl Oyster: 1200 Bells
Porceletta: 30 Bells
Sand Dollar: 60 Bells
Venus Comb: 150 Bells
White Scallop: 450 Bells

, You simply need to attach a piece of local fruit to a letter and give it to Pelly in the Town Hall. Wait a few days and there is a chance they'll give you a different fruit. Plant the fruit in your backyard, or somewhere near your home, then sell them to Nook.


If your neighbors send you furniture, then sell it off. Sure Nook will only pay you around 200 bells, but at least it's better than nothing.
 Feng Shui is when you organize your room by placing yellow items on the left, red items on the right, lucky items on top, and green items on the bottom. This affects how lucky you are.
 During flea markets, you can sell your fish for up to two times the price that Nook would pay for fish. The same goes for bugs and possibly fossils.
 Dig two holes, one beside you and one in front of you. Then hit the rock until it goes dry, for up to 8100 bells. The chance of doubling your Bell rate varies on how much red items you have in your house and if you have a golden shovel.
 When you get a certain amount of Bells, you can get lucky items such as a Piggy Bank. Lucky items increase your chance of getting rare items.
 Say hello to your dream home. If your want to make it bigger and bigger just repeat.

