 Remember that the closing is the finalization of the home sale transaction, where you will sign the documents and hand over the checks, so the details of the sale of the home should be finalized before the closing date. Arrange to meet with your lender before the closing date to ensure that all necessary paperwork is complete and your loan is finalized., As a condition of a mortgage, almost all lenders will require a home buyer to purchase homeowner’s insurance. Homeowner’s insurance will provide you with protection from disasters occurring on, or to your new property. Your homeowner’s insurance policy should list the buyers as insured, as well as the lender.Once you purchase the policy, you should make sure to have the insurance company send you a proof of insurance document. You will need this documentation at the closing, so make sure you obtain insurance in advance of the closing date.
The typical deadline is five days to apply for insurance and 15 days to waive the contingency or to rescind the contract. If you learn that the property is not insurable, too expensive to insure, or that you have other options, then you can rescind the contract and get your earnest money back. If you cancel the deal after the insurance contingency period to apply has expired, but before the contingency to submit the insurance binder to the lender expires, then you may have to prove that you actually applied for the insurance within the five day period. Contact your insurance agent as soon as you complete your loan application and get approved.
 A title search is used to determine “clean title” ie. that the seller has a legal right to transfer ownership, and is very important for ensuring that a buyer receives title to property that is free from the ownership rights/claims of others. Lenders require a home buyer to purchase title insurance in order to obtain a mortgage. A title insurance policy is a type of insurance that protects the buyer and the lender in the event there are problems with the title to the home after the sale.Read over the policy carefully and ask for clarification if anything is unclear.


The seller usually pays for the title insurance policy for the buyer and the buyer pays for the lender's policy.
Keep in mind that a title insurance policy will not protect against any unrecorded liens, such as outstanding water bills or code enforcement issues. Make sure that you check with local providers, the homeowners association, and the city or county for any pending actions or issues as well.
As with homeowner’s insurance, you will need proof of your title insurance coverage at the closing, so make sure to obtain it well in advance of the closing date. The title contingency default is also usually five days from the date of issuance or receipt, depending on how the contract was written. All contingencies can be extended to a date other than the default date prior to the offer being written. However, after the offer has been written and accepted, it would take a mutually agreed upon addendum to change or extend the contingencies.

