 Knowing the inherent risk in everyday activities will help you keep safe. Here are a few to give you an idea how to do this.


Power tools and machines.

Saws, drills, and other woodworking tools.

Keep all guards and safety features in good condition. Many experienced craftsmen end up at the hospital when they circumvent or disable safety features to speed a job up, or make a task easier. Blocking guards, removing safety switches, and crowding workpieces is not worth the risk.
Check the machine's condition. Tag out defective tools, replace damaged power cords, and inspect blades before use.
Use recommended safety equipment, such as eye and hearing protection, gloves, and boots.
Avoid jewelry and loose fitting clothes, and keep long hair tied back or tucked under a cap.


Garden equipment.

Avoid obstacles when using a mower, weed-eater, or tiller.
Use the correct techniques for each piece of equipment. Read the owner's or operator's manual for specific instructions.
Keep the machine in good working condition, including sharpening or replacing dull blades, replacing loose belts, and cleaning the machine after each use.


Household appliances.

Never use electrical appliances near water. An exception may be made when using a Ground Fault Receptacle, but this is not a guarantee of your safety, as these devices can be subject to failure.
Plug appliances into the correct type of receptacle. Do not remove a grounding prong from a three prong plug to adapt it for use in a two prong receptacle.
Never use excessive extension cords. The length of extension cord you may use is determined by the amperage of the appliance, and the gauge (size) of wire. A good rule of thumb is:

15 Amps 100 feet (30.5 m) using 12 ga. conductors, 10 Amps or less, 100 feet (30.5 m) using 14 ga. conductors.





;
, You should be aware of basic home safety methods and issues. Some of these include:


Smoke and/or fire alarms. If you use battery powered units, replace the batteries annually.
Carbon Monoxide detectors. Again, replace batteries annually.
 Injuries associated with tripping a falling in the home are common.
, If you have difficulty or limited mobility, have grab bars installed in your bathtub. Also use an anti-slip bath mat in your tub or shower, and avoid products in the for bathing in glass containers.



Do not drop sharp knives or other objects in dirty dishwater.
Cover stove burners with burner covers when they are cooling after use.
Keep the floor and countertops clean.
Avoid or cleanup spills immediately to prevent slipping.
 These can result in serious medical conditions such as Carpal Tunnel Syndrome requiring surgery to correct.



Use proper techniques when using a ladder. Basically, this means leaning the ladder away from the structure 1 foot (0.3 m) for each 4 feet (1.2 m) up you are going.
Never climb on an ice or snow covered roof.
Use the correct extension cords for outdoor lighting. They should be marked "outdoor use", and you should never overload them.
Keep extension cords out of walkways.
, Here are a few examples, but basically, follow the rules, and stay within your physical limits.


Wear a helmet and other protective gear when required, whether cycling, playing football, or skateboarding. Make sure your helmet is designed for the sport you are participating in.
When cycling, always wear high visibility colors such as yellow. When cycling with limited sunlight, always wear reflective clothing.
Warm up prior to strenuous exercise, and cool down afterwards, to prevent muscle strain and tendon and ligament damage.
Use the correct footwear for each sporting activity.
Wear eye protection where appropriate.
Do not overdo it. When beginning a new exercise program, or starting a new sport, begin slowly.
 Never dive in shallow water, never swim alone, and use caution on slippery surfaces.
 Remember, even if you are going out for a moment, you may be sidetracked and end up staying out for hours, so if the sun is bright, put on a hat and use sunscreen or sunblock.



Buckle your seat belt.
Never drink and drive, or ride with someone who is or has been drinking.
Drive only when you have had sufficient rest.
Avoid driving in hazardous weather conditions, including snow, sleet, flooding rain, or fog.
Keep your car well maintained, with good brakes, safe tires, and a clean windshield.
 Because jobs encompass limitless hazards and conditions, this article will not attempt to cover them all.

