 If you are eligible to register, the easiest way to do so is online. If you want to vote in any upcoming elections, you will have to register by the voter registration deadline in order to be eligible.In most cases, your application must be sent in at least 21 days prior to any election day., If you are within a registration window, use a computer or mobile device with internet access and navigate to Maryland's OLVR website. This website can be used to register yourself for any federal, state, county, and city elections in Maryland., Once you find the website, you will see a button at the bottom of the page that says "Next". Click on this button to start the application.The next page has a privacy statement you need to read and agree to. By clicking the "next" button again, you are agreeing to the statement., The first question on your voter registration application asks for your voter type. Click on the description that best fits your circumstance. Once you click on the applicable description, you will press "next". Examples of voter type descriptions, include, but are not limited to:A U.S. citizen living in the U.S.
A U.S. citizen who has never lived in the U.S.
A member of the military or merchant marine on active duty
A spouse or dependent of a military member or merchant marine on active duty

, Once you choose your voter type, a screen will pop up informing you of the information you will need to complete the registration. For example, if you informed the system that you are a U.S. citizen living in the U.S., you will be required to match your name, date of birth, and your identification number. Read the information carefully then click "next"., At this point, you will begin filling out your application. Steps 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7 will all ask for certain types of personal information. Step 1 will ask for your name, date of birth, gender, and social security number. Step 2 asks for information from the Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA), which will include your ID or license number. Steps 3 and 4 ask for various addresses. Step 6 will ask you for your contact information, which might include your phone number and email address. Step 7 will require you to provide information from previous registrations.The application requires you to fill out each Step in order, so make sure you complete each Step before moving on.
 Maryland recognizes four political parties, which are the democrats, republicans, the libertarians, and the green party.You must affiliate with a specific political party if you want to take part in their caucuses, primaries, or conventions.On Step 5 of your registration application, you will be able to pick the party affiliation you want.If you do not want to choose a party affiliation, that is fine. Just remember that you will not be able to take part in certain party functions if you do so.
 The registration application will also ask you if you need any voter support or if you want to offer your services during elections. On step 8 of the application, you will be able to make these choices. In addition, if you need an absentee ballot, which is used if you are unable to go to the polls personally, you can request one in Step 9., When your application is complete, you will be prompted to read an oath and sign your application. Read the oath carefully and make sure you understand it before you sign the application. Once you sign, you will be given an opportunity to review your application before you submit it., Once you have confirmed that all the information in your application is correct, you will submit the application online by clicking a button. You do not need to print the application out or send it through an email.
 They can be reached at (800) 222-8683 or info.sbe@maryland.gov.