 When you are sick as a mom, your usual routines may need to be tweaked and that's okay. If you have a baby or a toddler, they may be on a regimented eating schedule that keeps you on your feet. Try to modify this schedule slightly so you can have more time to rest, but your child still gets the attention they need. One day of a different routine will not be detrimental to your child, especially if it means you can recover and feel better the following day.For example, you may try feeding your baby every two hours rather than every hour so you can get some rest but your baby still gets fed. Or you may set a timer that goes off and wakes you up for every feeding so your baby still manages to stick to a similar feeding schedule.
 To make your life easier when you are ill, place snacks in bowls on the counter so your child can have them without having to ask you. Put out single serving snacks like juice boxes or yogurt so your child can grab them on their own. Tell your child to help themselves to snacks while you rest.You may say to your child, “Mommy is feeling sick right now and she needs to lie down. Can you help yourself to a snack when you get hungry?” or “Mommy isn’t feeling great and needs her rest. Take snacks when you get hungry and help yourself.”

, When you are ill, you may not have the energy to prepare elaborate meals for your child. Accept that this is the case and try preparing meals that are quick and easy to make. This may mean defrosting leftovers in the freezer or heating up leftover food from the night before. Having one meal of leftovers will not be detrimental for your child and will allow you to avoid stressing about preparing meals.If you do not have leftovers on hand, you may end up resorting to prepackaged meals for lunch or dinner. You may heat up a can of soup, pop some fish sticks in the oven, or warm up a frozen dinner meal.
 When you do manage to get up from the couch or your bed, try to focus on getting only the essentials done for your child. Think to yourself, what must I absolutely get done right now and what can I manage to do later? Try to address several important things when you are up so you can lie back down and rest without stressing out.For example, when you are up, you may fill your child’s snack bowl, change their diaper, and make sure they have enough craft supplies in their room for the rest of the day. This way, when you lie back down you can rest for a prolonged period of time without worrying about your child.

