 Surgical removal is the most common treatment for granulomas, as there is a lower rate of recurrence with surgery.Many doctors remove granulomas with curettage and cauterization. This involves scraping off the granuloma with a tool called a curette and then cauterizing the surrounding blood vessels to minimize the chances of regrowth. It may also help stop bleeding.After the procedure you should:


Keep the wound dry for 48 hours
Change your dressing daily
Apply pressure by securing a bandage and tape to the site, which can prevent bleeding
Watch for signs of infection including severe redness, swelling, severe pain, fever, and discharge from the wound, Your doctor may also suggest cryotherapy, especially for smaller lesions.This treatment involves freezing off granulomas with liquid nitrogen. The low temperature of the treatment can reduce cell growth and inflammation through vasoconstriction, which is the narrowing of blood vessels.Observe your wound after the treatment and follow any instructions from your doctor. A granuloma wound caused by cryotherapy generally heals within seven to 14 days. Pain will generally last for three days.
 If you have large or recurrent granuloma, your doctor may suggest excising them. This treatment has the highest cure rates.This procedure involves removing the granuloma and its related blood vessels to reduce the risk of it growing back. Your doctor may also send a small sample to a lab to examine for any possible malignancy.Allow your doctor mark the excision site with a surgical marker. This won’t stain your skin. They will then anesthetize the site to minimize any discomfort you may have. After this, the doctor will remove the granuloma with a scalpel and/or sharp scissors. You may smell some burning if the doctor uses cautery to stop bleeding, but this won’t harm you. If necessary, you may get stitches at the excision incision site.
 Some doctors may suggest laser surgery to remove the lesion and burn its base or shrink smaller granulomas.Consider this procedure before getting it, as it is not necessarily better at removing or preventing pyogenic granulomas as surgical excision.Talk to your doctor about the benefits of laser surgery over surgical excision for your granuloma. Ask any questions you may have about the procedure including about healing, care, and recurrence.

