 Wear a helmet, gloves, breeches and boots. It is best to ride in an English saddle, preferably a dressage or all-purpose variety,and preferably a snaffle bridle (or double if above elementary). If you will be riding at a show, check the dress code to avoid being disqualified.;
, Make sure you have a few copies. Try drawing the movements out on scrap paper or walking out the test as if you were your horse. Keep in mind when your competition is, as you will need to have adequate time to prepare and practice the test.
 Walk, Trot and Canter are just the basics, but the horse many be asked to halt, rein back, free walk, medium walk and do any other movements that may be asked of him. Also make sure that your horse can do whatever necessary in a somewhat stressful scenario, such as a show. You don't want all your training to disappear right before you enter the ring!

, You might consider videotaping yourself or having someone on the ground to give you feedback after you're done. Remember how each movement felt and where you had problems. Was the test too easy, or did you have problems almost all the way through?

, Try to avoid riding the entire test any more than once a week, as your horse will begin to remember patterns and may incorrectly anticipate your next move. Instead, practice each movement as well as about half of the one before and half of the one after. Think about your approach to each movement and how you set your horse up, then think about transitioning to whatever movement comes next.
 Where do you struggle? Write down the three hardest parts of your test, and discuss with your trainer or a friend any alternative exercises that could help you with the tricky movements. For example, if you are having a hard time leg-yielding from G to R, try coming off the quarter-line and leg-yielding to the nearest wall. Breaking up your training helps you and your horse improve more comprehensively.
 Hopefully, your problem spots have improved and there aren't any new ones. (If there are, just break the test up again and practice that movement.) Keep in mind how your horse responded to your aids in each movement.
 Don't keep drilling your horse on just your test. A day or two before the show, ride easy, confidence-building movements you know your horse can do well. At this point, you just want to make both you and your horse feel great about what you can do.
 so long as you aren't at a regional championship, you should be able to have a friend or your trainer read your test as you ride it. This way, you can be sure you won't make errors of course and can concentrate fully on riding the test to the best of your ability.
 Judges and horses alike respond to a big smile and a relaxed demeanor. Remember that you love riding, you love your horse and you love dressage!

