 Preparation is a critical phase of fence-painting. You want to protect the vegetation along the fence line while readying the surface for painting. This is a time-consuming process, but it makes the job easier.


Mow and edge the grass along the fence line. Trim back bushes and shrubs that abut the fence. Use a leaf blower to blow dirt and grass clippings away from the fence line.
Spread a drop cloth or plastic sheeting under the section of fence you'll be painting. Keep it in place throughout the project to collect residue from prep work and protect against spills.
If the fence was previously treated, scrape off loose or flaking paint.
Pressure-wash or sand a new, untreated wood fence. It's best to sand a fence that was painted before. This helps the paint adhere to the wood. If necessary, use a scrub brush and a 1-to-1 mixture of bleach and water to eradicate mold on the fence. Let the surface dry.
If you're painting iron or metal fencing, use a steel brush to remove rust and then sand the surface with medium-grit sandpaper.
After sanding, wipe off residue with a clean rag.
Seal and tape off parts of the fence you don't want to paint, like ornaments, gate latches and handles and other hardware.;
, Make sure you use an outdoor paint on your fence. These are specially treated to withstand the effects of weather and come in a variety of types.


Acrylics: Acrylic paint is durable, providing an excellent layer of protection for your fence, but you might have to apply a primer to an untreated surface before you can paint.
Acrylic stains: Stains bring out the natural beauty of the wood and usually don't require the primer coat that paints do. They also are easier to re-coat and require minimal surface prep.
Oil-based outdoor paint: Oil-based paints may require multiple coats and may not protect as well as acrylics, but they do provide a superior-looking finish.
Enamels: Enamel paint is ideal for iron fencing and gates. Usually, you'll need to treat the surface with a rust-inhibiting primer.
Automotive epoxy paint: The benefits of automotive epoxy are, it's a 1-step process and is very durable. You will have to mix in a hardener with this paint, which does force you to get the job done within about 6 hours.
 Certain weather conditions are ideal for fence-painting. Pick a day with no rain in the forecast. Ideally, paint on a day with calm winds and ample cloud cover. Breezes can kick up debris that can stick to your paint job; direct sunlight makes the paint dry too fast and saps its protective properties.



Long fence: If you have a long fence, you probably will want to use an industrial spray to complete the job quickly. Aim lengthwise, along the grain of the wood. Spray downwind and wear a respirator. Be sure to cover plants to protect them from overspray. Keep a brush handy even if you opt for a sprayer, in case you need to do any touch-up work.
Short fence: If you have a smaller project, you probably can complete the job using a roller on flat surfaces and a brush for detailed, hard-to-reach sections.
Wrought iron fence: Because they're often intricately designed, it's best to paint iron fences by hand to get optimum coverage. A single heavy coat of enamel or automotive epoxy paint usually is enough.

