 In the United States, you can register with NCOA to quickly and easily verify customer addresses and correct errors before packages or materials are mailed.The NCOA system is designed for business owners, not private individuals. You must complete a registration form if you want to use the NCOA system. However, the system is free to use.
This system can help you find the addresses of customers who may have moved, provided they registered the change of address with the USPS.
 In countries with national postal services, venders offering residential address verification services typically will be certified or approved by the national postal service if they adhere to the standardized practices and guidelines of the postal service.You typically can contact the country's postal service to find out if they certify or register these services.
Be wary of a company that claims to verify residential addresses, but is not certified by the national postal authority. It may be a front for a scam that's just trying to harvest addresses.
Especially if you plan to subscribe to a service, which can involve a significant investment, make sure you investigate the company thoroughly and are sure that they'll provide the services you want and are legitimate and respected in the industry.
 There are a number of address verification services online that you can use to verify larger spreadsheets of residential addresses, such as if you communicate to customers or members of an organization using the mail on a regular basis.Most of these services charge a monthly or annual subscription fee, so you should compare the fees along with the services provided to decide which service will best meet the needs of your business or organization. Be sure to account for growth.
Some services, such as SmartyStreets, offer the ability to check a limited number of addresses for free each month. Additional domestic addresses or international addresses will cost you a monthly fee.
 If you have an online store front, you can purchase code from shipping services or other suppliers that will allow you to verify addresses as your customers type them when placing an order.The cost for these services varies depending on the volume of sales or address you need to have checked each month, as well as whether you want the service to check international addresses or domestic addresses only.
An integrated verification service can save you time and money if you anticipate a larger volume of business, but may not be cost-effective if you have a small online shop that only processes a small number of orders.
Outsourcing your payment services to another company also may include address verification services.

