 Before you have been diagnosed with a mental illness by your therapist, doctor, or psychiatrist, you may have had suspicions that you were mentally ill. Having someone in the medical field confirm this is a frightening and very important step.


You may get several mental illness diagnoses at once. This is normal—it happens all the time.;
, This is important for being the happiest and most productive that you can be. Follow their directions on medications, and don't make any changes (stopping, started, different doses) without consulting them first.


Your doctor may recommend therapy. Look for therapists in your area, then set up initial meetings with several of them. Pick the one who works with you best.
 Understanding the particular illness you have been diagnosed with will help you overcome it. Ask your doctor, your family, or your teachers, if you're in school, for help gathering information. Understanding your symptoms will help you notice and manage them.
 Mentally ill people do plenty of writing online. You can meet other people like you to exchange tips, share stories, and give and receive emotional support. They know the reality of how life with your disorder(s) is, and can give you a feeling of community.
 Once you have been diagnosed you may be afraid to tell anyone for fear of being abandoned by them. This is understandable and also normal. While it is the most difficult thing to do, it is also the most important thing to tell your loved ones. Having a broad support network will make you feel better, and may even save your life.
 A designated support person should be someone who is emotionally strong and ready to see you at your worst. Talk to them and see if they are willing to take on this role. Whenever you are struggling, go to this person. They love you and are willing and able to help.


You are NOT being a burden by doing this. They'd rather help you now than wait until your emotions have boiled over and things have gotten worse.
 You have a mental illness. It's time to make things easier on yourself. How can you remove sources of stress in your life? Where could you ask for help doing things, or stop doing things?


Schools and workplaces should offer disability accommodations based on your illness. These include a quiet space to take tests or work, greater lenience on absence due to illness, a single dorm room (in college), and more.
 Sleep for at least 8 hours every night, fill about 1/3 of your plate with fruits and vegetables, reduce stress, and find ways to exercise. Try taking walks, swimming, hiking, or playing backyard sports with friends or family.
 What happens when an episode is beginning? What thoughts do you have, and how does your body feel? If you can notice when trouble is building up, you can start using your relaxation techniques or other methods of stopping it.


If someone is particularly good at reading you, you might ask them to tell you if they think you're stressed or in a trouble zone.
 Your illness may be temporary, and you can fight it. You will need to make some changes, but it won't destroy your life.


Say "I am not depression" or "I am not schizophrenia" to yourself until you believe it.
Some people find it helps to debate the bad thoughts in their head. Imagine that your bad thoughts come from a sick part of your brain, not from you, and talk back to them. Give your irrational thoughts a dose of reality (or sarcasm). See if you feel better.
 Adjusting and coping takes time. Go easy on yourself. Take a bubble bath, curl up with a good book, draw a colorful picture, or watch a silly movie. Allow yourself to process things. You've undergone plenty of stress; it's time to be patient with yourself.

