 Water is the most important training tool to help you eat faster.Try drinking lots of water at once to help increase the amount you can swallow at once. It is safer to start trying to swallow larger amounts with water because there is no risk of choking., Chew lots of gum at once.Instead of chewing one piece of gum at a time, try chewing the whole pack. This exercise will help build up the muscles you need to chew your food fast. In order to eat fast, you will need to chew fast.
 Figure out the breathing techniques that will work for you. You may need to take a breath every two bites or three or four. Everyone is different. The best way to figure it out is to figure out your eating rhythm. Once you know what is a good breathing pace for you, keep your focus. Don't let the excitement of the meal get to you and throw you off your rhythm. Then you will have to stop and catch your breath.
 Videotape yourself eating and assess your performance. Try to figure out where can you shave a few seconds off your time. You can also check out some professional eating contest to try and pick up some more tips from the pros.
 Avoid eating solids as much as possible for a day or so before your meal.The hunger may give you a little extra motivation to get your meal down faster.


You may still want have something small, like a piece of fruit, a few hours before your meal. This will help hold you over, but won't fill you up prematurely.
 Water can help clear the palate and help you digest your food. A small sip will also prevent your throat from getting too dry. However, avoid drinking down all your water as it can fill you up and waste precious time. Just think of it as a food lubricant.
 Place large quantities of food into your mouth at once, but only break down the food as much as needed in order to swallow it. You don't want to choke, but you don't want to waste time chewing food unnecessarily either. As soon as you know it won't get stuck, swallow it down so you can move on to the next mouthful.


If you are eating something that is bigger than you can fit in your mouth at once, like hot dogs, hamburgers or pizza, figure out the best way to break the food down with your hands to make it faster to eat. For example, you can rip your hot dogs and buns in half and dip them in water to help break down the bread and be able to fit both halves in your mouth at once., This will only slow you down and waste your oxygen. Focus on breathing in between bites. Block everything else out.
 Use the force of gravity to help the food pass quickly down your esophagus. Tilt your head back so the food can travel down your throat easily.


The esophagus is only 2-3 inches on average. After a long enough time training to eat fast, you will be able to slightly expand your esophagus and eat more at once., If you're eating something with a spoon, use a large spoon and completely fill it before bringing it to your mouth. If you're eating pasta with a fork, twirl a large amount onto the fork.


Try shoveling the food in. This is easiest with a bowl, and you can literally use your eating utensil to shovel large amounts of food into our mouth.
 If you're out of time and there is still food in front of you, just shove it all in your mouth. You can always chew it after the event finishes. The important thing is just to get as much of it in there as quickly as possible.

