 To start your braid, you must first have tangle-free strands. Brush through your hair to remove any knots, and mist it lightly with water if your hair is very busy. Avoid braiding your hair the same day you wash it, as it will be very slick as a result of being clean and be difficult to braid. Whenever possible, wait 1-2 days after your most recent shower to create this braided look.
 You will be creating a faux-headband, so your hair should be parted in a line along where a real headband would naturally sit on your head. Use a comb to mark your part from ear to ear, in an even section. Try to avoid creating a jagged or bumpy line; a smooth part will create the best braid.
 An inverted braid is started the same way a traditional braid is, with three pieces of hair. Brush all your hair in the same direction from one ear to the other. Then, at the ear you started brushing from pick up three, even sections of hair.
 You will start with a traditional braid, but unlike a normal braid or braided headband, move your pieces under rather than over the center section. Pick up the right piece, and move it under the middle section. Then, take the left piece and move it under the middle section.
 As you move your braid along, you will want to add other pieces of hair to it. When you are moving the right section, pick up another small piece of hair and incorporate it into the right section before placing it under the middle section. Do the same for the left section, by picking up additional hair and moving it under the center section.
 Work your way across your parted section, adding in small pieces to your braid as you go. Make sure to always add the strands under the center section rather than over, in order to make the braid stick out from your head. Your braid may be thicker on the side you end on than the side you started on as a result of gathering a bit more hair.
 When you get to your opposite ear with the braid, tie it off with a small clear elastic band. Finger-brush the ends of the strands out, so that you can incorporate the loose unbraided section back into your regular hair. You can also chose to braid the section in a regular braid all the way to the ends, and then secure the tips of this braid with your elastic band.
