 Have a healthy sense of self or good self-esteem. Before you even begin trying to become a fun person, you have to believe you can be a fun person. Nothing is wrong with believing in yourself, and it's looked up to but never looked down on. Most confident people have insecurities.


There are many ways to build confidence or self-esteem. Try making lists of your strengths and accomplishments. People often focus on their downfalls rather than successes. Remind yourself why people should think your fun.
Identify and discount any negative ideas you have about yourself. If you think of yourself negatively, others will follow suit.
It is important to recognize where your weaknesses are and try to fix them.
Don’t be overconfident. Few things are less appealing than egotistic individuals. Don’t be a snob either. People don’t like others who cannot be humble.;
, If you guard yourself or put up walls, no one will get to know you. If they cannot learn more about you, they won’t think you’re fun. Learn to open up.


Be relatable. People want to hang out with others that have similar aspirations and fears. Tell people what yours are. Talk about your life goals, family, other friends, love of puppies, or whatever else makes you tick. Everyone shares basic goals or concerns. Chances are, if you try, you'll find common ground with just about anyone., Don't be afraid to take chances. Think about the fun people you know. They take chances on a regular basis, both socially as well as in their life.


This is hard at first and takes practice. But the more you do it the sooner it will just become a part of you. Don't think too much, regardless of what anyone tells you. Don't overanalyze things and don't spend a ton of time wondering what could go wrong, what someone else in your position would say, or how you should react to what they're going to say next. , Be open to new experiences and different opinions.


Try new things. They can be spontaneous or planned out ahead of time. If a friend wants to see a band play a concert, but you don't like the band, try going anyway. Be open to experiences even if they don’t fit your specific tastes. You can always find ways to have fun.
Everyone is entitled to their opinion. You can still have fun with people even if you don’t agree with their politics or religion. Find things you have in common and emphasize them in conversation. If you know your friend has controversial opinions on a subject, avoid it.