 At your initial consultation with a lawyer, you should describe your case and ask him or her to give a best estimate of how much your case will cost. While a lawyer can’t foresee all circumstances that might occur in your case, he or she can usually give you a good estimate of fees and costs. However, keep in mind that if your case takes an unanticipated turn or becomes significantly more complicated, your costs may increase quite a bit from the original estimate.
 Some lawyers bill by the hour, but other types of billing may be available to you. Talk to your lawyer about your budget and ask about their billing practices before you commit to having her represent you.


Contingency fees are a popular method of billing in personal injury cases. You pay your attorney only a percentage of the amount you recover from the other party when the case is over. However, any expenses that your attorney has throughout your case, like court filing fees, will be your responsibility. You may have to pay some of these expenses up front to the lawyer or as they are incurred throughout your case.
Some attorneys use flat-rate billing when the amount and nature of work is predictable. If you have a routine traffic court matter, a DUI or DWI, an uncontested divorce, or need to have a will drafted, a flat rate might make your costs easier to foresee.
 Many attorneys require you to pay a retainer fee at the beginning of your case in order to hire them to represent you. The amount of a retainer fee will differ from one jurisdiction to the next, and also depends on the type of legal matter that you need the attorney to handle. This fee can be substantial in some cases. Try negotiating with the attorney to arrive at a reduced retainer amount or ask if the retainer can be paid in installments over time.
 Some attorneys will allow you to enter into a payment plan for their services, rather than having to pay a large retainer up front. You could arrange to be billed monthly or biweekly for the lawyer’s services, which may make it easier to budget. You also will be relieved from having to come up with a large sum of money all at once.
 Some states may have programs that provide lawyers at sliding-scale fees, based on your income. Getting legal representation through this type of program could greatly reduce your attorney’s fees. Check with your local or state bar association for information about these types of programs.
 Younger, less experienced lawyers may charge much lower hourly fees than older, more experienced lawyers. As these lawyers may have less business, they may be more willing to consider charging you a flat fee or a discounted rate. They also may have more time to devote to your case. For a relatively simple and straightforward legal matter, you may find a younger lawyer who is well-qualified to handle it at a much lower cost than other lawyers in your area.

