 Typically, in-text citations are indicated through the use of footnotes or endnotes. Immediately after the punctuation mark that follows the borrowed information, mark the citation with a superscript number. The number should correspond to the present number of citations used in the text. You may introduce the name of the author in the sentence, but it is not necessary.


This information is considered fact by all but a few critics.1
Doe believes this to be false.2

, At the end of the page or the end of the paper, cite the author's first and last name and the name of the article. Include the author's name even if you mentioned it in the text itself. Following this information, indicate the city of publication, the name of the publisher, and the year of publication in parentheses. Immediately following this, include the page number on which the borrowed information can be found.


1. Robert Smith and Kevin Williams, Studies on the Human Condition (New York: Big Time Press, 2012), 4-14.
2. John Doe, “A New Perspective” (New York: Major Journal, 2011), 18.
 If you have already cited a source once, abbreviate it in any subsequent footnotes. When a citation immediately follows one from the same source, abbreviate all information except for the page number with the Latin abbreviation "Ibid." When a citation from the same source is separated by other sources, include the last name of the author, the title of the work, and the page number.


1. Robert Smith and Kevin Williams, Studies on the Human Condition (New York: Big Time Press, 2012), 4-14.
2. Ibid., 34.
3. John Doe, “A New Perspective” (New York: Major Journal, 2011), 18.
4. Robert Smith and Kevin Williams, Studies on the Human Condition, 67.
 If your instructor has stated that you should not use footnotes or endnotes, provide the same citation information in parentheses immediately following the borrowed information and before the closing punctuation. Include the full name of the author, the title of the work, the publication city, the name of the publisher, the date of publication, and the page number.


Doe believes this to be false (“A New Perspective” , 18).
“This idea is entirely false” (John Doe, “A New Perspective” , 18).
 If a corporation is responsible for a certain source rather than an individual author, replace the author's name with the corporation name.


The job outlook for this profession appears positive (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook ).
18. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook (Washington, DC: Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2013).

