 As a group admin, it is your task to police them and ensure that your group keeps pulling the interest of the members. Irregular and careless monitoring can make your pins go off-brand, out-of-fashion and thus, ignored. This is even important in a group with lots of pinners. The best way to avoid your pins being ignored is to screen every pinner before adding them to the group. Make sure that all pins are not spammy and have decent quality content.;
, This step has a number of benefits. By opening a group in private, you get an opportunity to collect niche relevant pins for it. Once you think you have enough pins; you can open your group and start sending out invites to the users. This way, you will have some content in-hand to attract pinners to become valued contributors.
 For you are as a group admin, it is important to set a few rules for your board members. You can mention them in the "Description" box on your board. There should be a "no spamming policy" but make sure that you don’t just write "no spamming" and stop. You should mention straightforward anti-spamming guidelines and keep checking your pins regularly. Then, you should also have guidelines related to how many pins a pinner can contribute in a day. This will also help you maintain the quality of your board.
 By removing those who continually break your rules and ignore guidelines, you send a message to your group that you are not there to tolerate any spam activity on your board. You need to remove everyone who creates a nuisance or violates the spirit of your group. You will also have to pay attention towards the quality of your pins. One of the biggest drawbacks of Pinterest boards is that the board members can send out invites to other members to join your board. Thus, you have to control your board very strictly and this is very important because Pinterest reserves the right to shut down any board that has been marked as "Spam" a fixed number of times.
 You need to make sure that you mention your contact details in the "Description" box on the board you manage. This will encourage members and non-members to contact you via email and share their views and ideas etc.

