 Bullying is a serious problem that can have lasting emotional and physical effects. Talk to an authority like a guidance counselor or principal about what’s going on with you. Adults at school are trained to intervene, offer protection, or help you find strategies to deal with the situation.


Talk to a mental health counselor, especially if you afraid for your physical safety or are feeling suicidal. These are serious matters that need to be handled immediately. Approach your guidance counselor and say, “Mr. Alexander, I really need your help with something serious. Can we talk?”
Tell a teacher. If you are being bullied in school, teachers may be the adults you feel closest to. Try saying, “Hi Mr. Taylor. Can I talk to you? Something is really bothering me and I need your advice.”

, Although it is not recommended that parents get directly involved in bullying that goes on at school, you can still let them know what’s going on. A family member can advise you on how to approach adults at school or talk to you about what to do or say when faced with a bully.


Talking about bullying can be hard, so talk to a family member that will support you. Try saying, “Uncle Eric, I really hate going to math class because Kristin constantly makes fun of me. What should I do?”

, If you can’t bring yourself to talk to someone you know, or if you need more assistance, get in contact with someone trained to handle your situation. You can do this by calling a hotline or even sending an anonymous email through a website. Most contact options are anonymous and provide someone to listen to your issues and help you cope.


If you are in the United States and having suicidal thoughts, contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1(800) 273-8255. Also try the website, suicidepreventionlifeline.org, to chat online.
If you are having trouble with bullying in the United States, contact 800-273-8255. Lines are open 24/7. Or try their website at http://crisiscallcenter.org/contact-us/. You can also find resources at https://www.stopbullying.gov/.
If you are having trouble with bullying in the United Kingdom, contact 0808-800-222. Lines are open 24/7. Or try their website at http://www.bullying.co.uk

If you are having trouble with bullying in Australia, contact 1800-55-1800 Lines are open 24/7. Or try their website at http://www.kidshelp.com.au

If you are having trouble with bullying in Canada, contact 800-668-6868 Lines are open 24/7. Or try their website at http://www.kidshelpphone.ca


