 Your doctor is trained to know which medication is likely to work best for the pain you're experiencing. Your doctor will also know what interactions must be avoided or otherwise handled. Many drugs can interfere with existing health issues. They can also cause severe interactions and complications if used with other medications. Always consult with your healthcare professional before taking any medication for pain.


Be aware that most drugs treat acute pain. Chronic pain is far more complex and, to date, there are no known drugs that "cure" chronic pain.;
, Over-the-counter products are divided into two basic groups: paracetamol/acetaminophen-based products and NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). While many of these are safe for temporary aches and pains, you should only use them in accordance with the label directions. Consult with your doctor for long-term medication plans.Talk to the pharmacist and/or your doctor about using over-the-counter medications, especially if you are already taking medications or you have a pre-existing condition. Even OTC pain relievers can cause severe complications for people with health issues such as heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney or liver disease, or internal bleeding.In the US, paracetamol is known as acetaminophen.Paracetamol/acetaminophen can be used to relieve fever, headaches, and other body aches and pains. It does not reduce inflammation. It has fewer side effects than other pain medications and is usually safe for children.NSAIDs include aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen. These can be used to relieve fever and pain. They also relieve inflammation and swelling from mild injuries. They are usually not recommended to be taken for more than 10 days. When taken for a long time to manage chronic pain, many NSAIDs can increase your risk of heart attack and stroke.In some countries, the mild opiate codeine is legal for purchase over-the-counter. In many countries, including the US, medicines containing codeine are generally available only by prescription.Be careful not to overdose. For example, an overdose of acetaminophen can cause damage to your liver and even death. Since so many medications, from headache pills to cough syrup, contain acetaminophen, it can be easy to take too much. Read the labels on OTC medications carefully.Do not take several types of pain medications together. They may have negative interactions and could cause damage.Topical pain relievers, such as lotions, creams, and sprays, are also available. These may help relieve pain from arthritis or muscle pain.You may want to look into nutritional supplements, such as glucosamine, which can ease joint pain in those suffering from arthritis., If OTC medications do not adequately manage your pain, you can speak with your doctor about prescription painkillers. It is important to consult with your doctor so that s/he can prescribe a medication that takes into account any pre-existing conditions, your level of health, the type of pain involved, and other factors. Do not attempt to use prescription painkillers unless they have been prescribed specifically for you by your doctor.Common prescriptions for pain may include muscle relaxants, prescription-strength NSAIDs, or opiate painkillers (e.g., codeine, Percocet, Vicodin).
Injections are a possibility for pain relief, such as a local anesthetic, a steroid injection (anti-inflammatory) or a phenol injection (a nerve block/destroyer). Your doctor can help you decide whether this treatment is appropriate for you.
Antidepressants are common and effective treatment for chronic pain, even when depression is not present.Antidepressants may be used to treat pain from arthritis, diabetes, shingles, nerve pain, migraine, back pain, and more., If you have persistent muscle pain, trigger point injection may be helpful. In this treatment, a healthcare provider uses a small needle to inject a substance into a trigger point (a knot of muscle that will not relax). Sometimes this substance is an anesthetic and/or steroid; other times it is a saline solution.This type of treatment can be used to treat fibromyalgia and other chronic muscle pains. It is usually used when other treatments have not worked.
This procedure must be done by a trained healthcare provider. Never attempt it yourself.
 It is important to take any medication prescribed to you for pain relief. This sounds straightforward but in reality, many people either forget or forgo their medication for various reasons. Sometimes, people may believe that the medicine is no longer helping. Other times, people will stop taking a medication when they feel better, even if the prescribed course is not complete. Not taking a medication as prescribed can cause complications and even other health issues.For example, say that you hurt the left side of your back. Without medication to take the pain away, you will unconsciously favor that side. In turn, other muscles will compensate for this favoritism, and even when your back is healed, muscle memory will continue to overuse the right side. An imbalance in your core muscle strength can, in turn, leave you with back problems, leaving you back at square one, and perhaps even worse than before.

