 Using a trotline can take some effort and time, but it can yield a good bounty of crabs. A trotline is basically just a line that is anchored between two buoys and set with bait. The crabs get a hold of the bait and then you draw up the line.A good time to set a trotline is a still morning after a hot, muggy night, because the crabs tend to be running. Mornings are good to remove the trotline, because the crabs are more sluggish and less likely to release the line when you draw it up.
The best places to set a trotline is parallel to the shore, where the bottom drops away. Typically this happens between 5 and 12 feet deep. Some people maintain that you should run your trotline over a shell bottom.
 Trotlining, which can yield a lot of crabs if done correctly, does require a boat. You can't set a trotline off a dock, for instance. So before you collect the rest of the equipment make sure that you have access to boat, first. You can get the different equipment online or at the marina where you'll be crabbing.You'll need to get at two buoys and 5 lines (between 20 and 100 feet): a main line, 2 lines to attach to the buoys and 2 to attach to the anchors. For the line, there are different kinds. Decide between a yellow ¼ inch poly line or a leaded line, although some people consider the 5⁄32 inch (0.4 cm) nylon to be the best material for the main line. The poly line is less expensive, thinner, and it floats. However, it can be uncomfortable to pull up and has to be weighted so that it rests beneath the surface and doesn't get tangled up with your line. The leaded line is more expensive, but are easy to pull, coil easily, and sink on their own. Make sure that the buoys are marked with your name and address. The buoys make it so that boats are less likely to cut through your line.
You'll want a main anchor (about 15 lbs) and an anchor for the down current end (about 5 lbs). This will keep the line from moving out of position and will allow you to find your line again. You'll also need 2 lengths of chain to weight down your line, unless you're using a leaded line.
The dip net helps you to collect the crabs as you draw the line out of the water. It can take a bit of practice to scoop them up and deposit them in the cooler, but the more you do it the easier it will become.
The prop stick is attached to your boat. You attach the line to the prop stick when you're running the line (pulling it out of the water). This will make the line come up more smoothly and not knock off the crabs. Along with this you'll need a gaff or hook to pull up the line from the bottom.
You'll also need snoods and clips for hooking the bait to the main line. Snoods (also called trots) are 6 inch (15.2 cm) dropper lines with attached bait that you attach to the main line with the 3 inch (7.6 cm) stainless steel mini-clips.
 Tie the bait onto the line using the snoods and the mini-clips. You'll do this every 4 to 5 feet (1.2 to 1.5 m) on the main line. The line needs to be weighted at the bottom on both ends with chain. You can use 2 to 3 feet (0.6 to 0.9 m) of galvanized chain. The weights will be connected to the buoys by a line, so you can draw up the line when it's time to check it.Take the 4 smaller lengths of rope (they should be about 20 feet). Attach 1 of these ropes to an anchor, attach the rope to the buoy. Take the second 20 foot (6.1 m) rope and attach it to the same buoy and attach a length of chain to the other end of it. Attach your main line to the chain. Do the same for the other side.
Salted eel is considered to be the best bait. Cut it into 3 inch (7.6 cm) pieces, 1⁄2 to 1 inch (1.3 to 2.5 cm) in diameter. Chicken necks or bull lips (also cut 1/2 by 3 inches) work pretty well too.
 This may sound simple, but it's difficult to focus on dropping the line and working the boat. You may need a buddy along with you to help handle the boat. You also want to make sure that you aren't dropping your line around other crabbers dropping their lines, since there is a good chance they'll get tangled up together.


Drop the first weight and buoy. As the tide and the wind carry you, unspool the line, adding snoods and bait as you go. When you get to the end of your line, place the second buoy and drop the second anchor.
Work your line with the wind and the tide, because it is difficult to run the line even without the boat being pushed all over the place. You'll want to let the boat drift as you're dropping the line, because that way it will follow the currents and you can focus on the line itself.
 Once you've finished dropping the line, take your boat back to the start and use your hook to catch and slowly bring the main line to the surface of the water. Slip the line over your roller (that is mounted to the boat). Let line rise from the water at about a 30 to 40 degree angle and keep it taut.


You'll net the crabs in the water as they come up to the surface. Be as quick as you can, because crabs tend to release the bait when they break the surface. It's often best to have 2 people, 1 to work the line and the other to net the crabs.
Try to avoid casting your shadow onto the line, as that can cause the crabs to spook and drop off the line.
 You can repeat this process several times in a morning, if you're quick about it. Once you've done the first go around, drop the line once more and make sure that you've got all the bait that you need on the line. Wait a bit once the line is set and then go through pulling it up again.
 Once you're finished trolling for crab you want to make sure that you're storing your equipment properly, otherwise you won't get as many uses out of it. Different people swear by different storage methods, including putting the trotline in the freezer, but you should ask the manufacturer of your trotline, how best to store it.


One of the main ways to store a trotline and any still-attached bait in a "pickle," a strong brine solution, that will help preserve it. Make this solution with 4 lbs of salt for every 5 gallons (18.9 L). A 5 gallon (18.9 L) bucket stores about 750-feet of 5/32-inch trotline. The consistency will be right when a raw potato or egg floats on the surface.
Chicken necks need to be stored in a refrigerator (preferably an old one and not the main one).

