 Older dogs like things to stay the same. They are often set in their ways, and find comfort in routine. For instance, try to keep their feeding schedule, exercise routine, and sleeping environment the same. This will allow them to have a stable and comfortable environment as they age. If their environment remains a source of comfort than they may not become as clingy.For example, if they normally sleep in your room, do not move them to a different place because they have started waking up in the middle of the night. They are likely just anxious and need comforting. Moving them to a new place may cause more anxiety and clinginess.
 Some dogs will become more clingy in their old age because they are losing their senses. For example, they may find it much harder to see and hear as they age. As a result, they want to be close to you so that they feel safe and comforted. If you notice signs of vision loss (bumping into walls and furniture), or hearing loss (lack of response when you call them), you should try the following tips:Do not move furniture. You may feel that moving around furniture and opening up the house will make it easier for your dog to navigate.
It is especially important to keep their bed, food and water bowls, and toys in the same place.
Scent the rooms in your house differently, so that they determine where they are based on the small.
 Another way to keep your dog comfortable as they age is to continue providing them with daily exercise. You may feel that you should stop walking them because they are getting older, but it is actually important to continue their exercise routine. This can actually help them to delay some of the signs of aging. If your dog has become more clingy they will also enjoying engaging in activities with you.Do not strain your older dog by taking them on a long and strenuous walk. Instead, take them for a short walk up the street to stimulate them and give them a mild form of exercise.
If they have mobility issues, then you can engage in gentle play at home.
 If your dog is feeling disoriented as a result of vision or hearing loss and aging, you should provide them with some added attention and comfort. What may appear to be additional clinginess, could actually just be your dog trying to locate you in the house. For example, if your older dog is struggling with vision and hearing they may want to stay close to you so that they do not get lost and feel alone or abandoned.


Provide your dog with gentle contact so that they know you are close.
If you see that your dog is disoriented, you should slowly approach them and then touch them so that they can reorient themselves to you.

