 Jails house inmates who are awaiting trial or who are serving a sentence of no more than one year. Prisons house inmates serving a term of more than one year.If the person you wish to communicate with is currently in jail, visit the website of the jail. Jail websites often have helpful information and resources, including the jail's physical address, an inmate database, and the jail's mail policy.


If you are not sure where the person you want to contact is incarcerated, use the jail's online inmate database, or telephone the jail with your questions.;
, Some jails require you to include the inmate's name and booking number with the address on the envelope. Locate the inmate's booking number by using the inmate database, or call the jail and request the inmate's booking number for the purpose of sending a piece of mail to the jail.
 On the outside of the envelope, write the address in the center. On the first line, write the inmate's name and booking number. On the second line, write the physical address of the jail, or the P.O. box where the jail accepts inmate mail.On the third line, write the city, state, and zip code.
 In the top right corner of the outside of the envelope, write your name and return address. On the first line, write your first and last name. On the second line, write your street address. On the third line, write your city, state, and zip code.


Leave the rest of the envelope clean. Some jails specifically prohibit stickers on envelopes because they can conceal contraband.Other jails will not accept an envelope that has a stain or that smells of perfume, cologne, or some other substance., All incoming and outgoing mail to and from the jail is typically subject to search.Do not send information that you would not want the jail staff to read. This includes information related to the inmate's' legal representation, since the mail is not privileged or confidential.


Most topics are acceptable, so write about anything you want. If you want to write a letter of a romantic or sexual nature, you can, as long as you are comfortable with jail officials reading it as well.Refrain from writing about illegal activities or ongoing investigations related to the inmate's case. These topics could get your letter withheld or get the inmate in trouble., Jails have a list of items that will not be accepted through the mail. These rules are intended to maintain safety in the jail. Commonly prohibited items include:


Greeting cards;
Food and candy;
Items with crayon, gel-ink, glue, or white-out;
Cash and checks;
Sexually suggestive or gang-related pictures; and
Hardback and leather-bound books., Send your envelope as your normally would, whether by depositing it in the mail or taking it to the post office. Do not use a courier or delivery service, as your delivery may be refused.Be sure to include the proper amount of postage for the weight of the envelope.
 The jail website may contain an inmate database and instructions for sending email to an inmate, if the jail offers that service. Using the service may be as simple as locating the inmate's name within the database and clicking on an email icon.Although you can send an email to an inmate, the inmate will not typically receive the email in an electronic form, unless the jail provides computer and internet access to inmates. Instead, jail staff will print the message, read it, and deliver it to the inmate, usually on the next day. The inmate will not be able to email you back; he or she must respond with a letter of his or her own.Observe any rules about email. For example, you may be asked to limit your correspondence to two messages per day. The messages often must be no more than a single page in length and contain no attachments or pictures.