 Every office has sensitive issues that trigger others to react, potentially working themselves into a frenzy. What you want to do is avoid topics that make coworkers and managers think about these issues. Such discretion can save you from gossip and situations that make you look like you’re taking sides.Watch and listen to others when they seem to be in conflict in the office in order to determine what these issues are.
 Hitting “reply all” on an email allows everyone on the list to read what you are saying. Restrict your use of this button to information that every single person needs to know.Using “reply all” is also a tactic for showing off, thus making it a bit of a political move.
When someone uses "reply all" to ask an unnecessary question or to display how much extra work they are putting in, you know they are using it to get ahead.
Be sure to use the single “reply” button on mass emails, or go talk to the sender in person.
 Although you should do your best to stay out of office gossip, you do need to stay informed so that you don’t find yourself embroiled in an office scandal, or offend someone, or become an office outcast.Don’t seek out gossip conversations, but it is ok to eavesdrop once in a while so that you can stay informed.
Gossip isn’t the only time important information is imparted. Read between the lines when a coworker gives you instructions or your boss makes an announcement. Watch body language for positive or negative attitudes, for example.
 Complaining about your job at work is never a good idea, especially not if you are trying to stay out of office politics. Restrict work complaints to those you live with so that you don’t give anyone fodder for gossip, or expose your stance on an issue—this can place you in a camp with a specific person at work, involving you in the politics.If you have a truly important issue that you repeatedly complain about, it might be best to take it to your boss, especially if it is an issue that is disrupting your personal life.

