 Your diet significantly affects how you look and feel like you're aging. Eating a healthy, “anti-aging” diet will fight free radicals to reduce signs of aging. Drink plenty of water (8-12 glasses a day) and eat eight to ten servings daily of fruits and vegetables. Avoid processed foods and sugars, which contain chemicals that can cause your skin to age prematurely.Specific “beauty foods” have been shown to benefit your look, as well.


Dine on salmon three times a week or other fish containing omega 3 fatty acids like tuna, trout, herring or mackerel.Excellent fresh produce for skin health include: pears, blueberries and other berries, tomatoes, beans, dark chocolate, apples, artichokes, carrots, red grapes, pecans, black plums, and the spice turmeric.Broccoli, cabbage and avocado are some of the best produce for age defying.Healthy and youthful looking hair requires protein, omega-3’s found in fish, vitamins A and C that you get from green leafy vegetables like kale, and zinc, which is abundant in nuts.If your skin has been damaged from sun exposure, incorporate soy into your diet regularly., Vitamins and nutrients aren’t just important for your overall health, some of them can aid in keeping skin looking youthful. Selenium fights free radicals and can help prevent wrinkles. Copper, which you shouldn’t eat but can come in a cream form, can improve fine lines and damage from the sun. Ingest enough calcium to inhibit premature skin aging and help skin to rejuvenate.Consult your doctor about your diet and take supplements if you do not get the daily requirements from your food.
 If you’ve ever seen a doctor, they’ve probably told you that exercise is important to keep your heart healthy and lower cholesterol. Fortunately, getting your blood pumping carries oxygen and nutrients to your skin, which helps cell turnover and promotes a youthful look. Gentle weight training can increase muscle strength and tone to give you a leaner, more youthful look.Ideally, adults should get 30 minutes of moderate exercise every day.Exercise in a way that’s enjoyable for you. Walk or jog, ride a bike, swim, do aerobics or pilates, or workout at home with light weights or simple exercises like squats and push ups.
Consult with your doctor before beginning a new exercise program.
 Stress releases a hormone called cortisol in your body.Cortisol is a major aging hormone that affects multiple body systems and can cause weight gain, interfere with sleep, and harm your circulatory system.Lower your stress level by doing yoga, meditating, reading, singing – whatever calms your nerves. Your physical and aesthetic body will benefit.
 It’s not news that smoking is unhealthy. Smoking cigarettes, however, can also increase how your skin ages. Studies suggest that you can correlate getting early wrinkles with how much you have smoked and for how long. Smoking removes oxygen and nutrients – the opposite of the positive effects of exercise – and increases free radicals in your body, so quit smoking to improve both your health and appearance.Talk to your doctor if you need help to quit smoking. There are gums, patches, and medications that can make it easier.
 Get at least 8 hours of sleep each night to help avoid getting wrinkles. Your body needs 7-8 hours of sleep to repair itself, and this includes your skin. It also matters when you sleep, since most regeneration happens between 10pm and 2am. Go to bed between 9pm and midnight to make a difference in when you get wrinkles.