 It’s rare for a person with social anxiety—or any kind of anxiety about speaking in a social setting—to feel equally uncomfortable or panicked in every social setting.Maybe you’re more comfortable in rooms that you’re already familiar with, or when you’re with a certain friend or family member. Pay attention to which social situations trigger you and which don’t, and try to gain social confidence from those settings in which you’re already comfortable. These could include:


Talking in a room or building that you’re already familiar with.
Talking in social settings when you’re with a friend or family member.
Talking with people about a topic on which you’re already knowledgeable.
 In any social setting, it’s important to be an engaged listener and to pay close attention to the people you’re sharing a conversation with.This will help you feel more comfortable when you do decide to talk; if you focus on the person who is speaking and engage with them mentally and emotionally, you will feel less anxiety when you have an opportunity to speak in the conversation., When you are conversing or speaking in a social setting, speak to people with direct engagement. It’s best not to come across as aggressive or pushy, but you should come across as being open and honest.That said, even people who are comfortable in social settings sometimes feel anxious or stressed; these feelings will often be worse for individuals with social anxiety. To avoid stress in a social conversation:


Take a few deep breaths.
Step outside of the room; take a few minutes to calm down.
Use humor to diffuse a potentially stressful situation.
 At some point, you’ll have learned enough from listening to others speak and from talking socially in safe, comfortable environments, that you will start feeling more comfortable in general social settings. Approach all social conversations with a focus on listening to the people around you, and when you speak, do so—at least initially—with an emphasis on finding common ground, sharing your emotions with the other members of the conversation, and confidently contributing your own thoughts and opinions.