 Just like an orchestra is comprised of all different instruments, life is full of different people. Your uniqueness adds value to the world. Come to terms with who you are, and recognize that you don't need to change the fundamental aspects of your identity.


Your gender identity, race, sexual orientation, disability, skin color, clothes preferences, and size are all valid. You should not need to change them (or hide them) in order to get basic respect.
You are allowed to like whatever you want. Don't listen to elitists who say that something is "too girly," "too childish," or otherwise "not good enough."

, Self-improvement is a good thing, but so is recognizing that you are fundamentally human. It may not be practical or possible to please everyone all the time, constantly suppress your temper, or whittle your curvy figure down to a size 2. Accept that you can't control everything, and that it's okay to have flaws. Instead, focus on what is under your control, and let the rest go.


You are allowed to make mistakes sometime. Everyone does. Learn from them and move on.
Not every opinion, social message, or piece of advice is valid.
People tend to judge you less than you think.
 Grateful people are happy people. Every night, write down two things you are thankful for about today. Are you happy about your friend's kind words, your awesome science project, the nice weather today? Write in it every day, and you will feel yourself slowly becoming a happier person.
 Your day shouldn't consist of mainly work. Give yourself plenty of time for hobbies, loved ones, and general relaxation. Set aside a specific time each day where you can do something you enjoy.


Place a reasonable limit on time spent browsing the web, as this can overtake more important things like friends and hobbies.
 Large tasks can feel overwhelming and may cause you to panic or freeze. Instead, do one small part of the task: write a rough draft of one paragraph, spend 20 minutes on calculus, or sketch the outline of your presentation. This will help you feel better, and by breaking it into pieces, the task becomes more reasonable.


If this happens to you often, tell your doctor. You may have an anxiety disorder, a treatable condition that may affect your ability to work.
 After about an hour of intense concentration, your neurons get tired and stop working as well. You can fix this by taking 5 minutes to do something else: stand up and stretch, get a drink, talk to a friend, or do something fun. This will help prevent burnout. When you sit back to work, you'll be more focused and productive.
 Fresh air and sunlight are important to your physical and emotional health. Something as simple as a 10-minute walk after supper each day can give you a significant boost.


Try setting up a basketball hoop and shooting hoops when you're stressed or you need to think.
Bring a loved one on a walk around the block so you can catch up with each other.
 This may be your job, a volunteer opportunity, or your personal relationships. Find a way to help others. When you are making the world a better place, you feel better too.


Consider how you can use your unique skills. For example, an engineering student probably couldn't do a good job building a school for impoverished kids, but she could work to design infrastructure or teach the kids about her field.
Everyone has some sort of skill. Maybe you're good at mentoring kids, selling work and donating part of the profits, or writing work that inspires others to do good things.
 Work on being patient, and reaching out to others who are having bad days. Perform random acts of kindness. Approaching others in a gentle and understanding manner is instrumental in feeling good and building relationships.

