 Training should really start from day one when the Boxer is still a puppy. If possible, don't wait until the dog is adult to start training or they will already have bad habits. With that in mind, Boxers are not necessarily any different than other dogs when it comes to basic training. If your dog does not know simple commands, such as sit and heel, then start with those. It is important to begin training by building trust between you and your dog. Keep training sessions happy and short and give the dog a break in between lessons for play and a drink.


For example, rid your dog of barking issues by training them when to speak and when to be silent. You can do this by praising them for barking, reinforcing the word "speak," and giving the animal a treat. Later when the dog is barking, teach them the word "quiet," and reinforce the command when they become silent with a treat or a silent rub.
 For instance, you will want to train your dog to avoid jumping up on people. Begin training by walking away backward and telling your dog the key phrase of "off" or "down." Only praise or reward your dog when all of their feet are back on the ground. You might consider teaching your dog to sit to greet newcomers as a substitute behavior for their jumping.


You can also train your Boxer to "give." This will help you ward off any guarding behavior later. You, as a dog parent, should be able to take any possession or food away from your dog. But in order to teach that to a dog, start out by doing an exchange. Offer a reward at first every time the dog gives you what you are trying to take away.
Then eventually begin substituting food with praise until eventually all it takes is a little praise to motivate the dog.
 Crate training is recommended for Boxers as a means of housebreaking the dog while you are away. Teach your Boxer to kennel by making sure that the crate becomes your dog's safe place. This draws on a dog's natural instinct to have a den.It should not be a punishment area, but instead work with your dog to make it a fun area by associating the word "kennel" or "go to bed" or something similar with the act of kenneling up. Be consistent with your phrasing, and use treats as needed to initially entice the animal into the pen. Make sure that your Boxer's crate makes them feel comfortable and does not become a source of anxiety for the dog.Here are the basic steps to crate training:


Leave the door open and stock the crate with treats so the dog discovers them and thinks what a great place the crate is.
Praise the dog when they go in of their own accord.
Feed the dog in the crate so they associate it with good things.
The first time you shut the door, praise the dog when they are quiet and only close the door for a minute. Gradually extend the time the door is closed, until they accept it as a great thing because they get a reward afterwards.

