 Turmeric is a root that looks similar to ginger root, often carried in grocery stores and health food stores. You can buy whole yellow turmeric root in bulk and store them in the refrigerator for use within a month.Store whole turmeric root in an air-tight container, layering the roots between clean dry paper towels. Change the paper towels once they become damp so the roots do not mold.
 You can also find turmeric in powder form in the spice aisle of your local grocery store. It should appear bright yellow and often comes in a clear, glass bottle. You can store ground turmeric in a cool, dark space or on your spice rack, away from direct light., Peel the skin off the root with a peeler and finely mince the root as you would a ginger root or garlic. You can then saute turmeric root with onions, carrots, and celery. Add in a healthy fat source, like coconut milk, as well as other vegetables, to make stews and curries.You can also add turmeric root, in fresh root or ground form, to soups to act as a spice base. Add a dash of turmeric to chicken noodle soups or coconut milk based soups.
 Turmeric’s peppery flavor works well with roasted vegetables and adds depth to vegetable dishes. Roast cauliflower with olive oil, turmeric, cumin, and some fresh black pepper. You can then put the roasted cauliflower over quinoa for a healthy, filling vegetarian meal.


The recipe for roasted cauliflower with turmeric and cumin can be found here:http://www.thekitchn.com/recipe-cauliflower-steaks-recipes-from-the-kitchn-195541.
 You can also put turmeric in chicken or beef stir frys, as well as tofu stir frys. Turmeric adds a warm flavor to hot dishes and goes well with the lighter flavors in a stir fry.


The recipe for chicken stir fry with turmeric can be found here: http://www.seniorlifestyle.com/5-turmeric-recipes-combat-alzheimers/.
 If you tend to jump start your mornings with a smoothie, you may want to consider adding turmeric to your next morning smoothie. Pair ⅛ ground turmeric to a smoothie with carrots, raspberries, goji berries, and coconut milk or almond milk. You can also use fresh turmeric in place of ground turmeric. The taste of turmeric is often masked by the other flavors in smoothies., Turmeric tea is a great way to consume turmeric, especially if you are fighting off an illness or a cold.


You can make turmeric-ginger tea by boiling ¼ teaspoon ground turmeric and ¼ teaspoon ground ginger in 1 cup water. Let the tea simmer on the stove for 10 minutes. Then, add a splash of milk or soy milk and strain the tea into a tea cup. Add honey or sugar to taste., You can also add turmeric to hot chocolate to create a warm, peppery drink.Combine 1 cup milk, coconut milk, or almond milk with 1 tablespoon unsweetened cacao powder, 2 teaspoons honey, ¼ teaspoon ground turmeric (or ½ teaspoon grated fresh turmeric root), and ¼ teaspoon cinnamon in a small saucepan. Bring the mixture to a simmer, whisking the mixture until the spices and the cocoa are well combined.
 Turmeric cake is popular in middle eastern baking, as it is simple to make, savory, and vegan. It has a bright yellow color, reminiscent of turmeric, and is often served with one pistachio in the middle of each slice of cake.To make turmeric cake you will need 3 cups self-rising flour, ⅔ cups sugar, 1 tablespoon ground turmeric, 1 ½ cup unsweetened shredded coconut, ¾ cup vegetable oil, 1 ¾ cup sweetened almond, coconut, or soy milk, 1 tablespoon tahini, and shelled pistachios as a garnish.
Start by preheating your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Then, coat the bottom and sides of an 11 x 7 baking dish with the tahini.
In a large mixing bowl, combine the flour, sugar, turmeric, shredded coconut, and a pinch of salt. Make sure it is mixed well.
Add the vegetable oil and the milk. Stir the ingredients together until they are just combined, careful not to over mix.
Pour the batter into the prepared baking dish and decorate the top of the cake with the pistachios. Bake the cake for 45 minutes in your preheated oven. Let the cake sit for 15 minutes before cutting and serving it.

