 When you are wrapping a cylinder-shaped gift, you can easily measure out the amount of paper using the gift as a guide. Place the gift on the wrapping paper and make sure that the paper can go all the way around the cylinder. Cut the paper so that there is about a ½ inch of overlap. For the ends of the gift, pull up the paper on either side. The paper should be able to reach the center of the gift on both sides.It is always a good idea to give yourself a little bit of extra paper.
Use a durable wrapping paper that does not tear easily.;
, Once the paper has been cut, place the gift in the center of the paper with the good side of the wrapping paper facing downwards. Make a tiny ¼ inch fold on one of edges of the long side of paper. Place a strip of double-sided tape along this fold. Then wrap the paper around the cylinder and seal with the tape.Check to make sure the gift is in the center of the wrapping paper and adjust accordingly by sliding it into the middle.
 Begin with one end of the gift. Take the seam of the wrapping paper and fold it into the center. Hold down the piece with one finger and then with your other hand grab the edge of the paper and pull it into the centre. This should begin to fold the paper like a fan with pleats. As you move around the cylinder you can use your finger to crease the pleats. Continue this process all the way around the gift.Once finished complete the same process on the other end of the gift.
 After you have created the fan fold at both ends of the gift you can remove any excess paper by cutting it off and taping the end down using double-sided tape. Alternatively, you could cut a small circle of wrapping paper, either using the same paper or a complimentary color, and tape it at the centre of the end to cover up any blemishes., Stand the cylinder-shaped gift upright and place it on the centre of a long piece of ribbon. Pull the ribbon up the side of the gift and tie a knot in the center at the top of the gift. Cut the ribbon so that there are two long tails of ribbon on either side. Then add a bow to the center of the gift on top of the ribbon knot.


If desired, you can curl the ribbon and let it hang down the sides of the gift.
Alternatively, could put a bow on the top of the gift without adding a ribbon for a simpler look.
Choose a bow and ribbon that complement the color of the wrapping paper. For example, if you are using a red paper with gold stars, you may want to use a gold ribbon and a gold bow.

