 Electronic kill traps are widely considered to be the most effective method of removing mice and rats from your home. They are also safer for non-rodents in your home, and easier to dispose of compared to other kill traps. While they are more expensive, they are the quickest way to rid your home of mice and rats, and are the most humane type of kill trap. (Live traps, however, are the most effective way to get squirrels out of your home.)


There are kill trap options for trapping mice that you can use without ever seeing or touching a mouse., Poison can cause rodents to die in your walls or attic, leading to unpleasant and hard-to-remove aromas. They are also dangerous to pets and children. Considering the relative effectiveness and safety of traps, you do not need to use poison to rid your home of rodents.
 Regardless of the type of trap you choose, effective baiting is vital. Depending on the type of trap you’re using and the type of rodent you’re after, different amounts of bait will be ideal.


For rats, leave traps baited with a small amount of food, but not set, for a few days in a high activity area. This allows rats to become comfortable with the presence of the trap.Since mice are more curious, pre-baiting traps is usually unnecessary. Use only a very small amount of bait when trapping mice to ensure the mouse springs the trap.
For squirrels, use plenty of bait, as you want to lure them fully into a live trap.
 This is extremely important. Set more traps than you think you need. The number of rodents is almost certainly higher than you think.This is true for both rats and mice. Rodents breed so quickly that professionals recommend that you set a dozen traps for each rodent you see.Continue to trap as long as you see any evidence of rodent activity., Rodents will continue to use established paths, which will almost always be along the base of walls, counters, or similar vertical structure.Place traps perpendicularly against walls where you know rats and mice are traveling. Place traps wherever else you find evidence of rodent presence as well. On pathways you are certain of, place two traps side by side to catch rodents that may jump over the first trap they encounter.


For squirrels, place traps along the wall in the attic or crawlspace, near the bottom of the trees outside your home, and directly on your roof, especially near trees or power lines that may be routes that squirrels take into your home., Empty your traps, re-bait them, and reset them as quickly as possible. If a certain bait worked, use it again. Nonetheless, vary the bait from time to time. Change the bait you’re using from time to time to increase a trap’s appeal.For instance, switch from one type of food to another, or, with mice, switch from food to nesting material.


Check live traps twice a day. Rodents in traps can quickly die from the stress of being trapped., Keep kids and pets away from traps of all types. This is important to for both your loved ones' safety and for the effectiveness of the traps. Do not touch pets prior to setting trap, as the scent will make rodents avoid the trap.