 Even with phone screens separating you, there are still ways to show that you're actively listening and receptive to your friend's troubles. While your friend tells the story, you can text little comments that make them feel validated like, "That's awful", or, "I'm so sorry about that."


Make sure your words are truly genuine. Let the person lead the conversation. Don't rush in to offer help or fix things. Simply be present for your friend.;
, If someone you care about is having a bad day, lift their spirits with laughter. Even if you aren’t close by, you can send your friend or family member something funny. Tell a joke. Take a silly photo of yourself and attach it to the message. Or, send a link to a hilarious YouTube video.Before using humor, think about your relationship with the person and what they have responded to in the past. Some people are more receptive to humor than others.
 It is often said that when you know someone well enough, you can communicate with a look. Show your best friend or significant other how well you know them by sending emoji-only messages. Not using any real words will make it more fun!


Tell them they can only respond with emojis, too. You might start the conversation with a smiley face or show two friends together. Then, let your imagination run wild.
 Sometimes, it can be hard to know just the right thing to say to someone who’s feeling down. In these instances, an inspirational quote can lift someone’s mood. Try to send something relating to what your friend is going through.


For example, if a friend bombed a job interview, you might send this Victor Kiam quote, “Even if you fall on your face, you’re still moving forward.”Brainyquote.com is a great source for inspirational quotes to send friends., If you are able to see your loved one, you might send a quick text to schedule a get-together. If your friend is feeling lonely, just knowing that you’ll be there to keep them company can go a long way towards making them feel better.


You might send, “Hey, I know you had a rough day. How about pizza and a movie later?”

, Instead of just saying "bye" at the end of the conversation, you can say something a little cuter. Try "I hope your dreams are sweeter than your day was!" or "Have an awesome afternoon. I can't wait to talk to you again later," or something along those lines, for a more creative sign-off that might make the other person smile a bit.

