 Look for signs of chipmunk around your property. See if you can find a chipmunk hole. If you have a patio you should look on the border of it. If you have a deck, you should check under it. If you can't find any signs of chipmunks, this method works just as well on squirrels. Find a spot free from grass and under a tree.


The tree needs to have a branch that's at least somewhat horizontal and close enough to hang something from it.
 Find a box at least 12in x 12in. Cut all closing flaps off with scissors. Cut two holes in the center of the top of the box about 2in apart. Then get a long piece of weed wacker wire or twine, at least long enough to go over a low branch in the tree and still have plenty to spare. Thread it through the holes and tie a knot to about 1 1/2in above the box.
 Move the excess string around so that when you hold it from about a foot up the string the box is decently flat. Throw the box over a tree branch that hovers over the spot free from grass. Give out 16 feet (4.9 m) more of string (still attached to the original piece) starting from where it's touching the tree branch.
 Go to the spot where the very tip of the string is. Tie the string to a medium sized, thick stick. You need to tie enough of the string so that the box hovers at least a foot above the ground. Drive the stick into the ground.
 Release the stick from the ground thus letting the box fall. Mark where the box fell. You can do this by tracing a light indention in the dirt with a stick.
 Pull the box back up and drive the stick back in to secure it. Inside the border of where the box fell, dig a hole 7in deep. Make sure it's to the shape of the box. Place the box over the hole to make sure it's the same size. Then pull the box back up and dig an extra inch each way so the box falls in when you lower it. Keep testing your trap and enlarging the hole until the box falls straight in every time you release the stick.
 Fill the bottom with about 3in of some kind of seed like pumpkin seeds or sunflower seeds. Wait patiently and quietly for a chipmunk to come jump in the trap to have a feast. Then release the box. What will happen is he will probably try to jump out of the hole and escape, but because of all the bird food under him, he won't be able to jump because there is no support, and he'll be trapped.
 Chipmunks can chew through cardboard, so if you don't want it to escape the trap, you'll need an extra layer of protection.Get a large plastic box, one large enough to fit over the hole. Place it over the hole and place rocks or books on top of it to secure it.

