 It doesn’t matter which character you decide to speak with as they will all tell you to speak with the Jarl of Whiterun to convince him to let you use Dragonsreach to capture a dragon.


Arngeir can be found at High Hrothgar, which can be accessed by Ivarstead. He is usually in the main hall or in the High Hrothgar Courtyard behind the building.
Esbern can be located at Sky Haven Temple, just east of Markarth.
Paarthurnax can be seen at the Throat of the World. Once you are at the High Hrothgar Courtyard, make your way up the stairs to the peak of the mountain.;
, The Jarl can be found in Dragonsreach, which is within Whiterun and is the tallest building in the city. Head west once you are inside the city and follow the path to Dragonsreach. Speak with the Jarl once inside, and try to convince him to help capture a dragon. He will refuse due to the Civil War that is brewing in Skyrim and ask to arrange a peace treaty between the Imperials and Stormcloaks.
 Make your way back to High Hrothgar and speak with Arngeir. He will accept the proposal to host the conference and ask you to convince both General Tullius and Ulfric Stormcloak to attend the peace meeting.
 Tullius can be found in the city of Solitude at Castle Dour. You can find Castle Dour by heading straight and then up the ramp as soon as you enter the city. Make a left and go through the stone archway. The door to the inside of the castle will be on your left. Speak with Tullius and mention that the Greybeards have a message regarding the peace meeting.


You can save yourself some time with the option to persuade Tullius if you have a speech skill of 50 or higher. Otherwise you will have to go through the dialogues until Tullius feels the matter is important.
 Ulfric is located at the city of Windhelm in the Palace of the Kings. You can find the palace by going straight as soon as you enter the city, as it is located directly on the other side.


You can quickly convince Ulfric to accept the peace meeting if you have a speech skill of 25 or higher and attempt to persuade him. If you do not do this you will have to go through the dialogues until he feels convinced to accept the meeting.
Once both parties are convinced, the meeting will be held at High Hrothgar.
 Head back to High Hrothgar and head to the east side of the building, and then take your seat at the grand table. Once you have taken your seat and the other members have taken theirs, the meeting will begin.
 Before any serious discussion begins, you will have the option to keep Elenwen at the meeting or have her leave. Whichever option you choose, they will both have no impact on the meeting ahead.
 Randomly either Tullius or Ulfric will request a hold as part of a bargain to have peace. If Tullius speaks, he will request the Rift, and if Ulfric speaks, he will ask for the Reach. The opposing faction will ask for a hold in return for this exchange.
 The hold to be exchanged will be random, and you have the choice of choosing between two. The negotiations will escalate until one faction will threaten to leave.
 After the two holds are chosen for the exchange, one side will threaten to walk away from the meeting. Esbern will step up and give a short speech reminding everyone why they are here so the negotiations may resume.
 After Esbern gives his speech, you will be given the option to decide on another offer for the faction, which is getting the bad end of the exchange (whoever didn’t start the bargaining). It doesn’t matter what you choose here, so you can choose what you agree with the most. Once the terms are completed, Arngeir will go over the terms and have both sides agree to them. This will complete the quest and move on to “The Fallen.”

