 Chronic kidney failure is a progressive potentially end stage renal disease that can lead eventually to the death of the affected person. It occurs over a long period of time in which the normal function of the kidney nephrons is destroyed mostly due to the continuous use of toxic chemical compounds such as medications that have toxic effects on the kidney. Due to its important and versatile functions disorders of the kidney can have many biochemical manifestations.;
, An example is the accumulation of acids in the blood due to the weak mechanism of acid clearance in the nephrons. Acidosis occurs as a result of the accumulation of the acids. This acidosis can be corrected by the administration of a suitable base such as bicarbonate ions. Another biochemical disorder of this disease is the retention of potassium ions in the blood causing hyperkalemia. This accumulation of potassium ions in the blood can affect the function of the heart muscle.


Potassium ions are active participants in the formation and termination of action potentials in neurons of the nervous system. Thus one manifestation of hyperkalemia is arrhythmia of the heart muscle function. Hypertension is another clinical manifestation of this disorder. The failure to filter the blood efficiently leads to the retention of water in the body causing its accumulation and subsequently high blood pressure. Patients who have high blood pressure should be investigated for kidney function as one possible cause of the disorder.
In chronic renal failure, the failure to synthesize the hormone erythropoietin leads to symptoms of anemia. This is so due to the important function of this hormone in the regulation of red blood cells formation. Patients who suffer from anemia are investigated for kidney failure as one possible cause of the anemia. Chronic renal failure also has one associated biochemical disorder that is the deficient synthesis of vitamin D in the kidney cells. This lack of vitamin D can lead to deficiency of calcium ions in the blood potentially causing bones weakness due to the low level of calcium salts in the bone.
 Vitamin D is important physiologically for the absorption of calcium ions in the intestine and also for the deposition of calcium salts in the bone. This vitamin is only synthesized in the cells of the kidney in addition to its synthesis in the skin by the effect of UV light. Also in chronic kidney failure the synthesis of glucose by the metabolic process of gluconeogenesis is impaired. This causes sometimes a state of low glucose in the blood or hypoglycemia. This is especially prominent if there is also a liver failure that is associated with the kidney failure. This is so because the liver also synthesizes glucose molecules through the process of gluconeogenesis as well. Thus we see through all these biochemical disorders the importance of this disorder in humans. Also in chronic kidney failure there is retention in the blood of the molecules of urea and creatinine. Creatinine in particular is used as a marker for kidney function. Its elevated level in the blood is usually indicative of kidney failure. Also electrolytes disturbances are usually manifestations of kidney disease. Especially disturbances of potassium ions can be indicative of kidney failure. Chronic kidney failure leads usually to end stage renal disease due to its progressive course. If dialysis does not occur this will eventually leads inevitably to the death of the person.

