 Spread two square bales of hay per surface acre every two weeks throughout the spring and supper. Do not apply more than four times per year.


Cured hay can be used to remove clay turbidity.
For best results, use alfalfa, red clover, bermuda, or other legume hay.
Pull apart the bales of hay and evenly scatter the pieces in the shallow water around the edge of the pond.
As the hay decomposes, it produces organic acids and positive ions that can neutralize the negative clay ions.
Hay stimulates helpful bacteria growth. Do not apply the hay too often, however, since it can deplete the oxygen in the water and kill some of the fish living there. For that reason, it is also best to use hay in ponds that have low levels of natural organic materials.
 Apply 500 lb (225 kg) per acre foot of water. If this initial dose does not clear the water within four weeks, apply a second dose of 125 lb (56.25 kg) per acre foot.


Gypsum is also used to clear clay turbidity. It attracts clay particles, binding them and preventing them from settling.
Use a small shovel to evenly spread the gypsum over the pond.
Gypsum is chemically known as calcium sulfate. As a calcium compound, this treatment is generally not effective if you have hard water, which already contains large amounts of calcium.
 Grazing livestock can easily cause turbidity, but you can solve the problem by building a fence around the pond to keep the animals out.


When livestock approaches the pond, debris from the shoreline can get into the water and cause cloudiness.
If you need the livestock to be able to drink to water, you should siphon the water into a separate tank. You could also fence off all but a small corner of the pond, which should limit the access and debris getting stirred to one spot while still allowing the animals access to the water source.
 Bottom feeding aquatic animals and marine life that burrows into the sediment can stir debris and cause excessively cloudy water when left unchecked.


Possible sources of trouble include crayfish, aquatic insects, common carp, an bullhead catfish.
You can control crayfish and insects by introducing predator species to the water. Some options include the largemouth bass and channel catfish.
Large numbers of catfish or other bottom feeding fish can be controlled by fishing some out with dough balls or other baits. You can also control populations of catfish by introducing competing fish species, like largemouth bass and bluegill.
 Wind, waves, soil erosion, and watershed sources can all cause debris run-off in your pond, and that run-off will create turbid water.


To minimize watershed run-off, keep a vegetated ground cover around the perimeter of the pond, extending at least 100 feet (30.5 m) around. Sod grass is usually a good choice.
Reduce wind run-off by spreading crushed rock along the shorelines receiving the largest, strongest gusts of wind.
You can also plant trees or shrubs around the pond to block the wind, concentrating on the upwind side of the pond. Plant aquatic vegetation on the downwind side to reduce wave erosion.
Never plant trees on a dam, however, since the roots can damage the structure.
If there is a stream leading into the pond, install sediment traps further upstream to catch additional run-off.

