 Each time you use a bulb syringe, you should clean it with cool soapy water. This will remove anything that may remain in the syringe after use. To do this, fill a small bowl with cool soapy water.Don't use warm or hot water because that will make it harder to remove the mucus from the bulb.;
, Place the syringe so that it is fully submerged in the water. Leave the syringe in the water for a few minutes., Place the tip of the syringe in the water and squeeze the bulb so that the syringe fills with the soapy water., Aim the hole of the syringe in the direction of the water and squeeze the bulb to release the water down the drain., Continue to fill up the syringe with cool soapy water and then release the water. Do this three to four times in order to make sure that the inside of the syringe is completely cleaned., Place the syringe under a tap of warm running water. This will help remove any soap suds from the outside of the syringe., Empty the bowl filled with soapy water and then thoroughly rinse under running water. Then, fill the same bowl with warm water. Do not add soap to the water., Place the tip of the syringe into the warm water and squeeze the bulb. This will fill the syringe with warm water., Place your index finger over the hole in the syringe to prevent water from leaking out. Then, shake the syringe so that the water rinses the inside of the syringe., Aim the hole of the syringe at the bowl of water and the squeeze the bulb to release the water. You could also release the water directly into your sink., Continue to fill the syringe with water, shake, and release the water. This will thoroughly rinse the syringe and remove any remaining soap from inside the bulb., Place the syringe upside down in a glass, with the tip facing the bottom of the glass. This will allow the water to drip out of the syringe and dry., Before storing a bulb syringe for a sustained amount of time, you should sterilize it to prevent the development of mold and bacteria. Heat a pot of water on the stove until it is boiling. Place the syringe in the water for ten minutes., After 10 minutes, carefully remove the bulb syringe from the water. Use a pair of heat-proof tongs or a metal spoon to remove it. Then, while wearing an oven mitt, pick up the syringe and slowly squeeze the excess water into the sink., Fill the bulb syringe with rubbing alcohol. Place your finger over the hole to prevent the liquid from leaking out. Then, gently shake the syringe so that the rubbing alcohol fully cleanses the inside of the syringe. Squeeze the bulb to release the rubbing alcohol., Place the syringe upside down in a cup. This will allow any excess rubbing alcohol to drip out of the syringe.Once the syringe is completely dry, store in a dry and cool space.

