 Tumble drying clothing is a great way to remove wrinkles. Put the setting on medium, and dry the clothing for about 15 minutes.









Hang the clothes up right after removing them from the dryer so that wrinkles don’t come back. Or wear them right away. If you leave the clothes in the dryer for a long time after the cycle ends or toss them into a clothes basket, the wrinkles will probably return.
Put a couple ice cubes into the dryer or mist the clothing with water before drying them. The ice cubes will melt, and turn into steam, which will help remove the wrinkles from the clothing. Or you could put a damp sock into the dryer with the wrinkled clothing. ;
, Many people have found this method will remove wrinkles fast. Start the shower, and put the water on hot. Close your bathroom door so the steam can’t get out.









Then, hang the wrinkled clothes on the shower rod. Seal the bathroom (the smaller the better) for air leaks -- shut windows, block the space under the door.
It takes about 15 minutes of steam to get rid of wrinkles, though. You also have to make sure you don’t get water on the clothing, so direct the shower head away from the clothing. Make sure your shower rod is clean so it won't leave any marks on the clothing. You could hang the clothes on the rod itself or on a hanger you put on the rod. Get the clothes as close to the heat and water as you can without getting them wet. It’s not good enough to just hang them in the bathroom a distance from the shower head. So you don’t waste water, you could try this method while you’re actually taking a shower.
 You can find common wrinkle-removing sprays at the grocery store. The clothing needs to be damp for the spray to work, but it will remove wrinkles. Or you can make homemade sprays.









Hand the clothing up, and spray it. Gently pull at the fabric to get the wrinkles out after spraying. Store-bought sprays like this work best on clothing made out of cotton blends. You don’t want to use a wrinkle-removing spray on delicate fabric like silk, as it could leave a water spot. Test the spray out on a small piece of the clothing before you spray the entire thing.
You could also make a homemade spray with water and a small amount of vinegar. Put it in a spray bottle and douse your wrinkled clothing with a light spray. If you try vinegar, be aware it could leave a smell. Instead of vinegar, you could add a small amount of fabric softener to the water. Keep a bottle in your desk at work for quick touch-ups before a presentation or in the car for long trips.
After spraying your clothing, it’s best to hang it to dry. Also, make sure you just dampen the clothes. If you soak them, it’s unlikely to work well. You could hang them outside, although that works best for whites, as sunlight can bleach colors from clothing. 