 Your freedom of speech is a right protected by the U.S. Constitution. When you feel like your free speech speech rights have been violated, you can search for a remedy within the court system or outside of it. A qualified constitutional lawyer can help you determine the best course of action to ensure your rights are protected.


Talk to your friends and family about lawyer recommendations. Lawyers are usually well known and involved individuals in the community and you may know one yourself, or know someone else who does.
If you cannot get a solid recommendation, visit your state bar website and use their lawyer referral service. After you answer a series of questions about your legal issue, you will be put in contact with a number of qualified lawyers in your area.
Before you hire someone, sit down with your top candidates and conduct initial consultations. During your initial consultations you will want to ask each candidate about their history practicing constitutional law (specifically free speech law). Even though a lawyer might practice in the constitutional arena, they may focus on a different area of the law that you don't need help with. For example, some lawyers might focus on defending protesters and demonstrators, while others may focus on the free speech rights of the media. In addition, some lawyers might focus on litigation while others might focus on administrative actions. Be sure you find the lawyer that best fits your needs.
Be sure to ask about fees. Lawyer fees will vary greatly and some lawyers can be expensive. However, you usually get what you pay for.;
, You might want to talk with nonprofit organizations, in addition to hiring a lawyer, in order to get help with your battle to protect free speech. Talking with nonprofit agencies dedicated to protecting free speech rights can also be a great way to find qualified lawyers. Nonprofits will often have staff attorneys that might even take your case for free. These lawyers are usually well-trained in very specific areas of the law and will fight for your free speech rights vigorously. Nonprofits will also usually have robust media teams that will help make your story a nationally recognized one.


For example, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) protects free speech rights through litigation, media campaigns, and legislative lobbying. You can contact the ACLU if you believe your free speech rights have been diminished.The Thomas Jefferson Center is another organization like the ACLU, although this one is dedicated solely to the protection of free speech rights. The Thomas Jefferson Center offers educational opportunities, they participate in litigation, and they lobby for the protection of free speech rights. Contact the Thomas Jefferson Center if you believe you have an issue they would be interested in., The media, like you, has a protected right to free speech (called the freedom of the press). Therefore, the media can be a great resource for you when you want to get a message out to the public. If you think your right to free speech has been restricted in any way, contact your local media outlet or talk to a nonprofit organization about starting a media campaign. If you hire an organization like the ACLU, they will likely put together a media plan for you. They even have their own media department.When you talk with the media, explain your issue clearly and concisely. Explain to the media outlet, and to the public, how your right to free speech has been burdened and how you want it remedied. Make a plea for help from others who are struggling with the same issues. Help will usually come in the form of donations, legal assistance, and/or help paying for costs associated with your fight. The more people you get on your side, and the more vocal you are, the more traction your story will get.
 A central part of your First Amendment rights is your ability to assemble. The Constitution protects and allows you to gather in groups for peaceful and lawful purposes. You can use this right to advocate publicly for free speech protection. In general, you will be able to assemble in public forums and advocate for your rights. In some circumstances, you may need a permit depending on the type of activity you plan on undertaking. You can also hand out leaflets and other literature to people walking by.


Freedom of speech allows you to express yourself without constraint from the government. When a legislature creates laws that burden your free speech rights, they have to have a valid justification. The government may also have a right to prohibit some speech that incites violence, advocates for illegal activity, or is obscene.If you are out campaigning and advocating for your free speech rights and you are stopped by police, stay calm and do not resist. If you are arrested, keep a log of any actions taken and contact a lawyer as soon as possible. If your free speech rights have been violated, you will have a valid cause of action against the government., Another way to protect free speech rights is to lobby for quality legislation on the issue. The constitutional right to free speech applies to governments and the laws they create. Because laws are created by the representatives you elect, you should reach out to them about issues you feel strongly about. Write letters to your state and federal legislators and make your position on free speech known. Your letter might help block a bill from becoming a law if that bill would have lessened your free speech rights. In addition, your letter might help get a bill passed if it strengthens your free speech rights.


Your letters can be very persuasive considering you are one of the many individuals that vote to have each representative elected to office. If the representative does not listen to your concerns, you might choose not to vote for them and they may lose reelection. Letters can be sent to any legislator as well as the executive branch (i.e., the President or Governor).
When you write a letter, be as specific and clear as possible. If you are concerned about a bill, name the bill and lay out as many specific concerns as you can. Also, always be sure you let the representative know what you want them to do. For example, if the bill is being voted on, tell them you want them to oppose it and vote no.
 Some states allow you to protect rights through a ballot initiative process. To start this process, you will draft language stating what voters would be voting on if your initiative made it on the state ballot. For example, if a state law was just passed that restricted speech in public parks, you might draft an initiative that allows for the law to be rejected.


The actual process of creating and circulating a ballot initiative brings free speech issues in to play. For example, as a matter of free speech, you have a right to urge people to sign the petition or oppose it. In addition, you have the right to circulate your initiative in public places, to explain your position, and to ask for signatures.
If a certain number of signatures are received, your initiative will be placed on your state's ballot and will be put to a vote., In some situations, if your free speech rights have been violated, you may be able to bring an administrative action against the person or entity who violated those rights. When you bring an administrative action against someone, you are essentially filing a complaint with an administrative agency. The agency will then investigate your complaint and may even ask you to take part in an administrative hearing. In the end, if the agency finds the other party liable for violating your free speech rights, the agency may impose penalties on that party.


For example, if an employer restricts your ability to openly discuss wages and working conditions, you can file a complaint with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). The NLRB protects workers' rights and, under federal law, employers cannot restrict your right to engage in certain speech activities(e.g., discussions about wages and working conditions). When you file a complaint with the NLRB, they will investigate it and may even hold a "trial" in which an administrative law judge will hear your case., When you choose to file a lawsuit, the first decision you must make is where to file that lawsuit and what law to allege was violated. While state courts will generally have jurisdiction over most cases, federal courts only have jurisdiction over certain types of cases. In order to get into federal court, you must either have a federal question or meet the standards for diversity jurisdiction. You have a federal question when your claim arises under federal law, which includes the Constitution. You will meet the diversity standard if you and the defendant are from different states and the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000.Because free speech is a constitutional issue and commonly comes up when federal laws are created and/or violated, you will usually be able to get into federal court by claiming you have federal question jurisdiction. Going to federal court in order to litigate your free speech case will usually be advantageous because the federal courts will usually have a better understanding of the laws at play. Federal courts will also have more experience litigating these types of cases.
 Your lawsuit begins by drafting a complaint, which is a legal document that tells the judge and the defendant how and why your free speech rights were violated. You will also tell the court what remedy you want. In general, your complaint will need to include the following information:

The case caption, which will include each party's name and the court's information.
Your basis for jurisdiction, which explains that you are in federal court because you have a federal question.
The nature of your suit, which will explain what the subject-matter of your suit is. In this instance, you will explain that your suit is about a violation of free speech rights.
The cause of action, which is the specific violation you are alleging occurred. For example, if a federal statute was violated, state that and cite to the statute in question.
The amount in controversy, which is the amount you want the court to award you in order to remedy the illegal activity.
 The summons is a document that tells the defendant to respond to your lawsuit. The summons document is usually available online at your court's website and all you need to do is fill in the defendant's name as well as the amount of time they have to respond to the suit. The amount of time a defendant has to respond to a suit will depend on what type of suit you are bringing. In general, the window will be about 30 days from when you serve the defendant., When you complete your complaint and summons, you will take them to the courthouse and file them with the clerk of courts. When you file in-person, the clerk will look over your documents and ensure everything is completed in a satisfactory manner. Some federal courts also allow you to file your lawsuit by email as well. Check with your court to determine if this is an option.


Once the clerk looks over your documents you will be required to pay a $400 filing fee. If you cannot afford the fee, you will have to file a motion to proceed in forma pauperis. This motion asks the court to waive the filing fee.
If you pay the filing fee upfront, the clerk will stamp your documents "filed" and you will be handed copies of the lawsuit. The official summons will be issued at this time.
If you do not pay the filing fee, your lawsuit will be stamped "filed but you will not receive the official summons until the judge has ruled on your motion in forma pauperis., Once your case has been opened, you will have to tell the defendant a case has been brought against them. In order to do this you must serve them with a copy of the complaint and summons. Every defendant in the case must be served within 120 days of you filing the case. You will be responsible for ensuring someone 18 or older either hands a copy of the lawsuit to the defendant or send it via the mail., Once service has been completed, the person who served the lawsuit will complete a return of service section on the back of the summons and return it to you. You will then have to file that document with the court., Once the defendant has been served, he or she will have around 30 days to respond. When a defendant responds to your lawsuit, they will generally draft an answer and have it served on you. The answer will explain why the defendant thinks they are not liable and might even include cross-complaints if they sue you fro something else.


The answer is a valuable document and will give you some insight into how the defendant plans to fight your case. Read it carefully so you can plan your next course of action.
 During discovery, you and the other party will have an opportunity to exchange information in order to get ready for trial. You will be able to gather documents, talk to witnesses, and figure out what the other side is going to say. In order to achieve these goals, you will be able to use the following discovery tools:Depositions, which are formal in-person interviews conducted with witnesses and other parties. The interviews are conducted under oath and the answers given can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are formal questions written to a witness or party. These questions must be responded to under oath and the answers can be used in court.
Document requests, which are written requests asking the other party to hand over documents that would not otherwise be available. Examples might include emails, internal memos, and photographs.
Requests for admission, which are written requests asking the other party to admit or deny the genuineness of a document or the truthfulness of a statement.
 As soon as discovery concludes, the defendant will likely try to end the litigation by filing a motion for summary judgment. In order to be successful, the defendant will have to show the court there are no genuine issues of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the defendant will have to persuade the court that, even if all assumptions were made in your favor, there is no way you could win.


To defend against this motion, you will need to file affidavits and evidence with the court persuading it that there are factual issues in dispute that need to be hashed out in court. If you are successful in your defense, the case will continue toward trial., As trial nears, you may want to consider trying to settle with the other party. If your case goes to trial, the costs and the time commitment increase greatly. Start by taking part in informal discussions with the other party about your concerns and what you would see as an acceptable solution. Listen to the other party and see if you can make an agreement. If no agreement can be reached, you may want to try one of the following alternative dispute resolution options:


Mediation, which involves having a neutral third party sit down with you and the other party to discuss finding common ground. The third party will not take sides and will not offer opinions about the case. They are only there to help facilitate the discussion.
Arbitration, which involves having a judge-like third party sit down and hear each party's case. Once the third party listens to both stories, he or she will take a side and offer an opinion about the case.
 If a settlement cannot be reached, you and the other party will take part in one final pretrial conference in order to set the trial schedule. During this conference, you and the other party will sit down with the judge and discuss all of the issues that are agreed upon and which ones are still in dispute. The issues that are still in dispute will be handled at trial.


At the end of this conference, the judge will issue a pretrial order, which will be the road map for your trial. It is important to discuss every issue at this conference because any issue that is left out will not be able to be heard at trial., If you chose to have a jury in your complaint, your trial will begin with you choosing that jury. This process is called "voire dire" and you will be given the opportunity to ask questions of potential jurors to get an idea of their mindset and biases. If you believe a juror is going to be biased, you may be able to have them removed. At the end of this process, the final jurors will be empaneled and the trial will begin.If you waived your right to a jury, your case will be heard by the judge alone. If this is the case, you will skip this step.
 Your opening statement should explain your case to the court and offer a road map of the trial. This is your first opportunity to connect with the court and tell them why you have a winning case. While your opening statement should be strong and passionate, make it quick and succinct. In addition, do not discuss evidence at this point and do not introduce anything the court is unlikely to understand.


The defendant will have an opportunity to make an opening statement after you. In some circumstances, the defendant may hold off on making the opening statement until after you have presented your case.
 You will have the opportunity to present your case to the jury first. When you present your case, you will call witnesses to the stand and present evidence through them. To be admitted, all of your evidence must comply with the Federal Rules of Evidence. Be sure you read and understand these rules so your case is presented smoothly and effectively.


With each witness, you will ask questions until you are satisfied with the information you receive. Once you are done asking questions, the defendant will have an opportunity to cross-examine your witnesses. You will then have an opportunity to ask follow-up questions related to the defense's cross-examination., After you have rested and presented your case, the defense will have an opportunity to do the same. After the defense asks questions of their witnesses, you will have an opportunity to cross-examine them. During cross-examination you want to try and poke holes in their testimony and make the witness seem untrustworthy and biased. To do this, you will try and contradict statements they made when the defense was asking them questions.


For example, if the defense witness says one thing during trial but said the opposite during a deposition, you should bring up their deposition statements and make them reconcile the two.
 When both parties have rested, you will have the opportunity to make a closing argument. Your closing argument should touch on all the important pieces of evidence you discussed throughout the trial. It should be a passionate plea asking the court to rule in your favor. Remember, this is your last opportunity to make an impression on the court.


Once you have finished, the defense will have an opportunity to make a closing argument as well.
 When the trial is over, the judge or jury will deliberate and discuss the case. When the decision maker in your trial has come to a conclusion, it will be read in court. This conclusion is called the verdict. If you win, the court will award you damages in a specific amount. If you lose, you will be awarded nothing but you may be able to appeal.