 Despite the negative implications, most people who use functioning labels truly don't understand that they can hurt.


"Yes, some days I am high-functioning. And you?"
"Actually, I don't like to label myself like that."

, Sometimes this is said because the person is confused. If it is intended as a compliment, then it comes at the expense of other autistic people, so you might feel insulted on behalf of your peers. Keep in mind that even though it is very rude, the person probably doesn't mean any harm, so a calm dismissal or redirection is usually best.


"Well, I'm an autistic person, so this is what an autistic person looks like."
"Yes, I like to confuse my prey that way." (joke)

"Actually, science shows that autistic people tend to have bigger eyes, shorter noses, bigger foreheads, and basically super cute faces!I like to think that I look very autistic." (lighthearted)


, Some people do not know how to respond to your autism, and may think that they are supposed to feel sorry for you. You can gently remind them that you're an ordinary human being, or directly challenge their assumptions if you think they can handle it.


"You're sorry? Why?"
"It's really not that bad. I get up, eat cereal for breakfast, and drive to work just like everyone else."
"Everyone has challenges. Other people have bad parents, low incomes, or difficult relationships. I have sensory issues and executive dysfunction."
"Well, the social difficulties can be rough. But I do have a good mind for patterns and computer code, and that's pretty cool."

, When they hear that someone is autistic, non-autistic people frequently like to mention their autistic relatives. Usually they are just trying to establish common ground. You might acknowledge it and move on, or talk with them about their relative.


"Oh, good for you."
"Oh, really? I have a non-autistic nephew." (lighthearted)

"Sixteen? That can be a difficult age. Has she found the autistic community yet?"

, If a person uses this, they are simply showing that they don't know much about autism, and this is their only frame of reference.


"Like Temple Grandin? Well, I can't say I like the smell of cows..." (lighthearted)

"Autistic people are very diverse. Some of us are like Rain Man, and many of us are not."
"Yeah, I've seen the Big Bang Theory. Amy is the absolute best! She's so clever and funny and... (etc.)"
"Well, of course I don't seem like those autistic children. I'm an autistic adult."

, If you (like many people) disagree with how it's run, it may be very upsetting to you, but it is unlikely that the person has deeply considered what the group actually supports. You may not want to ruin your day thinking about it, so you can give a quick answer and change the subject.


"Actually, Autism Speaks is really mean to autistic people, so I'm not a fan."
"Please don't light it up blue; that's run by a group many autistic people don't feel supports them. Would you like to participate in #RedInstead?"
"Ugh, that organization is really gross. So tell me about your new puppy!"
If they try to turn the conversation back to Autism Speaks, you can suggest they look it up, or change the topic again. They will get the message.
 Some people genuinely do not realize how much that word can hurt disabled people. A quick, one-sentence explanation is enough to make most people realize that this word is not appropriate, and they will stop using it.


"That's actually a really hurtful word. Please don't say that."
"Please don't use the r word. It's very derogatory towards disabled people."

(if they press harder) "Wait, I'm confused. You want to use a word that is derogatory towards people with disabilities?"
If someone insists upon using the word after you explain it, then they are probably not a nice person. You are well within your rights to avoid them.
 Non-disabled people may feel uncomfortable around the idea of disability, so it can be helpful to make them more at ease.


"It's okay. It's not a big deal."
"Autism isn't as bad as a lot of people think it is. There's no need to tiptoe around the subject."
"Don't worry about it."
"For me, autism is just a fact of life. I'm used to it."

