 If you're not experienced performing physical acts of affection with your sweetheart or significant other, don't dive into the deep end! Doing so is a sure-fire recipe for confusion and hurt feelings. Instead, take your time building up your sense of physical intimacy with your partner by starting with small (but meaningful) displays of affection and gradually proceeding to more serious forms of affection. Remember, the emotions involved with physical intimacy are very potent and very real, so be sure not to rush into intense forms of physical intimacy until you're comfortable with less-intense ones.;
, If you're not sure of how to begin your physical relationship with you partner, start small. Doing something that requires both of you to be physically close to each other is a perfect way to ease in to the habit of being physically affectionate with your partner and can even be a "launching pad" for other physical activities. Try snuggling up together for a movie, riding a roller coaster together, riding a motorcycle, swimming together, or jet ski, or anything else that requires two people to cozy up to each other. Even simply sitting so that the side of your leg is touching your partner is more affectionate than not doing so. Everyone has to start somewhere!

, When you're comfortable being in each others' personal bubbles, you and your partner will probably naturally begin to cuddle or snuggle. Lounging as you embrace your significant other is a great, highly underrated way to relax with your partner as you strengthen the physical bond between you.


Don't write off the time you spend cuddling with your partner - as your relationship grows more serious, you may begin to wish you had more time for it.
 Holding hands can sound childish and innocent to the experienced Lothario, but it's great as a simple show of affection, especially in situations where more overt displays may be inappropriate. For instance, this gesture is a socially-acceptable way to display affection in public, where actions like making out can be considered obnoxious. Holding hands is also something to do when other romantic gestures are impractical, like when you're stuffed into the back seat of a cramped car. While hand-holding may not be the most fiery, exciting form of physical intimacy, it is certainly the most versatile.
 This is it - the big moment! Kissing your significant other is a big step up from hand-holding and cuddling. It's a way of showing that you really care for and desire him or her, so your kisses should have feeling behind them. Ideally, the first time you kiss your significant other, you should be so filled with longing that's hard not to do it. Of course, it's pretty unrealistic to assume that every couple is going to have a perfect first kiss, or, in fact, perfect kisses most of the time, so don't put too much stock in any one kiss. Rather treat kisses as the fun, mutually enjoyable, but serious displays of affection that they are.
 The prospect of engaging in physical intimacy with your significant other shouldn't be intimidating - if it is, you may need to have a frank discussion with him about your intimacy issues. Physical intimacy should be an opportunity not only to display your affection for your partner, but also simply to have a good time with him or her, so consider keeping your shows of affection light and playful. "Teasing" your partner is a sure-fire way to lighten the mood - try playful tickling while you cuddle or withholding kisses during a makeout session. As long as teasing is done in good humor and with consideration for frustration or hurt feelings on your partner's part, it's a great way to infuse any act of physical intimacy with playful passion.
 It bears mentioning that your attitude isn't the only thing that affects your ability to have an emotionally intimate relationship with your partner. Your physical and emotional health also factor in to your sense of intimacy with your partner. For instance, good hygiene is a must. There's no way around it - no matter how romantic you are, if you stink, your physical intimacy will suffer. You'll also want to put effort into your physical fitness so that you'll look and feel your best when you're with your partner. On the emotional side of the intimacy equation, you'll want primarily to deal with significant sources of stress in your life as they arise, as stress can have a profound negative impact on your ability to enjoy physical intimacy sessions.


Exercise regularly. Research has proven that regular exercise literally makes you feel better by releasing chemicals called endorphins into the brain.These endorphins help produce a euphoric, satisfied sensation, ensuring that you're in the right mood for physical intimacy. As an added bonus, regular exercise can help you get more fit and attractive!
Don't be afraid to talk to others - including trained professionals - about any mental stresses you're dealing with in your life. In addition to friends, loved ones, and trusted authority figures like teachers and priests, counselors can help you talk through any issues that are causing you stress and/or interfering with your ability to have satisfying physical intimacy.

