 In most college applications, there will be a space to list you're achievements and any notable extracurricular activities. Take your time with this space. Make sure you include any relevant information that will reflect well on you as a potential student.


Sports, clubs, the arts, formal organizations, and volunteer work are all good extracurriculars to include. Try to list anything you've done in your academic career. You do not have to limit your list to school-based extracurriculars. If you took piano lessons for 8 years from a private tutor, this is worth mentioning.Part time or summer jobs can also help, especially if they were more professional in nature. An internship is definitely worth mentioning on a college application.Achievements are also important. List any semesters you made the honor roll. If you've won or placed in any contests, write that down here. If you set any records on a sports team, mention it., Some college applications have a series of questions you have to answer. For example, you may be asked to provide an explanation of some of your achievements. You may be asked about academic goals or scholarly interests. Spend some time answering these questions to the best of your abilities.


Go for action verbs and detailed descriptions. For example, if an applications wants you to explain an achievement, don't just write, "I worked at a law firm for a summer." Instead, say something like, "I spent my summer vacation learning about the inside workings of the legal profession, assisting lawyers with research and organizing paperwork."Use your words wisely if necessary. Some applications may limit you to a set number of words per answer. You should type your questions in a separate document before adding them to the application. Then, you can tweak and trim down your sentences as needed to keep it under the word limit.Always proofread questions extensively. Typos and spelling and grammar errors will not reflect highly on you in a college application., Most college applications require at least a couple letters of recommendation. These are letters, usually from teachers, that speak to your talent as a student.


College applications have different rules for letters of recommendation. Some schools may want you to put your letters in with your other application materials. Other schools may want you to have your teachers send letters on their own. Make sure you read application directions closely here.
You should ask for a letter of recommendation at least one month before the application deadline. However, it's always best to ask earlier. You want to make sure the person you're asking has enough time to write a solid letter of recommendation for you.If you're choosing a teacher, pick someone you've worked with in recent history. Teachers from several years ago may not remember you as well. Pick a teacher from a class you excelled in. You want someone who's enthusiastic about recommending you.While teachers are the primary source of letters of recommendation, you can ask other adults you've worked with. If you have internship or volunteer experience, asking a supervisor or coordinator may be a good idea. This way, colleges can get a sense that you're a hard worker in and out of the classroom., Most colleges and universities will want official documentation of your grades and test scores. For things like ACT/SAT scores, you should be able to get your scores mailed in for a small fee by going through the testing organization's website. As for your transcript, you school can send this to your chosen colleges and universities. You usually ask your principal or school counselor.