 If you are tired of seeing your partner put their shaving kit and bathroom items in an unattractive bag, get them a new grooming bag. You could put a love note inside of it, as well as your partner’s favorite hand cream, lip balm, or shaving cream.If you want to take it up a notch, you could put some concert tickets or a plane ticket for a weekend getaway inside.
The Hey Handsome bag is made with canvas and water resistant fabric to last a long time. It has the words “Hey Handsome” written on the bottom. It sells for $60.
 Make your partner their favorite soup or sandwich, add a special dessert such as a chocolate bar or a brownie, and then a romantic card expressing your love. In your card, tell your partner how much you love them., Find a date when your partner is free and get them surprise tickets to the game they love such as basketball, baseball, football, soccer, or whatever sport they happen to enjoy. You will get to see your partner get really passionate about something they enjoy. If you also enjoy sports, you will get to enjoy time with your partner and an exciting game., If you want to give a sensuous surprise, try giving your partner a silky nightgown, chemise, or set of pajamas. Plan a romantic dinner for the weekend and surprise them after dinner with the surprise. To find the right pajamas, you will have to look in their lingerie drawer, find their size, and write it down. While you are looking in their lingerie drawer, determine their style such as the colors they like, the fabric they enjoy, and the cut. Taking your notes to the lingerie store or a nice department store, look for pajamas in their size and style, as well as within your budget.Take the time to wrap it nicely, with a ribbon and a bow.You can spice things up with sexy lingerie, or give the gift of comfort with soft, cozy jammies-- whichever fits your mood!

, If you want a really exciting surprise, perhaps it is a good time to buy them some jewelry. Before you shop for jewelry, you need to know their style well and go the jewelry shop with a strong sense of what you want in terms of color, metal, proportions, and price point. If you have purchased Jewelry for them in the past, you should have a sense of their style such as whether they prefer chunky jewelry or precious stones. Using your existing knowledge of their style and with a price point in mind, go to your local jewelry store. The big chain stores in the mall tend to focus on engagement rings and watches, whereas independent jewelers will have a more eclectic collection. Wrap your jewellery and surprise them at a special dinner., A classic expression of love, long stemmed roses are a great gift. Go to a fancy restaurant and give them roses. You can get roses in a variety of colors but the classic expression of love is the red rose., If you are looking to spice things up in the bedroom, perhaps it is time for a surprise sex toy gift. Go online or to your local sex toy store and look at options that are a good fit for your sex life. You can find a broad range of products for different orientations and lifestyles.


The Ora oral sex stimulator give you an extra hand or tongue and offers a wide range of vibration settings. It sells for $159.The Earl from Lelo offers gold plated prostrate massage. It is available in silver of 18K gold plate, and sells for $1,590 in silver or $2,590 in gold.