 Go to amazon.com. In the upper right-hand corner, you’ll see a menu marked “Your Account.” When you hover over it, a drop-down menu appears. Click on the “Start Here” link directly beneath the yellow “Sign In” button.;
, The registration form will ask for your name and email address, and it will prompt you to choose a password.


Note that you can also enter a phone number. This is not mandatory, but it provides better account protection. Amazon will not call you, so don’t worry about that – it’s only used for security purposes.
 When you’ve filled in all the necessary information, click “Create Account.” You will be redirected immediately to Amazon’s welcome page. Congratulations! You now have an official account with Amazon.
 As soon as you’ve created your account, you’ll want to decide on your preferred method of payment. Click on “Your Account” on the top right-hand side of the screen. Under the “Payment Methods” menu, select “Add a Credit Card.” Enter the relevant information for whichever kind of credit card you plan to use, including your billing address.


Once you’ve done this, you can confirm that you’ve correctly entered your information by going to “Manage Your Payment Methods.” Your credit card should now appear there.
 Click on “Your Account” again and navigate to the “Account Settings” area. Click on the option to “Add New Address.” Enter your password, then fill out the form with your name and shipping address. Click “Save and Continue.” You are now ready to shop on Amazon!

, The address book is an optional feature, but many people find that it makes for a better shopping experience. Go to “Your Account” and click on “Manage Address Book.” You’ll be prompted to enter additional addresses, for yourself and people you might buy gifts for.


When you mark an address as a “Gifting Address,” Amazon will automatically include a gift receipt with orders sent to that address.
 Go to “Your Account” again and click on “Your Public Profile” under the “Personalization” sub-heading. You’ll be prompted to enter whatever details you want visible on your public profile (name, location, birthday, anniversary, website, photo). When done, click the “I have read the Terms and Conditions” box, then press continue. You’ll be asked to enter additional details about yourself. Press “Finish,” and your profile will be complete.


If privacy is important to you, be careful to limit which kinds of information are visible on your profile. You might choose to list only a first name and general location, for example.
Be careful not to type more than 4000 characters when you are asked for additional details. That’s the maximum Amazon will store.
 Go to “Your Account” and click on “Your Social Settings” under the “Personalization” sub-heading. You’ll be directed to a window where you can choose to connect your Amazon account with your Facebook account. You’ll also have the option to click on “Twitter Settings” and connect with Twitter as well.


Connecting to Facebook and Twitter allows you to take full advantage of your profile by sharing the products you bought and liked.
 To create your own wish list, go to “Your Account” and click on “Wish Lists.” On the right side, you will see a yellow “Create your Wish List” button. Click it. Now, when you browse items on Amazon, you can put them on your wish list by clicking on the “Add to Wish List” button.


If you want to name your wish list (by default it will show up as “New Wish List”), just click on the “Edit list name” link after setting up the list.
If you designate your list as “public,” you’ll make gift-giving easier for your friends and relatives. They’ll be able to look up your list and choose something.
You can make a specific Wedding List the same way: just choose “Wedding List” instead of “Wish List” from the “Your Account” area. You’ll be asked to enter information about yourself, your partner, and your wedding date. Once set up, this list functions just like a more traditional registry.

