 Preventing sand from getting into the nooks and crannies of your seats and trunk will save you the hassle of deep cleaning your car after a beach trip. Before you head out for your day at the beach, grab some old bedsheets and line your car’s interior surfaces.When you get home, carefully remove the sheets from your car, hang them to dry, then shake them out and wash them.
 If the beach has showers or faucets, use them to rinse away as much sand as possible before getting into the car. Take showers and rinse feet, chairs, toys, and any other sandy items. If possible, shower and change at the beach and store bathing suits in plastic bags.If the beach doesn’t have showers or faucets for rinsing, you can bring a plastic foot tub or wash basin to the beach with you. Fill it with water and rinse your feet and sandy objects before getting into the car., If the beach doesn’t have showers or if you don’t want to take one there, use baby powder to remove sand. Sprinkle your legs, feet, arms, or any other sandy patches with baby powder, then brush it away with a towel.Baby powder will work best if your skin isn’t wet.
 Despite your best efforts keeping sand at the beach, you’re bound to track some home. If possible, avoid bringing sandy towels, bags, and other items into the house, especially if they’re damp. Instead, hang out them outside, then shake out the sand once they’re dry.It’s easier to shake out sand from items like beach towels when they’re dry.
Try painting a peg rail the same color as your house’s exterior and securing it to a wall in your backyard. You can hang towels on it to dry, or hang and rinse beach chairs or flip flops., Try creating a private outdoor changing area by hanging clotheslines and sheets around a spot in the backyard or porch. If that’s not possible and people have to change indoors, choose a room close to an entrance for changing. Lay down a sheet or towel to catch as much sand as possible.You’ll have the best chances of keeping sand out of your home if everyone changes at the beach.
 Bring your suit to a sink and rinse it with cool water. After rinsing it, fill the sink with cool water and a teaspoon of mild detergent. Let the suit soak for 15 minutes, then drain the sink and rinse away soap residue.Machine washing a sandy bathing suit can leave sand in the washer. Further, machine washing can damage many bathing suits, especially women’s swimwear.
 If all else fails, and perhaps inevitably, you might have to vacuum up a sandy mess in your home or car. Your best option is a rechargeable handheld vacuum cleaner. It’ll fit into tight spaces like corners or bottoms of beach bags and, since it’s not bound by a cord, you can easily use it in your car.