 For a male uniform, your school’s dress code will determine whether you have to wear a tie, if you have to button every button or if you can get away with leaving a few open, what shoes you can and can't wear, and whether you always have to wear a collared shirt.
 The basic school uniform usually consists of pants or shorts that are paired with a dress shirt, but you may also have the option of a blazer, a vest, or a sweater that can be worn over your shirt. These different apparel items can be paired differently to achieve different looks, and there are various style choices you can make with each to make your uniform a little more unique.


Pick clothing in the right size, because the baggy look is mostly out, and clothes that are too tight will be uncomfortable.
 For a laid-back look, try a 90s-style Kurt Cobain cardigan. For a folky look, wear a vest, sweater vest, or fitted blazer. If you want to try for a dressed up casual look, pull a sweater over your shirt.
 To give your uniform a little more style, undo the top button on your shirt or polo and upturn the collar so it stands up.You can do this with your blazer or jacket as well, but choose one or the other: don’t pop the collar on your shirt and your blazer.
 This allows you to control the length of your shirt, which can make your uniform look less oversized and more fitted. Tuck your shirt in completely, and then slowly pull it out to puff it out slightly. If you want your shirt a little longer, pull out a little more shirt and fold the excess down over your waist.
 Instead of wearing your pants higher up near your waist, let your belt out a little so you can wear your pants lower on your hip., Along with rolling up the cuffs on your sleeves, you can actually roll up your blazer sleeves as well. This look works well with the popped collar.
 Accessories like a vintage watch,a briefcase instead of a school bag,a funky or elegant tie, or a great hat can make any uniform a little cooler. For hat ideas, try an ivy cap, a fedora, or porkpie with your uniform.


Try wearing a tie over your shirt but underneath a sweater, or paired with a cardigan.Try leaving your tie knot a little looser than normal., There are tons of interesting hair styles that are popular right now that could give your uniform a new dynamic, especially when paired with a cool tie, watch, and hat. Next time you want to get your hair cut, consider a: Fade
Undercut
Pompadour

