 Both of these products can be bought at a tobacconist or online. A tamper is used to pack the tobacco down into the bowl. There are a few things you should consider when making your pipe purchase:Make sure you like the way your pipe looks. Browse through all the options at the tobacconist or online and make sure you buy a product you'll want to use time and again.
Choose a pipe that has a smooth airway from the mouthpiece into the hole, to ensure a smooth smoking experience.
Avoid metal filters in the pipe, as they cause condensation that affects the flavor of the tobacco

, There are many different types of tobacco, and you might get overwhelmed trying to make a decision if you're not familiar with all your options. The best thing you can do is ask a tobacconist for a recommendation — they'll be able to talk you through the process and match you with a tobacco that best suits your tastes. In general though, here are some types of tobacco you might find at a tobacconist:


English and Scottish-style cake tobaccos tend to be spicy and full flavored
American-style flavored tobacco are sometimes flavored with sugars or syrups to change the taste.
Cavendish is a cured tobacco flavored with licorice and vanilla.
Your best bet is to ask a store employee for recommendations, just like you would ask for sommelier for wine recommendations.
 Pour your tobacco into the bowl of the pipe until it is full, then use your tamper to lightly pack it down until it only half-fills the bowl. Repeat that process of filling and tamping until the bowl has been filled with tightly packed tobacco.


Make sure you don't pack it too tightly, or else it will be difficult to draw air through to smoke the pipe. The tobacco should be slightly springy when you press down on it.
 Using a match or lighter, hold the flame over the bowl while gently inhaling through the mouthpiece. Move the flame over the bowl to evenly distribute the heat throughout the tobacco.


After your initial lighting, gently tamp the tobacco again, then repeat the process.
 Like with cigars, pipe smoke is not meant to be inhaled into the lungs, but held in the mouth to enjoy the flavor.


Tamp the tobacco down from time to time to make sure it stayed densely packed in the bowl.
If you feel moisture being sucked back into your mouth through the mouthpiece, insert a pipecleaner for a few moments to dry out the passageway.
If your pipe grows too hot, let it go out and cool down. You can always relight the tobacco.
 When you've finished smoking, you can either put out the smoke by pressing your tamper into the bowl until it is extinguished, or by simply letting the pipe sit unsmoked until it dies on its own.

