 Windows 8 is best for touch screen devices/monitors.In order to upgrade to Windows 8, you will need to be running Windows XP, Windows Vista or Windows 7., Windows RT looks a lot likely Windows 8, but it is streamlined for use with light laptops and tablets. The only way you can get Windows RT, is if you already have a Windows RT device; however, you basically have Windows 8 running on your system already.Check in your manual or in the system information to see if you are running Windows RT.
 Windows 8 will use up more of your hard drive than Windows 7, and it may slow it down further since it was created for use with new devices.


All-in-one personal computers are the best place to start looking. They are more expensive, but they allow you to use Windows 8’s touch screen capabilities.
 If you aren’t currently running Windows OS on your computer, you will need to purchase the full version. If you have Windows XP, Windows Vista or Windows 7, you will need an upgrade.
 This is usually sold in a different package than the upgrade intended for Windows 7.
 The Windows 8 products will be discounted by $15 to $30 and available on third party sites.


The Windows 8.1 products are between $99 and $119. There is less variation in price, so you won’t be able to hunt down a bargain as easily.
 You will also want the more expensive Pro version if you do tech-based work or if you want to encrypt your data or access other PCs on your home network., If your computer runs on an Intel 32-bit processor, you will need the 32-bit version. Most new PCs run on the 64-bit version, and many advanced software programs need the 64-bit version of Windows 8 to function.
 If you already run Windows 7, you can pay $69.99, instead of the usual $199, to own Windows 8.1., Since there is a newer version (8.1) available, sellers on Amazon, Newegg and other computer sites have discounted the older versions. Once you install Windows 8, you can upgrade for free to the Window 8.1 version using your product key.


These versions should be DVDs that will be sent to you via mail.
Ignore this option if you don’t have a PC with an optical drive that reads DVDs. You will need to download it directly from the Internet.
 This is necessary if you have a computer without an optical drive. You can download Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows 8 for XP and Vista and Windows upgrades from www.microsoftstore.com


Press the download button and put in your payment details.
Products will be between $119 and $199. Enter your credit card details and keep your account data for future free upgrades.
You can opt to purchase a DVD copy with your identification fee for an extra $15 or download it to a DVD on your computer for free.