 If you make the effort to address the problem head-on versus waiting to get caught in a lie, your partner may view you in a more positive light.Regardless, after you have come clean about lying, you must allow him the chance to respond.


Listen attentively to what your boyfriend has to say. He may get angry and express feeling betrayed. Try not to be defensive. Remember that he is allowed his own feelings and experience. Just listen and honor his need to vent.
 The content of your lies will help the two of you determine if this relationship should continue. For example, if you have been lying about something minor like searching for a job, then you may be able to overcome such a lie. However, if you have lied about your romantic feelings or covered up an infidelity, your relationship may not recover.


Dig deep and consider the foundation of your relationship and the strengths it has that may allow you to move forward. If lying has been a reoccurring theme in the relationship, or if you two lack other strengths such as shared goals or values, it may be time to call it quits.Both of you should be honest with yourselves and each other at this point. Do you really want to be in this relationship? Are you willing to undergo the changes necessary to make it work?

, However, you must not expect him to make a decision on the spot. Agree to take a break from the relationship for a few days or weeks to get space for the both of you.


This does not necessarily mean you are going to break up, but it can help both of you get perspective and determine if you are actually committed to making an effort.
Use this time to evaluate how you feel about your boyfriend and whether you are going to fully dedicate yourself to being consistent in your words and actions in the future. The two of you can set a specific date to meet back up and resume the conversation.
 If you want the relationship to recover, then it’s important that the two of you are on the same page going forward. Being honest may be uncomfortable and even foreign to you, but it’s necessary for trust in relationships. Sit down with your boyfriend and talk about ways you can regain his trust.


One of the best ways to rebuild trust is through transparency. Try to be straightforward with your boyfriend from now on and encourage him to ask you questions if he has concerns. Also, show consistency in your words and behaviors. If you say you will do something, do it. This will go a long way in helping him trust you again.You must prepare yourself for the possibility that you may never fully regain his trust. After finding out about a lie, your partner may have doubts going into the future. If you have difficulty rebuilding trust, it can be helpful to see a couples therapist who can help you work through this.

