 You’ve found your dress, so most of your work is done! However, you may need to get the dress adjusted slightly to fit you. There are usually two fittings: one that is about six weeks before your wedding and accomplishes most of the adjusting, and one that is one to two weeks before your wedding to make absolutely sure that your dress fits you perfectly.Many bridal outlets already have in-house tailors. This can be much more convenient that finding a tailor elsewhere. Finding a tailor elsewhere is less convenient, but it could save you money.
 A wedding veil is a classic accompaniment to a wedding dress. You will want to buy a wedding veil after your wedding dress so that it matches the style of the dress.Check to see if the shop that sold you your dress also sells veils that match. This is a quick solution to finding a veil.
 A train is a piece of fabric you can attach to your wedding dress that trails behind you when you walk. There are many varieties of trains, the most popular being the Chapel, which extends about four feet (1.2 meters) from the waist, and the Cathedral, which extends about seven feet (2.1 meters) from the waist. Trains look best on more traditional styles of dresses, such as ball gown dresses.There are some dresses that already have a sort of built-in train, with the back of the dress trailing along the floor.
 If you decide to get a train for your wedding dress, decide if you want to get a bustle. A bustle holds up your train so that after the ceremony, no one trips or steps on your train. Many bustles are series of inconspicuous hooks that hold up your train either around the waist area or on the inside of the dress., If you have a ballroom style wedding dress or want to add volume to your dress, consider getting a poofy slip to wear under your dress. Many bridal retailers sell slips, so you can see if you can find a slip at the shop you bought your wedding dress from.
 Part of making your dress shine is to find accessories that suit your dress. If you are wearing a white dress, try to find shoes and accessories that are light-colored. Wearing dark shoes or jewelry can look mismatched with a white dress.You also want your accessorize to match the formality of your dress. Many brides wear diamonds or other gems at their weddings because of the formality and elegance of the occasion.
Remember that less is more. Especially for an occasion like a wedding, you don’t want to bog down your outfit with accessories. This will take the attention away from your beautiful dress.
 After you have purchased your dress and accessories, try on your wedding outfit to make sure that everything is exactly as you want it. If you’re satisfied with how everything looks, store your wedding dress in a garment bag to protect the dress from any light exposure or staining that could happen before the big day.

