 Don't rely on retailers or the government to protect you from counterfeit products. The sheer quantity of these products makes this nearly impossible. The most important tip? If a deal is too good to be true, the product is probably fake. Check out the related wikiHow for more tips on how to spot a fake.;
, Counterfeit goods do make their way onto the shelves of even the largest, most established stores, but less reputable retailers are far more likely to sell counterfeit products. Discount retailers, such as "dollar stores," are easy targets for suppliers of counterfeit goods because these stores often sell an ever-changing variety of lower-quality items and cater to customers who are very price-conscious. Small stores that sell a dizzying array of (mostly) junk are also prime outlets for counterfeits, especially those stores that haven't been in business for very long.


Shop at authorized retailers. Many companies, particularly those that sell appliances, electronics, and luxury goods, sell only through authorized retailers. You can find out if a retailer is authorized to sell a certain brand by calling the manufacturer or checking its website.
Thrift shops, fairs, and flea markets are great places to get used and handmade items, but you should be very wary of new brand-name goods at these types of venues. While you can find legitimate bargains on used goods, it's also a good idea to carefully examine any used product, such as tools or electronics, that could pose a safety hazard.
Be particularly careful when buying online. Online auction sites are rife with counterfeits, and since you can't inspect the goods first, it's hard to tell what you're buying. Look for sellers with lots of good feedback, and ask questions about where they got the merchandise. Also ask for the seller's address and phone number; if they won't give it to you, there may be something amiss. Spam emails will almost always direct you to illegitimate sites. If you order from one of these sites, chances are you'll get fake goods--if you get anything at all. Once again, whether you're shopping online or at the corner store, be wary of deep discounts.
 You can find counterfeit products just about anywhere, but in some developing nations and in popular worldwide tourist destinations, you can be almost certain that the goods you're buying are counterfeit. Once again, if a deal is too good to be true, the product's probably a fake.
 In many developed nations, if a batch of products is found to be counterfeit, it will be recalled. Recalls are also issued for faulty or potentially dangerous products. You'll often hear about recalls in the news, but if you want to stay abreast of the latest information, your government may offer a service to help you do so. In the U.S., you can check Recalls.gov for recall information, and you can even sign up for email notifications of new recalls.
 If you see or have purchased a product you think may be a fake, contact authorities so that they can investigate. If the suspected counterfeit product could pose a danger to others, contact local law enforcement or law enforcement agencies such as the FBI (in the U.S.) or the RCMP (in Canada). Otherwise, contact the brand-name manufacturer whose product has been counterfeited, or report the suspected counterfeit to one of the organizations listed in the External Links section below.

