 Push the onion and pepper mixture to the side of the pot to make room, and add 1 pound (454 g) of ground beef. Use a wooden spoon to break the beef into small pieces and cook it on medium-high heat until it is no longer pink, which should take approximately 4 to 7 minutes.If you prefer a leaner cut of meat, you can replace the ground beef with ground turkey.
 Once the ground beef is browned, pour the tomatoes that you pureed in the blender into the pot with the beef mixture and stir to combine. Keep the pot on medium heat and bring it to a gentle simmer., As the beef and tomato mixture simmers, use a colander in the sink to drain the macaroni of the water that it’s soaked in. Next, add it to the pot with the beef and tomato mixture, but don't stir or mix the noodles into the rest of the ingredients yet.Shake the pasta well while it’s in the colander to ensure that it’s as dry as possible.
 Before folding the pasta into the beef and tomato mixture, add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of Worcestershire sauce and 1 cup (237 ml) of low-sodium chicken stock to the pot. Use a spatula to fold the liquids and the pasta into the beef and tomato mixture until all of the ingredients are well combined., Once the ingredients are all well mixed, cover the pot with a lid and cook on medium-high heat to bring the mixture to a hard simmer. Allow it to cook until the macaroni is nearly cooked through, which should take approximately 5 minutes.If you don’t have a lid for your pot, you can press a sheet of foil over it or lay a cookie sheet across the top.
To know how long the pasta should cook, consult the package’s instructions. You should cook it for approximately half the recommended cooking time.
You can also finish off the dish in the oven. Make the sauce as directed above, but add the Worcestershire sauce to it directly and leave out the chicken stock. Cook the macaroni halfway, and mix with the sauce and half of the mozzarella in a casserole dish. Top with the rest of the mozzarella and half of the Parmesan. Bake at 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) for 30 minutes. Garnish with the remaining Parmesan and herbs.

