 If you are trying to remove a dead branch that is a hazard to others this is not an issue, however, if you are seeking ground wood in an area where none is present then you must find a suitable tree. Suitable trees are either dead or have branches that are completely dead. This is easier to identify in leaf-bearing times of year, however, further steps will help you test a branch for suitability. It is much preferred to start with a tree that appears to be completely dead than one that only has a number of dead branches.;
, If a group is selected each one must be harvested one at a time. Live branches are not desirable. First, they will not come down easily. Second, pulling down a live branch opens up the tree to infection and your action risks killing the whole tree. Third, they will not burn properly because live branches are very wet on the inside. The best branches look brittle and dry on the outside, may have some signs of breakage already, and are no more than twice as high as your throwing line is long plus about 10–20 feet (3.0–6.1 m) of rope. You must allow yourself some room for the branch to fall in front of you rather than on top of you. Never attempt to pull a branch directly above you straight down.
 Is there a bee hive in the tree or surrounding tree? Which way do you intend to pull the branch? Is your escape route from the falling branch free from obstacles, holes, divots, bears, campfires, spittoons and other objects that could hurt you?

, The throwing line should be a little more than half the length of the rope, but not much more because the weight end is the end that will fall down to you so that you can pull the dead branch down.
 If you have a long line and a low branch, you don't have to be too careful about the ratio of weight side's length to throwing line's length, but if you are going at a branch at the limit of your total possible range then you might want to determine the exact middle of your line, mark it, and use that as the dividing line between the weight and the throwing line, though in practice, always err a yard or two on the side of the throwing line.
 Then, wind the rope in a continuous circle from your hand down around your elbow and back again until you have used about 1/2 of your weight line allotment of the total line.
 If you have been keeping the rope tight to your elbow as you have been doing this, each of the loops you made should be about the same size. If not and they are falling apart, repeat this step. Eventually it will be second nature.
 (This is why smaller diameter rope is preferred to larger diameter, the rope must be able to be turned and bent at this stage).
 Carefully, without letting the weight coil fall apart, wind the remaining weight portion of the rope around the middle of the coil so that it squeezes the middle of the coil together as if it would be a figure 8 if you twisted it. In fact, there would be nothing wrong with it twisting into a figure 8 during this step, the important thing is that the remaining weight rope go around the middle of the coil leaving space, a loop, at both ends for rope to flow through freely later.
 Pull a good arm's length through the coil and hold it in your less favored (left) hand with the throwing weight now swinging down below it.
 You should find the length at which the coil is at least a foot above the ground, but no more than 24 inches (61.0 cm), at the low point of your swing. That is probably your most comfortable throwing height.
 Bear in mind that you will be throwing 2/3rd's of this rope and letting the rest play out of your hand as the rope rises.
 It is perhaps 10 feet (3.0 m) long and 3 inches (7.6 cm) around and branches at the end have broken off and are hanging down already. One sign that it might be dead. Do not aim as close to the trunk of the tree as possible. That will be the same thing as trying to pull down the whole tree and in many cases, if successful, will be hazardous to your health. Generally the mid-point of the branch is a good place to try for for beginners on a branch that is nearly parallel to the ground, if possible.
 (You will soon have your own technique - lifeguards ignore any throwing instructions, just add lift.)

,,,, Branch heights and rope heights sometimes intervene. Get used to the idea that you will not get it in one toss.
 Hold onto the end once it plays out. If you don't it is entirely possible that the whole thing will sail right over the branch and hit the ground without unravelling the weight. Funny...the first time.
 If the rope does not immediately untangle, try shaking it, making it circle like a jump rope, find a place it might catch against a smaller branch, any place but the corner of the trunk. If it catches there, you might lose your rope, unless you have brought other equipment! In most cases the worst that will happen is that you will miss, in which case you just need to repeat the process.
 If you do, there will be no "springy" sensation as you pull back on the branch. If you have picked well you will soon hear some cracking. That is the sound you want to hear. Cracking is an indication of dead wood.
 You do not want it to whiplash out of control in another direction because you have pulled it fast and hard and it broke under too much tension. Generally, pulling back towards the tree is very effective.
 While describing how to make the coil is laborious, making and throwing it is fun.
, See tips and warnings below.

