 Witches have been in the PC edition since 1.4.2, and in the console edition since December 2014. They are not available in Minecraft Pocket Edition.


A known bug in the PC edition version 1.8 prevents witches from spawning in witch huts for some players (possibly just in Windows 7).As of November 2015, there is no word on whether this will be fixed in 1.9.
 Each witch killed only gives about a 16% chance of dropping gunpowder, compared to a 66% chance when killing creepers. However, the witch can drop up to six items and may drop other items like spider eyes or glowstone. This makes them more profitable if you're interested in these extra items.
 You can find witches anywhere, but they're much more common around witch huts. These wooden buildings on stilts only spawn in swamp biomes, which are watery areas filled with trees.


Witch huts can be difficult to find. You can try using a mapping mod such as AMIDST.
 Dig a small pit in front of the hut's doorway. A short distance away, build a small hill or tower. Make sure you have line of sight to fire bows from this high ground into the pit. Include a barrier to hide behind as well, since witches throw damaging potions.


Warning: the hut may contain a witch. Be prepared for a fair fight before you set up your trap.
 Bows and arrows are the easiest way to kill a witch. If you draw back the bow fully before firing, three arrows will do the trick.


Witches can drink healing potions so that you may need additional arrows.
 Alternatively, just run up to the witch and kill it with a sword. Once you know how the witch's potions work, this isn't too difficult:The witch will slow you down if it sees you from more than eight blocks away. Ambush it from behind a tree or barrier to prevent this.
The witch will poison you. Poison cannot kill you, but it can bring you to one health. Have a healing item ready to recover after the combat.
Each subsequent potion will deal six damage. You should survive if you have decent armor and can kill the witch quickly.

