 The piccolo is very similar and you should learn how to play flute first. If you play in a band or orchestra, it's probable that you won't be playing piccolo all the time, depending on the types of pieces the ensemble plays, so having the versatility to be able to play the flute as well is important.
 Plastic or silver plated metal piccolos are less expensive than wood or silver piccolos. Piccolos made of composite plastic are durable enough for marching and produce a fair quality sound. Wooden piccolos offer a more mellow timbre than metal ones. A popular compromise combines a metal head joint with a body made from wood. Two materials combined may lead to tuning inconsistencies however, as they will react differently to changing temperatures.

Keep in mind there are different keys the piccolo is tuned in. C is most common, but many older piccolos are in Db. It is recommended you choose a C piccolo, as you can just play the flute part. Db parts aren't common, but you can find them in older pieces.
, This resource will be very important as you learn to play., Flute fingerings will produce the same notes on a piccolo, only an octave higher. Music is written one octave below concert pitch. It may take time to become accustomed to the notes you play and the ones on the page.,, See you how long you can hold a note steady and try to be consistently in tune. Also see what the tendencies of certain notes are on your piccolo- flat? sharp? in tune?, Tune to an A. If the tuner says you are sharp (moves to the right), pull out the head joint. If you are flat (tuner will move to the left), push in the head joint. The piccolo is a small and fickle instrument, so be prepared to make constant small adjustments! Try tuning to the low and high A. Piccolos cannot tune as effectively to concert F or B flat, which is often played for tuning in large ensembles., Others may find the piercing sound of a learner on a piccolo aggravating, so try practicing in a closed room. Just make sure wherever you practice is large and has decent acoustics., Use a swab or string a cloth through your tuning rod and then through your piccolo to remove spit. Occasionally polish it with a cloth.