 Having some ground rules can nip a lot of problems in the bud. Discuss together how you'd like to handle problems like choosing who to stay with for the holidays, who should be in charge of cleaning what, etc. Discussing hypotheticals before they happen (and maybe even writing them down) can help you know how your spouse will react to decisions and save you both the trouble of accidentally upsetting the other.


Household responsibilities are a particularly sore spot. Many households have dual breadwinners, but strong social norms mean that women are usually still considered responsible for things like chores, cooking meals, child care, etc. Studies suggest that women in heterosexual couples perform 67% of chores and cook 91% of meals.Achieve a healthy balance by talking with your spouse about what each of you will do.
Research has shown that couples who create a system to govern responsibilities are significantly happier than couples who don’t. This could be because both partners share responsibility so they feel more like a team.Approach this as collaboration, not one of you bossing the other. Decide what you’ll do based on your abilities, skills, and availability. You could also decide on a rotation, where you take turns doing chores that neither person likes. This will help either of you from feeling unfairly burdened.
 This is especially important when you have kids. Talk things out and decide how you want to handle different situations, so that you can be united in the things you do. Feeling like your spouse openly overrules you can be embarrassing and cause tension.Your parenting styles may not always be on the same page, and that’s to be expected. What’s important is that you coordinate your approach so that your child doesn’t feel confused by conflicting information or perceive you as not working together.
 It's important for both of you to remember that you are still separate people with needs that you may only be able to fulfill on your own. Getting alone time to focus on yourself and your own needs is important. Make sure both of you get an opportunity to do so.


For parents, this probably means one of you will have to babysit so that the other can get some downtime.
 Money problems are one of the most commonly cited reasons for divorce.Work together to lay out some ground rules that everyone can agree on. Work to keep yourselves at a point where money is less of a concern and you'll have fewer problems.


Arguments about money aren’t restricted to people of a certain income level. How much money you make or how much debt you have doesn’t predict your marriage’s success. How you approach collaborating on your finances and how you talk about money will determine whether it’s something that causes damage.

