 Salting your meat brings moisture out to the surface, which is why you should never salt immediately before cooking, unless dry meat is your sort of thing.Salting far enough in advance fixed this problem:


When you salt far enough in advance, the salt gets a chance to enter back into the cut of meat. This process is called osmosis.This process, however, takes a while, which is why you should prepare enough in advance.
 If you've just bought the tenderloin, allow it to sit in a cool place on your counter. Meat that has been chilling in the refrigerator generally takes 30 minutes to an hour in order to come to room temperature. Meat that has come to room temperature takes less time to cook and generally turns out easier to cook, as the meat on the outside doesn't dry out before the meat on the inside gets a chance to cook through., What you do with your tenderloin is completely up to you. Suffice it to say that simple is often better than elaborate. Here are some different herb combinations that you can try out:


Chopped garlic, fresh thyme, fresh rosemary, crushed black pepper.
Coriander, cumin, clove, and nutmeg.
Curry powder, dry mustard, cayenne pepper, chopped garlic.
, Pour a thin layer of vegetable oil in the heated skillet and wait for the oil to just start smoking.
 You're not trying to fully cook the tenderloin here, just give it a nice color and begin to develop some flavors on the outside. Remove the tenderloin from the skillet when searing is finished.
 The thermometer tip should be in the innermost portion of the meat.
 This process should take a little under an hour, depending on the thickness of the tenderloin. This temperature produces a medium rare tenderloin. If you prefer your meat less well done or more well done, consult this guide:


120° F (48.8° C) = Rare
130° F (54.4° C) = Medium rare
140° F (60° C) = Medium
150° F (65.5° C) = Medium well
160° F (71.1° C) = Well done

, The meat will continue to cook even after taken out of the oven. But most importantly, letting the meat rest will ensure a juicier tenderloin when you finally do cut into it.


Cooking meat causes its muscles to contract. This sends the juices toward the center of the meat. If you cut into the meat right after it's been removed from the oven, the juices will all run out because they're localized in one place. If you give the meat time to rest, however, the muscles relax and the juices disperse back into the whole cut of meat. Give your tenderloin at least 10 minutes of R & R for a much juicer experience.
