 Make her feel wanted, and let her know how much you appreciate her. It might be hard for her to let her guard down if she doesn't feel your desire. Self-esteem can be a tricky Tell her she’s beautiful regularly and when she least expects it.


Compliment her beauty. Pick your favorite body part and tell her what you like about it. Don't just say, "You're so hot." Tell her, "You have the most gorgeous eyes," or "The muscles in your back are so strong – all of that yoga is paying off!"
Compliment her mind or her personality. Tell her how much you appreciate her storytelling ability, or the way that she passionately explains her ideas. Mention how impressed you are by her kindness, her compassion, or her organizational skills. Don't just fixate on her body.
Compliment her on a specific action or event. Bring up something that happened recently: "I was really impressed by the way that you handled the situation with your sister today. I know that it's frustrating – but you were so patient, and you truly held everything together.";
, Don’t offer to do the dishes or unload the car – just do it without her needing to ask. Surprise her by cooking dinner or cleaning the garage. Take the kids out for the evening so that she can get some peace and quiet. Giving selflessly to the relationship may improve your connection in and out of bed.


Many women who work full-time jobs are still doing more than half of the chores and childcare. If she says that she’s too tired for sex, then it may be time to take some of the burden off her shoulders indefinitely., The next time you are snuggling, ask her about her fantasies. When you are intimate with each other, pay close attention to notice what drives her absolutely crazy in bed. If it works, then keep doing it!


Don’t assume that you can turn a woman on with a one-size-fits-all plan! Every person has his or her own particular desires and preferences.
 Be humble and compassionate in your relationship, and go out of your way to hear to what she has to say. If you aren't listening to her, then she may not feel that you value her perspective. If she doesn't feel respected, then she might have a hard time opening up to you.


The next time you have an argument, don't just focus on trying to win. Apologize, and consider her feelings. Make her feel heard., Brush your teeth, shave, and make a commitment to general fitness. Take a shower and make an effort to look nice. Try to stay as well-kept as you were when you first got together. Going the extra mile regularly is more likely to remind her what an attractive partner she has.

