


I don't know how use RAW files, I've never done it before.

Spend 5 minutes with your camera's manual and a few minutes with the help in your imaging program such as Photoshop that supports RAW files. Or worst case, a few minutes with the free software that came with your camera that supports raw files. You can also find a lot of free software on the Internet that will process RAW files.


They take up too much space.

Ok, you just spent at least $1000 (several hundred on a decent consumer point and shoot digital) and probably a lot more on your camera to take great pictures and you want to skimp on your memory cards? Memory is cheap when you consider how much it saves you over film. You can get multiple gig cards for under $100 today. With RAW files, that's still equivalent about 3 rolls of film on many cameras and you can use it over and over and over. If you are a professional or avid shooter, buy enough cards hold you until you can download to computer or storage device.


They slow the camera down.

Maybe in some cases, but with most of the Digital SLRs you have a buffer that lets you shoot from about 6 to 9 images before you have to wait for the camera to finishing saving to the card, so this becomes less of an issue. So unless you are shooting sports or doing a lot of rapid fire shooting, shooting RAW may still be the better way to go.


It complicates the workflow too much and slows me down.

Ok, yes, it "Changes" the work flow slightly, but it doesn't have to slow us down. As serious photographers, your goal should always be to get the best image you can both in camera and after the fact. Most of the cameras that can shoot raw files also came with software that will allow us to work on them, and/or convert the images to jpegs which is where they will usually end up before they go to the lab. If we do our job right to begin with, and get the images as close to what they should be in camera, we can do a batch convert to jpeg and be ready to crop and print. Go get a cup of coffee or do something else you need to be doing anyway while the computer does the batch convert. It doesn't take that long and let's face it, we always have something else productive that can be done while running a batch convert that is going to take several minutes. Once we have the jpegs, our workflow doesn't change.

;
, RAW files have a very minimal amount of processing done to them. This puts the responsibility and the ability of creating your image in your hands, not the questionable hands of a camera. You have to have software that will convert the images into images and not files. RAW files have all of the information in the metadata that it stores.
 When you a need to correct exposure, white balance, contrast and a host of other typical post processing tasks, doing so in a RAW file lets you do a better job since you have all of the original information in the image.


In fact with white balance, which can be a biggie if you shot with the wrong settings or the camera just didn't get it quite right, you can correct with absolutely no loss in image quality. When you do major tweaking a non-raw file, the more you tweak, the more you risk losing quality in the image. It may not be a lot in some cases, but it may be bad in others. You want to be able to go back to what the camera actually captured, instead of a jpeg that was converted in camera and a lot of information tossed out.
What if the one shot that needs serious correction is a jpeg and is the money making shot, you just know it. But it's just too far off in one or more areas to adjust and really get the quality you need? Yeah, maybe you can do some magic in Photoshop, but if you are striving for excellence, you'd have a much better chance of getting the best if you had a RAW file to work with and it would take much less time. Think about that when your concerns of slowing the workflow down come up.
 You load your image into a raw conversion program and then save to a TIFF or .PSD format file which will be exported in 16 bit mode. The 12 or 14 bits recorded by the camera are then spread over the full 16 bit workspace. If you've saved the file in-camera as a JPG than it is converted by the camera's software to 8 bit mode and you will only ever have 256 brightness levels to work with. You reduce your options, 'right out of the gate'.
 Some labs are even starting to process from RAW files. There also should be options on line for you to choose from.
 Shoot a daylight image with white balance set for tungsten as a jpeg and another as a raw image. Shoot the same subject so you can compare. Now, take 30 seconds to correct the raw image to daylight. Now see how long it takes to do on the jpeg, if you can even get close. And don't even think about saying that you would never, ever shoot with the white balance or other setting set incorrectly. Don't even go there!!! Everyone makes mistakes. The point is, shooting raw is much more forgiving than jpeg and there's nothing wrong with that, especially when our images are important to us. Using JPEG compared to RAW is like throwing away your negatives on film. You figure what the heck, you can always make a copy of your print if you need to fix something. It just isn't the same. The choice is yours.

