 Vaccinating your child against the flu each year is the absolute best way to protect your child.The vaccine generally protects against three to four common strains of flu virus. Because the virus is ever-changing, your child must get a flu shot every season — a flu shot last season won't protect her this season.


You and the other members of your family should also get flu shots.
Children between six months and eight years old may need two doses within 28 days of each other if it is the first time they have received the flu shot.Ask your doctor to find out if your child needs two doses.
 This will help him to reduce the number of times he is sick with the flu and teach him avoid passing it to others when he does get sick. Teach him to wash his hands before eating, after going to the bathroom, and after blowing his nose, coughing, or sneezing. Direct him to use these steps when washing his hands:Run his hands under the water.
Lather his hands with soap and rub them together for at least 20 seconds. Remind him to clean between his fingers and under his fingernails.
Rinse the soap and dirt off under running water.
 Hand sanitizers should be at least 60% alcohol to be effective. They can be used if you are in an area where soap and clean water are unavailable or when traveling.Put a dollop in the palm of her hand. Teach her to rub her hands together until the sanitizer is spread all over her hands. She should keep rubbing until it dries.
Teach her to avoid touching her nose, eyes or mouth if her hands are not clean. The nose, eyes, and mouth are entry points for flu viruses to enter the body.
 This is important for your child to learn so that he doesn’t spread the flu when he has it. He should:Sneeze or cough into a tissue and then throw the tissue in the garbage.
Sneeze or cough into his elbow, and not on his hands. This will reduce the likelihood that he will spread the flu to others via his hands.
Wash his hands if he sneezes or coughs on them.
 If your child has a fever or signs of the flu, keep her out of daycare or school to prevent spreading the virus to other children. Your child may be contagious from one day before getting sick to up to five or seven days after, or even longer if she still exhibits symptoms.Keeping your child home when she is sick can help keep the virus from spreading.


You should also avoid sharing cups and eating utensils when children are ill to prevent spreading the flu.

