 If your parents are being overly emotional or stressed, it is generally easier to manage the situation instead of engage in it. If you need to get something specific from them or talk to them about something specific, try to be direct with your questions or within your discussion. If you avoid responding in an emotional way, your parents may be more likely to respond in a similar fashion. Even if they don't, you will be less likely to gain stress from the interaction if you just attempt to manage them instead of engaging in their emotional, stressed behavior.


For example, if your parents are raising their voices at you, don't raise yours back. Calmly try to continue the conversation without making it worse.;
, If your parents are too stressed and you can't handle it, remove yourself from the conversation or situation, if possible. If your parents are stressing you out, go to your room or another room of the house. Don't do it in a disrespectful way, but try to remove yourself from the situation so you don't make it worse or become stressed yourself because of their overly emotional behavior.


If you are in a situation where you can't get away from them, try to remove yourself from the conversation. This can be done by telling them that you don't want to talk, respectfully telling them that you are removing yourself from the conversation, or simply ignoring any stressed or emotional behavior they exhibit in your presence., If you see what is causing the stress or emotional behavior in your parents lives, try to help with it if you can. There may be some situations where you can't help, such as personal issues with their relationship or their relationships with others, or in some cases money troubles, but there are other situations where you can help. Even removing just a little of the pressure can help deescalate the situation to where your parents may calm down.


For example, if you see that a messy house is making your parents stress out, try picking up around the house or washing the dishes. Or if you are old enough to get a job, find a job and start buying some of your own things or giving your parents a little bit of money to help with things., If your parents are too stressed and emotional for your to deal with, talk to them about it. Have concrete examples of how they have acted that has stressed you out or been too emotional. Don't blame or accuse them of horrible behavior, just explain to them that they have been overly emotional and stressed lately and that it is interfering with your life. Most parents may not even see how they have been acting or know how it is effecting you.


Make sure you do this calmly. Even if your parents fight back with harsh words or can't see what they've been doing, make sure you stay calm. You can only do so much in these situations. Once you've told them, it is up to them to change it. If it still doesn't change over time, try having the conversation again with additional examples of their actions.