 Studies have shown that yelling at your teenager, no matter how much you may believe they deserve it, actually makes behavior worse.It might feel good in the short term, but parenting is about improving your child’s behavior, not making yourself feel good. No matter how hard it is, don’t let yourself yell back, even if your child is yelling at you at the top of their lungs.;
, Even if you keep your cool, it doesn't feel good to get yelled at. Furthermore, you need to break your child of the habit of raising their voice to you before they begin to think that it's acceptable behavior.


If it's a relatively new behavior, be understanding with them and explain why yelling doesn't help: "I understand that you're upset, but yelling doesn't do anything but get both of us riled up. The more worked up we get, the less likely we'll be to reach a happy ending here."
If it's repeated behavior, be firmer: "I do my very best to never raise my voice to you, no matter how upset I get. I expect the same courtesy from you."
If your teenager has made a habit out of being smart with you, set firm, strict boundaries in a confident tone: "I don't know what you think you're going to accomplish by being sarcastic with me. At the end of the day, I'm still your parent, and you need to watch your tone and lower your voice before I double your punishment."

, Everyone can think back to a time when they snapped at someone without thinking first about what they were saying — usually, you regret it immediately. Take a few seconds to work through your immediate reaction of frustration or anger before responding to your child. Your teenager is coming from an uncontrollably emotional place, but it’s on you as an adult and parent to speak from a place of reason.


Don’t worry about voicing your personal frustration; instead, focus on what you can say that will actually elicit the desired behavior from your child.
 It may be helpful to breathe deeply for a few moments to get your breathing and heart rate under control. By consciously reducing the physical symptoms of agitation, you can put yourself in a calmer mindset. Counting to ten is a useful tool, though it may take longer to get yourself under control.
 If your reaction is so strong that deep breathing and counting to ten don’t work, you need to take a break from the conversation, and ask your teenager to do the same. While decompressing, do something that relieves your stress: read a book, knit, cook, lay down and close your eyes — whatever you need to do to feel better.


"I'm too upset right now to speak calmly, and so are you. I'm worried that we're going to say hurtful things to each other, so other, so we should take a break."
"I love you very much, but I think we need to be apart for fifteen minutes before we can continue this discussion."
"Let's both go into our rooms and calm down. When I feel ready to talk, I'll wait for you in the living room, and you do the same if you calm down before me."
Don’t restart the conversation until you’ve both plateaued emotionally.
 When emotions are high, hearing the word “you” over and over again will make anyone feel attacked, and that’s not what you want. Instead of attacking the teenager about their bad attitude, try to make them understand how their words and actions make life harder for the people around them, including you. For example, try saying:


“I feel bad when you speak to me this way” instead of “you have a bad attitude.”
“I get exhausted between working and cleaning up after everyone at home” instead of “you never clean up your messes.”
“Your father/mother is going through a rough patch right now” instead of “you need to be nicer to your mother/father.”

, Pay attention to the situations that seem to elicit the worst behavior from your teenager. It may be that your child is most irritable immediately after school, but that they calm down after they’ve had a snack or nap. It may be that they act out more when they have a lot of work for school, or when they’re fighting with a friend or significant other.


By being alert to the situations that trigger your teen’s worst behavior, you have a choice to either give them more leeway or to proactively lessen their stress.
Be proactive by making their lives easier: have snacks waiting in the kitchen after school; help them with their homework; etc.
 While it’s very difficult to watch your child go from a sweet, loving child to a combative teen, you have to remember that to a certain degree, their backtalk has nothing to do with you. Beginning with early adolescence (age 12-14), a healthy child will begin to develop a new and, to them, groundbreaking awareness that adults, including their parents, are not infallible.As they’re struggling to reconcile what they’ve always thought about you with this new realization that you are a flawed human being, it’s perfectly normal for them to lash out from time to time before they learn how to relate to you as one adult to another.


Remember that it’s not just your child. Talk to your friends with similarly-aged children, and you’ll find that all teenagers act out to some degree.
 Bad behavior in a child is infuriating, and it’s very difficult to get beyond the frustration you rightly feel. However, it’ll be much easier for you to keep your cool if you try to consider the experience from their perspective. Think back to your own adolescence — odds are high that you said your own share of hurtful things to your parents. Some things to remember about life from your teenager’s point of view include:


Egocentrism, or the belief that their interpretation of the situation is the only possible correct interpretation is a normal part of cognitive development.Your child’s brain is developing the capability to grow beyond egocentrism, but it’s not finished yet. For example, when they were three, they might stand in front of the TV and not understand that just because they could see the TV didn’t mean that others in the room could see through their body. As teenagers, they’ve developed beyond that — but there’s still a ways to go.
Your teenager’s brain is developing in a way that allows them to grasp abstraction in a new way, and for the first time.Injustices seem to be everywhere — but without the wisdom that comes with life experience, and without the cognitive ability to flesh out the logical repercussions of their abstract thinking.
Because of this, they get incredibly worked up about things that seem insignificant from an adult’s perspective. But remember that their brains are still developing important cognitive functions that will allow them to see the way you, as an adult, do with time.
 While it’s true that parenting is a day-to-day judgment of which hill to die on, there’s a difference between keeping calm and letting your teenager get away with bad behavior. Although you don’t want to get into a fight with your child every time they mutter under their breath or roll their eyes, you do want to engage them in discussions frequently enough to send a clear message that all such behavior is inappropriate.


Decide which behaviors you will tolerate and which ones you will engage.One method might be to let nonverbal rudeness like excessive sighing and eye-rolling slide, while engaging with verbal backtalk.
 If your child does not have a clear sense of where the boundaries are in family interactions, they won’t be able to stay within your limits. Creating an explicit, written contract about the repercussions for backtalking and other bad behavior is a good way to establish boundaries.Although confrontation is exhausting, it’s very important that you be a verbal communicator when your child breaks the contract. Be explicit about which parts of your teenager’s behavior or language crosses the line between acceptable teenaged acting out and problematic disrespect. For example:


“It’s perfectly fine for you to tell me that you’re too tired to clean your room right now — I understand that you have a lot of schoolwork right now. However, raising your voice to me like this isn’t acceptable, and will result in punishment every time.”
"You may not be able to control rolling your eyes, but you can control raising your voice and being sarcastic. That crosses the line."
"I respect that you're upset that I'm grounding you — I would be upset, too. But even though I'm upset with you right now, I haven't cursed at you. You're allowed to be mad at me, but you're not allowed to use disrespectful language."

, If you apply punishments haphazardly, your teenager will not be receiving a clear message about the repercussions of their back-talking. Explain to your child what the precise repercussions will be for bad behavior so they know exactly what’s coming down the pipeline when they act up. For example, tell them that:


"I understand that you're young, and sometimes you're going to lose your temper. However, if you raise your voice to us twice in a week, we're cutting your allowance in half."
"Using curse words in this house will result in being grounded for the weekend, no excuses."

, You might think that you’ll spend your entire day doling out punishments if you follow through with the repercussions every time your teenager acts up, but nobody said parenting was easy! If you apply punishments irregularly — letting them get away with behaviors sometimes and coming down on them at other times — you’re sending mixed messages and confusing your teenager. Teenagers are programmed to push boundaries, so the boundaries must be firm.


"You know perfectly well that raising your voice twice in this house will get your allowance cut. Get your temper in check right now, or you know what's coming."
"Promising not to talk back again doesn't change the fact that you just talked back to me. You know what the repercussions are for your behavior. It's on you to control yourself from the beginning."

, If your child does something that should result in being grounded during prom, you might defer their grounding to the next weekend. After all, you want them to learn a lesson, not miss important life experiences. In general, though, don’t get into a habit of letting your teenager negotiate with you about normal repercussions. Wanting to go to the mall with their friends is not a special enough occasion to merit bending the ground rules for acceptable behavior.
 Simply grounding your teenager and letting them stew in their room will not necessarily improve their behavior. Some teenagers might actually enjoy the quiet time to laze around their room. Instead, use their punishment as an opportunity to instill life lessons. For example:


"I understand that you're upset about not getting the video game you want, but you need to learn that there's a difference between what you earn and what you deserve. Everyone deserves a roof over their head, clothes on their backs, good in their stomachs, and love from their family — but not everyone has even that. We're going to volunteer together at a soup kitchen this weekend to get a sense of how much you have that should should be grateful for."
"I don't think you understand how hurtful your words can be, so your punishment will be to write an essay on the history of slurs in this country. Prove to me that you understand the power of words."
"I think you're having trouble communicating with me in a productive manner. I want you to write me a letter about how you feel about this, and spend some time getting it right using respectful language."

, The privilege you remove will depend on your teen — consider what he or she values most, and will be most unwilling to give up in the future.


For example, you might take away your child's car, cell phone, laptop, television, etc.
Set a clear deadline for when the privilege will be reinstated; reinstatement will be contingent on good behavior in the interim.
Tell your child, "The next time you act like this, you will lose this privilege for (x) days longer. The punishment will increase every time you act like this."

, When your teen does something that makes you proud or makes your life easier — cleaning up the dishes without being asked, sticking up for a bullied classmate, etc. — be quicker with praise than you are with punishment when they disappoint you.


A heartfelt “thank you” with a hug and a kiss will make your teenager want to continue acting in ways that make them feel especially loved and appreciated.
Sometimes, if your teenager is especially good about reacting well in a stressful situation or goes a long time without talking back, you might want to give them a special reward.
Examples of positive rewards might include buying them something they want (a video game, for example), enrolling them in lessons they want (tennis, guitar, etc.), taking them on an outing (a sporting event), or allowing an outing they would not normally be allowed to participate in (going to a concert with friends)., Bribery can work well, but only if you put a lot of thought into the message you’re sending your child.


Don’t frame it as a bribe. For example, you might give your child a regular allowance that is withheld if they speak to you disrespectfully.
That way, they don’t see it as a bribe for good behavior, but as a repercussion of bad behavior. Instead of training them to see aberrant good behavior as something that is rewarded from time to time, they’ll see aberrant bad behavior as something that is punished.
 Find ways to connect with your teenager about normal adolescent problems:


"I remember how hard it was to stay awake in school when I was you age. Heck, I still have trouble staying awake at work now. But your grades are slipping, so let me share some of the tricks I use to make sure I have energy during the day."
"There's nothing worse than feeling like you're friends are talking about you behind your back. Tell me how you're dealing with it."

, If so, you’re leading them to believe that such behavior is acceptable. Children learn by imitating the behavior of those around them, and while you can’t always control the behavior of others around them (in school, on TV, etc.), you can control the behavior you’re modeling for them.
 Make family meals a priority.


Use that time to ask your child about what’s going well for them these days, and what’s upsetting them.
This is a way to let them vent their frustrations in a way that actually builds up the bond between parent and child.
Without regular conversations like this, you will only hear about their frustrations when they build up and explode into an argument.
 They say “it takes a village to raise a child,” and there’s a lot of truth in that statement. There are many other adults who come into contact with your children, and they’re probably being treated as poorly as you are by your teen. Reach out to them to coordinate an effort to create boundaries and enact discipline in a systematic way to curb your teenager’s attitude problem.


Set up a meeting with the school’s guidance counselor to discuss behavioral problems your child may be having at school and an action plan to curb such behavior.
Speak to your child’s individual teachers, if possible. Work out a system of repercussions for back-talking that extends from home into the classroom, and across all of your child’s teachers.
For example, you may ask the teachers to notify you of back-talking at school so you can discipline the child through extra chores, grounding, etc. at home.
If your child spends a lot of time at a particular friend’s house, maintain regular communication with that friend’s parents. If you’re comfortable with their parenting style and capabilities, tell them they should feel free to discipline your child as they would their own for any bad behavior they witness in their home.
 Studies have shown that playing sports in a structured, team-oriented manner over a prolonged period of time does a lot more than simply keep kids in shape; it is also correlated with higher grades, a decrease in behavioral problems, and higher self-esteem. A team sport will also provide your teenager with a positive authority figure in the role of the coach; a good coach will promote healthy social behavior and provide emotional support that your teenager may simply be unwilling to turn to you for.Furthermore, the bond hopefully created between your child and their teammates will create a sense of belonging and pride — to both the team and the school — that is correlated with better focus and behavior.Choose a sport that your teenager actually enjoys; forcing your problem teen into something they actively dislike will likely not improve their behavior.
Research the coach before allowing your child to join the team. Arrange a meeting to speak with them, and talk to the parents of other children on the team to make sure the coach’s goals for character development are in line with your own.
Speak with the coach candidly about the problems you are having at home with your teenager, so they know what to expect and can formulate a plan for how to deal with these issues.
Show interest in your child’s team involvement. Go to every game you can attend, and be a vocal supporter. Cheer your child on, and grieve with them when they lose.
 Even if you think the problems lie within your child alone, you, as a parent, must be willing to do some serious work if you want your child’s behavior to improve. FFT is recommended for the families of children of 11-18 year of age who demonstrate serious behavioral issues, including delinquency and violence. The therapy centers on five dimensions: engagement, motivation, relational assessment, behavior change and generalization.Engagement: FFT therapists develop a close relationship with all members of the family and are available to them to a far larger degree than non-FFT therapists. The therapist relationship is far more intimate than with other types of therapy.
Motivation: the therapist will help redefine the difference between blame and responsibility — a line which often becomes blurry. The goal is to shift the family dynamic from one of blame to one of hope.
Relational assessment: the therapist will provide an objective analysis of the dynamics between family members through observation and questioning. They will attempt to shift the perception of family problems from individual perspectives to a relationship perspective, in which family members see the connectedness of the family unit and how it functions together, rather than focusing on themselves as an isolated unit within a family structure.
Behavior change: the therapist will equip your family with conflict resolution techniques and communication methods that will help you work through bad moods and family problems in a more constructive manner.
Generalization: you will create a plan for how to extend what you have learned in the FFT sessions forward into your life beyond therapy.
FFT generally involves 12-14 sessions conducted over the course of 3-5 months.
 Attachment theory posits that the relationship babies develop with their caregivers in the earliest years of life continues to affect their relationships and behaviors throughout their adolescent and adult lives.If you, as a parent, were unable to provide your child with a secure, nurturing environment in childhood, it’s unreasonable to expect them to work through their attachment issues on their own as adolescents, even if you are now a better parent to them than you were before.


ABFT sessions are usually an hour to 1 ½ hours long, and meet once a week.
It begins with the question of “why do you (the child) not turn to your parents in times of crisis or need?”
The therapist will meet with the members of your family both in a group context, and in individual sessions.
Individual sessions will guide your teen through difficult memories from childhood that need to be addressed and dealt with for positive behavioral change.
Sessions held with the parents alone will help parents work through attachment problems they might suffer from themselves, and how their issues are being revisited upon their children.
Full family sessions will provide a safe space for you to be honest with each other and create a plan to improve family dynamics going forward.

