,, This should bring up the official I-821D form.
,, To apply for a successful DACA, you need the following documents as proof that you meet the conditions necessary for a DACA grant. The documents you will need are as follows:


Identity proof: Any ID like your School ID card should do.
Proof that you entered the U.S. before your 16th birthday: School records such as your academic report, immunization card, or anything else containing date of entry
Proof of immigration status, if you entered with a VISA. If you entered the States unlawfully, you'll need to know the point of entry.
Proof of presence in U.S. on June 15, 2012: Bank statement (you can block info with a dark marker), or any other receipt containing your name
Proof that you continuously resided in U.S. since June 15, 2007: This can be work checks, bills, etc.
Proof of your student status at the time of requesting such as a copy of school transcripts: Provide a High School Diploma copy or College Degree to pass this requirement.
If you are an honorably discharged veteran of the Coast Guard or Armed Forces of the U.S.Note: You should not submit original documents but legible copies of these documents.
,


I-821D (Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals)
I-765 (Application for Employment Authorization)
I-765WS (Worksheet)
G-1145 (E-Notification of the Application)

, You need to mail the I-821D form including the fees and supporting documents to USCIS (United States citizenship and immigration services). Remember that the USCIS will not accept incomplete forms or, unsigned forms, and forms without the proper fee so make sure to complete your forms and follow the mailing instructions, given here.
 After accepting your request USCIS will mail you a receipt that your form has been accepted for processing.
 As soon as you get this document you can go and get your fingerprints recorded. You do NOT have to wait till the schedule date. Don't take any hand bags to this appointment, only your car key, photo ID, and passport. In case you fail to attend your appointment the USCIS may deny your DACA request.Note: Children under 14 in removal proceedings, with a final removal order, or with a voluntary departure order, and who are not in immigration detention, will appear at the ASC for photographs only.
 The USCIS takes approximately 90 days to review your both forms (I-765 and I-821D) and then decides to defer action in your case. You can check your Case Status here.


Note : This processing time could be longer depending on a case-by-case and all the facts and circumstances of any particular applicant, the quality of their eligibility documentation and other case specifics.

