 You will need foundation under your contouring  and highlighting, whether you are doing a liquid contouring and highlighting, or a powder contouring and highlighting, you will need a base. It depends on the type of contouring and highlighting you are doing, If you are doing a liquid one, your base might be foundation. If you are a powder one, your base might be powder.;
, Then you can do the contouring and highlighting.
 After you have done your foundation and you've concealed your imperfections, you can go ahead and use a darker foundation, or a dark, matte, cream blush.
 Find the hollows of your cheek bones. Draw a straight line, from your ears to the middle of your cheek. Do this on both sides. With a clean foundation brush, a Beauty Blender, or a small stippling brush, blend back and forth, and then blend slightly upwards a bit.
 Find the arch or your eyebrows. Draw a straight line up to your hairline. Do it on both sides. Then draw a horizontal line from the left line to the right line that you drew before. Make sure to leave at least 1/4 in between your hairline and the horizontal line. Blend everything outwards.
 Find your jaw line. Draw a line all along your bottom jaw line, very close to your neck. Blend downwards towards your neck.
 Connect everything drawing a three along the sides of your face.
 To make your nose look smaller, draw a straight line on both sides of your nose. Connect both lines at the tip of your nose, drawing a "U" shape. Now, look for the crease of your eyes. Draw a curved line, kind of like you were doing a cream eyeshadow look. Connect the crease line with the lines on the sides of your nose. Blend outwards.
,









Highlight under your eyes. For this there are two ways you can do this. First one:

Start at the inner corner of your eyes and go down to your nose, then go up to the edge of your eye. Draw dots in between that triangle. Blend with a blending brush, a beauty blender, foundation brush, or concealer brush. (Follow blue lines)
The next option is going all the way to your temples. So basically, you will just follow the same step above, but instead of going to the edge of your eye, you will go all the way to your temples.
 Start at your nose:









Draw a straight line at the middle of your nose. When you get to the tip, draw a tiny horizontal line.
Now go to your forehead. Draw a straight line right above your nose, which means right in the middle of your forehead. Then draw two lines on either side of that other vertical line. These two lines will follow the shape of your eyebrows.
Now the rest of your face, starting with your chin and cupids bow. For your cupids bow, just follow the lines of your cupids bow. For your chin, you can draw horizontal lines or vertical lines. (This is the easiest part.)
Now with the your cheeks. You can do this two ways too:

First one: Draw dots right on your cheek bones and blend.


Second one: Just draw dots on the high points of your cheek bones, and go in a "C" shape when you get to the eyebrows, or just stop there.
 You can use a blending brush, going in small swirls to give it a soft airbrush effect. You can use a Beauty Blender, concealer brush, or foundation brush. Whatever you choose, make sure it is well blend because the concealer is two to three shades lighter than your foundation shade, so you don't want white stripes all over your face.
 Apply a matte bronzer or a neutral powder, making sure to stipple it on first, so the colors wouldn't blend messily.
 Grab a lighter powder than your regular setting powder, and lightly stipple it onto the concealer. Setting this will help your concealer not to crease.
 Once you are all done, it should look like the picture on the right.


If you are still not sure what it should like before you blend everything together.
 Visit YouTube and search up makeup channels like:


CoffeeBreakWithDani
Lauren Curtis
The Makeup Chair
Glam Booth
Batalash Beauty
Jaclyn Hill
Selina Lundstrom
RachhLoves
MakeupByTiffanyD
Shonagh Scott

,