 Before confronting the parent, think about what you hope to achieve with a conversation. Bringing the issue out into the open can have serious consequences for the entire family, so think carefully about what you hope to achieve by confronting your parent. Your goal for this conversation might be:


Gathering information you’d like to know.
Conveying your feelings to your parent.
Repairing your relationship with your parent.
Assessing whether your parent is continuing the affair.
 Ask your parent when a good time would be to talk. Choose a time when neither of you is rushing off to work or school, and when you can both devote some time and mental energy to the conversation.
 Describe your feelings of pain and discomfort to your parent. Don’t start with accusations, but explain your feelings. It’s possible that your parent may not have anticipated how painful this process would be for you. When you do start talking about your anger, your parent will understand more clearly where the anger is coming from.


Start with something like, “I feel very hurt. I am having trouble sleeping and I keep crying. I am worried about the future of our family.”

, Keep the focus on how things make you feel, not on your judgments about the parent. Instead of blaming your parent, describe how things make you feel. Instead of saying, “You are a terrible person. How could you do this?,” you can say, “I feel hurt and upset.”

, This is a very emotional time for both of you, and remaining calm may be difficult. But it will be a more productive conversation if you do not resort to yelling, shouting insults, or making judgments.
 This is a giant conversation that you’re having with the cheating parent. They may be taken by surprise that you know what’s going on, or they may be very nervous or defensive. Tell them how you feel and then take some time for both of you to process where you’re at and how you’re feeling.


If your parent doesn’t want to discuss the issue, let them know that you’d like to talk about it but that you can give them some time before continuing the conversation., Keep the conversation revolving around your parent’s behavior, and how it may not fit into the roles that your parent has had in your life. The point is not to attack the person but to concentrate on the behavior that is causing you anguish.
 A parent may forgive the cheating parent, or they may kick them out of the house, or they may overlook this indiscretion. You might not agree with the way the issue is being handled, but this is not your marriage. They are finding the best resolution that works for both of them.


If you are still living at home, or you have siblings who still live at home, consider talking with your parents to let them know your concerns about how the unfaithful behavior might impact you or your siblings.
 Your parent’s behavior and actions may be deplorable, and they may be causing a major rift in your family, but this is a matter largely between your parents. You shouldn’t get in the middle of your parents or be used as a pawn.