 Formatting and reinstalling Windows will wipe your hard drive clean. Be absolutely sure that you have backups of all your important files before starting. Pictures, movies, documents, and music will all be erased.
 Make note of your Windows Product Key, you will need it during the installation. Boot from the Windows CD to start the setup program


Details for this step can be found in steps 1-4 in the first section of this guide.
 Windows will load the drivers for the setup program. Once this is complete, press Enter at the Welcome screen to start the setup. Do not enter the recovery console.
 Hit F8 once you are done reading the agreement to continue the setup process. Setup will load a list of your Windows XP installs. Press Esc to continue with a fresh install.
 You should see a list of your hard drive partitions. These are your C: and D: drives (The lettering is dependent on the way the system was set up).

This is your last chance to restart and back up any files you forgot. Once the partition is deleted, your data is gone.






Highlight the partition that contains Windows. This is commonly the C: partition. Press D to delete the partition. Confirm that you wish to delete that partition by hitting Enter.






You will get one more chance to back out. To really confirm that you want to delete the partition, press L.
 Select the unpartitioned space. Press C to create a new partition. Enter the maximum size possible and press Enter.


You can create smaller a smaller partition if you want to create other partitions in your hard drive later through Windows. There are multiple reasons why someone might do this, but for most users simply creating the largest partition possible should be fine.
 Once the partition is created, highlight it and press Enter to begin the Windows installation. You will be asked to format the partition. Select “Format the partition using the NTFS file system.” Choose NTFS over FAT, as NTFS is much more stable for Windows.

Formatting will begin. This could take up to several hours depending on the size and speed of your hard drive, but for most users it will take a few minutes.






After formatting, Windows will copy over the files it needs for the Setup process. This will take a few minutes and requires no user interaction.
 This is a mostly automated process that requires the user to enter some data at a few points. The first option that pops up is changing the default language and region. Click Customize… if the settings are incorrect for your region. Once the settings are correct, click Next to move on.


When prompted, type your name and organization. These will be used when labeling documents, and can be changed in Windows settings later.
 You will be prompted to enter your 25-digit product key at this time. Your Product Key should be found at the lower part of you Certificate of Authenticity.If you are installing from a Windows XP SP 3 disc, then you will not be asked for it yet.
 This is the name that will appear on the network to describe your computer. Windows auto-generates a name for you, though you are free to change it to whatever you’d like.


For XP Professional, you will be asked to enter an Administrator password that will be used to access the Administrator account.
 You will now see a calendar and clock that can be adjusted to your specific time. You can also select the correct timezone for your location.
 You will be asked if you want to install Typical or Custom network settings. For nearly all users, Typical is the correct choice. If you are installing in a corporate setting, check with your system administrator first.


When asked to enter a workgroup, most users will want to select the first option, and leave the workgroup label as default. If you are in a corporate setting, you may need to specify a domain. Again, check with your administrator.
 This will take several minutes and requires no input from the user. Once it is complete, your PC will automatically restart and load Windows XP.


If you had to change your BIOS to boot from CD, you will probably see the option to “Press any key to Boot from CD…” again. Don’t hit any key and wait for the screen to pass. Your computer will continue to boot from the hard drive and finish the Windows install.
 Windows will attempt to automatically change the screen size to make reading easier. Once the screen resets, you will be asked if you can read the new text box. If you can, click OK to continue. If you cannot, then hit Cancel or simply wait 20 seconds for the screen to revert to its original settings.
 The Welcome to Microsoft Windows screen will appear once the screen changes are made. This process will just take a couple minutes.

Windows will attempt to check your network connectivity. If you are planning on setting this up later, you can skip this screen.






Next Windows will ask you if you are connecting to the internet through a local area or home network, or if you are connected directly to the internet. If you are using a router for your network, then select the first option. If the modem is plugged directly into your computer, then select the second option.






You are given the option to register your product with Microsoft. Whether or not you do this is up to you, it is not required to use Windows.
 In this step, you can create separate logins for each of the users of your computer. You must enter at least one name. You can enter up to five users on this screen, but more can be entered through the Control Panel after installing.


After entering the names, click Finish to finalize the installation. Windows will work for a few moments and then you will be greeted with your new desktop.
 Your installation is complete, but you’ll want to run Windows Update as soon as possible. This will download the latest system updates from Microsoft. These are very important, as the patch system vulnerabilities and stability issues.
 Chances are you will need to install your drivers again now that the computer has been formatted. Depending on the devices you have attached to your computer, this could include your video card, your modem or network card, your sound, and more.


These drivers can be found on the discs that came with your computer, and can also be downloaded from their respective manufacturer’s websites.

