 There are several options available for recording music. Macs, for instance, come with a full recording suite called Garageband. Go online and research different software and then decide which one is the best fit for you.


Recording software usually offers a free trial period. Download a few of these to test your options.
The industry standards are ProTools and Logic. You can also check out software like Ableton Live, Reason, Fruity Loops, and Audacity.Completely free software like Reaper or Acid are also popular and have similar features to Protools and Logic.;
, Spend a couple weeks experimenting with the software. There are tons of tutorial videos available for free, and many are created by the software company directly.


If you run into trouble and can’t figure something out, google it. State the software’s name and what you’re trying to do. It's often easy to find an answer this way.
 An audio interface allows you to plug in an instrument like a guitar or a microphone, and record onto the computer without a delay in timing. Research an interface that will be the most compatible with your computer and recording needs. Interfaces can have one or multiple input jacks for simultaneous recording. Some larger modules may have up to 16 input jacks and a built in mixer.


Interfaces range greatly in price, so consider your specific needs before committing.
Most interfaces come with a combination of XLR (standard for microphones) and ¼” jacks (standard for guitars and keyboards).
Several interfaces also come with recording software or an extended trial of software. Check out all the features of the prospective interface before purchasing it.
 Be realistic on what you are trying to achieve. Microphones are incredibly useful for a home studio. Even if you plan on making instrumental or electronic music, you can still utilize a microphone for recording. Picking out a microphone is a complex process that varies based on what you want to record.


The most versatile microphone you can record anything with is a condenser microphone. The rule with microphones is that if you want a quality mic, you’ll need to pay at least $100, if not more.
If you want to skip using an interface, invest in an USB microphone. USB microphones plug directly into your computer and are designed not to delay or lag in real time., The best way to start recording a song is to first record an idea in your head. An example of an idea is a drum beat or a funky bass line you keep thinking about. These are launching points for songs. Once you record the foundation of your idea, you’ll be inspired to add different layers to your track.


It’s best to record along to a metronome. You can even setup a click track by using a software drum loop to play along with while recording.
 Continue to experiment with the song until you feel it is complete. The beauty of digital recording is that you are able to add an unlimited number of tracks. Note however that good songwriting and production is often about restraint.


If you have multiple collaborators, choose to have one person play their part with the recording. There is no order that the members should play in, but let them play until they have perfected their part.
You might want to record a phrase of a track at a time, rather than record the whole track in one sitting.
 The best part about recording on your computer is that you can easily edit the material. If you are recording a vocal line and aren’t happy with the chorus, you can splice out the chorus, record the chorus on a new track, and edit the newly recorded chorus to fit in seamlessly.


Whenever you run into a wall with understanding how to do something, research your problem with a search engine.
Editing a song is similar to editing a video, it can make or break the track. Be sure to edit the introduction down to where you want it, and do the same for the ending.
Decide how you want the volume to work in the track. You can edit the song so that it fades in, or adjust the volume so it fades out.

