 If your fear of public restrooms makes it difficult to leave the house, you might actually have a medical condition known as paruresis. Commonly known as a "shy" or "bashful" bladder, this problem is classified as a general anxiety order. If fear keeps you from being able to comfortably urinate in a locker room, ask your doctor about paruresis.In addition to anxiety, there can also be physical symptoms of shy bladder such as persistent pain and pressure in the bladder. If this sounds familiar, make sure to consult your doctor. You'll want to get professional advice in treating your condition.;
, The old saying "practice makes perfect" can actually help you urinate more comfortable. When you are relieving yourself at home, note your ease and comfort level. Then, imagine you are in a public restroom, feeling equally relaxed. By rehearsing, you can help overcome your anxiety by training your brain to feel more relaxed., You can also try using some common tricks to ease your anxiety. For example, when you are preparing to pee, take several deep, calming breaths. You can also use mental imaging. Try imagining yourself somewhere else--either a stop where you know you'd be relaxed or somewhere you would feel more comfortable urinating., If this problem is interfering with your daily life, it is time to talk to a medical professional. One option is to talk to your regular doctor about trying medication. There are many options for different types of social anxiety. Alternatively, you could see a mental health specialist. Ask about cognitive therapy for social anxiety disorders. If you decide to try therapy, make sure you are working with a professional who makes you feel comfortable. It can be useful to ask your primary doctor, or a close friend, to refer someone they trust.
 Maybe you do not have paruresis. Maybe you just have an aversion to locker rooms. In that case, you can make sure you are aware of proper locker room etiquette to try to make yourself more comfortable. For example, do not try to start in-depth conversations at the urinal. Also, do not urinate in the shower. For the most part, just use your manners.

