 Alcohol and caffeine are two of the biggest culprits that deposit toxins in your liver and keep it from functioning properly. Cleanse your liver by reducing your intake of alcohol and caffeinated beverages. Recent research however indicates that decaffeinated coffee may help lower elevated liver enzyme levels. Replace these beverages with non-alcoholic beverages to allow your liver to regenerate, flush itself clean and function properly. Read on to find out what liquids are good for the liver.;
, Detoxify your liver and flush toxins out by drinking at least 2 quarts of water every day. Drinking lots of water will keep you hydrated, which naturally encourages cell regeneration. It will also allow the liver to filter out more toxins and residue, letting it work faster and increasing your energy level.
 Drink lemon juice in water or tea once a day. Lemon juice stimulates the liver's bile production to help push toxins out. It also prevents the buildup of gallstones and promotes digestion and liver function in the movement of gastric juices.
 Green tea is rich in catechins, a type of plant antioxidant that boosts liver function and helps reduce fat storage in the liver., Fruits like strawberries, blackberries, blueberries, and raspberries all enhance the health of the liver. These fruits have organic acids that lower sugar blood levels, and will help you to burn fat, decreasing your chances of fatty liver diseases., Fasting is a sure-fire ways to cleanse the liver. Most fasts involve eating only fruits and vegetables, or drinking only fruit and veggie juices, for a certain period of time. There are many different cleanses out there--you have to pick one that is right for your body.


You should consider consulting a nutritionist or doctor before you embark upon a fast.
 Foods that are processed and contain lots of preservatives, fats and cholesterol can cause the liver to become congested and clogged with fat residue. Clean out your liver by avoiding processed or fatty foods to allow the liver to unblock itself and regenerate cells.Avoid fast food. In particular, try to avoid deep fried food or preserved meat (such as sausage, bacon, corned beef, etc.)
Avoid bad fats. Fatty red meat, deep fried food, and processed fats should all be avoided, as they can clog up your liver. Processed fats include margarine, shortening, and hydrogenated oils.
Avoid artificial sweeteners, colorings, and preservatives. It is best to go the natural route when cleansing your liver.
 Certain vegetables contain nutrients like beta carotene that stimulate liver cells and protect the liver from toxins. Dark, leafy greens like spinach encourage cell growth and stimulate the liver, while beets protect bile ducts in the liver from toxin damage. Aim for 5 servings of vegetables daily and include those that contain liver-aiding nutrients.


Greens that promote liver health include dandelion greens, bitter gourd, arugula, mustard greens, chicory and spinach.
 Garlic has sulfur-containing compounds that activate liver enzymes that work to flush out any toxins that might be in your system. Garlic also contains allicin and selenium, two nutrients that protect the liver from damages caused by toxins. These two nutrients also aid in the detoxification process.


If you can’t stand the taste of garlic because you simply don’t like it (or you’re a vampire) you can purchase garlic supplements at your local health store.
 Grapefruit is rich in vitamin C and antioxidants, both of which promote a healthy liver cleanse. Grapefruit boosts detoxification enzymes in the liver and has a flavonoid compound known as naringenin which causes the liver to burn fat rather than store it. Be careful however, because large amounts of grapefruit can inhibit a liver enzyme called cytochrome P450, which can affect the way certain foods and drugs are broken down in the body.
 Avocados are delicious and have glutathione-producing compounds. These compounds help to prevent the liver from toxic overload.
 Walnuts have high levels of l-arginine (an amino acid) glutathione, and omega-3 fatty acids which help to cleanse the liver of disease-causing ammonia. Extracts of their shells are used in many liver-cleansing formulas.
 Natural herbs like burdock and dandelion root are all said to help rid the body of toxins while protecting liver cells and promoting healthy liver function. All can be found in capsule or tablet form and dandelion root also comes in some herbal teas. Adding these supplements to your daily diet may help cleanse your liver and regulate its function.
 Soya Lecithin granules contain phospholipids which help protect the liver. Soya Lecithin granules are available in most health food stores.
 Magnesium promotes bile production, which in turn promotes the cleansing of the liver. You can take magnesium supplements to increase your liver health.Another way to get your magnesium is by dissolving a tablespoon of Epsom salt in warm water and drinking this mixture once or twice a month. Epsom salt contains a high amount of magnesium.
 Turmeric boosts the liver’s ability to produce bile, a key part of the liver-cleansing process. It has also been known to help regenerate damaged liver cells., Milk thistle promotes the growth and health of liver cells. Milk thistle contains silymarins, which are antioxidants that fight oxidation, a process that damages liver cells. It also enhances protein synthesis in the liver.
 Stressful situations release hormones and endorphins in the bloodstream, which, in turn, deposit toxins in the liver and slow it down. Eliminate stress in any areas of your life that you can.


Consider anti-stress activities like yoga and meditation.
 When you expose yourself to chemicals, your liver has to work overtime to keep you healthy. Reduce the number of chemicals you are exposed to by using cleaning products made from natural ingredients. Also helps to use organic and natural products for you own personal hygiene.
 The more toxins in the air, the more toxins your liver has to remove from your body. Air purifiers are particularly good investments if you live in the city or near a highway, as cars deposit many toxins into the air.
 Exercise helps you maintain a healthy body weight, which in turn lowers your risk of fatty liver disease. Exercise also improves the function of liver enzymes. However, excessive weight training is connected with elevated liver enzymes, which is why you should stop exercising 48 hours prior to a liver function test.

