 Plants with berries are the most problematic. They are attractive to birds, which eat the berries and in the process they drop berries into areas away from the initial garden where the plant grew (either during flight or through their excrement). The seeds inside the berry grow into weeds in natural bush and reserves, remaining unchecked because there is nobody around to remove them. In addition, plants that grow aggressively can escape garden boundaries and begin growing in adjacent natural reserves if your home borders on native bush. Even innocent transferal of garden waste or berries and seeds stuck on car tyres can also move plants around unwittingly.;
, Garden plants that turn into weeds in the native bush endanger native species through aggressive growth, shading out native species and smothering them. In other words, these plants often take over the environment of the local species and out-compete them. In turn, this destroys the diverse ecosystem that is reliant on the native plant species and exchanges a thriving native environment for a sterile, introduced one.







Ivy, Hedera helix, a woody climbing plant that produces small, black berries in late winter.






Wild cherry tree, Prunus avium, a deciduous tree that produces bright red to dark purple drupes mid-summer.






Hawthorn tree, Crataegus monogyna, produces haws, that are small, dark berry-like fruits.






Elderberry tree, Sambucus, produces clusters of small red or dark blue, black berries. Known to have a lifespan of up to 100 years.Himalayan honeysuckle, Leycesteria formosa - from Asia, a bush of many stems and with wine-red berries during winter.






Japanese honeysuckle, Loniceria japonica - from East Asia, a strong vine with black berries during summer and autumn.






Cotoneaster, Cotoneaster spp - originates from Asia, has scarlet red berries in summer.






Evergreen buckthorn, Rhamnus alaternus - Southern Europe in origin, has red berries that later ripen to black.






Darwin's barberry, Berberis darwinii - a South American plant with purple berries in summer.






Banana passionfruit vine, Passiflora tarminiana






Pampas grass, Cortaderia selloana, native to South America. A strong-growing, highly adaptable plant that rapidly becomes an invasive weed.






Boneseed bush, Chrysanthemoides monilifera , native to South Africa, has black fruits.






Snakefeather, Asparagus scandens - a plant originating from South Africa, it is a climbing vine with a fern-like appearance. It has orange berries in autumn.
 If you are growing any of these plants in your garden and they are not appropriately contained or sheltered from birds, the best thing that you can do is to remove them. There are many delightful New Zealand native alternatives that you can replace them with, or ask your local nursery for choices on introduced plants that are not likely to cause problems via their berries or aggressive growth patterns.

