 Use of diuretics can contribute directly to low potassium. Some patients with medical conditions such as high blood pressure may require diuretics for treatment. However, if these are leading to low potassium, you may need to talk to your doctor about an alternate medication.Diuretics are a class of medication that includes furosemide and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). Diuretics attempt to relieve high blood pressure by increasing the urination rate. However, this can cause minerals like potassium to be hard to maintain in balanced to the bodily needs, as they are excreted from the body in the urine.
 While some causes of low potassium are medical, some can be prevented by lifestyle changes. If you drink alcohol excessively, use laxatives too frequently, or constantly sweat profusely, you could be causing your low potassium.Talk to a medical professional about changing these habits or altering your environment to assess the problem.


You may need to seek treatment for alcohol addiction if you do not feel that you can drink less on your own.
If you overuse laxatives, talk to your physician about how to reduce your reliance on them through natural methods.
If you sweat profusely, you may need to change your work or living environment. Keeping cooler, staying hydrated, or taking medical steps to sweat less may be necessary.
Other conditions that can lead to low potassium include chronic kidney disease, diabetic ketoacidosis, diarrhea, aldosteronism, hyperaldosteronism, and antibiotic use.
 Low potassium can be an indicator of other serious medical conditions. Chronic kidney disease and diabetic ketoacidosis can lead to low potassium and should be addressed immediately.Additional conditions that may lead to low potassium are a folic acid deficiency or stomach ailments that cause persistent vomiting or diarrhea.


Hyperaldosteronism leads to a syndrome that includes hypertension and hypokalemia., The best way to increase your potassium level is by eating potassium-rich foods. You can also take a potassium supplement, but be sure to talk to your doctor so that you do not overload on too much potassium. Some potassium-rich foods include:


Bananas
Avocados
Tomatoes
Potatoes
Spinach
Beans and Peas
Dried fruits

