 If your cat really loves its food or has to rush to eat to get food before other cats in the house, then it may be eating too quickly. This quick eating can then lead to regurgitating if your cat can't digest all the food. In order to stop this, you should feed your cat slowly. This can be done by either giving it smaller meals more often or feeding it with a puzzle feeder that makes the cat eat slowly.If you feed your cat dry food, you can spread the food out over an area of floor and force your cat to move around to get it. This will slow the eating down.
Keep other cats away while the regurgitating cat is eating. This will allow the regurgitating cat to relax and eat more slowly.;
, If your cat likes to go straight to its water bowl after a meal and gulp down lots of water, this can cause regurgitation. Instead, you should remove the cat's bowl while it eats and replace it with fresh water when it has had a chance to digest its food a bit, usually within an hour.

It is important that your cat always has access to fresh, clean water. However, it will not hurt your cat if its water is limited for an hour or so., Some cats regurgitate hairballs regularly, which can be a messy and potentially dangerous situation. If your cat regurgitates one hairball every week or two, that is not usually a reason for concern over your cat's health. However, if hairballs show up more frequently, your cat should be treated. In most cases, hairballs can be minimized by regular grooming of your cat and feeding a hairball remedy weekly.Discuss your cat's hairballs with its veterinarian and get suggestions from them about appropriate treatments.
 Regurgitation is different from vomiting, and thus has different causes and treatments. With this in mind, it's important to be able to tell one from the other. In general, vomiting is an active action that involves the cat's entire body seizing. Regurgitation, on the other hand, is a passive process in which the cat lowers its head and then food simply slides out of the esophagus easily and unexpectedly.Vomit usually consists of partially digested food and stomach bile, which is typically yellow. Regurgitation usually consists of undigested food that never got all the way into the stomach and mucus.
Regurgitated food is also often in tube form, as it was sitting in the esophagus before being expelled.
It is more common for cats to vomit than to regurgitate.

