 The kind of brush depends on where you are going to apply the blush. Since you will be applying blush to more than just the apples of your cheeks, you will want to use a smaller brush for smaller areas. For the cheeks, you can use a regular blush brush.Some suggest using a setting brush for the smaller areas of your face. For example, on your brow bones. This will make it easier to control where the color goes.;
, If you are planning to apply foundation to your skin, you should do this before you start draping your blush on. If you use a full coverage foundation, applying blush will be especially important to help give your skin a more dimensional look.









Be sure that your concealer and foundation are well-blended before moving on. This will keep you from having that line around the neck area that shows where the foundation stops.
If you are applying concealer, this should also be applied before the blush.
 Just below your cheek bones, dust some darker blush on. Doing this will help give your face a more contoured look. Don’t worry if it looks harsh at first. You can use a lighter shade to blend later.








Don’t go too crazy with the darker blush. The idea is just to apply a light layer to help contour your face. You don’t need to look as though you are actually blushing. Rather, the idea is to give your face a healthy looking glow.
 Now you should lightly dust a more neutral blush color on any of the high points of your face that you want to emphasize. When applying the blush, use a very light touch along with circular motions. You want to create a natural look, so make sure that you blend any rough edges into your skin to avoid a harsh look.








Places that you can apply the foundation include your temples, brow bone, across the bridge of your nose, and even the tip of your chin., Choosing a blush that is too dark for your skin can make you look like a clown. On the other hand, choosing a blush that is too light for your skin can leave you looking washed out and ashen.Thus, it is important that you choose a blush that is ideal for your skin. For draping, some experts recommend using a more neutral and natural looking color than you might normally choose, so keep that in mind if you are buying blush specifically for this technique.


If you have very fair skin, you should choose the lightest blush shades you can find. When draping, you can choose a very slightly darker color to apply under the cheekbones, and use a very light blush everywhere else.
For medium skin, look for blush that is rosy or peach colored, and that are slightly darker than the lightest shades. For draping, choose one of the slightly darker colors, and then look for a complementary shade that is just a bit lighter and more natural looking.
For dark skin, it is especially important not to choose a color that is too light in order to avoid looking ashen. The color you choose will depend on how dark your skin is. If it is very dark, you can opt for deep rose or orange colors, and if your skin is a bit lighter then choose a slightly less deep color.
 For a night out on the town, you might want a more bold look than you might choose for a day at the office, or for a more formal occasion such as a wedding. Thus, you might consider owning a few different blushes that are bolder for evening looks, and a few more natural tones that you wear for occasions wear a bold look is less appropriate.


Alternatively, you can also apply a bit more blush for an evening look and a bit less for everyday if you can’t or don’t want to have different shades.
 Draping is different from applying blush as usual in that you will be applying more color to more of your face. Thus, you may need a more natural shade than what you currently use.


Some companies even make blushes that allow you to blend them together specifically for draping.Applying a color that is too deep and bold will make you look clownish. Instead, look for neutral shades that will make you look healthy and glowing.
 When applying makeup, it is important that you start with a clean face. Makeup will go on better and stay on better, and it will also keep your skin healthier. This is because applying makeup to a dirty face can spread bacteria all over your skin, which may lead to breakouts.If you don’t have time to wash your face correctly, you can use a skin refresher such as micellar water., It is important not to underestimate the value of a good moisturizer. Not only does it help makeup go on more smoothly, but it can also help prevent breakouts and prevent wrinkles and lines. If you have dry skin, applying moisturizer will also keep your skin from getting flaky and itchy.Allow your moisturizer to soak into your skin for a few minutes before moving on in your makeup routine.
 Before you begin applying your makeup, it is always a good idea to apply a good primer to your skin. It absorbs excess oil and creates a smooth layer for your makeup to go on. It also helps makeup last longer by providing a layer of makeup that foundation and powder can stick to.If you have a lot of redness skin, you can even find primers that are green in color. Green helps wash out the red so you get a more even skin tone.
 It can be easy to put off cleaning your makeup brushes, but it is a task that should not be neglected. Using dirty makeup brushes means that you are spreading the bacteria in your brushes all over your face. This can lead to breakouts. In addition to that, using dirty brushes makes it more difficult to get a clean, polished look.In some cases, using a dirty brush can even lead to infections such as pink eye.

