 Any of the programs listed in the section above will also work with your iPod Classic, and will make it easier to find the exact song(s) you want to transfer. If you use the method outlined in this section, you'll won't be able to determine which tracks are which until you load them into a media player. This is because the iPod Classic renames all of the files when they are added to the iPod.
 This is only possible on iPod Classic models (not iPod Touch), and allows you to access the iPod's files as if it was a USB drive. You can put your iPod Classic into Disk Mode without opening iTunes.


iPod devices with a Click Wheel - Toggle the Hold switch on and then back off. Press and hold the Menu and Select buttons until the Apple logo appears (about six seconds). As soon as the Apple logo appears, release the Menu and Select buttons and immediately hold the Select and Play buttons until the Disk Mode screen appears.
iPod Nano - Press and hold the Sleep and Home buttons (7th gen) or the Sleep and Volume Down buttons (6th gen). Hold the buttons until the Apple logo appears. As soon as the Apple logo appears, release the buttons and immediately press and hold the Volume Up and Volume Down buttons until the Disk Mode screen appears.
Older iPods without a Click Wheel - Toggle the Hold switch on and then back off. Press and hold the Play and Menu buttons until the Apple logo appears. As soon as the logo appears, immediately press and hold the Previous and Next buttons until the Disk Mode screen appears.
 It should appear as a removable drive in your Computer/My Computer window (Windows) or on your desktop (Mac).
 In order to find the music on your iPod, you'll need your computer to display hidden files.


Windows - Open the Control Panel and select Folder Options. If you are in Category View, select "Appearance and Personalization" and then click "Folder Options". Click the View tab and then select "Show hidden files, folders, and drives" in the "Hidden files and folders" section.
Mac - Open the Terminal, which can be found in the Utilities folder, type defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles TRUE and press ↵ Enter. Then type killall Finder and press ↵ Enter to restart Finder and apply the changes.
 Double-click your iPod in your Computer/My Computer window or on your desktop. This will display the folders contained on your iPod.
 This is the folder that contains all of the music files on your iPod. You'll notice that none of the filenames say what the song is; the iPod renames all the files that are imported using iTunes. Luckily, the files still contain the metadata with all of the song's information, which will be loaded by the media player of your choice.
 Since you won't be able to tell what song is what, unless you go through each song one at a time, your best bet is to just copy everything over to your computer. When you open the songs in a media player, you'll be able to see the information there.


If you're copying a lot of music, the transfer process may take a while.

