 Make a checklist so you don't end up in a predicament.


Shoes, not flip-flops, because you will be doing a lot of marching. Your shoes need to be something that can take it, preferably tennis shoes.
Your instrument and your music/lyre and flipbook, if you'll be playing.

If you have two instruments, it's wise to bring the oldest one. Things tend to get thrown/dropped/wet at band camp and you don't want to ruin your high dollar instrument. However, unless the two instruments are exactly the same use the one you plan to perform with to eliminate any wild cards in your scenario.


A water bottle, and a lunch if necessary(You're going to want that water bottle!)

If you're a singer going to a similar camp, pack a ton of water and keep hydrated throughout the day. While brass, woodwind, string and percussion players also definitely need to keep hydrated, singing with dry chords could cause injury.


Sunscreen to prevent burning.
Sunglasses to stop the sun from blocking your eyes, if allowed.
A change of clothes: just something simple like exercise shorts and a t-shirt. You never know if you might slip in the mud, get sweaty, or get uncomfortable.
Deodorant to put on mid-day (at a meal?) if you have longer rehearsals.;
, Since band camp takes place over the summer, you'll want to wear shorts and a light-colored t-shirt or tank top, unless otherwise specified by your band director. Also be aware of the dress codes followed by the band and the school, and if there is any difference between the two. For instance, if the school normally has a rule that you can't wear shorts that aren't at least a certain length, the band may choose to be lenient on this during the summer.
 Timely arrivals show you want to make a commitment to the program and will save your section from having to run laps, or being otherwise reprimanded by your director/drum major. Remember: In band, early is on time, on time is late, and late means running laps. Also, being on time or early gets rehearsal to start (and end) on time. You don't want to be the person that makes rehearsal end later.
 Chances are you haven't played or done a long rehearsal for a while. You may also wish to stretch.
 Ask your section leader or band director if you're not sure about something. Good etiquette helps things flow smoothly and look professional.
 You will probably make faster friends and be respected more if you make a decent effort at marching and playing your instrument. "When in doubt, play out." If you're trying to hide that you can't play part of the music or execute a certain move, nobody will be able to help you and when someone finally notices that you've been doing it wrong, you'll have a harder time learning.
 Complaining or bellyaching is extremely annoying and unhelpful.
 Get to know your classmates, your section, whoever is sitting or standing next to you in formation, and anybody else that seems interesting. You have band and music in common already. However, do not talk when you're setting up formations, at attention, or listening to the director talk. You have just joined a family joining this band. It may not seem like it now, but you'll learn to love them!

, Now is the time to practice. Practice as you would like to perform... learn your formations, work, music, rhythms, etc.
 You'll perform better and feel better if you take care of your body. While marching band is technically considered an art, it is more rigorous than many sports.



Stretch. Marching band can be demanding during the summer. You don’t want to pull a muscle or injure yourself. Also, take it easy when you have off time- Even though it's summer, staying outside and running around is sure to wear you out, leaving you with little energy or focus when it's time to get back to work.

Wear sunscreen and a hat if you will be marching in the sun. That sunburn won't feel good tomorrow, and it'll spare you sock tans, glove tans, and drum harness tans (somewhat). Remember to reapply every 2 hours or so. Wear chapstick that protects against the sun. Sunburned lips are not fun to play an instrument with, especially for brass players. Also be sure to wear shoes that don't come off in the mud if you know your school's fields are muddy during the summer.

Drink plenty of water. This means water or Gatorade/Powerade (see Warnings). Soda and juice will dehydrate you. Be sure to drink a full glass of water 20-30 min before you go out into the heat. Avoid drinking milk or eating dairy products just before camp. The heat will not cause it to curdle, your stomach will stay at a constant temperature unless you get heat stroke and the acid in your stomach always curdles milk anyway. Dairy will take a while to fully digest and you could become nauseous. Get an insulated jug for water. Don't forget to clean and dry it after each day's practice, so it doesn't gunk up inside.

Eat healthy foods! Eating food that wouldn't benefit your body in the first place will be even worse after such a strenuous activity such as marching. People seem to discredit how tiring it is- Heavy clothing and walking around in the sun all day is hard enough, but doing that with any instrument- from a lightweight piccolo to a fifty-pound bass drum- will surely exhaust you. Eat what you would before a workout, and plan to drink throughout the day.
Wear movable clothing and comfortable, athletic shoes. Dress appropriately for the weather and don't forget a jacket and gloves if it will get cold.
 Take extra care if you're a freshman; make sure you get fitted for one. This way you can avoid disasters before an actual show at a competition. Minutes before your first show is not the time to learn the intricacies of tying your citation cord, discover that your pants are too short or too long, or learn that nobody ever issued you a plume.



Insert the brass mouthpiece or woodwind part firmly enough that it doesn't fly out when snapped up and down. Tape them during the show.Remove tape as soon as possible to avoid getting the mouthpiece sticky or ruining it
Avoid getting a woodwind wet, especially the pads - they will fall off. If you are forced to march in the rain close all holes/keys. Use your cleaning cloth to dry the instrument after each practice. If you ever have to get pads replaced on your marching instrument, ask for plastic pads.
Oil your valves or slide before practice. It's much harder from mid-field.
For percussion, take the opportunity to learn from your drum instructor how to tie cymbals properly and how to replace and tune a drumhead. If you don't already know those instruments as well as you know the instruments you spend the most time at, be it at a lesson or in the school auditorium, you need to take the initiative to ask someone how they work in full detail. Trust the words of every percussionist ever- not only will it keep the instruments in good condition for this session of camp, but it will also further your musical education and may come in handy in other performances, auditions and ensembles.
Learn the proper way to set your instrument down: not on its keys or delicate valves. If you must set your instrument on the ground, set it with the others from your section in a formation. It's a nice flourish and shows off sectional spirit, and it might help save them from a careless foot. However, remember that your protective case or a stand made for the instrument is the most secure place to keep it.
Consider marching a second-string instrument, particularly during rehearsals. You can buy one on Ebay or even at a garage sale.
 Band camp can be strenuous, and it's easier if you're well rested.
 Often they are busy or stressed, so be understanding.
 The more effort you put in at band camp, the easier it will be at competitions. You don't want to spend all your time later in the season playing catch-up. (This is especially for brass players. Holding up the horn requires a lot of endurance!)

, If you're an underclassman, don't try to boss others around as if you're the section leader. On the flip side, if you're an upperclassman, don't alienate and harass those younger than you. If you treat the new people poorly, they won't return the next season. Everyone should keep in mind that while they may not like the band captains or drum major(s), they are the highest in student leadership. The same goes for section leaders: you don't have to like them, but you should listen to them, after all they are there to help you and they were chosen for a reason!

, Many bands have parents as chaperones. They are there on their own time, often using vacation time. Chaperones assist the band director. They are not there to pick up after you.
 For example, saying things like "Wow, the flags were really off today," or "The trumpets are way too loud," is a BAD idea, especially if you're an underclassmen. It's not your place to judge the other sections, and it's a great way to make enemies, which is something you don't want to do. If there is a correction to be made, the BD will make it. As a camp community, remember, you have to work as a team. If something goes wrong in one section and you talk badly of it, not only does it reflect badly on you, but will also reflect badly on the community as a whole. If you work together as a team with a positive mindset, you're sure to thrive together- and you'll learn something great along the way!

