 The first step to organizing your clothing is sorting your clothes. You can do this by taking everything out of your closet, wardrobe, or dresser and piling it on the floor or bed. If you keep your clothes in multiple places, consider tackling each place one at a time. For example:


If you keep your clothes in a closet and a dresser, sort and organize your closet first. Then, once you have finished, repeat the whole process for your dresser.
Consider getting a box or basket for any items that you find that do not belong in your closet, wardrobe, or dresser.;
, Create two different piles: a "keep" pile and a "get rid of" pile. Put the clothes you do wear into the "keep" pile, and the clothes you don't wear anymore into the "get rid of" pile. Try to spend no more than a few seconds when deciding which pile you should place something into.


If you need more than a few seconds to decide on whether or not you will wear something again, consider creating a third pile. This pile will be the "maybe" pile, and it will hold the items you need to give more thought to.
You can also use baskets or boxes to hold your clothes as you sort through them instead of just piling them on the floor or bed.
 Once you have decided what clothes you will be keeping and getting rid of, it is time for you to further divide up the piles. Go to your "keep" pile and sort out the clothes that need to be laundered from the clean clothes that can be hung up or folded up and put away.
 Once you have finished sorting the clean clothes from the dirty clothes in your "keep" pile, take the dirty clothes and put them into a laundry basket. This helps prevent things from piling up and taking up space.


To save time, put your dirty clothes into the washing machine now. This way, they can wash while you continue sorting and organizing.
 You may have placed clothes into the "get rid of" pile either because you no longer like them, they don't fit you any more, or they are too faded, stained, or torn to be worn. Some of these clothes will need to be thrown away, while others can be donated. Go to your "get rid of" pile and separate the clothes that are still in good condition from the clothes that are ripped or stained.


Clothing that will be donated should be in decent condition. There should be no rips, tears, stains, or fading.
 The clothes that are too damaged to keep or donate will need to be thrown away. You can either throw them away now, or put them into a trash bag to throw away later, once you have finished sorting and organizing your closet.


Consider cutting up the torn clothes and saving the scraps for other purposes. Cut up T-shirts can make great cleaning rags, while scraps from plaid shirts can make great patches.
Consider repurposing or up-cycling the clothes into new items. For example, a pair of jeans that are shredded and torn at the knees can become a pair of trendy shorts or a skirt.
 The clothes that are still in good condition but that no longer suit you can be put into a box or bag and taken to your nearest donation center. You can do this now, or wait until you are done organizing your clothes.


You can also give away your clothes to a friend or younger sibling.
Consider selling your clothes online or at a garage sale.
 After you have finished sorting your clothes, you may decide that your "keep" pile is still looking big. Now is the time to go through it again. If you have a "maybe" pile, you can sort through it at this time as well. Some of the clothes may still fit you, but they may no longer fit your lifestyle. Others may no longer look good on you.Go through your piles and ask yourself once again whether or not you would wear the clothes again. Ask yourself these questions:


Does that color look good on me? Do I feel comfortable wearing that color? Some colors may look better on you than other colors. Choose ones that flatter your skin tone and hair color. More importantly, keep colors that you feel comfortable wearing.
Does this cut look good on me? The jacket you bought may have looked really cute on the mannequin in the store, but it may not flatter you at all. Keep clothes that flatter your figure.
How often do I wear this? Ever since you started your new job at the office, your wardrobe has gained several black slacks and button-up shirts. The colorful blouses and dresses you used to wear before you started your new job are now taking up space, unused. Consider giving them to someone who may appreciate them and wear them often.

