 This is due to sensory issues. Reactions to touch vary greatly between autistic individuals, so it is important to ask the autistic person if they want to be touched.


Some autistic people enjoy physical touch. Many autistic individuals will happily hug close friends and family members.
When in doubt, ask. Say "Would you like a hug?" or move slowly, where the autistic person can see you and has the chance to ask you to stop. Never come up from behind to touch them, because you may startle them to the point of panic.
Preferences change from day to day. For example, an autistic boy who usually loves hugs may suddenly say "no" when you ask if he wants one. This is usually due to sensory differences—the person may be simply too overwhelmed at the time to handle a hug. It should not be taken personally.
 An autistic person may get a headache from bright lights, or jump and begin to cry if you drop a dish on the floor. Remind the person about the autistic person's sensitivities, so they can help.


Explain that it is okay to ask about the autistic person's needs in order to accommodate them. For example, "Is this room too loud for you? Should we go somewhere else?"
It is NEVER okay tease someone about their sensitivities (e.g. slamming cabinets to see the autistic person jump). This can cause intense pain, fear, or even panic attacks and is considered bullying.



Example: "I'm going to close the garage door now. If you want to leave the room or cover your ears, go ahead."

, This is called self-stimulatory behavior, or stimming, because it stimulates the senses. Stimming can help with self-calming, focus,, communicationand meltdown prevention. Explain that while it looks unusual, it is never okay to stop an autistic person from stimming.Here are some examples of stimming:


Rocking back and forth.
Repeating words or noises (echolalia).Hand flapping.
Snapping fingers.
Head banging. (Tell a therapist or responsible adult if this becomes a problem. As it can cause physical harm, it's best to replace with another stim, such as shaking the head rapidly. A therapist can help find a replacement stim.)
Jumping around and clapping in excitement.
 Similar to routines, it can create a sense of safety and predictability. For instance, an autistic individual may hop in one spot repeatedly. They may also play the same song over and over, or draw the same picture. Repetitive behaviors relate to their comfort levels.


If you are trying to explain your child's autism to a friend, compare how their child may get ready for school. There's a basic routine when getting ready for school: eating breakfast, brushing one's teeth, getting dressed, packing their schoolbag, etc. Although there's the same routine, some of these steps may get jumbled some mornings. A neurotypical child wouldn't care if they get dressed before breakfast one morning, which would be outside of the normal routine. For an autistic child, these changes can be extremely disorienting. If they're used to a certain routine, it's better to stick to it.

