 For many people, the diagnosis of pain disorder occurs once every other reasonable explanation is ruled out. If your pain is determined to be legitimate (not feigned) but not directly explicable by an existing medical condition (an illness) or substance (such as a medication), pain disorder should be considered as a distinct possibility.A psychiatrist or other mental health professional is often involved in the diagnosis of pain disorder. He or she may do so in part by asking a series of questions, such as:

Is an existing medical condition causing the pain? If no, …
Is the patient falsely claiming pain (feigning) for any number of reasons? If no, …
What is the precise nature and severity of the pain?
What are the psychological factors contributing to the pain?

;
, Because pain disorder is defined at least as much by what it is not as by what it is, each individual case is distinctive. In general terms, pain disorder is created out of a combination of physical and psychological factors, but the precise balance of these factors can vary widely. As such, each case should be considered closely by medical professionals in both the physical and psychological fields.In the most simplified categorization, there are three types of pain disorder: pain disorder with significant medical and psychological factors; pain disorder without significant medical factors; and pain disorder without significant psychological factors.
If your pain disorder trends more towards psychological factors, so too should your treatment; if it is more physical, the same holds for the treatment. In all cases, though, coordinated physical and psychological treatment is warranted.
 The pain associated with pain disorder can occur in any part of the body, so long as it does not align with any causative condition. So, if you have a broken foot but pain in your abdomen, that could possibly be pain disorder, but so too could abdominal pain that does not align with the stomach ulcer you have.


Although the pain can present anywhere in the body, the most common pain sites seem to be the lower back, head, abdomen, and chest. The severity and duration of the pain can vary widely, from short bursts of intense pain to lingering amounts of moderate pain, and everything in between., Regardless of the precise location, duration, or severity of your pain, one of the hallmarks of pain disorder is that it almost invariably causes emotional distress and changes in behavior. Such changes occur in large part because the pain seems inexplicable and easy to doubt as real (by other people, some medical professionals, and even the patient). Identifying such changes can help with the diagnosis of pain disorder and the determination of its specific nature in your case. People with pain disorder often develop strong feelings of hopelessness and helplessness, since there often seems to be no way to explain or do anything about the pain. This can in turn cause the person to become inactive and passive and develop conditions like insomnia, chronic fatigue, anxiety, and depression, as well as cause disruptions in normal social relationships.
 People with pain disorder often struggle to convince themselves and others that their pain exists in spite of the lack of a clear physical cause. Many have probably heard someone say that the pain is “all in your head,” as if it is imaginary. Actually, though, the pain experienced by all people has a mental component to it, so pain is in fact “in all of our heads.”All pain, whether caused by pain disorder or a bump on the head, is in part a “psychological response to noxious stimuli.”Both body and mind are involved in the experience of pain, and both areas need to be addressed in order to effectively treat pain disorder.
Addressing your mental health is not a sign that your pain disorder is imaginary, then; it is instead a critical element of managing the condition.
 The ongoing physical discomfort and emotional anguish of pain disorder causes many sufferers to feel hopeless about doing anything about it. A coordinated effort among the patient, physician, and mental health professional, however, can develop coping skills to better identify, manage, and overcome both the pain and the hopelessness.Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), under the guidance of a psychiatrist or other mental health professional, produces positive results for many pain disorder sufferers. CBT can help patients recognize the environmental and emotional factors that make the pain worse; develop both tension-reduction and confidence-building exercises; and formulate motivational strategies to overcome the pain and passivity that inhibit normal activities.
 People with pain disorder are invariably anxious and stressed out due to the condition. The constant physical and emotional barrage caused by the disorder creates tension that must be released, ideally in a healthy and helpful manner. Utilizing tension-reduction techniques under professional guidance is therefore a key element in the treatment of pain disorder.Work with you mental health professional to determine the techniques that are most effective for you. Options include (but are not limited to) progressive muscle relaxation, visualization, talk therapy, biofeedback, and hypnosis.
Pain diaries, in which you take note of the details of your daily pain experiences (and responses to them), can also be very helpful. The simple act of recording (and legitimizing) what you are experiencing can help you to “let go” of stress and anxiety.
 The longer a person suffers from pain disorder, the more difficult it becomes to treat. This is the case largely because the disorder creates a vicious cycle of pain and worry — you feel pain, you worry about the pain you felt and what will be coming next, and soon the disorder seems to take control of your life. One of the critical elements of managing pain disorder is reinforcing the patient’s drive and desire to live a full and active life.There is a fine line to be drawn here. Pain disorder sufferers shouldn’t feel as though they are being told to “suck it up,” toughen up, and pretend the pain doesn’t exist. Rather, in combination with coping and motivational techniques under the guidance of a mental health professional, the patient can break the pain-and-worry cycle and limit the disorder to a more manageable state.
 Pain disorder often creates feelings of isolation and loneliness, as if you are the only person who can know how real and how inhibiting your condition is. Family counseling can often help loved ones better understand the condition and give the patient more confidence that he or she has a caring and involved support network.While it is hard to find even general estimates in regards to the number of people living with pain disorder, it does affect children, and teenage girls seem to be particularly susceptible. Children with pain disorder (and their loved ones) will usually derive particular benefits from family counseling. No child should feel like he or she has to deal with pain disorder alone.
Consider joining a support network with others facing pain disorder. Sometimes it’s simply best to talk to someone who really understands what you’re going through.
 A great deal of the treatment regimen for pain disorder involves learning to understand and cope with the condition. Direct treatment of the physical pain experienced due to the disorder is also a normal and important treatment component, though. Once again, coordination between your physician and mental health professional is of critical importance.Usually, pain treatment begins with acetaminophen or NSAIDs prescribed by your doctor. Other, more powerful painkillers may be considered as needed, but will usually be prescribed with caution, out of fear of dependency and other concerns. Take all medications as prescribed and discuss their effectiveness and any side effects with your doctor.
Sometimes, depending upon the nature, location, and severity of your pain, your doctor may prescribe nerve blocking agents or surgical ablation, which removes certain nerve pathways in the affected area.
 Antidepressants are commonly prescribed to individuals with pain disorder, as a means to help deal with the emotional impacts common to the condition. Such medications should be taken under the close supervision of a medical professional, and in tandem with counseling. This is yet another area of pain disorder treatment in which a coordinated effort among the care team is important.While antidepressants have proven very helpful for countless people with conditions including pain disorder, they, like any medication, come with risks. Make sure you clearly understand how to take the medication as prescribed and how to identify possible side effects. Do not hesitate to consult your prescribing physician with questions or concerns.
 Medications and treatments given under the care of a mental health professional — such as CBT, visualization, and biofeedback — can do much to help people with pain disorder reduce the tension, stress, and anxiety common to the condition. There are also a range of other techniques you can try which are generally harmless and have varying degrees of evidence of effectiveness. Keep your medical team “in the loop” regarding all treatment methods you utilize, though.If you have pain disorder, you may find some degree of relief and relaxation via acupuncture, massage, meditation, yoga, music or art therapy, hobbies, or regular exercise, among many other options. The bottom line is that finding effective, safe ways to relax will make it easier for you to manage and overcome the other impacts of pain disorder.

