 Too many people open accounts quickly and without planning. If you seek to open an account, whether savings, checking or money market, you should find out about the fees that are connected to it. Some of these fees are within the bank’s control, while others may be the result of federal regulations. In either case, it is your duty as the account holder to understand the fees that you face.For example, federal banking regulations limit the number of withdrawals per month that you can make from a money market account. If you need regular access to your money, you might get charged excessive fees if you open the wrong account too quickly.
 If your bank is going to institute a new fee or increase the charges on an existing fee, they must provide you with notice before enacting these changes. These notices often come in your monthly bank statement. Too many people disregard the details of these notices and, as a result, are not aware of the change in fees. To avoid getting caught off guard, you should check you monthly statement carefully and read the details of any notices that are included.If you receive notice of a new or increasing fee, you should decide what action you can take to minimize the impact of the change. For example, if you receive a notice that your bank is going to start charging for ATM use, you can then change your habits regarding the use of ATMs.
 Operating with multiple bank accounts only increases the possibility that you will be charged fees. It also will multiply the amount of total charges that you could face. For example, if your bank charges a monthly maintenance fee for each account, then having three accounts open will triple the amount of the fee that you pay. Carrying multiple accounts also increases the possibility that your minimum balances may drop below allowed levels.For example, some people might open separate accounts for “Household spending,” “Child Care Expenses” and “College Savings.” While on the face, these seem to make sense, you subject yourself to multiple fees. A better plan would be to combine these into a single account and then keep your own private records of the subcategories.
 If you move, you need to notify your bank of your new address right away. Some banks charge fees for returned mail. You also risk missing notices of changes in fees if the bank does not have your current address. If the bank does not know your current address, they can’t notify you of fee changes. Even so, you remain responsible.