 Instead of whacking your piñata with a stick, you will pull on a tab attached to the bottom. This will break the tissue paper and release the candy.
 Cut a piece of ribbon, preferably balloon or curling ribbon. Tape one end of the ribbon to the center of one square. Leave the other square alone for right now.

For a neater finish, cut a slit into the center of the square, then slide the end of the ribbon into the slit and tape it down.
 Place the square over one end of an empty toilet paper roll. Make sure that the ribbon is sticking out. Tape each of the square's corners onto the roll., Stack three colors of tissue paper together. Cut a few 2-inch (5-centimeter) wide strips out of the stack. The strip needs to run the entire length of the tissue paper. You will be trimming it down further later on.You can also use crepe paper or crepe paper streamers instead.
 Fold the strips in half several times. Cut narrow, evenly-spaced slits into one edge. Unfold and separate the strips to reveal your fringe. How narrow the slits are is up to you, but ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) would be ideal., Draw a line of glue around the bottom edge of the toilet paper roll. Wrap your fringe around the roll, pressing the top/smooth edge into the glue. Cut off the excess fringe and save it for the next row.

The bottom of the roll is the same side that has the tissue paper square with the ribbon attached.
You can also attach the tissue paper with pieces of double-sided tape., Draw a line of glue around the tube, right above the first fringe. Wrap the fringed tissue paper around the tube, pressing it into the glue, then trim off the excess. The fringe will overlap the bottom one by a little., Switch colors about ⅓ of the way, and again ⅔ of the way. Each color should take up equal amounts of space on the tube. Keep working in rows until you are close to the top. Leave the last row uncovered for now., Choose small, lightweight candy, such as M&Ms or Skittles. Wrapped candy will also work, as long as it is lightweight. Avoid anything too heavy or sticky, and do not over-fill the tube. You want the candy to rattle inside., Secure the corners with a strip of tape. Don't worry if it doesn't look perfect. You will be covering the tape up later., Cut another piece of curling/balloon ribbon. Tape each end to the top of the piñata so that it makes a handle, like a basket. Again, don't worry about the tape showing., This will cover the edges of the tissue paper square and the ends of the ribbon.