 Create an environment that will feel romantic and intimate for you and your partner. Play romantic music, light candles, and make the room dark and inviting. You can also take your partner to a secluded area in a park or in a private spot in a garden, where she will feel the romantic vibes. This can then set up you both up for a fun and spicy kissing session.
 One good prop for individuals who drink is a bottle of wine or a bottle of nice, light alcohol. You can integrate wine into your kissing routine to keep it interesting and fun.Pour yourself a glass of wine and take one long sip, making sure you wet your lips with the wine.
Dip your finger in the glass of wine and use it to trace her lips. Let her lick off the wine on her lips and kiss you to get the wine off of your lips. Continue to wet her lips with wine and then have her lick it off to create a fun kissing session.
 Remove the visual element and focus on the sensual by kissing your partner while she is blindfolded. Don’t tie the blindfold too tight but make sure she cannot see in front of her. Then, tell her to focus on her lips as you kiss her.


You can also kiss other parts of her body, like her neck, chest, and face while she is blindfolded to create a fun kissing game.
 Put out a platter of sensual foods, like chocolate covered strawberries, whip cream, or ice cubes, and integrate them into your kissing routine. You could both nibble on chocolate covered strawberries between kisses or spray whip cream on each other’s bodies and lick or kiss it off of each other.


Ice cubes can also be a fun prop for kissing. Rub the ice cubes against each other’s lips or on other parts of your body and lick or kiss off the cold water. The cooling sensation on your mouths will feel nice, especially when coupled with warmth of your mouths.
 Use words as props to spice up your kissing style. Whisper in your partner’s ear, “I want you” or “Kiss me harder”, and then move in for a kiss. Words can often be a trigger for desire and act as a fun type of foreplay.