 The tenant's response to your eviction complaint provides details about the rights he or she alleges you violated.


A claim that you violated the tenant's rights typically will be raised in his or her answer to your complaint for eviction.By reading the answer you can find out what the tenant's arguments are so you can determine what information or evidence you will need to defend against them.
Keep in mind that if the tenant raises a counterclaim, for example by claiming that you are filing for eviction in retaliation for a complaint to a government agency, the tenant typically has the burden of proof. He or she must prove, typically by a preponderance of the evidence, that you committed a retaliatory act prohibited by state law.However, in as many as 20 states, the burden shifts to you if certain events occur.For example, in Massachusetts, if you try to evict a tenant within six months after the tenant engages in an activity protected by the state's law, the judge will presume you acted in retaliation, and you must prove you did not.;
, Each state provides tenants with varying degrees of protection in their relations with landlords.


If the tenant's answer cited a specific statute, that law should serve as a starting point for your research. Look it up online or by visiting the public law library in your county courthouse.
Websites of tenants' rights organizations also might have information about tenants' rights in your state. Although this information will be geared toward the tenant's perspective, you might find summaries or descriptions of other court cases that are useful to your case.
Generally, you have a duty to provide your tenant with a safe unit that meets the requirements of your local housing code, and to make repairs within a reasonable amount of time after you're informed of them.You also must not interfere with your tenant's right to peaceful enjoyment of the property. Essentially, you can't legally enter the property without reasonable notice or outside of business hours unless there is some sort of emergency., If you haven't already, you may want to hire an attorney with experience representing landlords in eviction cases to represent you.


Hiring an attorney is particularly important if your tenant has already hired someone. Even if you normally handle your own eviction cases, a tenant rights' violation claim is a serious matter that can cost you significant time and money, particularly if the judge finds in the tenant's favor.
Keep in mind that a violation of tenants' rights, especially if retaliation or discrimination are proven, can be fatal to your eviction case. In some states such as Massachusetts, these claims are a complete defense to eviction, even if you're evicting the tenant for a lawful reason such as failure to pay rent.If you don't already have a regular attorney who you use for your eviction cases, you can find an experienced landlord attorney by checking on the website of your state or local bar association. These websites typically have directories of licensed attorneys, many of which are searchable by practice area.
Some bar associations also have referral services that can help you find the right attorney for your case that meets your needs and your budget., Particularly if the tenant is claiming the unit was unsafe or violated housing codes, maintenance records can provide evidence to support your defense.


If your tenant alleges an unsafe condition, he or she must provide you notice of the condition and give you time to repair it. If you received no notice of the condition and had no opportunity to repair it, the tenant won't succeed in his or her claims.
For example, if the tenant claims he or she was withholding rent because the unit was uninhabitable, he or she must prove that you had notice (often written notice is required) of the defect and failed to repair it.You also may want to take pictures of the unit, particularly if the tenant is alleging you violated his or her rights by failing to repair an unsafe unit. The tenant probably will bring pictures as well, so you may want to take photos on several different days to show the continuing condition of the premises.
If the tenant made complaints to housing inspectors or other government agencies and you have reason to believe those complaints were not made in good faith, photos of the unit and other maintenance records can support your claim.For example, suppose you have a tenant who had a problem with the lock on his front door. He claims the lock is broken; however, you had a new lock installed on the door the day before the tenant moved into the unit. The tenant later complained to the local housing authority without giving you any notice of any further problems with the lock. He now claims that you're trying to evict him in retaliation for his complaint to the housing authority.
In the example, evidence of the installation of the new lock and photos – or even a video – showing that the lock was operational would support your defense.
 If you're evicting the tenant for nonpayment of rent, your records and receipts for rent prove that you have a lawful reason to file for eviction.


You also will need copies of any notices you've sent to the tenant regarding nonpayment of rent, or any other correspondence related to payment of rent, fees, or other lease violations.
If you recently increased the tenant's rent or tacked on additional fees, check the timing of those charges. Keep in mind the increase may be presumed to have been retaliatory if it happened within a few months after the tenant complained about you to health inspectors or another government agency.You also should make sure you have a copy of the lease, if you signed a written lease with the tenant. Take care to highlight the provisions of the lease that deal with procedures, required notices, and policies regarding eviction and lease termination.
 If your reasons for having the tenant evicted are related to some other lease violation, you'll need to gather evidence of that violation.


For example, if the tenant has a cat in violation of the lease which specified pets were not allowed in the unit, you must provide evidence of the cat to the judge – for example, by taking pictures of the cat sitting in the window of the unit on several consecutive days.
You also typically need to produce copies of written letters you sent to the tenant to prove that he or she had notice of the violation and failed to correct it within a reasonable period of time.
 If you don't appear in court on the scheduled date, the judge will dismiss your lawsuit.


Try to arrive at the courthouse at least 30 minutes before the time you're scheduled to be in court, so you have time to go through security and find your courtroom.Make sure you have at least two copies of any of the documents you plan to use as evidence. You may also want to bring notes or an outline of the points you want to make – both in presenting your case for eviction and in defending against any claims that you violated the tenant's rights.
 Since you filed the initial complaint for eviction, the judge typically will give you the chance to speak first.If you're presenting your own case (rather than being represented by an attorney) speak to the judge slowly and clearly, and stick to the facts. Avoid speaking directly to the tenant.
Keep in mind the reasons you can legally evict a tenant, and present evidence to support the reasons you use.
For example, if you want to evict the tenant because he or she didn't pay rent for three months, you must show the judge a copy of the lease as well as records that indicate no rent payments were received for those three months.
 Strong evidence to back up your reasons for eviction is the best defense against a tenants' rights violation claim.


When you're presenting your initial case for eviction, focus on the evidence that supports your case to evict the tenant rather than defending against a claim that you've violated the tenant's rights. The claim was brought in defense to your eviction complaint, so wait until the tenant brings it up rather than bringing it up yourself.
You will be allowed to call witnesses to testify on your behalf. For example, if you're evicting a tenant for violating her lease by playing loud music every night and disturbing her neighbors, testimony from those neighbors about the disturbance can support your case.
 Once you've presented your evidence, the tenant will have an opportunity to explain why he or she should not be evicted.Remain calm while the tenant is speaking, and don't interrupt him or her. Take notes so you can remember things that you want to bring up when you have the opportunity to rebut the tenant's statements.
If the tenant calls any witnesses to testify on his or her behalf, you will have the opportunity to cross-examine them and ask questions yourself.
 If the tenant alleges you have violated his or her rights, you will have the opportunity to defend your actions.


Just as when you first presented your case, you typically will have the opportunity to explain the situation to the judge as well as to present evidence or call witnesses.
Focus on the claims the tenant has made, and reiterate your lawful reasons for seeking eviction of the tenant.
 Once the judge has heard both sides, he or she will issue an order in your case.


The judge may make a decision from the bench, or take the matter under advisement – which simply means he or she will take a few days to go over the evidence presented before issuing a final decision.
If you've won your case, you have the right to remove the tenant from the unit. However, you probably shouldn't expect him or her to just pack up and go quietly. You may have to call the local sheriff's department to enforce the order.If the tenant leaves personal belongings behind when he or she vacates the premises, make sure you check your state's law to determine what to do with those things. Some states require you to make an effort to contact the former tenant and hold personal belongings for a period of time.