 When you are looking for the correct probiotics, you need to pay attention to the manufacturer of the product. Purchase probiotic supplements from a reputable supplier that guarantees its products. Suppliers may use independent organizations to test the quality of their products such as U.S. Pharmacopeia, NSF International, or Consumerlab.com. Although these seals of approval do not guarantee safety or effectiveness, the organizations do test products to ensure it contains what it claims to and that it is not contaminated.


The reason you have to be careful is because, although probiotics are considered dietary supplements, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not approve these products. They do, however, loosely regulate them. This means that although there are standards set for the manufacturing of dietary supplements and FDA may periodically check the facilities, there is a chance that your dietary supplement does not actually contain what it claims to or is contaminated.Each acidophilus supplement should come with a Colony Forming Units (CFU) count guarantee, which is based on the count at the time of manufacturing. Most acidophilus supplements contain between 1 to 2 billion CFU. Do not purchase products without CFU count guarantees.If the brand of probiotics you purchase is sold refrigerated, then ensure that your bottle has been and continues to be kept cool.
 Look at the ingredients in the acidophilus supplement. Some supplement manufacturers combine slow-growing acidophilus with other fast-growing bacteria to increase the CFU count and make it appear like a more effective product to consumers. You don't want to buy these because the other added bacteria may not be the kind of bacteria you need.


For best results, look for an acidophilus supplement that contains only acidophilus. The probiotic may be listed as acidophilus, lactobacillus or l. acidophilus., There are many different dosage forms available such as capsules, tablets, and powders. These supplements are used to treat certain conditions such as eczema and ulcerative colitis. Ask your doctor which form is best for your specific condition.


If a single-strain of probiotic doesn't seem to be working for you, consider a supplement with multiple strains. Just as one type of antibiotic works better than others for some people, the same is true with probiotics.
Tablets and capsules are typically made with freeze dried probiotics. Make sure you store them correctly by checking the container for directions. There are some forms of probiotic supplements that need to be refrigerated.
Powders can be prone to contamination because they are frequently exposed to air and a spoon or scoop, rendering them less effective., In order to get more acidophilus, consider drinking acidophilus milk. It is available through health food stores and some grocery stores. The milk has a tangy taste and a slightly thicker consistency than cow's milk. Unlike the advertised CFU strength in tablets, capsules, and powders, the amount of the supplement in the milk usually isn't verified.


This makes it difficult to know how much acidophilus you are drinking., If you aren't interested in trying the milk, yogurt and soy products contain natural forms of acidophilus. When choosing yogurt for its probiotic value, look for yogurt that contains live l. acidophilus cultures and no added sugars. Some fresh fruits and vegetables, such as carrots, also contain acidophilus.


Remember that while consuming foods high in probiotics is wonderful, we are unable to get enough of it from food alone. A supplement is always a great idea!

, In order to make sure your acidophilus is effective, make sure the supplement has not expired and has been stored correctly. Expired supplements or supplements that should have been refrigerated but were not may lose effectiveness. In addition, if you are taking other medications, especially antibiotics, take your probiotic 2 hours before or after taking them.Most of the time, it doesn’t matter when you take the probiotic, just make sure you take it routinely. Sometimes manufacturers may suggest taking it with food or taking it right before breakfast. Use the manufacturer's website or label to find out more information.

