 Probably the most straightforward method of alleviating abdominal pain from gas accumulation is getting rid of it by passing the gas (also called flatulating or farting). Most peoples and cultures regard passing gas in public as bad manners, so be discreet about it and go to the bathroom to pass gas. To help facilitate passing gas, go for a leisurely walk outside and/or lightly massage your abdomen in a downward manner, which may help push the gas out of your large intestine.

The gas produced by fermenting bacteria in your large intestine is a combination of nitrogen, carbon dioxide, methane and sulfur compounds — which contribute to the foul odor.Flatulence often becomes more common with age, often due to a decreased production of digestive enzymes.;
, Another way to pass gas, albeit from the opposite end, is by burping or belching. Although you don't make much impact on lower intestinal gas by belching, it can certainly get rid of excess gas in the stomach and upper intestinal tract. Accumulation of air in the stomach can occur from gulping liquids or eating food too quickly, drinking through a straw, chewing gum and smoking. The accumulated air can be relieved easily, quickly and painlessly by belching.Although drinking too much carbonated liquid can cause bloating, a few sips of something fizzy is helpful for promoting belching and gas release.









Natural remedies sometimes used to encourage belching include ginger, papaya, lemon juice and peppermint.
Much like passing gas, many peoples and cultures (but not all) regard loudly belching in public as bad manners, so act accordingly.
 Some foods have a tendency to create intestinal gas because they are difficult to digest or contain compounds that irritate the stomach or intestines. Common gas-causing or bloating foods include beans, peas, lentils, cabbage, onions, broccoli, cauliflower, prunes, and mushrooms.Eating too much insoluble fiber (found in most veggies and the skins of some fruits), fructose sugar (found in all fruit, particularly sweet berries) and gluten (found in most grains such as wheat, barley and rye) can also lead to bloating, flatulence and diarrhea. If you love to eat raw veggies and fruit, then eat smaller portions, chew them slowly and allow more time for digestion.









People with celiac disease are particularly sensitive to gluten, which irritates their intestines and triggers abdominal pain and bloating.
Other intestinal disorders that cause people to be more sensitive to bloating include irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
Beverages that can trigger bloating include coffee, fructose-rich drinks, beer and carbonated sodas with artificial sugar (aspartame or sorbitol).
 Ginger, raw honey, peppermint, chamomile, cinnamon, cucumber, banana, pineapple, fennel and flax seeds, probiotic yogurt, and kale.
 Lactose intolerance is the inability to produce enough (or any) lactase enzyme, which is needed to properly digest and break down milk sugar (lactose). Undigested lactose ends up in the large intestine and provides a substrate for friendly bacteria to ferment and use as food — which produces gas as a byproduct. Symptoms of lactose intolerance include flatulence, bloating, abdominal cramps and diarrhea.As such, reduce or avoid dairy product consumption if you suspect a lactose intolerance problem, particularly cow's milk, cheese, whipping cream, ice cream and milkshakes.









The ability to make lactase drops off rapidly after childhood, which means there's more risk of lactose intolerance as you get older.If you want to continue to consume dairy products without the risk of gas and abdominal pain due to lactose intolerance, then buy some lactase enzyme capsules from a health food store or pharmacy. Take a few enzyme capsules before you indulge in food that contains dairy.
 Gas pains can be caused by acid in the stomach. Baking soda is a base, which will work against the acid to calm the gas pains.








