 You will need a piece of galvanized steel (see step two). These come prepackaged and can be found at arts and crafts stores as well as home improvement stores. Since they are not cut on-site, please make sure to measure the space on your refrigerator or office wall before you purchase a piece of steel. You will also need:


A piece of wood or cork board, bigger than your steel (you will cut it down to size)
Pencil
Hand saw or electrical radial saw
Sand paper
Wall hook (if hanging on wall)
Nails (if hanging on wall)
Hammer (if hanging on wall)
Magnet strips (if hanging on refrigerator)
Hot glue or super glue (if hanging on refrigerator)

, The great thing about galvanized steel is that it is both magnetic and dry erasable. Most home improvement and arts and crafts stores have galvanized steel for sale for this exact reason. Galvanized steel is sold in standard sizes, not cut on site, so you will have to measure your wall/fridge space ahead of time before you go into the store.There are usually different shades of galvanized steel. Since you will be making a whiteboard out of it, it is best to pick a lighter shade of gray.
You won't be able to cut the steel unless you have serious construction equipment. Therefore, the standard size of steel you buy will have to fit within the wall/fridge space.
 You will need to purchase a relatively thin piece (1/4 inch) of wood or cork board that is the size of your galvanized steel. Wood/cork board which is cut on site to the perfect size is always your best option. However, if the store won't cut it for you, you will have to do it at home. Buy a piece of wood or cork that is larger than your piece of galvanized steel so that you can cut it down later on.If you are affixing the board to your refrigerator use cork board, not wood (will prevent scratching).
Place the piece of steel overtop of the board. Take a pencil and trace around the steel, onto the board. Lift away the steel and keep it somewhere safe.
Next, cut the rectangular shape out using a saw. You will want to do this somewhere safe (outside and away from children). You can either use a hand saw or an electric radial saw.
Once the board has been cut, take a piece of sand paper to the edge so that it is smooth all around.
 If you wish to hang your final product on a wall you will have to attach a wall hanger to your board. Flip your wooden/cork board landscape style. Place your hanger at the center top of your board, about 1 inch (3 cm) from the top. You can use a ruler to measure both sides of the hanger to make sure that it is in the middle. Nail it in using two nails and some gentle taps of a hammer.The nails will go through the board. Take some pliers and snip off the two pointy ends. Then sand them down using a piece of sandpaper or an electric sander.
 If you are hanging it on your refrigerator you will need to attach magnets. You can buy magnet that has an adhesive strip. All you have to do is to cut your magnet strip into the appropriate pieces (one for each corner, and one for the center) and then press the adhesive side onto the board.If you are buying regular magnets, simply cut the magnet into the appropriate pieces (one for each corner, and one for the center) and attach them using a small helping of super glue.
You can also buy metal clips which have magnets on them. Purchase two or three and clip onto the top of your final product. However, the board will be relatively heavy, so you will need to get clips with strong magnets in them.
 Apply a large helping of super glue or Gorilla glue to the side of your board without the hook or magnets. Have your galvanized steel nearby. Position it so that it directly overlaps the board. Press the steel against it. Run over the whole piece with your hands.Leave the two sit overnight so that you can ensure they are stuck together. If you want to, you can place a book overtop of them in order to ensure that they stick together.
The next day, press your hand against the steel and try to gently move it around. If it is secure, it will not move. If it is still loose, lift the steel up, apply some more glue, and wait another night for it to dry.
 If you attach it to the wall you will have to hammer in a nail so that you have something for your hanger to catch. Nails about 1 inch long should do the trick. If it is going on your refrigerator place the magnet side against the fridge. Because your board is magnetic you can also attach a small magnet to a magic marker.Either attach an small adhesive magnet to a marker, or hot glue on a small magnet to your marker.
When you car done writing with the marker, simply press the magnet against the galvanized steel and it should stick.
You can also add other magnets you buy from elsewhere, such as on a holiday vacation.

