 For many people, chewing gum seems to interfere with the ability to "hear" the music in your head.This may also help you ignore the song during the next step.
 One study showed that fighting the song often leads to more frequent, longer episodes later.Try to ignore the tune while you think about something else on your mind. This isn't always possible, but spend a few minutes trying.
 Anagrams, crossword puzzles, and other word-based puzzles can help drive away the song.Thinking about words occupies the same area of your brain that plays the imagined lyrics. Stay focused, and your brain might only be able to stick to one of the two tasks.


If you notice no difference and feel yourself getting frustrated, stop. Occasionally, an earworm can get worse if you try to fight it., A relaxing activity may work best if you feel anxious about the earworm, or are worried you can't control it. Here are a few options that occupy the listening and speech centers of your brain:Recite something or read aloud.
Hold a conversation.

Meditate.

Pray.
Read a book.
Watch television.
Play a video game that includes speech and/or text.
 Always choose a song that you enjoy, just in case it replaces the one in your head! Ideally, you'll find a "cure tune" that drives out the old song but doesn't get stuck in your head itself. Most "cure tunes" are specific to one person, but there are a few that turned out to be more popular in one survey:If you hate the idea of listening to these songs, read on for advice on finding your own.

God Save the Queen
Karma Chameleon by Culture Club
Happy Birthday To You

The A-Team theme song
Kashmir by Led Zeppelin
Sledgehammer by Peter Gabriel

, Start with a song that's less likely to get in your head. Avoid "catchy" tunes, and ideally look for something you've only listened to once or twice before. The harder it is to sing along to, the less likely it is to stick.
 If that doesn't work, it's time to bring out the big guns. This cure will often get stuck in your head instead, but hopefully if that happens it will be more pleasant. Here are some types of "sticky" songs:


Songs you know well, especially ones associated with nostalgia or a specific memory.Songs that are easy to sing along to. These tend to have notes with long durations, and small changes in pitch.Most pop songs fit this description.
Songs with repetition. These include nursery rhymes, songs with repetitive choruses, and, again, most pop songs.
 You can sometimes break the song's hold with math problems that take all your attention to solve.Try to calculate 8208 รท 17, or solve 2 x 2 x 2 x 2... as long as you can.


A problem that's too difficult will fail to engage you. Pick something within your range of ability.