 In the U.K., you have several options for how you can organize your house cleaning business. For example, you can form the following businesses:Sole Trader. You are the sole owner of the business, though you may employ other people.
Private limited company. You appoint people to run the company but can also be an employee.
Business partnerships. All of the partners share responsibility for the business.
 You can operate under your own name, or you can come up with a business name to use.If you choose a business name, then it can’t be the same as another registered name. It also can’t be too similar to another registered name.Check the Companies House register to search for names at https://beta.companieshouse.gov.uk/.
Business names also cannot be offensive or contain sensitive words.
 Your registration process will differ, depending on whether you have sent Self Assessment taxes to the government before. For example, follow these rules:New sole trader. If you’ve never sent Self Assessment tax to the government before, then you can register at the HMRC website here: https://www.gov.uk/new-business-register-for-tax. Click on “Start Now.”
New sole trader who has sent tax returns before. You should register by completing form CWF1, which is available from the HMRC website. You will need your ten-digit Unique Taxpayer Reference (UTR), which will allow HMRC to link all of your accounts.
Former sole trader. If you want to start back up again, then you can register using form CWF1. You’ll also need your ten-digit UTR.
 You might set your business up as something other than as a sole trader, e.g., a business partnership or a limited company. In that case, you will need to register using the following methods:


Business partnerships. You can register for self-assessment with the HMRC at the same website as a sole trader.Limited companies. You must appoint at least one director and one shareholder. You also must draft articles of association, which are rules about how you will run the company. You will also have to register with Companies House and also have to register for Corporation Tax., You should register as soon as possible after starting your business. You should register no later than October 5 of your business’s second tax year.