 When you’re mailing items that are larger than a letter or card, postage is determined by the weight so you need to know how much your item weighs. It’s best to use a scale specifically meant for postal items because it will provide the most accurate weight. You can purchase postage scales at most office supply stores. Place your item on the scale and note the weight.If you don’t buy postage online that often, you probably don’t want to invest in your own postage scale. Instead, use a regular kitchen or bathroom scale.
 On the USPS website, find the “Mail & Ship” tab in the bar at the top of the website. Beneath it, you’ll find a link for the “Click-N-Ship” option. This service allows you to print and pay off postage labels to place on your item. Follow the link to begin the process.Underneath the “Mail & Ship” tab, you’ll also find an option for scheduling a pick-up. That way, you can arrange for the postal service to pick up the item that you’re mailing after you’ve paid for the postage so you don’t have to take the item to a mailbox or post office.
 First, you’ll need to provide the return address or the address that the item is being mailed from. The USPS will supply the mailing address that you entered when you sent up your account, but you can edit it if you wish to use a different return address.When you’re selecting a return address, you also have the option of signing up for tracking notifications on the item so you can watch its progress as it makes its way to the destination.
 Next, you’ll need to provide the address of the person or business that you’re sending your item to. Make sure that all of the information is correct because an error can cause a delay in the item’s arrival. Keep in mind that the site automatically standardizes the address according to postal records.The USPS allows you to create an address book on the website, so if there are certain people or businesses that you routinely send items to, you can store their information to avoid having to enter it every time.
You can create your own reference number for the item that you’re shipping to help organize your records.
There is a feature that allows you to notify the recipient that an item is coming to them if you provide an email address for them.
If you are mailing identical items to up to 20 different addresses, you can create a batch order for your postage instead of entering each on individually.
 You can choose a flat rate for your item. That means if the item fits inside one of the USPS’s flat rate boxes, envelopes, or other packaging and weighs under 70 pounds, it ships for a flat rate. However, if you’re using your own box or packaging materials, you need to provide the item’s weight to determine the postage costs.If you haven’t weighed your item, the USPS site provides a list of average prices of items that are often mailed. It’s always best to round up if you’re unsure, though. That way, the item won’t be returned to you for insufficient postage.
You can order flat rate boxes from the USPS website, so you don’t have to run down to a post office to pick them up.
If you’re sending your item internationally, you’ll also be required to fill out customs forms, detailing what the package contains.
 Next, you’ll need to choose the type of mail service that you want for your package. Priority Mail is the standard service, and usually arrives at a domestic destination within 1 to 3 business days. Priority Mail Express is the fastest shipping service that the USPS provides. They commit to your item arriving overnight, and if it doesn’t, you can request a refund. After choosing a service, add the postage to your cart.Priority Mail is the cheaper postage option.
Priority Mail Express is delivered 7 days a week, but you must use one of the USPS Priority Mail Express flat rate boxes for your item.
No matter what type of postage you choose, you can also add extra services, such as requiring signature confirmation or an adult signature for delivery.
 As with purchasing stamps from the USPS website, you need to provide payment information to cover the cost of mailing your item. Enter your credit or debit card information, or use your PayPal account to pay for the postage.If you choose to store your credit cards information on USPS.com, it is protected using Secure Socket Layer (SSL) 128-bit encryption technology.
 After you’ve paid for your shipment, you can print out the postage label to place on the item. Use 8 1/2" x 11" white paper for printing, and glue or tape the label securely to the package. The Priority Mail and Priority Mail Express online labels are approximately 4" x 6” when printed.Make sure not place tape, even if it is clear, over the barcode on your label.

