 A 10p coin is a good example of this. If you're not sure if any of your country's currency has qualifying coinage, sit down and study them. You may find one has thicker ridges on one side, or identifiable engraving. Make sure you can identify the sides with your eyes closed.









You may be able to get away with making a scratch on one side, but if the other person sees it, they may wind up suspicious and figure out your trick. It's better to use a coin with no obvious damage.
 Now that you know what each side feels like, you'll be able to predict how it lands when you do a coin flip. It's all in the manner of catching it and turning it over in your hands. You just have to make sure the coin goes across your fingertips before you make the "prediction."









Take some time to practice flipping it, sensing what side it's on, and exposing it in one swift, natural movement. That second you take to assess the coin shouldn't be visible to an unsuspecting audience.
 Let them toss it around a few times, showing them that it's not a special or trick coin. Then, ask them to guess which side it'll land on as you flip it. Throw the coin up and catch it, but don't put it on your wrist yet. Just before you put it on your wrist, do it slower than usual – feel the indentation on the side facing down (which you are currently able to feel with your thumb and nothing else as it's facing upwards if you opened you palm).









You are able to manipulate the coin in your hand to land on the side you want. So call it 5 minutes beforehand, 10 seconds beforehand, or right as you turn it over – and you'll always be right.
 Before you put it on your wrist, turn it to the side you want it to be and place it in such a way that it will be exposed facing the direction you guessed. You'll have to be quick, practice makes perfect. After you flip the coin (or evaluate that you don't have to) you know it's the side you wanted it to be and place it. That's it.









The beauty of this trick is that you can do it over and over and over – unlike many other tricks that require anonymous set-up.
However, you can't do it when someone else does it. Tell them that you need to get a good read on the coin and you can only do this when you have physical contact with the coin.

