 Your PCP can talk to you about your symptoms and help you find a local provider for a substance abuse evaluation. In many cases, attempting to taper off of drugs and alcohol on your own can be dangerous and life-threatening and should not be attempted outside of a detox facility or without the supervision of a doctor.;
, Your PCP may be able to give you an assessment or direct you to someone else who can. Assessment is your first step toward treatment. It determines if detox is needed and what treatment plan will work best for you. You’ll meet with an addiction professional like a counselor, doctor or nurse who specializes in substance abuse. You’ll answer questions about your current use, health, past addiction treatment and medical history. A physical exam may also be a part of the evaluation.


Contact your health insurance.Tell them you need to find a local provider for a substance abuse evaluation. Ask your insurance about your benefit coverage and costs. Contact the provider and schedule an appointment.
Contact the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services (SAMHSA) administration if you don’t have insurance. SAMHSA provides referrals for addictions and mental health treatment, including substance abuse evaluations. They can also help you find low cost and state-funded options: http://www.samhsa.gov/find-help/national-helpline.
 Detox is different from treatment. Detox is the first step before you can begin treatment. It’s the process of weaning or tapering from alcohol or drugs so your body can function without these substances. Detox takes days or weeks.


The detox program will vary based on the type of addiction. Alcohol and many drug addictions, like heroin, require medically supervised detox since they cause severe physical withdrawal when stopped.For medically supervised detox, medications are used to control withdrawal symptoms. Your vitals, like your pulse and breathing, are closely monitored. You’ll either stay at a facility or detox at home until you are fully weaned and physically stable.
 The results of your substance abuse evaluation will determine your treatment plan. Whether you tapered from alcohol or drugs on your own or through medically supervised detox, treatment is crucial to remaining clean. The frequency and intensity of treatment, also known as the level of care, varies based on your personal situation and needs. Treatment involves a combination of individual and group counseling, and possibly medical monitoring. Inpatient treatment is living 24/7 at an addictions recovery facility. This is the most intensive treatment. You’ll participate in individual and group counseling programs. Your activities are structured. A team of addictions and medical professionals manage your care.
Intensive outpatient is spending more than 9 hours per week in treatment. You typically go to an addictions treatment facility. You live at home and often can maintain responsibilities like work while attending treatment. There are programs tailored to adults who work. They take place during evening and weekend hours.
Outpatient treatment is attending individual and group addictions counseling a few hours each week. You might attend treatment at an addictions facility or at a counselor’s office. This is the least intensive treatment.
 As you improve and maintain sobriety, you’ll move from a more intensive to a less intensive level of care. For example, you might start as inpatient, go to intensive outpatient and finally move to outpatient treatment. Most people who are successful at kicking alcohol and drug addiction for good stay in treatment for years.


Staying in treatment helps prevent relapse. If you do relapse, you'll be able to get back on track more quickly because you're already connected to treatment professionals.
 Before you quit using, meet with your Primary Care Doctor (PCP) to see if you can stop using without medical help. Your body is used to functioning with the alcohol or drugs and stopping on your own can cause severe complications.Ask your doctor how long it will take for you to get the alcohol or drugs out of your system. Typically it takes several days.
 If your doctor says it’s OK to taper on your own, ask a friend to help you during this process. Your friend can watch out for you and help you get to the doctor if tapering on your own doesn’t go well. Make sure this person is someone you trust and supportive of your decision to stop using.
 Stopping cold turkey or all at once can bring on severe withdrawal symptoms. Withdrawal may be less severe if you taper down slowly each day. Talk to your doctor about which plan is safe for you.


Withdrawal is more than just a bad hangover. Symptoms include vomiting, diarrhea, shaking, headaches, heart palpitations, insomnia, paranoia, and delusions. Withdrawal can be life-threatening.
An example of a slow taper from alcohol is decreasing one beer a day (from twelve to eleven, then eleven to ten).
An example of a slow taper for hydrocodone is going from the usual 80 mg a day down to 70 mg the next week, and so on.Cold turkey is going from your usual amount of alcohol or drug to 0. If you’re stopping cold turkey, rid your house of all alcohol or drugs.
 Clear your schedule so you can just focus on tapering. You may not feel well enough to go to work or handle any responsibilities the first few days of your taper.
 Drink a lot of water during your taper to help rid your body of toxins and reduce headaches. Ginger ale and sparkling water are easier on the digestive system. They are good alternatives to water if you’re feeling nauseous. Drink often throughout your taper.Pain relievers, like ibuprofen or acetaminophen, and ice packs applied to your head can also help with headaches.
 You’ll probably feel nauseous during your taper. Simple carbohydrates like crackers, rice and toast are gentle on your stomach. Applesauce and bananas will also keep you nourished and help to calm your stomach. Drinking ginger tea and taking antacids also help with nausea.
 You might be up for going for a walk, or maybe taking a bath or hot shower makes you feel better. Even if it’s watching TV or old movies, take care of yourself during your taper.
 Tapering on your own is hard. Be kind to yourself if it doesn’t go well or you go back to using — sometimes this happens, and it means you need a different plan. Talk to your doctor about medically supervised tapering, also known as detox.
 Keep away from places and situations where you used to drink and use drugs. Change your routines. For instance, if you pass your favorite bar on the way home from the grocery store, find a new grocery store and use a different route home.


If hanging out with a certain group of friends tempts you to drink or use drugs, it's better to avoid them altogether. Wait until you're stronger before you put yourself in tempting situations. Find supportive people to hang out with.
 Maintaining sobriety is a lifelong effort. During and after treatment, connect with people who are recovering from addiction. Peer support groups are made up of people dealing with addition and recovery. There are no professionals. Attending peer support helps you break old, unhealthy habits and stick to a new, healthy routine.


Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) and Narcotics Anonymous (NA) groups are available across the country. You regularly attend meetings and follow a 12 Step Program to support your recovery. The 12 steps follow spiritual principals.SMART Recovery is another type of peer support group. It features a 4-Point Program that helps people change harmful behaviors, thoughts and actions. Online and in-person groups are available across the country., Close family members are the most impacted by your addiction. You are both recovering together. It will take time for your bond to strengthen. As they see your continued commitment to recovery, your relationships will improve. Support each other during your treatment and recovery process.


Attend family counseling. Meeting with a professional helps you work through the pain caused by addiction. You can learn coping strategies and how to better support each other.
Family members can join Al-Anon or Alateen. They are support groups for people who care about someone with an addiction. Al-Anon is for adults who have a loved one with an addiction. Alateen is for teens who have a parent or caregiver with an addiction. Groups are available across the country., Some people may take a leave from work while they are in treatment. Others continue with their responsibilities, with some adjustments. Your approach with work will vary based on your personal situation and treatment plan. Most employers will try to work with you to support your recovery.


Talk to human resources about your company’s time off and leave policies. For medical leave, you’ll need documentation of your condition from a medical provider.
Consider adjusting your schedule. Find out from human resources or your manager if you can work reduced hours or a flexible schedule.
Be careful about who you talk to about your addiction and treatment. Not everyone is supportive of someone going through addiction treatment. Avoid judgments and gossip by only telling people who you trust and who will be supportive.
 Your eating habits probably weren’t the healthiest during your addiction. You’ll see improvements in how you feel when you take better care of yourself. Slowly increase your intake of fruits, vegetables and lean protein like chicken and fish. Drink plenty of water.


Consider working with a nutritionist. Some addictions cause injury to the digestive system. You may need a special diet that is gentle on your digestive tract and that helps you absorb nutrients. The nutritionist will help you develop a healthier eating plan based on your specific needs., Regular exercise is not only good for your heart and muscles. It reduces stress and improves your mood. Start slowly. Even 10 minutes a day of walking will make a big difference to your health. Over time, you’ll be able to do more.Work out with a friend. You're less likely to blow off exercise if you have a friend holding you accountable. Plus, it's more fun to walk, bike or go to the gym with a friend. You're more likely to stick with your new healthy habit.
 Create a soothing bedtime routine like taking a bath and reading a book. Minimize the use of electronics like cell phones, tablets, computers and TV before bed. A few minutes of gentle stretches or yoga can also help you fall asleep. Aim for 6 to 8 hours of sleep each night and try to go to asleep around the same time every night.Get help from your Primary Care Doctor (PCP) if your sleep doesn’t improve. Your doctor can help you develop a plan for getting quality sleep. You could have an underlying medical concern that makes it hard to sleep. You may need prescription sleep medications.
 Your addiction was the center of your life. Removing the addiction and staying sober means you have to refocus your attention. This is a time for reinvention and discovering new passions. Having a passion helps make life meaningful.Start a hobby. Think about what activities you enjoyed when you were younger. Activities that brought you joy in your youth usually make good hobbies when you’re an adult. Try painting, music, sports, photography, cooking, sewing or dancing. Find classes at your local community college.
 Education is not just for kids. Learning new talents and career skills is a lifelong journey. You never stop growing. Think about your work. Are you in the right field or role? Is there a different field you want to pursue? What steps you need to take to have a fulfilling career? Dedicate yourself to the education and training needed to reach your goal.


Contact your local career or job center, also known as One Stop Career Centers, to connect with career counselors and free education resources., Help others in recovery and raise public awareness about addictions. Organizations like the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (NCADD) have local volunteer opportunities. Volunteering doesn’t only help others. Giving back makes you feel stronger and increases your self-confidence. 