 Most rifle scopes have a marking composed of two or more numbers, separated by an X. The first is the magnification of the scope, and the second is the diameter of the objective(in millimeters).


For example a 4x28 scope has 4x magnification and and objective lens of 28 mm in diameter. Some scopes have a varying magnification, or zoom.These are marked as 4-12x30 for example. This means that the scope can magnify from 4 to 12 times. Magnification is important, depending on the type of rifle that you are going to mount it on.
For example a .22 or air rifle will not need more than 4x, while a high-powered rifle will shoot at greater distances, therefore needing a higher magnification. .For hunting a varying magnification scope is better, as your targets will be at varying distances. The lens diameter is important for luminosity. The wider the objective, the more light will enter the scope and the better you will see the target.;
, Eye relief is the distance the maximum distance your eye can be from the ocular (the lens closest to the shooter) and still see the full image through the scope. For .22 rifles and air rifles a small eye relief is okay, but for safety reasons (getting hit by the scope because of the recoil) high powered rifles is necessary at least a 3–4 inch (7.6–10.2 cm) eye relief, depending on the recoil of the particular gun. Specialty rifles for scout sniper rifles or handguns need very long eye relief(around 20 inches or so).
 Reticle is the name used for the crosshairs you can see through the scope. They come in many styles such as fine crosshair ( thin cross), mildot ( cross with dots along the lines), or rangefinder. Both mildot reticles and rangefinder reticles can be used on estimating distances. A mildot or rangefinder is a welcome help, as distance to target is paramount to shot placement, especially in .22 and air rifles, where the ballistic properties of the projectile cause it to have a very curved trajectory even at relatively short ranges. Reticles can be illuminated some in different amplitudes, and colors. While red is the color that affects the shooters vision less in dark conditions, a green reticle is best for dusk or dawn situation as red light is less visible in that period of the day.
 Adjustments turrets for elevation and windage are usually found on most modern scopes. A scope that has adjustment turrets with "clicks" is better as it allows for more precise adjustments.
 A very important aspect that can differentiate scope is quality build. The lenses are primordial to good sight picture. Lens quality usually depends on manufacturer, as does tube material (steel or aluminum are best, but also modern plastics and polymers can do a good job) and general craftsmanship. Usually you can estimate these characteristics (by examining finish, image clarity and functionality) but usually for safety is best to consult reviews.

