 This method will be most effective on candle jars that only have a small amount of wax at the bottom. Also, make sure that the candle's wick is not glued to the bottom of the votive.


If your candle's wick is glued to the bottom, the wax may not come out cleanly.Consider pouring boiling water over the candle instead. To learn how to do this, refer to the section in this article on using boiling water to remove wax.;
, Most candle jars become narrower at the opening, which means that the wax can get stuck when you try to remove it. You can prevent this from happening by slicing the wax up inside the jar using a butter knife. When the wax freezes, it will break into smaller pieces. The smaller pieces will be easier to take out than one big piece. Simply stick a butter knife into the jar, and poke the wax, creating slices and slits. You can use this technique on shaped candle holders as well.









If you are using a regular candle holder with straight walls, then you do not need to slice the wax up.
 Set the jar down on a stable surface, so that it does not fall over. Water expands as it freezes, but wax shrinks. This means that the wax will pull away from the sides of the glass.
 This may take as little as 20 to 30 minutesto as long as a couple of hours.
 Once the wax has frozen, you can take the jar out of the freezer. You can test and see if the wax is frozen by pressing down on a corner of it. If the wax moves about or feels loose, that means it is frozen and ready to remove.
 Turn the jar upside down. The wax should fall right out. If it doesn't, you can gently tap the jar against the surface of your table or counter. You could also stick a butter knife between the wax and the glass, and pop it out by pushing down on the knife handle.
 If the wick holder is still stuck to the bottom of the jar, you should be able to pop it right off by slipping the tip of a butter knife underneath it and pushing down on the knife handle.
 There might still be some tiny bits of wax stuck to the jar. If this happens, you can scrape the residue away with a butter knife. You can also remove the wax residue by washing the jar using soap and water, or by wiping it down with some baby oil.
 You can now reuse the candle jar by inserting a new wick and pouring fresh wax into it. You can also decorate it and store pens, utensils, or other items in it.


Consider saving the wax. You can melt this wax down in a double boiler and use it to make candles or wax melts.

