 The first thing you have to do to try to get this guy to like you is to establish contact with him. Ask him for help on your homework or a work item, advice on something, or to borrow something. Just come up with a good way to make contact. Whatever the reason, go up and talk to him!


Use this initial interaction to start getting to know him and becoming friends. Are you both taking the same history class? Do you work in the same office? Find ways to talk to him, ask him questions, and get to know him.
Be sure when you ask him for something to make it something where he will be helping you, but also something he won't have to go out of his way to do. If it's a major inconvenience for him, he may say no.;
, As you get to know him, let him do the talking. A lot of girls can dominate the conversation, so instead of doing that, let him do the talking. Show him how much you enjoy listening to him. Build and foster the platonic aspects of the relationship.


Ask him questions about himself. This serves two purposes: you are able to find out more about him while remaining interested in him.
Paying attention to him helps fuel his ego by putting him at the center of attention. This can help him start to view you as someone he wants to be around.
 As your friendship develops, be there for him. This means listening and sympathizing when he gets a bad grade on a paper, a bad evaluation at work, or has a bad day. Be ready to listen to him talk about all his problems, especially relationship problems.


Let him know you are there to listen to him anytime he needs it. Show him you are dependable and someone he can rely on.
 As you build your relationship, move from light conversations to more serious topics. Show him how smart you are through these conversations. Men are attracted to women who are intelligent and have something worthwhile to say.


Try talking about books. This is a good, neutral way to get into deep conversations. Movies, TV shows, and music also provide great conversation starters.
Talk about current events. Politics and religion can be touchy categories, but there are plenty of things on the news or that you've read online that can showcase your intelligence.
If you're into history, start a conversation by telling him something you recently read about the Middle Ages. If you're into science, tell him about the documentary on sharks you watched the night before., If you get to the point where you've exchanged numbers, use texting as a platform to flirt. Send funny texts about things that happen, complain about homework or work, or comment on the new movie you just saw. Using texts to showcase the fun things you do in your life helps him see how interesting you are.This is a good way to start gauging his interest level in you. Does he respond to your texts? Or does he ignore them? If he ignores them, you might not have a chance.
 One way to get closer to the guy and start to win his attention is to become friends with his friends. Get on their good side. Flirt with them so that he sees it. You want to make a good impression with his friends so that they will talk positively about you if you're mentioned or you walk by.


Don't be sleazy with his friends. You don't want him to think you are interested in his friends. You want to keep it light and fun when you flirt with them.
Men are competitive creatures who are always vying to be the Alpha male. Being friends with his friends will please him because his buddies like you, but it may also make him jealous, which may result in him trying to steal your attention from them., Spend some time with him away from work, school, and other people. This can be the two of you catching a game or a movie. Try suggesting coffee after class or going for lunch during your lunch hour. You can also suggest a study date at the library or one of your houses. You want to get the two of you together and alone.
 If you don't feel like intentionally breaking up your crush and his girlfriend, then remain friends with him. Build that friendship, get to know him, and enjoy his company. This keeps you on his good side, so if he ever breaks up with the girlfriend, you are in a great position to get him.Just remember that if you want to stay friends, that you actually stay friends. Don't pretend to be friends and still try to break them up. Be genuine with him.
If you're going to just stay friends with him, then don't wait on him. Meet new people, find other guys you might like, and date. You don't want to be pathetic by waiting around and pining for him.

