 When you wash your face, start by wetting your face with lukewarm water. With your fingertips, apply your cleanser to your face in gentle, circular motions. Do this for about a minute. After, rinse your face with lukewarm water thoroughly. Pat dry using a clean, cotton towel.
 There are a few oils that are good for acne. Tea tree oil is an antiseptic and anti-inflammatory oil that is also antifungal and antibacterial. It is believed to be just as effective as benzoyl peroxide in treating acne. You can apply tea tree oil directly onto the cysts. Use a cotton ball or swab to gently apply 100% tea tree oil directly onto the cysts twice a day.


Be careful not to get any tea tree oil near your eyes.You can also use boswellia oil, also called frankincense, in the steam treatments. Boswellia oil is an anti-inflammatory.Always test for sensitivity to essential oils. Put a single drop of the oil on your wrist and wait for 10 to 15 minutes. If there is no irritation, you should be able to use the oil.
 Start steam-cleaning your face by boiling water. Fill a pot with one quart of water and heat until it boils. At this point, add one to two drops of the essential oil of your choice. After adding the oil, let the water boil for another minute. Then, turn off the heat and move the pot to a sturdy table or counter. Place a potholder under the pot to protect the surface you place it on.


Adding an essential oil, such as tea tree oil or boswellia/frankincense oil, adds antibacterial or antiseptic properties to the steam. This means the oils can kill bacteria that can cause pimples. Using these oils can help prevent the formation of pimples.
If you don’t have the essential oils, substitute ½ teaspoon of dried herb per quart of water.
 To perform the treatment, cover your head with a large towel. Place your face over the steaming pot, but stay at least 12 inches above it.


Close your eyes and breathe normally. Remain over the steam for 10 minutes. This helps open your pores and dilate your blood vessels.
 When 10 minutes has passed, rinse your face with lukewarm water. Gently pat your face dry without rubbing your skin.


At this point, apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 When first starting a steam treatment, do it twice a day, in the morning and in the evening. After a few weeks, you should start to see an improvement in your skin. When you see an improvement, reduce the frequency to once a day.

