 If your outbreak was caused by external contact with an allergen, clearing that allergen from your skin right away can help lessen the severity of the reaction.Avoid soap products that contain sodium laurel sulfate as this chemical often irritates an allergic reaction.Unscented, gentle cleansers such as Dove, Aveeno, Cetaphil, or Shur-clens are good options.
 Many lotions and ointments are available over-the-counter at supermarkets or drug stores that can provide immediate relief for symptoms like itching and burning. Try some of the following:


Calamine Lotion, which should be applied as needed unless otherwise directed. However, be careful not to leave calamine lotion on the skin too long as this can irritate the rash more.Aloe Vera should be applied two or three times a day until the area begins to heal., Hydrocortisone cream, sold at most drug stores and supermarkets, is available without a prescription and can provide temporary relief of skin rashes caused by allergens.


Low-strength (.5 or 1%) hydrocortisone creams are typically applied one to four times a day until symptoms begin to clear up.
Hydrocortisone cream comes in the form of an ointment, lotion, foam, liquid, gel, spray, and moist towelette. Choose whichever form you're most comfortable using, and follow the instructions on the label.Ointments tend to be more soothing to irritated skin. Lotions can sting and are best for covering larger areas.
 For some, over-the-counter lotions and creams further irritate their skin. If that's the case for you, you may want to invest in some natural remedies.


Clay can provide a cooling sensation and thus decrease the need to itch a rash. Use virgin, untreated clay. Mix the clay in a bowl or cup of water until it has a creamy consistency, dab it on itchy or irritated areas, let it dry, and then peel it off. If peeling the clay is causing any further irritation, try re-wetting the clay and gently removing with a soft, wet towel.
Apple Cider Vinegar has anti-fungal and anti-bacterial properties that relieve itching. Dab a few drops on a cotton ball or washcloth and apply to the affected area.
Peppermint or peppermint leaves can provide an instant cooling sensation that relieves irritated skin. Crush up some peppermint leaves and rub them directly on the skin.
Basil leaves contain anti-itch compounds called camphor and thymol. Rubbing fresh basil leaves on the skin can relieve some symptoms., Oatmeal's anti-inflammatory properties allow it to soothe itchy, irritated skin.An oatmeal bath can help reduce or relieve symptoms. Fill a bath with lukewarm or cold water and then add half a cup of oatmeal to it. Soak for 15 to 20 minutes.


It's best to use colloidal oatmeal, which is oatmeal ground into a finer powder. It dissolves easily and leaves less mess to clean up afterwards. If unavailable, you can grind regular oatmeal into a powder using a mixer. The oats can also be placed in a muslin bag or cheesecloth and hung in the water.Some people find adding a few teaspoons of extra virgin olive oil to their bath helps, as it is a natural moisturizer. If you choose olive oil, be careful when getting in and out of the tub as it will make the area slippery., Sometimes the simplest solutions can be the best. Wet a soft towel or washcloth with cool water and apply to the rash 2-3 times per day for 15-30 minutes.The cool water can lessen the sensation of itching and may reduce swelling as well.

