 Make time to do some activities that raise you and your loved one's adrenalin, whether it's taking a brisk walk, doing yoga, or going to the gym together. When your adrenalin is pumping, you will feel more sexy, and more romantic, about being with your loved one. If you and your loved one don't regularly exercise together, try to do something that raises your adrenalin together at least once a week.


Even walking to dinner instead of driving will raise your adrenalin.
Take a dance class together. Not only is that romantic, but it will get your blood pumping.
 If you and your loved one have high self-esteem, you will not only feel better about yourselves, but you'll feel better about each other and your relationship, and will therefore feel more romantic. Some ways to improve your self-esteem are to excise regularly, eat a healthier diet, and to build your confidence by taking the pride in the things you do and the things that make you special.


You and your loved one can also build one another's confidence by praising and complimenting each other.
Take pride in making and reaching your long and short-term goals. This will help you build self-esteem as well.
 If you want your relationship to grow and to continue to be romantic, then you and your loved one should pursue new interests that are romantic together. This will keep your relationship feeling fresh and will give you new things to look forward to together. Here are some romantic interests that you can pursue together:


Take a salsa, ballroom dancing, or a tap-dancing class together.
If you're musically inclined, write a duet together and practice performing it.
Take a ceramics or painting class together.
If you both love to write, write romantic sonnets to each other.
Make stargazing a hobby. Have fun exploring the stars together -- along with your loved one's dreamy eyes.
Learn to cook together. Have fun cooking a tasty and sexy Italian meal together, and enjoy sipping wine and listening to jazz as you do it.
 If you really want to grow as a couple, then you should always tell each other how much you love each other, and how special the relationship is to you. No matter how stressed out, annoyed, or cranky you may feel, you shouldn't let a day go by without acknowledging how much the other person means to you.



You should always say "I love you" if you mean it, no matter what.

