 For many men, ED will only occur once or twice and isn't an indication of anything more serious. Once it happens, however, men often have anxiety about it and think about it when having sex. This anxiety can actually cause ED, so dwelling on the problem will only make it worse.If ED happens once, do your best to brush it off as a one-time occurrence. Attribute it to being tired or stressed.
Stay focused on the moment at hand. When you and your partner are getting intimate, don't think about the past. This will cause you to think about your past ED. Instead, just be mindful of the present moment and focus on the pleasant sensations you and your partner are sharing.
 Rushing through intimacy can cause you to feel like you only have a set amount of time to satisfy your partner. This can cause anxiety that might make it difficult to maintain an erection. Instead, focus more on foreplay and exploring with your partner. That way, you'll allow your body and mind to relax. As a result, your sexual performance will benefit., A high level of stress can cause ED and make it worse. Stress can do several things that will hurt your sex life: it can lower your sex drive, make it difficult to get an erection, make you tire quickly, and generally not put you in a good mood. Reduce your stress level for an improvement in your sex life and overall health.Read Reduce Stress for some great tips on reducing your stress levels.
 Depression is another major psychological cause of ED. It often leads to feelings of inadequacy, insecurity, and other emotions that kill sex drive. Think about the symptoms of depression and if you exhibit them, seek psychological help to overcome the problem.Feelings of hopelessness or helplessness. These don't need to focus on any particular situation. You may just feel like you're stuck in a rut and will never be able to get out of it.
Sleep changes. Both insomnia and oversleeping can indicate depression, so pay attention if you've been having any sudden sleep disturbances.
Lack of energy or fatigue.
Trouble concentrating and completing tasks.
Loss of interest in daily activities, especially ones you used to enjoy.
Unexplained aches and pains all over your body. These can include muscle aches, headaches, and upset stomach.
 Watching pornography can gradually desensitize you to real-life sex. The result can be a lack of arousal with your partner. To avoid this outcome, it's best to cut off or limit your consumption of pornography. That way, you'll gradually get re-sensitized to real-life sex acts.If you can't stop using pornography entirely, stick to viewing materials that closely represent what you do with your partner. That way, you can prevent getting desensitized by viewing things that would never happen in your life.
 Besides what has already been mentioned, there are a number of psychological issues that could be causing your ED. If you can't get to the bottom of the issue, then seeing a mental health professional would be beneficial. He can help talk through your issues and narrow down what might be going on.Having your partner come to these sessions would also be beneficial, as you two can work through the problem together as a couple.

