 Patent infringement litigation is extraordinarily complex. While you technically could represent yourself, it's typically a bad idea – especially considering that the person who sued you likely has an attorney.If you already have contact with a patent attorney, that's usually the first person you should call. Even if they don't handle infringement litigation, they can recommend patent attorneys who do.
You also should keep in mind that many infringement litigation attorneys specialize either as plaintiff or defense counsel. You want someone with extensive experience defending clients in positions similar to yours.
In addition to patent litigation experience, any attorney you hire should be familiar with the technology involved in your patent. Otherwise, they will be unable to adequately compare the patent and the allegedly infringing component or process.
If you don't know any patent attorneys, you might want to check on the website of your state or local bar association. There you typically can find attorneys who are members of the bar association's patent or intellectual property section.
Once you get names of some attorneys, check their professional website to find other information about their background and experience. That way you can get a better idea of their expertise.;
, You shouldn't just go with the first attorney you find. Try to interview at least two or three so you can compare and contrast to find the one who best meets your needs.Keep in mind patent infringement defense attorneys may not offer a free initial consultation. You probably should budget a few hundred dollars for each initial consultation, so you'll need to be selective about the attorneys you want to interview.
If you've already received a complaint and summons from the person or company that alleges you've infringed their patent, you have to act fast. Try to schedule all your initial consultations to take place within a week – two weeks at the most.
If you call an attorney who isn't able to meet with you in such a short timeframe, scratch their name off the list and move on to the next attorney on your list.
 If you've been sued for patent infringement, you have a limited time to file a written response to the lawsuit. The attorneys you interview need full information about the lawsuit so they can advise you appropriately.Any attorney you interview is going to want to see the complaint before your initial consultation. Try to get those court documents to them as soon as possible.
It's possible that you received a demand letter, but some cases proceed straight to court. If the plaintiff first sent you a demand letter you may have a little more time to hire an attorney and build your defense.
If you have a demand letter that states they will file a lawsuit unless they hear from you within a very brief period of time – say, a week or less – you may want to dash off a quick letter yourself to buy some time.
Simply let them know that you have received the letter, and request a reasonable amount of time to investigate the situation. Make a copy of your letter before you mail it so you can give it to any attorneys you interview.
 Many attorneys view an initial consultation as a sales and marketing opportunity. To get the most out of your interviews, you must ask each attorney questions about their background, expertise, and work style so you can choose the best attorney to represent you.Find out how many patents similar to the one at issue the attorney has worked with. You want to make sure any attorney you hire has experience with the technology, otherwise you'll spend valuable time educating the attorney on the product or processes.
You also want to ask questions about the attorney's communication with their clients. Find out what method of communication the attorney prefers, and how quickly they'll get back to you if you leave a phone message or send an email.
Since patent infringement litigation can potentially cost hundreds of thousands of dollars in legal fees, you also need a detailed breakdown of the attorney's hourly rate and how billing is calculated.
The attorney's attitude and demeanor also comes into play if you're looking for a defense attorney. For example, if you want to settle the lawsuit as quickly as possible, you don't want to hire an antagonistic attorney who is going to take a hardball stance and refuse to negotiate.
 When you've chosen the attorney you want to hire, let them know as soon as possible. Schedule a meeting so you can hoover the terms of the representation. Get a written agreement before you pay them any money or let them start working on your case.Particularly if you've already been served with a complaint and your window of opportunity is rapidly closing, don't be afraid to go with your gut. Hire an attorney who makes you feel comfortable and confident about your case.
Read the retainer agreement carefully and make sure it reflects what you've already been told about the attorney's rates and billing.
Keep in mind that even though they may not present it this way, retainer agreements are negotiable.
If you see anything with which you don't agree, speak up. It won't hurt anything to make an attempt to bargain, and you may be able to negotiate a better rate.
 The plaintiff initiated their lawsuit by drafting and filing a complaint. This court document lists the factual allegations against you that, if proven, the plaintiff asserts amount to infringement of their patent.The complaint will list the specific numbers of the patents the plaintiff claims you infringed. You will need to get copies of these patents so you can understand exactly what is meant by the allegations.
The complaint also includes an amount of monetary damages the plaintiff is claiming they are owed as a result of your infringement.
The plaintiff's damages also may include non-monetary damages, such as asking the court to enter an order forbidding you to continue activities that infringe the plaintiff's patent.
 Your approach to the lawsuit depends on how the plaintiff alleges that you have infringed their patent. You have different defenses potentially available if the plaintiff claims you directly infringed their patent than you would if the plaintiff alleges your infringement was indirect.Generally, you can argue that the plaintiff has not proven that you've infringed their patent, or you can challenge the validity of their patent (or specific claims within the patent).
You have additional defenses if the plaintiff claims you willfully infringed their patent, because to prove that they must prove that you had knowledge of their patent and infringed it anyway.
Your attorney will advise you on the best angle to take. Keep in mind that the stronger your arguments, the better chance you have of settling the case for an amount much lower than the amount the plaintiff demanded as damages in their lawsuit.
 You only have 21 days from the date you were served with the complaint and summons to file a written answer to the lawsuit. If that deadline passes and you haven't responded to the lawsuit, the plaintiff may be eligible to win by default.Due to the potential cost involved, you don't want the plaintiff to win by default simply because you didn't file an answer in time.
If you still haven't hired an attorney and the deadline is fast approaching, you can file an answer yourself.
Federal courts have forms available that you can use to draft your answer. Just ask the clerk of the district court where the lawsuit was filed.
Your best option if you're filing an answer yourself without the benefit of an attorney typically is to deny all of the plaintiff's allegations.
Keep in mind a denial doesn't mean you're saying the allegation is untrue, you're just saying the plaintiff must carry their burden of proof on that allegation.
 In many cases, the quickest way to get rid of a patent infringement lawsuit is to get the judge to dismiss the case. You can file a motion to dismiss along with your answer, or you can file it at any time after you've filed your answer.If you haven't yet hired an attorney, go ahead and file your answer without including a motion to dismiss. You should leave the legal arguments and research required to draft the motion to an attorney to do.
A motion to dismiss can be filed at any time during the course of litigation before the trial.
At the early stages, you typically file a motion to dismiss because you do not believe that the allegations set forth in the complaint add up to patent infringement – even if the plaintiff is able to prove that every single one of them is true.
For example, suppose you challenge the validity of the plaintiff's patent, or specific claims within their patent. Your motion to dismiss would argue that since the plaintiff's patent isn't valid, there can be no patent infringement. You can't infringe a patent that isn't legally valid.
 All the documents you file with the court must also be served on the person who sued you. In federal court, this typically is done by having a U.S. marshal hand-deliver the documents to the plaintiff's attorney.You also may serve the plaintiff using certified mail with return receipt requested. The green card you get back in the mail provides proof of service.
If you've hired an attorney, they'll take care of filing your answer or motion to dismiss and serving the plaintiff. The costs will be added to your bill for attorney's fees.
When you file a motion to dismiss, you may be served with a written response from the plaintiff (or their attorney). This opposition motion gives you an idea of the arguments they will make in court.
 If you filed a motion to dismiss, you also must schedule a hearing in court to argue that motion before the judge. Even though you may not be participating directly, your attorney typically will expect you to appear in court for this hearing.Occasionally a judge will make a decision based on the written briefs filed by both parties without holding a hearing.
However, in the case of a motion to dismiss there typically will be a hearing. Depending on the allegations in the plaintiff's complaint, you may be expected to testify at this hearing.
You also have the option of calling witnesses for motion hearings. In many ways, a hearing on a motion to dismiss can become a miniature trial on its own.
If the judge grants your motion to dismiss, the case is over and you don't have to worry about hearing from the plaintiff again.
However, if the judge denies your motion. Litigation will proceed. At this point, it usually is in your best interest to negotiate a settlement with the plaintiff.
 If your motion to dismiss is unsuccessful, you may want to send a settlement offer to the plaintiff's attorney. Typically your first offer will be considerably lower than what the plaintiff is demanding in their lawsuit.If the person who sued you is a patent troll, more kindly known as a "non-practicing entity," they may take even a low-ball settlement.
These companies and individuals are more interested in pursuing a patent's value by filing numerous infringement suits than by actually using the technology.
However, it's also likely that your offer will be refused, or that the plaintiff will counter for a greater amount.
At that point, it's your decision whether to keep going with private negotiations or take a different approach.
 In mediation, you and the plaintiff sit down with a neutral third party and attempt to negotiate a resolution to the dispute. The process is completely voluntary, and everything discussed during mediation is confidential.Mediation also has the benefit of making the settlement process quicker. If you continue to make private settlement offers, the negotiation process can drag out for months or even years.
In the meantime, you are racking up significant attorney's fees as well as any other losses your business is sustaining as a result of the litigation.
Mediation gives you flexibility to come up with solutions to the dispute that typically wouldn't happen if you were in court.
For example, you may be able to work out a licensing agreement with the plaintiff so that you can continue business activities that they allege infringe their patent.
 Before mediation, you need to look long and hard and your finances and determine a range of settlement that you can handle. When determining the upper end of your range, take the costs of defending yourself in a full trial into consideration.The largest amount you're willing to offer as a settlement will be more important than the lower end, but you still want to create a full range so you have some place to start.
Understand that most patent infringement lawsuits that go to trial are successful, with the plaintiff receiving a multi-million dollar award. In addition to that, you can expect it to cost you several hundred thousand dollars in legal fees to defend yourself at trial.
You also should keep in mind that it can take several years for the case to even get to trial. In the meantime, you have the stress of the lawsuit hanging over your head.
Additionally, your business activities related to the technology at issue in the lawsuit may be limited. This can cost your business significant money.
 Mediation typically begins with you, the plaintiff, and both attorneys meeting in one room with the mediator. The mediator will provide a brief introduction and set out the basic procedure and ground rules for the session.After the mediator's introduction, each party typically is given the opportunity to make a brief opening statement regarding the dispute.
During this opening statement, your attorney will briefly summarize your position and defenses regarding the plaintiff's allegations of patent infringement.
After both opening statements, the mediator will work with both parties to identify particular issues on which you can agree.
These issues may be relatively minor and have little to do with the actual infringement allegations, but establishing some measure of common ground, no matter how small, can pave the way to a successful resolution.
 During the next phase of mediation, the mediator typically sends you and the plaintiff to separate rooms. The mediator then goes back and forth between the two of you and attempts to facilitate a mutually agreeable settlement.Over the course of negotiations, different settlement offers typically will pass back and forth between the parties. If you reject an offer, you will be encouraged to explain your reasoning to the mediator.
The mediator then communicates your position to the plaintiff and comes back with their response.
While private negotiations could go back and forth for months, by using mediation you may be able to come to an agreement within a few hours.
 If you are able to come to an agreement through mediation, the mediator will put the terms and conditions of that settlement in writing. You'll have time to read through the agreement with your attorney before you sign it.If you're not able to reach an agreement, or it feels as though the two parties aren't making any headway after several hours, the mediator may recommend continuing the matter through to another session.
Continuing mediation gives both parties the time to think over their options and reassess their positions. However, if both parties don't feel they will reach a settlement, ending mediation may be appropriate.
On the other hand, if you do reach a settlement, you can sign an agreement outlining all of the terms and conditions of the settlement.
While mediation is voluntary and the proceedings are confidential, the settlement agreement becomes a legally binding contract once signed by both parties.
This means that if either party breaks their promises or tries to go back on the agreement, the other party can sue them for breach of contract.

