 You need to master a full pushup before you can start doing the dive bomber pushup, which is an advanced variation of a regular pushup that challenges your entire body.Make sure your hands are directly under your shoulders. Keep your back straight and avoid hunching your shoulders.
Separate your feet so that they are at least shoulder-width apart to get into the starting position for the dive bomber. You can have your feet out much wider than your shoulders as well. See what feels comfortable to you.;
, While keeping your arms and legs as straight as you can, lift your hips. As you do this, contract your abs and push through your trapezius (this is the area between the back of the shoulders). Your body should create an upside down "V" over the ground. This is considered the "starting position" for a dive bomber pushup, and the position to which you will return to do multiple repetitions of this exercise.Your back should be flat, shoulders not hunched up around your ears.
You should be standing on your toes or the balls of your feet. Lengthen your hamstrings by pulling down through your heels towards the ground. In other words, contract the front of your thighs, also known as your hip flexors.
 For the next movement in the dive bomber pushup, imagine a dot or target in between your hands. As you lower towards the ground, aim to place your nose on that invisible dot or target you've imagined.Flare your elbows out to either side as you lower. This part of the movement is what distinguishes the dive bomber from the Hindu pushup or a yoga pushup, in which you keep your elbows flat along your side.
 With your elbows still flared out, flatten your body, as though you were trying to slide under a fence. Ideally, your torso will be parallel to the ground but not touching it.At this point, you are roughly halfway through the exercise. The rest of the exercise consists of returning to the starting position so you can repeat the entire set of movements.
 What makes the dive bomber pushup different from other variations is that fact that when you return to the starting position, you flare your elbows out to the sides again as you did when you first lowered.First raise your torso, keeping your hips close to the ground without touching it. Then flare out your elbows and push back through, raising your hips. Practice until you can complete the dive bomber pushup in one continual movement.
You can do dive bomber pushups in sets of 10 to 20 repetitions, or you can do them as part of an interval. To include an interval of dive bomber pushups in your workout, set a timer for 30 seconds or a minute and do as many dive bomber pushups as you can with good form during that time.

