 If you have been injured or if you just notice that it hurts to put pressure on your knee, the first thing you should do is protect your knee by getting off of it. For example, if you are out walking somewhere, sit down or ask a friend to let you lean on her until you can reach a safe place to sit.Do not try to walk or run through the pain. If your knee hurts from running, then continuing to run or even walk on it may make it worse.
See a doctor or go to an emergency room if the pain is severe.;
, Plan to take a few days off from running as well as other activities that put pressure on your knee, such as walking, biking, and skiing.You should not return to your normal exercise routine until your knee has healed.


Try using crutches or ask someone to help you when you need to get out of a chair or walk to another room. Put as little pressure on the injured knee as possible.
If you are being treated for a knee injury, then ask your doctor how long you will need to rest your knee.
Knee soreness from running should improve after a couple of rest days.If your knee does not improve after a couple of rest days, then see your doctor.
 Ice your knee four or five times per day to reduce swelling and pain. Keep in mind that you should not apply ice to bare skin. Wrap an ice pack, some ice cubes, or a frozen bag of peas in a towel before applying to your knee. Hold the ice pack on your knee for about 15 to 20 minutes each time.Make sure that you give your knee breaks in between icings to allow the skin to return to normal temperature. After icing your knee, wait for about one to two hours before icing your knee again.
 Wrap your knee with an athletic or elastic bandage to compress the area while still allowing your knee to move.You can buy an elastic bandage in a drug store. Wear the knee wrap whenever you are not icing your knee.


Make sure that you do not wrap the area too tight or it may cut off circulation. Try to make the bandage tight enough to support your knee, but not so tight that it is cutting off your circulation., You should also raise the affected knee and leg to a level that is above your heart whenever you are lying down.This strategy can help to reduce swelling in your knee. At night, you can place the affected leg up on a couple of pillows to raise it above your heart. During the day, try lying down in a recliner or sofa with your leg propped up on a couple of pillows.