 If you really believe your spouse is cheating on you, yet after monitoring phone calls, emails, and travel details, all you have is a gut feeling, than you need to make an essential decision about how far you are willing to go in pursuit of knowing if your spouse is faithful.


Honestly ask yourself why you don't trust your spouse. Do you have any reason, real or imagined, to believe your spouse is, or has been, unfaithful? It doesn't have to stand up to legal standards of proof, but do you have anything to go on beyond your feeling or hunch? It is not uncommon for a partner to self-convince that there is a case of spousal infidelity based merely on circumstances that have been molded into the evidence needed to justify one's own feelings, beliefs, and insecurities.
Just because he seems less interested in you doesn't mean he's cheating. Working late or going out with friends might mean only that. It's also not uncommon for couples who have been together for a while to forget why they fell in love because everyday life is a grind and people get comfortable with time, taking one another for granted. Moreover, sometimes work addiction takes over, and your spouse really has become "wed to the job or start-up" and rarely thinks of spending time with you.
 If you think you have real cause to suspect your spouse, then start with the assumption that she is going to take some kind of precautions to remain undiscovered when cheating.


She's not going to send emails from the home computer, or call from the home phone.
She's not going to claim to be working late and leave for a hotel rendezvous risking your calls going unanswered or being seen leaving work too early
She will use normal routines and patterns that you are well used to and simply use that time to have the affair. A sexual affair doesn't require much time or commitment. The two of them meet in the parking lot, hop into one car, head for "their room" at the Motel 9 for a half hour, and are back in time for shopping. She even comes home with purchases consistent with where they were supposed to be. So if you're truly committed to finding the truth, do this:

, Get a good camera with a zoom lens and put a GPS tracker on your spouse (clothing/bag, etc.) or vehicle. Hide a voice activated recorder behind your bed. Then, plan a trip out of town for two to four days, and share that information with your spouse.


Do your homework and make it look like you're leaving town by sharing details of your trip, while you secretly plan a stay at a hotel just out of town. (If your spouse expects details of your trip, book them, get confirmations to share with your spouse, but cancel at the last hour and stay close to home.)

, Make an effort to call your spouse from the airport and when you arrive at your destination. Do this from your cell phone and you can claim to be anywhere. Apologize that you will be working late and might not be able to call that night.



Follow your spouse (a rental is a good idea), but if you are prone to road rage or other rash acts, think twice about this one.
If your spouse simply goes home, park down the street and watch.
 Use the camera if appropriate. Check the recorders just in case you missed something.


If you need more time, call the morning you were scheduled to be home and apologize that you have to stay one more night.
 If not, don't overdo the stay away. Either way, don't let this charade drag on––you'll need to confront your spouse with your evidence or own up to your suspicions in order for the relationship to change, mend or dissolve as needs be.
 It isn't pleasant to discover that a spouse has been cheating on you. In fact, it's likely to be devastating as the foundation on which you've based your personal life is totally rocked. Moreover, you may carry feelings of self-loathing for the manner in which you had to sneak about to find out the truth. All in all, the discovery process is harrowing and can leave you feeling raw.
 The fact is that it is better known than not. In time, you'll learn that while this is a traumatic experience, there is a person who deserves you and that it's most definitely not this person. Seek the support of friends, family and perhaps your doctor or a counselor to help you work through what is now a difficult period. Deciding whether or not to leave your spouse is a minefield that only you can decide to navigate, with good support networks to keep you strong. You might find it helpful to start by reading How to mend a marriage after an affair.
 Or, if you still think your spouse is super careful and sneaky, you have at least discovered how easy it is to set up the conditions to catch your cheating spouse in the not too distant future. However, be absolutely sure that your continuing suspicions are valid; by this stage, you're likely to be ripping apart any trust that once existed in the relationship.

