 Even though it is meant for people 8-18, the community has changed. Now, the people you'll meet are mostly teens (or saying they are) and they'll criticize you for your age. It is recommended for be 13 or older, but not required.
 This is the biggest thing that will make people mad. If you're at a building place, don't delete everything on sight. Fighting place, don't get stuck up because you killed one person or mad that someone kill you., When you do, it just shows that you're gullible enough to stoop to their level. Instead, come up with some kind of way to comment back but don't be antagonizing. It's usually the good people that will know if you're actually a noob or not.
 They aren't reliable all the time. One example is the "infection" script, which says to everyone that it's about to hack your account and then it will kill you and kick you out. this is nothing more than a joke for newbies to believe and you shouldn't believe it.
 No matter what, with reliable friends it doesn't matter how much a beating you take, they'll be there for you.
 Respect other people's work and follow the rules. You don't ever have to go into flame war mode or go too softly if your stern but fair and can follow the rules.
 You will be considered a Noob by most. A good idea is not to wear "muscle" shirts or swimsuits, unless you're at a pool place, but make sure it isn't skimpy if you are. Don't say "123 for hot boyfriend with muscles and BC" either. Don't suspect random people must be ODer's, too.
 If someone calls you a noob, and you didn't do anything to them, just leave them alone. Some Robloxians enjoy hurting others feelings.
 Sometimes, usually when people are new, hate spending their precious tickets/robux. It makes you look noobish if you're not wearing anything. And most stuff is worth buying!

, Saying "you're a noob" to a stranger isn't gonna make you not a noob. It's rude, even if they are a noob.
 Some Robloxians like to scam people for free robux or tickets. Buying a shirt or playing a game that says it will give you free currency, is more likely not.
 Doing so doesn't mean your a noob, but it limits how much fun you have on Roblox and if you like playing games that you have to 'train' in to get further in (such as most of the DBZ games) you can find a good game first and be more experienced than others who only find it later when it gets to the top 3 pages of games.

