 Don't run on stage as if you're at Glastonbury, just walk onstage and look like you're there to play through your songs and to have a good time as well. Don't creep onstage either. You need to let the audience let you know you're there.;
, Play through each song until you know what's happening each second. Learn each song so you can play it by heart while concentrating on what everyone else is playing.
 If you want to add a guitar solo to one of your songs, start working on it at least two months before showtime. The last thing you want is to mess up part of the song and watch in horror as the crowd boo you off stage and bring on another, more prepared band to completely outshine you.
 Make sure you have all the equipment ready and spare strings ready. You don't want to forget your guitar and struggle along using someone else's guitar that you feel uncomfortable playing.
 Don't stand at the back of the stage looking like you've just watched The Grudge. Have your guitar strap at a comfortable length and move about onstage. Also, if you're a drummer, try to get your body into it-the more movement, the more people will properly see you. Maybe even throw your sticks up in the air at the end of a song, just to show how much you're enjoying yourself.
 Don't start interviewing the front row, asking each one what they did that day and what they had for dinner, just talk to them. E.g. after the first couple of songs, just say "how is everyone, you all doing well?" if the audience scream and start clapping (or any other sign of having a good time), then you've got the crowd going and they will practically follow your every move. If not, just enjoy what you are playing and try to get the audience to enjoy it too.
 Wear clothes that suit the style of your music, and make sure that you are naturally looking good. Also, if you are a drummer and want to go onstage topless (due to getting hot), then make sure you have a decent body. I'm not saying you need a six-pack (although that can be good), but try to avoid going onstage topless if you are big and fat, as people might find it objectionable to watch your big fat belly throughout the entire gig.
 It doesn't matter if you can't get part of the crowd to enjoy it. Don't be discouraged by it. If some don't like your sound, it's probably because your style of music isn't their thing. Just relax and have fun!

