 In recent years, the medical community has made much advancement in treating erectile dysfunction through the use of medications. Medications can be taken orally, injected, and inserted into the tip of the penis.


Talk to your partner about drug treatment options. You can try different options together and decide which choice is best for you based on your performance, your partner's experience, and any side effects.
Some common oral ED medications include Viagra, Cialis, Stendra and Levitra.A doctor may prescribe a drug called alprostadil when pill treatment is deemed unsafe or ineffective. Alprostadil is injected into the side of the penis with a fine needle and it produces an erection that lasts for about 20 to 40 minutes., Stress can cause erectile dysfunction. Talk with a counselor about the various stressors in your life to help you learn how to cope and to develop strategies in handling it. This can help reduce sexual anxiety and improve your sexual function.Including your partner in your sex therapy sessions may also help.Your partner can offer a different perspective on your relationship and yourself that might help you to overcome ED.
 Vacuum devices, also known as penis pumps, may help to improve the flow of blood to the penis. The device goes over your penis and it uses suction to pull more blood into your penis, which causes an erection. Then, you place a band around the base of your penis to keep the blood in your penis and maintain the erection during intercourse.Your doctor can recommend or prescribe a good penis pump if you want to try this option.
 If all other options for treating erectile dysfunction have failed, you and your partner might want to talk with your doctor about surgical options. The two most common surgeries are placing an implant into the penis or vascular reconstruction surgery, which is rarely recommended.Penile implants consist of inflatable or semi-rigid rods that are placed in the sides of your penis. These rods will make it possible for you to have an erection and many men who have this procedure are satisfied with the results.