;
, Use a weak weapon like a knife, club or sickle. Paladins would do best using small stones. A shield, such as those you might find in Rookgaard, is also recommended.
 At this stage you could kill something stronger than rotworms but make sure you have a good escape plan (and try not to get killed).
 (This is strongly recommended, as you will likely be facing poisonous creatures, such as scorpions, centipedes, and slimes soon.)

,, In which case, get ‘Great Light’ at level 13 or get a newer rod/wand.
 Paladins can get it now or later. It comes in handy when you are in danger as any damage inflicted upon you will be subtracted directly from your mana points instead of hit points. (Mages should use this sparingly, however, because it can very quickly subtract mana points that may be needed later.)

, (Slimes work just as well, as Cyclops can be difficult to kill at lower levels.)

, At level 20 the first thing you should do is the 10 k quest which will give you 10 k and some other items (beware of player killers who kill you after you receive the 10k). Also be sure to buy the ‘Ultimate Healing’ spell (exura vita).
 It helps HEAPS, it gives you more spells, hunting areas, runes and you can buy a vocational promotion for 20 k. It isn't required, though.
 Druids can buy it but its recommended that druids go to level 24 an get Ultimate Healing Rune (adura vita). Make backpacks of these runes as they sell for around 3 k on most servers. If you really want to get a high magic level, use your money to buy mana fluids, as they will speed up your magic level considerably.
 Now you should be able to hunt dragons, but take some Intense Healing Runes, just in case. Summoning 2 Demon Skeletons can help you considerably. Monks work just as well at higher levels, as they can heal themselves. Paladins can get this spell as well, but it won't help very much

, Once you've gotten to around level 35, you should be able to solo dragons and/or giant spiders without summons. Knights should also get Berserk if they have premium and a promotion

,, A good spot is Orc Fort or POI or The Second Floor of DC (Dark Cathedral)

, It’s the strongest rune in the game an it sells for 5-6 k per backpack.
 You can kill almost anything

,