 This simple scar imitation can be accomplished without much preparation and in a relatively short amount of time. The only ingredients you will need are liquid collodion and scar colored makeup, both of which can be found at most costume, drug, or department stores.


Collodion is a liquid compound that is highly adhesive and frequently used in medicine or special effects makeup.;
, Collodion is a component that can be harsh on the skin, so you should test a small area before making your main application. This way you can be sure you do not have a negative reaction.


You should also test the color of the makeup as well. Try a little bit on the location you intend to use it. You natural skin color might offset the makeup color, making it look less authentic.
 When your body is clean, FX makeup bonds better to your skin, creating a better seal between you and the adhesive. A baby wipe, or mild soap and warm water, will prep your skin for your new scar.Wait until you skin is completely dry before applying your collodion.
 You may need to use a mirror if you will be applying the makeup to your face, but looking at the part of your body you will be applying your scar effects to, image the scar pattern you desire.


For more complicated scar patterns, you may want to use an eyebrow pencil to faintly sketch out the pattern before hand.
You might consider hash-mark patterns, jagged lines, or menacing x shaped scars for your look.
 As the collodion dries, it will draw your skin together and provide the appearance of a scar. For a more pronounced effect, you can use multiple applications. You should allow each application to dry before adding another layer of collodion.


Applying the liquid collodion to areas where you have tight skin could diminish the effect.
 Depending on your skin tone the color you use to tint your fake scar tissue will vary greatly. Your makeup can be applied over top or underneath your collodion scar.


Underneath applications of makeup will require you to put on the makeup before your liquid collodion, first allowing the makeup to dry completely, if necessary.
 Before trying to remove the scar, you should take a baby wipe and remove any makeup from your prosthetic scar. You should be able to peel off the your false scar without too much trouble with your fingers. If you are having difficulty removing your scar tissue, apply a prosthetic makeup remover, like Super Solve  or Isopropyl Myristate.