 If reaching one goal seems unsatisfactory, it may help to explore how this achievement fits into the bigger picture of your future. Research shows that completing the best possible future exercise can create motivation to work towards new goals and help you feel happier in the present.Set aside 10 to 15 minutes to think about how you envision your life in the future. Think about all the important aspects of your life: your profession, your relationships, your hobbies, your health, etc. In your best possible future, how would each of these areas look? Write it down in vivid detail.
This exercise can be inspiring for those with post-achievement underwhelm because it can help you to see that, although you aren’t exactly where you want to be, you may be on the right path. In fact, doing this exercise might help you to realize that you have nearly all the variables at hand right now for your best possible future.
 If this is you, you might be experiencing dissatisfaction because the spark you felt while moving towards your goal died after you completed it. Use the results of your best possible future exercise to figure out some new goals you would like to set for yourself. Then, get moving to feel purposeful, and possibly happier!


Set SMART goals that are specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time-bound. For instance, your best possible future involves buying a home and you just got a promotion on your job. At this point, you might set a new goal to save money for a down-payment. This new goal aligns with your future vision and can boost your contentment that you are moving in the right direction.
Remind yourself as you work toward your new goals that the present moment is enjoyable, as well. Every part of your life will come with different achievements that may or may not be a designated goal. Remember to celebrate all of those moments, not just achieving the goals you set.
 Since some of your disappointment may have come from others not giving you the recognition you expected, you can counteract this dilemma by recognizing yourself. Frequently, people hold happiness at bay because they think someone else needs to permit them to feel good about themselves. Only you can make you happy. So stop waiting on others to praise you and start praising yourself.Make a list of your achievements and read over it regularly.
Bask in your accomplishments by experiencing pride over what you have done so far.
Accept compliments graciously. Don’t minimize your achievements to appear modest.
 One terrific way to feel happier about minor successes is to spread your excitement with others. There are many ways you can do this, but doing so reinforces that you are deserving of happiness and allows those who support you to bask in your accomplishment with you.


Maybe you lost 20 pounds on the road to a 50-pound weight loss goal. When you reach this milestone consider throwing yourself a little party with healthy foods. This helps you and your loved ones appreciate your progress, and teaches everyone that you can have a good time while making healthy choices.
Another potential way to share your success is by helping someone else. Research shows that you are happier when you help others.So, why not make a generous donation to charity when you get that big promotion, or maybe plan and pay for a trip to take your friends or family to an exotic location to celebrate.
Remember to check your expectations for other's reactions. You know better than anyone how hard you've worked, and others may not react with the same level of enthusiasm or excitement. Remember that your feelings are what matter. Celebrate with those you care about, but don't use their excitement as a measure of your happiness.
 Redefining success means giving it your own definition based on what you value in life. Your happiness will never come from others, so you need to release yourself from trying to meet the standards of others, also.


If parents, peers, or even partners don’t believe in your dreams, it shouldn’t detract from your enthusiasm. Instead of defending your dreams to them, focus on the things you do have in common with these individuals, and kindly decline to discuss contentious subjects if they bring them up.
You can also find your own tribe of like-minded supporters. On the internet, in your local community, or at work, locate people who have similar visions and goals as you and spend time with them.

