 It's important to know what characters look like, but how a character thinks, talks or moves can leave an even more powerful impression. Think of Sherlock Holmes. His defining features are that he is ridiculously smart, doesn't like other people, and is a bit of a drug addict. When establishing a character try:Using other character's reactions to convey information, e.g., "The conversation ceased as Esmeralda entered the room. Every eye fixed on her."
Use a character's history to convey his or her qualities: "His appetite was legendary. It was said he had once eaten an entire boar in one sitting." Or, "He had once gone a year without uttering anything beyond 'yes, sir', 'no, sir', or 'I should think not, sir.'"
Focus on a character's movement rather than his or her appearance, e.g., "She moved with the grace of a dancer."
If you are going to discuss appearance, don't describe everything. Pick a particular defining feature: "Vic's a square-set, ready-and-steady sort of bloke, the sort of bloke who rubs his hands together at the start of something. His hands are always clean." (Graham Swift, Last Orders)

, The most powerful characters are often defined by the way they talk or think, like Balram Halwai, the hero of Aravind Adiga's The White Tiger. His voice is smart and humorous and alive: "Out of respect for the love of liberty shown by the Chinese people, and also in the belief that the future of the world lies with the yellow man and the brown man now that our erstwhile master, the white-skinned man, has wasted himself through buggery, cell phone usage, and drug abuse, I offer to tell you, free of charge, the truth about Bangalore."

, You don't need to go on and on to create a vivid picture. Doing so will only slow down your story. Instead, focus on a few key details and let the reader fill in the rest.


Few writers do this better than Erik Morgenstern in The Night Circus, a book filled with dizzily clever, yet surprisingly compact descriptions, like this one of a fantastic clock: "The body of the clock, which has been methodically turning itself inside out and expanding, is now entirely subtle shades of white and grey. And it is not just pieces, it is figures and objects, perfectly carved flowers and planets and tiny books with actual paper pages that turn."

, For many books – particularly historical fiction – the setting is almost another character. Yet when describing a real place – say 19th century France – you don't want to drown the reader in details. Instead, choose a few to give a sense of place, e.g., the small circles of light thrown by the gas lamps, illuminating sections of paved street; the smell of freshly-baked bread mixing with the stench of the Seine; the chiming of bells from a hundred churches.


Sprinkle in place names to give a sense of place. Instead of "the river", "the Seine." Instead of a broad square, the "Place de la Bastille."
Foreign words can also create a sense of place, if sprinkled judiciously throughout your text. James Clavell's Shogun, set in feudal Japan, does a fantastic job of this. "Hai" is used instead of "yes." "Tomodachi" for "friend." "Domo" for "thank you."

, Sometimes, the key detail is what is not there.A woman might enter a ball in a fabulous dress with a smile on her face, but no joy in her eyes. A forest might feature towering oaks and lush undergrowth, but no birdsong or animal calls, not even the buzzing of insects. Remember that what is not there can sometimes reveal more than what is there.


Erin Morgenstern's The Night Circus, again, provides a great example of description through absence. In introducing the circus, he defines it through what it lacks: color. "The towering tents are striped in black and white, no golds and crimsons to be seen. No color at all, save for the neighboring trees and the grass of the surrounding fields… Even what ground is visible from the outside is black or white, painted or powdered, or treated with some other circus trick."

