 If you're your own worst enemy, it's time to start getting real. How do you manage to keep getting in your own way? Before you start coming up with a plan to save yourself, it's important to get a real sense of what it is that needs to change.


Do you struggle with apathy? Does a Saturday afternoon full of promise turn into a YouTube spiral, an Xbox session, and a nap? Maybe you need to get motivated.
Do you struggle with addiction? If a substance or activity has a grip on your life, you don't have to live with it or face it alone. Start dealing with your addiction and take control of your own life.
Do you struggle with low self-esteem? You should be able to rely on yourself, not have to fear your self, critique yourself, and drag yourself down. If you have trouble being positive, your self-esteem might need to be addressed.
Do you take too many risks that don't pan out? If you're a gambler, someone who gets a thrill from the possibility of danger, of consequence, or of failure, it's likely you'll come up short more often than not. While there's nothing wrong with a little thrill in your life, if you're taking dangerous risks that are affecting your safety, you might need to take steps to save yourself from it.
 What sets you off down a self-destructive path? Whether it be a person, a circumstance, or an idea, it's important to learn to recognize the things that trigger your self-destructive or spiraling behavior so you can start to cut it off before it takes hold. Pay attention to when you feel sudden urges and interrogate yourself at those moments. Write it down if necessary.
 When you've identified the things in your life that trigger negative emotional responses, replace them with positive behaviors. try to reprogram your mental pathways toward positivity and grace, as opposed to self-destruction and depression. It's easier than you think.If dwelling on your relationship with your emotionally-abusive father makes you want to take a drink, learn to beat yourself to the punch. When you start focusing on thoughts of your father, head the gym. Hit the heavy bag for a couple hours. Blow off some steam.
If you struggle with apathy and self-esteem issues, start celebrating each little achievement and taking steps to develop your self-respect. Start exercising and taking more risks. Treat yourself as you want to be treated.
 Take responsibility for yourself and start taking care of yourself. It's ok to rely on others for help every now and then, but there's also a time for pulling yourself up by your bootstraps. Start helping yourself.


If you're living at home above the age that it's appropriate to live at home, it might be time to move out. While that can be a great way of saving money after college, it can't be an excuse for not working. Take a step and grow up.
Don't ask for help with things that you can do yourself. If your computer is acting up, you could call your friend in tears and fall apart, or you could try to figure it out on your own. Respect yourself enough to figure it out.
 The cool police, the criticism cops, the guilty conscience. Whatever you want to call it, you've got to learn to control the little voice inside you that needles you with negativity. A conscience is an essential part of being a moral person, but it can also drive you into the ground with feelings of guilt, of remorse, and of self-loathing. It might be unwise to ignore your conscience altogether, but learn to control it. Learn to use it when it's necessary and when to let it fade into the background.Start anticipating what will make you feel guilty later. You won't need to worry about a guilty conscience after the fact if you listen to it before the fact. If it will make you feel guilty later to send that text, or to take that drug, don't do it.
 You can't and shouldn't have to do everything alone. Learn to surround yourself with people who'll hold you up, who'll support you, who'll reinforce the good parts of you and make the bad parts seem distant.


Avoid toxic relationships and enablers. People who reinforce the parts of you that need worked on might need to be cut from your life. While it might be difficult, cultivating healthier relationships can help to keep you safe from temptation.

