 If you are exposed to Legionella bacteria, this does not mean that you will automatically develop the disease; however, if your immune system is compromised, it is more likely that you will get infected. Get at least seven to nine hours of sleep every night. Furthermore, you should adhere to a well-balanced diet to improve your immune system. Foods good for your immune system include the following:


Yogurt is rich in probiotics (good bacteria) that many experts suggest will improve your immune system.Oats and barley contain beta-glucan which is a type of fiber rich in antimicrobial and antioxidant properties. Eat one daily serving per day for a good boost in immunity.Garlic is extremely effective at improving the immune system; however, to get its full effect, you should consume the garlic raw. Heat and water will both neutralize important sulfur enzymes in garlic.Tea supports the production of virus-fighting interferon in the blood. The chemical that is responsible for this is known as the L-theanine., Smoking damages the lungs, leading to increased susceptibility to Legionnaires’ disease.Because Legionella bacteria infect the lungs, those who suffer from lung disease like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema, both of which are precipitated by smoking, are more likely to contract Legionnaires’ disease., Heavy consumption of alcoholic beverages puts you at higher risk for developing Legionnaires' disease.A dependence on alcohol or other drugs increases your risk because it reduces your immune system's ability to fight infection.Moderate alcohol consumption is less than one serving per day for women and less than two servings per day for men.
 Be careful if you are older 50, suffer from lung disease, have been a smoker, or if you have a compromised immune system. Potential causes of a compromised immune system include diseases like cancer, diabetes and liver failure, as well as drugs that are administered after transplants or chemotherapy., It is imperative that you are able to identify the conditions where Legionella thrives to avoid them if you are at risk. The principal sources of Legionella are warm water and steam.Be conscious of central air conditioning, hot water, misting systems, cooling towers, humidifiers, air humidifiers, showers, whirlpool spas, hot tubs, fountains, ponds, and creeks.Keep in mind that there is an increased chance of Legionella bacteria infesting a body of water if it is stagnant.

