 Lift the insoles from the footbed and slide them out the opening. Brush off any loose dirt, dust, lint or other debris so that you can focus your attention on the more soiled spots. Place recently worn insoles somewhere nearby to air out before you begin cleaning.









If your shoes don’t have removable insoles, you’ll have to carefully clean inside the shoe by hand. An unused toothbrush can come in handy in these situations.
Put machine washable shoes through a gentle cycle while you work on the insoles.;
, Fill the sink or a separate bucket and squeeze in a few drops of a mild liquid dish detergent that will blend easily in water. Stir the soap and water together to form a solution.








Hot water will work better than cold for loosening stuck-on dirt and stains.
In most cases, a gentle scrub with soap and water will be enough to eliminate unpleasant smells from lightly-worn insoles., A nylon dish brush or similar tool will work well for this purpose. Wet the bristles and shake off the excess solution. You only want to use a small amount of soapy water at a time to prevent the insoles from getting too wet.








The key to successfully cleaning most shoe insoles is not to oversaturate them with water. Too much moisture can damage insoles made from leather, foam and composite materials.You can also use a soft dish sponge regular cotton washcloth to do your scrubbing.
 Work the soap solution into the surface of the insoles using tight, circular scrubbing motions. Concentrate on the areas around the heel and toes where stenches and stains are most noticeable. Once you’re finished with the top of the insoles, flip them over and go over the bottoms as well.








Rewet the brush with fresh soap solution as needed.
After scrubbing the insoles, clear away visible soap residue with a clean cloth or sponge., Now the the insoles have been cleaned, you’ll want to make sure they’ve had a chance to dry completely before wearing them again. This will prevent odor-causing bacteria from returning, as they’re drawn to warm, moist places. Once they’ve dried sufficiently, slide them back into your shoes and put them through their paces.You can speed up the drying process by leaving the insoles in a well-ventilated area or propping them up near an air conditioner or space heater.
If the weather is good, place the insoles out in the sun to dry. Not only will this air them out faster, the UV radiation from sunlight will actually help kill any lingering germs that the soap solution may have missed.