 If you are planning to stay together, forgiveness is a must. Holding on to resentment and bitterness will only poison your relationship in the future. Make a conscious decision to forgive your spouse and move forward.It may be difficult to forgive your spouse all at once, especially if the betrayal happened recently. Instead, work towards a goal of forgiveness as you rebuild your relationship.
Try saying something like "I forgive you," or "I am working on forgiveness" out loud to yourself, your spouse, and to other people. Even if you don’t feel ready to forgive just yet, saying your intentions out loud may help you to move towards feeling ready to forgive.
 Counseling can be an invaluable tool in rebuilding your relationship with your spouse. A counselor will help you figure out why the infidelity happened. They can also help you find ways to work through your emotions and teach you to communicate better with each other.Counseling can also help you and your spouse decide whether continuing the relationship is the right choice for you.
 Many people who have affairs do so because their needs are not being met at home. If this contributed to your spouse cheating, it's important to address that issue and take steps to fix it, if possible.Lack of emotional intimacy and sexual fulfillment are among the most common reasons people stray.
Taking responsibility for relationship problems doesn’t mean excusing your spouse’s infidelity.
 Designate regular times to check in with your spouse. Don’t just talk about their affair – discuss your current feelings, what each of you needs from the other, and your goals for the relationship as you move forward.Talk about things that are not related to your relationships as well, such as your passions, goals, and dreams. This can help to restore some of the excitement in your relationship.


Re-opening channels of communication with your spouse helps to restore your relationship after living with the secrecy and lies of infidelity.
If you find that you spend too much time discussing the affair itself, try setting aside 15 minutes a day to talk about it. Stick to other topics the rest of the time.
 After your trust has been compromised with an affair, it can be difficult to reconnect with your spouse on a physical level. However, if you choose to rebuild your marriage, this is a step you must take to fully recover and move on.


You can restore intimacy in your marriage by making an effort to communicate your deepest desires with your spouse—your inner thoughts and feelings. In addition, dating each other again may also help. Go on a romantic trip with your spouse. Return to your earlier days when you lovingly traded massages, cuddled on the couch most evenings, and discussed your days during dinner rather than eating in silence.
Marriage counseling can also be helpful in allowing you and your spouse to cross the bridge back to sexual intimacy. This may take time as you may have built up walls after the infidelity, and it may be the last thing that you work on. Try to focus one rebuilding your relationship and this should follow in time. It’s important for you to both be honest with yourselves and fully grieve the betrayal to become physical partners again.You can also make an effort to be physically affectionate with each other until you are ready to have an intimate relationship again. Simple things like holding hands, kissing each other goodbye, and giving each other hugs may help to improve your emotional and physical intimacy.
 Don’t call your spouse constantly to check up on where they are or insist that they spend all their free time with you. While this behavior is understandable, it’s likely to make your spouse feel smothered, which could drive a wedge between you.It is reasonable to ask for some accountability from your spouse after a betrayal. Just be careful not to cross the line into unhealthily jealous or controlling behavior.
 Doing new things can help you move past the affair together. Find things to do that will bring you closer and help you make new memories.Consider taking a weekend trip together, picking up a new hobby as a couple, or just making an effort to spend more time running errands and doing chores together.

