 These identification services are available through most vets and are essential to your dog’s safety. If you ever lose them, local authorities will be easily able to track you down if your information is up-to-date in the associated databases., You are responsible for ensuring that your dog doesn’t have a negative impact on other people or animals.Besides being sure that your dog is under control and supervised at all times when in public, responsible dog owners will get to know their pet’s patterns of behavior so that they can anticipate any issues. For instance, if you notice that your dog growls at strollers, give them a wide berth whenever possible until your dog grows more comfortable with them.
It’s always the best policy to avoid putting your dog in situations that you know will make them uncomfortable. For example, if your dog is suspicious of or aggressive towards other dogs, it’s not a good idea to let them loose in a crowded dog park because that is not setting them up to behave well.
 Gradually introduce your dog to new people and environments. Exposing them to a variety of people and places will help them be more comfortable with the world around them.Socialization is a slow process, so don’t ask too much of your dog all at once. For instance, if you’re dog has not been in crowds before, it’s not a good idea to take them to an outdoor carnival. You want them to continuously learn more about the world, but you don’t want to overwhelm them.
When your dog remains calm with new people and settings, reward their good behavior with praise and/or treats.
 Obedience training and socialization classes can help ensure that your dog will become a well-mannered family and community member. Training will strengthen your bond with your pet, prevent or correct unwanted behaviors, and create a well-balanced, happy pooch.At the very least, every dog should know basic commands, including "sit," "stay," "lie down," "come," and "heel." You might see variations on these command phrases, but the behaviors that they need to learn are the same: responding to you immediately, exercising self-control, staying in a given position, coming at your request, and walking well on a leash.Ask your vet, local animal shelter, breeder, or fellow dog owners for trainer recommendations.
Contract a trainer via phone or visit their website to verify their qualifications. Make sure that the trainer you pick has significant experience, can offer good references, and uses humane methods of “positive reinforcement.” Never go to a trainer whose methods involve physical restraint or violence.
 Make sure that your canine is leaving no trace on the environment. Always dispose of your dog's waste in the proper manner and immediately address other damage they might cause, for instance, by filling in any holes they may dig.Use a bag to pick up your dog’s feces and dispose of it right away in an authorized trash receptacle. Consider using biodegradable bags to minimize your environmental impact.
Besides being considerate to your neighbors, cleaning up waste helps prevent the spread of disease.
 This will prevent your dog from running away, chasing animals, or jumping on other dogs or people.Oftentimes, local law insists that you keep your dog on a leash, so you risk fines if you don’t observe it. Be sure you’re familiar with the dog-related regulations in your area.
If you’d like to let your dog loose, find an off-lead dog park where they can run free.

