 To open a franchise of a major brand such as Harley-Davidson or Indian Motorcycles, start by visiting their website and submitting their application. This prospective application gets you in contact with one of their representatives who will discuss your qualifications.


Anyone buying an existing dealership also has to fill out this prospective dealer application.
 Franchise dealerships have a minimum amount of financial capital required in order to ensure standard business practices that will make you successful as a dealer and protect the brand’s image. Money for internal operating expenses such as parts, uniforms, and management systems have to be considered, but so do expenses such as facility and labor costs. This money is gotten through bank loans, acquaintances, and investors.


A loan or credit line from a bank is your most available source of funding. They will check your credit, your cash flow, and your business plan before they loan you money.Investors can help, but it is tough to find them. Talk to people online or offline who share your passion and will go into business with you or pitch your franchise to someone who believes in your business plan.
Polaris for example as of 2017 requires about $150,000 to $200,000 in a minimum investment not including facility costs, but also requires a $500,000 credit line., Running a franchise requires a lot of space. Brands such as Yamaha require big, visible buildings. You will need to find a place that is retail-friendly and receives a lot of foot traffic. The building will have the brand name displayed prominently on the outside while offering enough space for your business operations and a showroom.Yamaha for example asks for 10,000 square feet of space for unit display, 750 for accessories, 750 for parts, and 1,000 for a service department., After you have spoken to the dealer representatives and sellers, if you are buying an existing franchise, your information may be verified and approved. Once it is, you can get your business license from the government and sign the contract., A small motorcycle shop can operate with the owner alone and possibly family and friends, but a big dealership is going to need a large quantity of people to perform varying roles, such as sales and operations. Interview for employees with good work ethic and motorcycle knowledge, then work on documentation.Employee insurance may be necessary for obtaining your business license, but you may also need to report your hirings and verify them for tax purposes.
 Consult with your local government officials to find out what documentation you need to submit. The state will need information about your business, such as how much product you sell, your property ownership or lease information, sales tax ID, worker’s compensation insurance, and so on.


In New York, for example, once your application is processed, you have to schedule an inspection of your facility and keep a sign showing your business as a dealership.