 The Bloated Float is a ship inn docked in the Waterfront's bay and can be entered via the door on its' side.;
, It will cost you 10 gold to rent a bed for the night. Ormil can usually be found behind the inn's counter.
 Your room is located below deck and is through the door on the left - the door on the right is sealed and cannot be opened.
, He will explain that he is part of a group called the 'Blackwater Brigands' and that the ship's bouncer has been locked in the ship's storage room. After you have finished talking to him, he will attack you.
 All the 'Blackwater Brigands' are fairly easy to kill, so it will not take long to eliminate him.
 Simply walk to the door and activate it to unlock it. Graman gro-Marad will explain that he will be able to steer the ship back to the Waterfront, but that you'll need to clear the rest of the ship first.
 She will tell you that the leader of the gang is called Selene. After you have finished talking with her, she will attack you.
 Again, she will be easy to kill, so it will not take you long to defeat her.
 He will reveal that the gang are hijacking the ship in search of the treasure 'The Golden Galleon' (a fictional treasure which Ormil conjured up in order to attract customers to the inn, on which it was supposed to be hidden). After you have finished talking to him, he will attack you.
 He will be easy to kill. Graman gro-Marad will move to the top deck to guide the ship back to the Waterfront.
, She is fairly easy to kill, but her enchanted weapon drains fatigue, so you may want to try to negotiate her surrender instead.


In order to make Selene surrender, you must talk to her and select the following dialogue in order: "I took the key from Wrath", "I'm here to join the gang", "...three months ago?", "To find the Golden Galleon", "You mean in Bravil?", "I've killed all of them." When you tell her the rest of the "Blackwater Brigands" are dead, she will surrender to you and give you her enchanted sword - the Blackwater Blade.
If you want to kill Selene, then try killing her quickly before her sword drains all your fatigue. Loot Selene's corpse for the Blackwater Blade.
 He will tell you the story of the Golden Galleon and then tell you to rest in the bed which you rented while the ship heads back to the Imperial City Waterfront.
 When you wake up, the ship will be back at the Waterfront District.
 He will also take back all the keys for the Bloated Float. Finish talking to him and the quest will have been completed.

