 There are several different species found in many areas that can be easily mistaken for Stinging Nettle. Several of these are in the Urticaceae family, others are not. These similar species or look-alikes include:

False Nettle (Boehmeria cylindrica)
Horse Balm (Collinsonia canadensis)
White Snakeroot (Eupatorium rugosum)
Hemp Nettle (Galeopsis tetrahit)
White Deadnettle (Lamium album)
Wood Nettle (Laportea canadensis)
Northern Bugleweed (Lycopus uniflorus)
Horehound (Marrubium vulgare)
Spearmint (Mentha spicata)
Pellitory (Parietaria officinalis)
Clearweed (Pilea pumila)
Self Heal (Prunella vulgaris)
Hedge Nettle (Stachys palustris)

, False nettle has finer toothing along the margins of the leaves, and the leaves themselves tend to be a little more bigger at the base. The stems of each flower cluster are erect and angle upward from the stem, unlike stinging nettle (which are droopy). There are no stinging hairs on any part of this plant. This is despite the fine hairs found on the leaves and stems.,, This plant is a member of the sunflower family (Asteraceae), therefore does not have stinging hairs. This plant is relatively shorter than stinging nettle, growing around 1.5 feet (0.46 m) to 3 feet (0.91 m) in height. Stems are light green to tan, and usually hairless. Leaves are larger than stinging nettle, about 5 inches (13 cm) long and about 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) wide, and are arranged alternate along the stem. Leaf size decreases as they ascend the stem. They are typically darker green on top (light below). Leaves have serrated edges, and heart-shaped near the bottom, and lance-shaped closer to the top. Flowers are white and divided into branching clusters primarily top of the plant, though some flowers also branch out from the base of the leaf.,,, This plant also contains stinging properties like Stinging Nettle, and is in the same family (Urticaceae). Plants are generally shorter than stinging nettle, reaching only 4 feet (1.2 m) tall at the most. However, wood nettle is distinguished by its larger and wider leaves. These leaves are generally 6 inches (15 cm) long and about 4 inches (10 cm) wide. They appear almost egg-shaped or oval, though like stinging nettle has a sharp tip and is serrated at the edges. Leaves have a wrinkled appearance, especially at emergence; this becomes less so as the leaves reach maturity. Leaves are alternate along the stem, unlike stinging nettle which has opposite leaf arrangement.

Flower clusters are droopy like stinging nettle, but they are born on cymes (branching flower clusters). Male flowers are borne from the axils of the leaves, whereas female flowers are at the top of the plant. Wood nettle will have branching flower clusters at the top of the plant, unlike stinging nettle.
,,,, This is a non-stinging annual that is a part of the Nettle family (Urticeae). The most interesting and defining characteristic of this plant is the translucency of the stems (particularly as plants get older, or as the growing season progresses), hence the common name. Stems may be reddish-green, grey-green or light-green in appearance. It grows shorter than stinging nettle (growing as high as only 0.5 feet (0.15 m) to 2 feet (0.61 m) tall), and leaves and stems are hairless, smooth, and with a shiny appearance. Leaves are smaller, 0.75 inches (1.9 cm) to 4 inches (10 cm) long and half as wide. Each leaf has a thin, membraneous texture (as in they feel smooth almost like human skin) with a prominent mid-vein and two visible side-veins, one on either side of that main vein. Clearweed leaves are more oval or ovate.

Flowers of clearweed are in narrow racemes that are shorter than stinging nettle, at only about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long. There is also some branching on each flowering stem.
,