 Sometimes, there are big fences between our yards, and those fences aren't crossed nearly as often as they should be. Introduce yourself to your neighbors, even if you've lived there for a while. Talk to them. Find out what they do, what they're like, and who they are as people. Just a five-minute chat can do a lot to get you more involved in your community.


try to do this as soon as possible after you move to a new neighborhood, or a new building. Just knock on the door and introduce yourself. If you notice someone new in the neighborhood, bring over a couple beers or a plate of cookies to help say hello.
If you have a problem with a neighbor, talk to them about it. Don't leave passive-aggressive notes on their door. Get some face time and talk in a calm voice, even if you're frustrated with something.
 Shopping locally helps to keep money local. The more you spend at local businesses, the better your community. Why? Recent studies show that locally-owned independent businesses reinvest nearly twice the amount of money in a local economy, compared to a chain store.Sometimes, local products may cost a little more, but you can also put a face on the cost. Meet who is selling you your produce. Learn where it comes from. Talk to the people who own the salon you visit, or the grocery store where you shop., Local social organizations are a great way to meet new friends and neighbors. Depending on where you live and what's available, there are usually all sorts of options related to sports, socializing, and other activities. Here are some common ones:


Book clubs
Surfing, hiking, or rock climbing clubs
Shooting ranges and gun clubs
Wine, whiskey, or cigar tasting
Churches and youth groups
Moose Clubs, Elk Lodges, and other fraternal organizations

, National politics are important, but it's possibly more important to familiarize yourself with the people making decisions in your town. Learn more about your local representatives and get involved in local decision-making.


Find out about town halls in your area to make sure your voice can be heard. Write to your representative to let them know how you're feeling about particular topics.
Lots of news is available online for free these days, but it's still good to subscribe to the local paper to help support and fund local reporting. If you want news from where you live, read the local paper. Lots of local papers have a big online presence anyway, which means you can subscribe and read on your computer if you want.
 Participate in your community directly by attention community events, or organizing them if they aren't available. Getting people out to mingle with friends and neighbors is vital to the health of any community.


Go big, if you feel the energy is there. Throw a big rally for a local political cause, or organize a street fair to help support local businesses.
Just getting together with a few friends for a weekly football watching group at a local restaurant or bar helps you stay involved in a small way. Attend local concerts or other local events to support other people who are doing things in your community.

