 Expect your Scorpio to want to dictate their own lives and, to an extent, yours. Adapt yourself as best as you can to their vision of how things should be. As you both share your wants, needs, and dreams, judge theirs versus your own to see if they’re compatible. The less compatible they are, the more likely that you should probably end things rather than waste time by asking them to change for you., Ask them what their goals in life are: where do they want to live; what do they want to do for a career; etc. Compare them with your own. If the two of you can each accomplish your respective five-year plans without any great sacrifice, you’re good to go. But if you want to open a bakery in your hometown while they want to jet all over the globe as an archaeologist, it’s probably best to walk away now, because they’re not going to settle.
 Scorpios like to dictate the nature of their relationships as well as everything else.Suss out what they expect out of you as a partner. If you fit their idea of an ideal mate, congrats. If the person they describe doesn’t sound a thing like you, call it quits, because they will probably expect you to be this person regardless.
 Although you’ll have to adapt a bit in order to make things work, don’t be afraid to draw lines. Adapt where you’re willing to, but stay true to yourself when their demands are too much. Earn their respect by refusing to be a pushover, while ensuring that they treat you how you wish to be treated., Scorpios have a lot of issues regarding trust, so make earning and keeping their trust a top priority. At the same time, accept that they will probably never share everything with you. Respect their right to keep some private matters to themselves, while proving to them that they’re safe in sharing everything else with you., Stay out of their sock drawer. Leave their cellphones and other devices alone unless they invite you to use them. Even then, refrain from checking their histories to see what your Scorpio’s been up to., Never lie to them. Scorpios resent being deceived, so if you’re uncomfortable with sharing something, it’s better to simply keep it to yourself rather than build a wall of lies to hide whatever it is.Consider yourself as equally entitled to a private inner life as your Scorpio considers their self to be.
 If a Scorpio decides to seriously date you, know that they’ll take your relationship very, very seriously. Expect them to judge you on how devoted you are to being their partner.Defend your partner when they're falsely accused or otherwise attacked by others. Take your partner’s side and consider the aggressor as an unwelcome person in your life, even if they used to be your friend.
 Even if you have zero interest in someone who decides to hit on you, don’t engage or otherwise humor them. Your Scorpio might misinterpret "being polite" with "being interested."Also, say goodbye to your exes. If you’re still on good terms with them, wish them the best in life, but let them know it’s time for you to move on for good., Remember: Scorpios love the thrill of the chase, so now that they’ve caught you, they need something new to chase after. Avoid falling into predictable routines. Stimulate their love of life and pursuit., Propose new activities for the both of you to do. Go wall- or rock-climbing. Find a local polar-bear swim and take a midwinter dive into icy waters. Try skydiving. Whatever you choose, it doesn’t need to be death-defying or a lifelong pursuit–just something new and exciting., Join an art program and learn how to paint or sculpt together. Take a walking tour to learn about local history. Go to lectures and museums or even a murder-mystery dinner. Put your brains together and expand your knowledge., If you’re going to share your fantasies with anyone, a Scorpio is an ideal partner. Any way you can think of to switch things up, they’ll probably be game for. However, ease into this, rather than daring them right from the get-go. Coming on too strong too fast may turn them off if they still haven’t come to trust you yet.