 You will only need water and rice to make your rice in a pot, but using additional ingredients adds a bit of extra flavor and texture.


If desired, add about a pinch of salt per cup of rice.Use oil or butter to soften the rice and add flavor. Add a half a tablespoon of butter or oil per cup of rice.Get creative. Add some of your other favorite seeds and spices if you feel inspired. This will definitely change the flavor of your rice, so consult with others before you go too far.;
, Use about a half a cup of rice per person. Measure it, and put it in the pot. The pot should be large enough so the rice fills it to about 1/4 of the entire pot. It is important to have the right sized pot, as a larger pot will alter the rice-to-water ratio, and a smaller pot could overflow., Not everyone finds this necessary. It is said that a good rinse will remove extra starch from the rice and avoid clumping. Fill the pan with water until the water completely covers all of the rice. Stir with a spoon. Pour the cloudy water back in the sink. Use a spoon or strainer to avoid pouring the rice out too.
 Using the same cup that you used for the rice, add the necessary amount of water. Generally, the ratio of water to rice is two to one. For example, if you are cooking one cup of rice, add two cups of water. This may vary, however, by the type of rice you are using. Remember that too much water will make the rice too soft and not enough water will leave it hard. Ask someone or consult the packaging if you are unsure.Brown rice varieties will need about 2 ½ cups of water per one cup of rice.
Wild rice can take up to four cups of water per one cup of rice.
 Add the pinch of salt, oil, or butter.
 Keep a close eye on the rice. It can burn quickly on high heat., Let the rice simmer for about ten minutes with the lid on. Quickly check for steam holes in the rice. This is a good sign. It means that the rice is absorbing the water. Don't take the lid off for too long-- you need the steam to cook the rice!

, Let the rice stand on the same burner with the lid on for 10 minutes. This is important because the steam will finish cooking the rice. , Serve as desired.

