 If the piece is in danger of being captured, this is a waste of a turn or loss of tempo. If this is the case, you shouldn't have even done that move in the first place.;
, Remember that when we are talking about pieces in this context we are not talking about pawns. Pawns are more like the terrain you fight on, not the pieces you fight with. Make sure your pieces are not sitting on the back rank like wallflowers at a dance. Get them out there, first the knights and bishops, then what they call the "heavy pieces," meaning the queen and the rooks. It's easy to find squares for the knights, they are quite nicely placed on toward the center on the first square they can legally move to, "f3"and "c3" as white and "f6"and "c6" for black. (see How to Read a Chess Game if you don't know what "f3" and "f6" refers to.)


Make sure you do develop your center pawns though, because these guys help you control the center, and they also allow you to develop your bishops. Try not to allow your opponent to kick your knights off their squares by pawn pushes. Place your bishops where they can control strong diagonals like "c4" for white and "c5" for black. Make sure you castle, so your king is safe and your rooks are lined up. Rooks like to be connected. Try not to place other pieces between them.
 As you are developing your pieces always look for captures, look for tactics like skewers, forks and pins. But after that, if you don't find something, what to do? This is where a plan comes in. Of course you want to improve the position of your pieces.


Make sure Bishops have open diagonals, try not to block them in with your own pawns. Look to trade your weak pieces for your opponents strong ones. An example would be to trade a bishop that is on the same color as your center pawns for a knight that has an outpost. An outpost is a square far into enemy territory that cannot be kicked out by a pawn, and that is protected by one of his own pawns.
Look for open files on which to place your rooks. Double them if you can. Try to get a rook firmly posted on your opponent's second rank. In White's case this would be the 2nd rank, in Black's the 7th. When your pieces are well place then more opportunities for tactics will appear.
 A plan can be as simple as trying to place your knight on an outpost near your enemy's king. Or to double your rooks on an open file. Once that plan is accomplished you look for another plan that fits well with your goal. Let's say your plan was to have a strong bishop on an open diagonal not blocked in by its own pawns. Then once you have that, you might try to get your queen to a square where your bishop and queen can cooperate to threaten mate.


When your opponent blocks the mate with a piece, say a knight posted on "f6" to guard the capturing square on "h7" then your new goal can be to dislodge the knight. You might even look for sacrifices. The rook is worth more than the knight, generally, but you might threaten to sacrifice it for the knight so that you can remove th knight from guarding the square where you can checkmate. Sometimes you might be castled on opposite sides.
Then a good plan is to "pawn storm" your enemy king. Pawn storming is when you march your pawns toward the enemy king to create weaknesses, and open up files for your rooks and queen. Make sure you have rooks and a queen behind your marching pawns so you don't just give up pawns for no reason. These are all examples of plans, but you have to come up with your own plans to fit your unique position on the chess board.



S stands for "Space" advantage. If so, move your attack from one side of the board to the other and your opponent will not be able to do so to defend.
P Stands for "Pawn Structure". Analyze the pawn structure? Which pawns are weak and could be targets? Does it merit an attack? Are there holes? Simplification? A break-through? An Advance?
A Stands for "Attack on King". Do you have development and control of the center enough to merit a king side attack? Should you sacrifice a piece or pawns to break through?
C Stands for "Combinations". Is there a combination? What did your opponent to last?
E Stands for "Endgame". Are you ahead in material? If so, exchange pieces to simplify and go for a pawn endgame. If you are behind in material, exchange pawns and go for a draw.
 An example of a weakness is a "backward Pawn" or a pawn that cannot be defended by another pawn. Start ganging up on that pawn and force your opponent to defend it. This ties his pieces down and he might even lose it, if you can get more pieces to attack than he can to defend. Look for an exposed king or a king that can't or hasn't castled. Try to stop your opponent from castling. A weakened king means you want to look for ways to checkmate. Start ganging up on the king and put him on the defensive. Keep up the pressure till he cracks. Chess is a ruthless game.
 Each position is unique. There are no general formulas for chess, you really have to think for yourself and apply basic principles and understanding to your individual situation. That's what's so great about chess. That's why we recommend it for children, so that they will learn how to think and plan on their own, and not just follow in lockstep to their leaders. In chess there is opportunity for creativity. Do not be afraid to try things in your plan just because you haven't seen or heard of it before. Above all, don't be afraid to lose a few games, that's how you get better!

