 Many women have had success using cellulite creams and other topical treatments. These products nourish and tighten skin to diminish the visible effects of cellulite, restoring firmness. Cellulite-fighting products won’t serve as a magic bullet, and they aren’t a permanent fix, but they can be useful for supplementing a positive routine consisting of a healthy diet and frequent exercise.Get in the habit of applying a cellulite serum as part of your daily routine.
Two specific products that are recommended by dermatologists are Nerium Firming Body Contour Cream and Biotherma Celluli Eraser. Both are on the pricier, side, but have been shown to effectively counteract cellulite in problem areas like the thighs., Look for health centers in your area that offer deep tissue or lymphatic massage. The penetrating pressure of a massage at crucial lymphatic sites can smooth out clumps of connective tissue under the skin and promote circulation, leaving your skin feeling more smooth. It can also help you relax, which can go a long way towards combating the causes of cellulite naturally.If you’re unable to have a massage done professionally, you can still reap the benefits with a manual massaging tool.
 Talk to your doctor about testing your hormone levels. The concentrations of hormones in your body often change as you age, especially following puberty and around menopause. If something is out of whack, one particularly undesirable side effect could be insulin sensitivity and increased body fat storage. Your physician may be able to prescribe certain medications that can put high or low hormones back in order.Women who have reached menopause should be especially careful about regulating their hormone levels. Many women begin a regimen of hormone supplements between the ages of 40-50.Other factors that are within your control, like diet, exercise and how well you manage stress, can play a part in hormonal imbalance.
 When you’re afflicted by chronic stress, your hormones go crazy, and the consequences can include weight gain, advanced aging and a host of related physiological issues. If you’re the high-strung type or suffer from anxiety, try to find ways to bring some peace into your life. Calm yourself with deep breathing, take a long, hot bath or spend some time playing with your pets. As you work on controlling your natural responses to stress, you’ll start to look and feel better.Stress is one of the most detrimental behaviors there is. It has been linked to obesity, depression and even stroke and heart disease.To ward off stress in the moment, try this simple breathing exercise: close your eyes and inhale to the count of five. Hold your breath to the count of then, then exhale again to the count of five. Repeat this breathing pattern, clearing your mind of worries, judgments and negative thoughts.

