 (Do a search using your preferred search engine.) Some companies have an application fee but you can often find a code to have the application fee waived (see below). Before registering, ask plenty of questions. Staff members in the main office and your local staff member are all very informed and willing to answer questions. It's better to ask!


Only designated agencies, like Go Au Pair, can legally bring Au Pairs into the US. A list of legal agencies can be found on the US Department of State Website.
Do a quick search to see if you can find discount codes. Some codes are only valid in certain cities but entering the code will often still get you a similar discount.;
, Usually, only logged in users and the employees can see this information.




Name
Last Name
E-mail
Gender



, Usually, only logged in users and the employees can see this information.


Address
House Number
Post Code
Zip Code
City
State / Province
Phone Number

, Usually only logged in users and the employees can see this information.


Which country are you currently living in?
Your nationality?
Have you already worked as an au pair before?
Do you have a valid driving license?
Do you smoke?
How old are you?

, This information is usually freely accessible by Au pair families and agencies.
 This information is usually freely accessible by Au pair families and agencies.


Where do you wish to work as an Au Pair?
Where would you prefer to work? ( Big City / Small Town / Country )
Would you be willing to do housework?
Are you willing to work in a single parent family?
Do you mind if family members smoke?
Are you willing to work with disabled children?
Age range of the children you wish to take care of
When would you like to work as an au pair?
How long would you like to stay with your host family?

, This section is used for adding photos or videos of yourself that you would like to show to the Au Pair families.


Be creative and add photos of you and your family or friends. This is a very effective way showing the families a bit more about your character and who you really are.
Au pair families want to know as much as they can about you; after all, you will be looking after their children.
Not having a complete or professional online presence will count against you when looking for Au Pair jobs.
 This section is by far the most important, as families will be contacting you through this section or page.


Be sure to use a private email, when displaying information online.
Never add your full address to any public online form, meaning be sure to add your State, Province and town, never though your full street name with house number. This is where a map comes in very handy as this give the Au pair an estimated idea to where you live.
 A local contact will come to your home for an interview and site visit. This is a great opportunity to ask more questions and learn more about Au Pairs.
