 Use a pen and a cup, lid, or compass to trace a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) circle onto a sheet of cardboard. Trace a 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) circle inside it, right in the center. Cut both circles out and discard the smaller one so that you have a doughnut shape. Trace the doughnut onto another sheet of cardboard, and cut it out as well. How big you make your pom pom maker is up to you.For a smaller pom pom, make the larger circle 2½ inches (6.35 centimeters) wide and the smaller circle 1 to 1½ inches (2.54 to 3.81 centimeters) wide.;
, You will need around twelve 20 to 30-inch (50.8 to 76.2-centimeter) strips, each about ¾-inch (1.91-centimeter) wide.You can use all the same type and color of fabric for your pom pom, of you can mix-and-match different colors, patterns, and textures. You can also include bits of ribbon and Ric-Rac.You can use less fabric if you want a smaller or thinner pom pom.
You can make the strips thinner, ie: ½-inch (1.27-centimeters)., Hold the two cardboard doughnuts together so that the edges match up. Place the end of your fabric scrap against the doughnut so that it touches the outside edge. Pull the longer end of the fabric scrap through the middle of the doughnut.

You will be treating both doughnuts as one during the wrapping portion of this method.
 When you reach the end of one fabric scrap, pick up another one, overlap it by about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) and continue wrapping until the inner circle is at least ⅔ of the way full. The more layers of fabric you add, the smaller the inner circle will be, which means a fluffier pom pom.Go around your doughnut a few times. One layer of fabric won't give you a very fluffy pom pom.
If you are having trouble getting the fabric scraps through the center hole, use a crochet hook to help you pull them through., Try to keep the doughnut on the table as you cut around it. This will help keep everything together., Pull the two cardboard doughnuts apart enough so that you can see the middle of your wrapped fabric. Slide a fabric scrap between them, and tie it into a tight double-knot. This will hold your pom pom together.You can also use a piece of yarn, string, or twine., You may have to cut a slit into the cardboard in order to pull it off, especially if your pom pom is very thick. Don't worry if the pom pom looks limp or tattered at this point. You will fix that in the next step., Use you fingers to gently fluff up the fabric pom pom. How full it turns out depends on the type of fabric you used and how many times you wrapped around the cardboard doughnut. If there are any bits and pieces of fabric sticking out of your pom pom, you can trim them down until they are even.

Trim down the fabric scrap you used to tie the pom pom together, or tie it into a loop so that you can hang the pom pom.