 When stepping into a Vietnamese household, it is common courtesy to leave your shoes at the door. Although individual families have their own reasons, the main belief is that outside pollutants should not be welcomed into the house. The Vietnamese generally believe that one should bring usefulness and positive vibes back home. The rubbish on your shoes are indicative of trash and thus resemble negative vibes.


Try not to wear sandals/flip-flops because guests will slip on anything to get in and out of the house quickly. Nobody wants smelly/sweaty feet other than their own in their shoes.
Wear casual sneakers, boots, or heels so people will think twice about putting them on at the party. The more difficult to put on, the better.
If you are wearing sandals, hide them in an area close to the entrance but away from the line of sight. This will prevent one from stealing your stench-free sandals;
, Age is an indicator of respect, so elders are held in high regard in the Vietnamese culture. One is to care for and treat their elders with respect no matter their social class. In Vietnam, it is common for higher class individuals to greet elders who are obviously less entitled.


When greeting, it is traditional to bow. A simple downward head-tilt will suffice for a majority of Vietnamese people living in America. Traditionally, one would cross both arms and slightly bend over at the waist to give a proper bow.
During the party, you might be given food or gifts. Use both hands when accepting or giving things/objects from anyone older than you. Grabbing/taking or using one hand is a sign of disrespect. Graciously accept the offer with a smile and say thank you. In Vietnamese, thank you is "cam on", pronounced "gauhm uhnn". It is important to address who you you are talking to in the Vietnamese culture. Similar to "Mr." and "Mrs.", each title depends on the person's age.
Say "cam on ban", pronounced "gauhm uhnn bahn," when addressing someone you feel is the same age as you. "Ban" directly translates to friend in English.
Say "cam on bac", pronounced "gauhm uhnn back," when addressing someone who looks older than your parents. This is the safest greeting for someone who looks exceptionally older than you.
Say "cam on chi", pronounced "gauhm uhnn chee," when addressing a female who looks a few years older than you.
Say "cam on anh", pronounced "gauhm uhnn aahn," when addressing a male who looks a few years older than you.
Say "cam on em", pronounced "gauhm uhnn am," when addressing someone who looks noticeably younger than you.
 It is an honor to be invited to a Vietnamese person's house because it shows that the host has befriended you and trusts you. Cleaning up after yourself and respecting the host's property will go a long way in maintaining that friendship.


Ask the host if you can offer any help cleaning up which they will happily decline. This shows that you appreciate their efforts. Also, they wouldn't want to burden you with their responsibilities.
 Similar to most parties, it is fairly common to find some type of alcohol at a Vietnamese party. Some common beverages include Corona and Heineken, while hard liquors include Hennessy and Remy Martin. The hosts/guest will invite you to take a shot with them if hard alcohol is involved. If you are of age, take the offer. Refusing alcohol even if polite, believe it or not, is a sign of disrespect.


You will be persuaded and peer pressured by the guests to take one more shot. There is no such thing as one more shot, according to the Vietnamese. It is best not to get severely intoxicated where you make a scene at the host's house. You will lose face and will embarrass yourself. In order to avoid having this scenario, you must go to a nonalcoholic section of the house, usually where the women are, or leave the party.
If you're underage, avoid drinking. For one, you could easily over drink, leading to alcohol poisoning or death, especially if you've never drank much before. Plus, you could get in serious trouble and even go to jail, particularly if you get behind the wheel after drinking. It's best to avoid it.
 Whether you're drinking or abstaining, one can always play card games at a Vietnamese party. Classic games like Poker, Blackjack, Speed, and Spoons can be played but there are a few specific to Asian cultures.


"Tien Len" or "13" is a card game primarily played by the Vietnamese. It highly improbable for a Vietnamese person to not know of this simple card game, so they will likely teach you. Another region-specific game is "Bai Tam Cut" where one plays with skinny cards with Chinese characters on them.
The youth will usually play video or card games at a party if given the opportunity.
 Alcohol and singing make for a great way to open up and have a good time at a Vietnamese party. If the house has a karaoke system, more than likely, they will be singing.


Loosen up by listening to the first few singers. Vietnamese tracks will primarily be played, but don't get confused by the language barrier. The words will go across the screen for you to recite, but it is okay to mispronounce the words.
Having a beautiful singing voice will more than make up your butchering of the words. The guests will also find it comical and appreciative that you are trying your best to embrace their culture.
 Vietnamese cuisine plays a big role in defining the culture of the country. The food is based on herbs and aroma, so many of the dishes will include Thai basil or lemongrass. At a party, trays will be filled with different types of entrees and sides.


Do not be afraid to try all of the food. Some of the food may look disgusting to you, but it may be your new favorite once you taste it. Ask the guests what the best tasting meal from the selection is if you're skeptical.
Take small portions of the food however, if you don't like it you'll be throwing away a lot less. Wasting food is looked down upon in Vietnamese culture.
 The hosts take a lot of time preparing the food. It is more than likely that they spent the entire day/week actually cooking all of the food. Therefore a lot of hard work and dedication is put into making sure the guests are full and satisfied. Eating the food that they cooked and appreciating it tells the host that they did a good job.
 The "wasting food" concept is emphasized here. It is recommended that you go back for seconds multiple times. Vietnamese food is hard to come by, especially for free. One would have to sit down at a Vietnamese restaurant and spend $7-$15 in order to get a good authentic dish. Now, unless you have a Vietnamese friend who knows how to cook the country's variety of cuisine, you're more than likely not eating Viet food any time soon. This is why you make it an effort to eat as much as you can at the party.


The host will possibly have takeout boxes for the guests to take home food. It is a polite way to get rid of the food while also being generous to the guests.

