 Peppermint, eucalyptus, rosemary and sandalwood are oils recommended to best fight a headache. Chamomile is known for its pain relieving and muscle relaxing properties. Lavender is also a mighty pain reliever and anti-inflammatory. As each plant has a different effect on the body, if one plant type does not work to get rid of your headache, use a different one or a blend of two to find the most effective remedy for you.;
, Aromatherapy goes far deeper into the healing qualities of plants than just their scent. As the oils soak into the skin, they begin to heal in many ways, both physically and psychologically. When using essential oils on your skin, always mix it with a carrier oil. Essential oils, on their own, can burn the skin. Almond oil, avocado, coconut, apricot kernel and sesame oils are commonly used carrier oils.


Mix a small amount for immediate use. You can place a few drops of carrier oil with a drop of essential oil in the palm of your hand, mix the 2 with your fingertip or rub your hands together and apply the mix to the affected part of the body.






Combine the oils ahead of time. Dilute the essential oil in a bottle with your carrier oil to have on hand for when you need it. A good recipe for massage is 12 drops of essential oil and a tablespoon of carrier oil or unscented lotion.
 For your headache, apply the essential oil at one or some of the key points of your body that are effected by the pain. Rub the oils into your temples, scalp, around the base of your scalp and neck and down onto your shoulders.


Make a compress. Place a few drops of the oil onto a warm or cold cloth to make a compress for your head or neck. You can also wet the cloth with a mix or 2 cups hot or cold water with 10 drops of oil.






Add about 8 drops of the oil to a warm bath so you can bask in the healing properties. Soak in the bath for 15 - 30 minutes.


Place water in an aroma lamp with about 12 drops of essential oil. Light the candle underneath to heat up the mixture and surround yourself with the healing scent.






Drop a few drops of the healing mixture onto your pillow so you can be breathing in the health benefits of the plants while you sleep.






Place the oils in a diffuser. Run the machine up to three times a day for 15 - 20 minutes each time.






Inhale the oils to get rid of your headache. Fill a large bowl with hot water. Place 3 - 5 drops of essential oil in the bowl. With a towel over your head, lean over the bowl and breathe in the steam for five minutes.
 Hold your finger on the open top, tilt it to wet your fingertip; that's all you'll need.


Alternatively, use 1 drop in a tablespoon of carrier oil; grapeseed or olive oils are best.
 Do this at the base of your skull, where your spine and neck join.
 Close your eyes. Give yourself a good five to ten minutes, then see how your migraine feels.

