 Make sure to brush your teeth at least twice a day. Use a soft toothbrush. Teeth and gums can be damaged by brushing too hard or using toothbrushes with hard bristles. When brushing, use a soft, gentle back and forth stroke.In addition, using an old toothbrush can also harm your teeth. The bristles of new toothbrushes are rounded; after a few months those tips become sharp and can do more harm than good.
Also make sure that you brush your tongue.
Leave the toothpaste in your mouth without rinsing. Spit out the extra foam, but don’t rinse your mouth out with water. You want to give the minerals some time to be absorbed onto your teeth.
 Take time to floss daily. Start by pulling off about 18 inches of floss. Wind most of the floss around the middle finger of one hand and the rest around the middle finger of the other hand. Hold on to the floss firmly between your thumb and your forefinger.Gently guide the floss between all your teeth using a gentle back and forth motion. Curve the floss around the bottom of each tooth.
Once the floss is between the teeth, use a gentle up-and-down motion to rub each side of each tooth.
When you are done with one tooth, unwind more floss and move on to the next tooth.
Pay special attention to the wisdom teeth once they have erupted.
 After eating, you should consider some kind of mouth rinse. Rinsing your mouth helps to remove food and other particles. These particles can cause plaque, tooth decay, tartar, and lead to gum disease. Take a moment after eating to rinse your mouth.You can rinse with water, a mouthwash, or a homemade rinse made with things like hydrogen peroxide.
 Make sure you see a dentist regularly. Your dentist can give your teeth a professional cleaning one to two times a year. Most insurance will cover routine cleanings.


Not only does this help keep your teeth clean, but it can help your dentist spot any tooth or gum problems before they get too bad.
 The use of tobacco products increases the risk of gum disease. This includes cigarettes, cigars, and chewing tobacco. You should avoid all forms of tobacco. If you currently smoke, you should stop smoking to lower your risk of gum disease.Smoking also stains your teeth and causes bad breath., Make certain you are getting enough Vitamin C and calcium. A vitamin C deficiency can cause swollen, bleeding gums and even loosening or loss of teeth.Good food sources of Vitamin C include citrus fruits and juices, such as oranges and grapefruits, kiwi, bell peppers, papaya, strawberries, broccoli, and cantaloupe.
Good food sources of calcium are dairy products like milk, cheese, yogurt, and ice cream, sardines, calcium fortified soy milk, soy products, and leafy green vegetables.

