 Kidney stones are small bits of calcified minerals and salts that form in your kidneys. Some kidney stones stay in your kidney, and some detach and pass in your urine. While passing the stones can be painful, they usually don't cause lasting damage.You might pass small stones without realizing it. Or, you may have difficulty passing larger ones.;
, You'll probably feel severe pain in your sides and back, below your ribs, near your groin and lower abdomen. Since kidney stones are moving, the pain can come in waves and vary in intensity. You may have some of these symptoms as well:Pain when urinating
Pink, red or brown urine that's cloudy or smelly
Nausea and vomiting
Constant urge to urinate and urinating more frequently (although small amounts)
Fever and chills (if you also have an infection)
Struggling to find a comfortable position (i.e. sitting, then standing, then lying down)

, Men are more likely than women to develop kidney stones and non-Hispanic white people tend to develop kidney stones more frequently. Being overweight, obese, dehydrated, or eating a diet high in sugar, sodium, and protein can also increase your risk.You're more likely to develop kidney stones if you've already had them or someone in your family has had them.
 Your doctor will perform a physical and test your blood and urine. The doctor is checking for calcium, uric acid, or minerals which could could cause stones to form. You may also get imaging done (like x-rays, CT scans, or ultrasounds). This way, the doctor can visualize if there are kidney stones.


Your doctor may want you to collect the kidney stone after you pass it. This way, the stone can be analyzed and the doctor can determine what's causing your kidney stones, especially if you frequently pass them.
 If you have small stones, you should be able to pass them at home by drinking plenty of water, taking over-the-counter pain medications, and possibly by taking prescription medication to help muscles in your urinary tract relax.If you have larger stones or stones that are damaging your urinary tract, a urologist may use shock waves to break up the stones or will surgically remove them.If over-the-counter medications are not enough, your doctor might prescribe you some other medication for the pain.
 Bacteria can enter your urinary tract and grow, eventually impacting your kidney function. Or more rarely, if the bacteria travels through your bloodstream, it can move to your kidneys. One or both of your kidneys can become infected.Your urinary tract is made up of your kidneys, bladder, ureters (ducts that connect the kidneys to the bladder), and the urethra.
 Your first indication of a problem might be difficulty urinating. You might find yourself running to the bathroom, only to feel pain when urinating and an immediate urge to urinate even though you just did. Other symptoms of an infection include:Fever
Vomiting or nausea
Chills
Back, side or groin pain
Abdominal pain
Frequent urination
Pus or blood in your urine (hematuria)
Cloudy or smelly urine
Delirium, or other uncommon symptoms, especially in the elderly

, Since women's urethras (the ducts that carry urine out of the body) are shorter, bacteria can travel easier causing infection. In addition to being a woman, other factors that increase your risk for infection include:A weakened immune system
Nerve damage near the bladder
Something blocking your urinary tract (like a kidney stone or enlarged prostate)
Urine that flows back into the kidneys

, If you have any symptoms of a kidney infection, you should contact your doctor. Since the condition requires medical treatment, it's best to get an immediate diagnosis. Your doctor will test your urine and may do an ultrasound to check for damage of the kidneys.The doctor may want to test your blood for bacteria and might look for blood in your urine sample.
 Since kidney infection is caused by bacteria, you'll probably be prescribed a course of antibiotics. You'll generally need to take these for about a week. In severe cases, you may be hospitalized while you get antibiotics.Always complete the course of antibiotics even if you begin to feel better. Stopping before you're done can cause the bacteria to return and resist the medication.
 Your kidneys may suddenly become diseased or can become diseased because another condition causes damage. For example, high blood pressure and diabetes can damage your kidneys. If the damage is severe enough, you may develop chronic kidney failure. This usually takes place over the course of several months or years.You might develop primary kidney disease if your the nephrons in your kidneys lose their ability to filter blood. Other kidney problems (like kidney stones, infection, or trauma) can damage the nephrons.
 Since chronic kidney disease takes time to develop, you may not notice symptoms until you already have advanced kidney disease. Watch for these symptoms of chronic kidney disease:Increased or decreased frequency of urination
Fatigue
Nausea
Itching and dry skin anywhere on the body
Obvious blood in the urine or dark, foamy urine
Muscle cramps and muscle twitches
Puffiness or swelling around the eyes, feet and/or ankles
Confusion
Difficulty breathing, concentrating, or sleeping
Decreased appetite
Weakness

, If you have a history of high blood pressure, diabetes, or heart disease, you may have a higher risk of developing chronic kidney disease. African Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans also have higher risk of kidney disease. Since some kidney diseases also have a genetic component, family history of kidney disease can mean that you're also at a higher risk.Also, talk to your doctor about all the medications you're taking, as some can adversely affect the kidneys, especially with prolonged use.


If you're over 60 years old, you also have an increased risk of kidney disease.
 It's easy to assume that other conditions could be causing your symptoms, so if you're experiencing any symptoms you should get a medical examination to determine the exact cause. Yearly physicals are important for catching kidney disease (even before symptoms present themselves).


It's also a good idea to talk with your doctor about your family history and any concerns you have about your kidney function.
 Your doctor will do a physical exam and order blood, urine, and imaging tests. The imaging tests can show your doctor if there are any kidney abnormalities. The blood and urine tests may reveal if your kidneys are having trouble filtering waste, protein, or nitrogen from your blood.Your doctor may also test how well the nephrons in your kidneys are working by checking the Glomerular Filtration Rate or GFR.Your doctor also might order a biopsy of the kidneys to determine the cause or the extent of kidney disease.
 Once your doctor has determined the cause of your kidney disease, you'll be treated for the other condition. For example, if a bacterial infection is causing your symptoms, you'll get antibiotics. But, since kidney disease is chronic, your doctor may only be able to treat complications. In severe cases like kidney failure, kidney dialysis or transplants are options.To treat complications of CKD, you may be prescribed medications to treat high-blood pressure, treat anemia, lower your cholesterol, relieve swelling, and protect your bones.
Your doctor might also order you to avoid certain medications, such as ibuprofen, naproxen, or other NSAIDs.

