 Creating a top-notch reputation for your company will help attract the best candidates. Such a reputation has a dual element. Not only do you want economic success, you also want people outside your company to know that your company has a positive and healthy culture. Ultimately, potential employees will want to work at a company that has a good reputation.Strive to be included on a list of the best places to work. The most widely read of these lists are maintained by organizations like Forbes, Fortune, and Glassdoor.com.
Treat your employees well and provide generous benefits if you can afford to do so.

Lead from the top down and promote an environment of respect and collaboration. Develop a culture of inclusion, not "us and them." This means managers focus on helping employees to do excellent work, rather than a "my way or the highway" approach.
Hiring staff with higher standards will be easier if your business appeals to those standards. Be sure to list any industry awards your company has received or accomplishments of note in the description you post to attract job applicants.
Eliminate management and other workers who have negative can’t-do attitudes and promote management and workers who have positive can-do attitudes.;
, Make sure go out of your way to recruit candidates from the best possible places. This means you need to go above and beyond just posting an ad for a position in a newspaper or contacting a professional search firm. Consider:List job postings on industry job search sites and your company website. Steer clear of general job boards and social networking job search pages, as these will attract lots of applicants you'll have to weed through to find the ones with higher standards.
Attend job fairs at universities or at conventions, where you’ll have the opportunity to meet prospective employees for your industry. You’ll be able to talk to many candidates at one time.
Network with other executives in your industry to get an idea if there are any potential top candidates who are looking for employment.
 One of the best ways to locate top candidates is to hire a professional search firm. Professional search firms are companies or individuals who specialize in finding highly qualified candidates for specific industries. Once you contact a professional search firm, they will ask you exactly what you are looking for in a candidate, and then they will search through a list of candidates or actively recruit someone that matches your qualifications.Professional search firms charge a fee. Typically their fee is from 10% to 30% of a year’s salary of the new employee — if you hire one.
Professional search firms focus on specific industries. Make sure to contact one that is known for finding top candidates in your industry.
Feel free to shop around for a firm. If you don’t like one, there are many more that might work for you.
 Before doing anything else, make a list of the competencies, abilities, and characteristics required to perform the role you are hiring for. Be as specific as possible and ask yourself if each part is really important to performing the required tasks. Hiring the right employees means hiring people who can do the job well, rather than hiring someone based on how they look, sound, or move.


For example, while a person in a wheelchair might not be suitable for a position that requires active mobility, most positions would be suitable. Don't exclude someone until you are sure that they cannot perform the job to company standards.
There needs to be a thorough understanding of the company’s culture and management style before defining the proper recruitment and evaluation process. This includes a definition of the employee’s style and goals.
For example, a corporate culture that focuses on the bottom-line exclusively with an autocratic management style is looking for one kind of employee while a company that balances all stakeholders might prefer those who work comfortably in teams.
 Very often, the first exposure you have to a candidate will be their resume and other application materials. In order to make sure that you get the best candidate possible, you need to study and pay attention to the details of the candidate’s application materials. There are a number of things you can glean from their application.Look for typos, spelling mistakes, formatting issues, and more. These problems can be indicative of a lazy or unqualified candidate; however, don’t eliminate a candidate for a typo or two. Use this information to evaluate the candidate on the whole.
Has the candidate put together a personalized application that is tailor fit to your company? Look for specific mentions of your company and anything that suggests the candidate has read up on your company. These may be evidence of a candidate who is very engaged and interested in the position.
Has the candidate included all relevant information, such as dates of employment and dates of education? If they have not, they might be trying to gloss over something that could hurt their candidacy.
 Once you have the applicant's resume, look through it to figure out their level of education and/or training. This is particularly important for entry-level workers without much or any work experience. Make sure that their education or training is up to the standard required for the position. This may be a degree, grade point average, or professional certification. Once you've assessed their education, look for other indications of leadership, relevant activities outside of schoolwork, and awards that could otherwise speak to their character.
 If the applicant has relevant work experience, you should focus particular attention on the candidate’s job history. This is extremely important as it will provide you with a lot of information about their ability and commitment level.Note any special achievements or awards for exceeding sales goals or breaking company records. These are all signs that the prospective employee has high standards of performance and pushed him or herself to excel.
Does the candidate move from position to position very often? This could suggest they don’t get along with their coworkers, or that they have a commitment issue.
Has the candidate advanced in their career? If the candidate has moved up very quickly and has gained higher compensation and more responsibilities, this could be indicative of someone who is a go-getter and is top candidate material.
Has the candidate had a lapse in employment or have they been out of the industry for an amount of time? There are many reasons why someone might have gaps in their resume. Make sure to get the full story before holding an employment or industry gap against them. A person with a disability, for instance, may have gaps in their employment history due to employer stereotypes, but this person may still be an excellent employee given the chance.
 One of the most important steps in finding the most qualified candidate is to contact their professional references. Once you contact professional references, you will be able to gather more information about the candidate’s abilities and commitment.References may be able to tell you about general disposition and whether the employee consistently pushed to succeed, as well as any issues caused in the workplace like harassment or violence.
Make sure to call and talk to the reference in person for the best results.
Make sure to compile a list of questions for the references before you contact them.
 Recognize any biases in your interview process that may disqualify someone who doesn't interview well. Remember that you are interviewing for the ability to perform the tasks required by the position, not for the ability to conduct one's self in an interview or adhere to visual standards.


Many companies, large and small, are reforming their recruitment and hiring practices to cast a broader net to find those who may look or act differently, but can perform at or above standard on the job.
For example, an autistic person might not interview well, but might be a more precise and productive employee than a non-autistic person. Focus on what they can do, instead of how smoothly they talk.
 While it might seem a bit unforgiving, one tactic to find the best candidates is to turn away those who arrive to your interview late. An employee with high standards takes their job seriously and should treat the application process the same way. Job applicants that show up late for interviews or don't follow the rules for applying display a clear lack of high standards for themselves and their employment future. Take note of this if you still interview the applicant or just reject the candidate.
 It is very important to ask potential employees about their goals during the interview. Both short-term and long-term goals will reveal a lot about potential employees. It will give a sense of whether the candidate is thoughtful. It will also give a sense of how the employee conceptualizes their role at your company. Ask the candidate:Why they applied for the position
Where they see themselves in your enterprise in the next year
Where they see themselves in your business in the next five years
To describe their career goals and why they want to work for your company. Pay attention to answers about personal and industry goals or answers that indicate that the job applicant wants to be the best.
 An important element of the interview process is assessing an individual’s personal appearance and behavior. How a job applicant presents themselves and behaves in an interview will give you a good indication of how high their standards are for the job. That said, you should consider the circumstances and abilities of those interviewing for the job and the job itself. Don't pay too much attention to appearance while ignoring the desire and ability to perform.Consider whether the applicant uses any slang terms or profanity and whether they answer questions with complete sentences and proper grammar.
An applicant with high standards will dress professionally and appear polished and well-organized.
Watch whether the candidate has positive body language and good posture. This is especially important if the person will be in a sales position or will deal and come into contact with people outside your company on a regular basis.
 While the actual interviewing process will tell you a lot about your candidate and their abilities, one of the best ways to vet a candidate is to observe them working.If at all possible, allow the candidate to demonstrate themselves in action. While this might work for some positions, it may be impossible for others. But if it is possible, consider inviting other management or potential co-workers to observe the candidate.
Establish clear metrics for performance before you observe the candidate at work.
 Part of the process of assessing the candidate is figuring out if the person is compatible with other employees and with the culture of your business. This is because ultimately the compatibility of your team will promote cooperation. If your team is not compatible and does not cooperate, your company culture and productivity will suffer.If your business culture is inclusive, consider whether a candidate will thrive in that environment.
If your business has a very top-down, production-focused culture, consider whether a candidate will thrive in that environment.
Think about if the candidate gets along with other employees, including their immediate managers.
 An important thing to consider is whether your candidate is truly committed to the job and your company for the long-run. This is an important thing to assess, as employees who are not committed to the job may not put as much effort into the job as others. They can also undermine your company’s culture and potentially cause other problems. Think about whether:The candidate is using the position as a stepping stone to another position. This is not necessarily a bad thing, as they may be looking to move up within your company and want to make a good impression in the position for which you first hire them.
The candidate is committed to the type of work your company does and that they will be engaging in.
The candidate is committed to staying in the location that your company is located. If the candidate says negative things about the community in which your business is located, they might not have long-term commitment to the position.
 After you’ve found a candidate, interviewed them, and provided opportunity for assessment, you should gather management and others vested in the job search to discuss top candidates. This can be very helpful because others who have been involved in the job search process might have insights into certain candidates that others don’t have. As a result, you should be very inclusive and open to feedback when making the final decision.

