 Try to match the style of your audition piece to the style of the musical you're auditioning for. There are different kinds of musicals. For example, RENT is a rock musical. If you were auditioning for RENT, you would not want to sing a classical ballad or a country song. Keep with the theme. Sing something from Jesus Christ Superstar or The Rocky Horror Picture Show.


Never audition with a piece from a show that the company has done in the past 5 years. They'll compare you with whoever did it in their production. They are working on something new and don’t want to just replicate a past performer.
When auditioning, try to avoid songs that have been over sung, are too well known, or are too complex. You don’t want to be perceived as a novice. People in the theatre want performers that have an in-depth knowledge of theatre.Some commonly overdone songs are "Tomorrow" or "Maybe" from Annie, "Memory" from Cats, "Favorite Things" from The Sound of Music, any songs from Wicked, Phantom of the Opera or Les Miserables,"Somewhere Over the Rainbow" from The Wizard of Oz, "Don't Rain on my Parade" from Funny Girl, "Shy" from Once Upon a Mattress, "I Enjoy Being a Girl" from Flower Drum Song, "Seasons of Love" from RENT, or "In My Own Little Corner" from Cinderella.
Disney films are great but not for auditions. Avoid using songs from Disney films.
Do not sing anything made famous by a well known Broadway artist ("Taylor the Latte Boy" being a perfect example)
Think carefully about a piece involving extensive profanity or innuendo.
 Musicals aren’t all about music. In most musicals, you’ll have to go back and forth between singing and acting. Be prepared to show both skills. Don’t choose monologues that have been overdone. Producers, directors, and casting crew enjoy being surprised by monologue choices. If you choose a common one, they may not pay close attention to your prepared piece.Keep your monologue to under 2 minutes long. You want to be able to show a range of emotions in a short amount of time. The casting crew will be viewing dozens of people for this part and others. If they want something longer, they’ll ask for it.
Choose a monologue from a play or a movie. Most monologues in musicals are used to set up songs, so they normally aren’t as developed as ones in plays or movies.
Avoid monologues with really obscene language or gestures, thick accents, or too much movement. You want to emphasize your acting chops, not your ability to offend. Exceptions exist. You’ll want to gauge the tone of the musical you are auditioning for when prepping. If it is a raunchy musical, an unconventional and crass monologue may be a good choice., If there is a dancing portion of the musical, the audition will be run like a class. They’ll teach you the dance and then ask you to perform it. Regardless, you should practice a variety of dances. Learn new dances frequently. You’ll get better at learning dances quickly., Put your audition monologue and songs on tape before you audition. Then watch them. Just like athletes, you'll want to watch your performance, analyze it, and fix any errors or odd transitions. Look for strange body language, facial expressions, or speech abnormalities.


In your audition pieces, make sure you have an equal balance of facial expressions, hand gestures, and movement. It's great that you're using your hands to tell the story, but it won't impress anyone if your face looks like you're falling asleep. Keep every part of your body alert and in control.