 You'll need the Elixirs found on Living Bones and Devastators.;
, Master and Final are most important. While you only require level 3, achieving higher is always helpful.
 You have to at least have over level 53.)

,,,, △ for a short cut-scene.
 He will use this at the beginning of battle, and further into the fight.
 When you are finished with the first strike press △ quickly to attack him again. After, you can still attack him with the ✕ button.
,


He will stand his ground and attack using his sword. If he does this, jump and use Arial Dodge, then Glide away from him. When you get on the other side, land because you might need to press △ to guard again.
He will teleport and knock you up in the air. If he does this, press □ to use retaliating slash when he reappears, then continue with your combo by pressing ✕ until either he disappears or you finish.
 this attack is one that will summon a halo around your head to bring you down to one HP and no MP (With second chance or Once More) or Auto-kill you. To stop this, attack him before he starts saying "Angel". If you do not have the necessary abilities to reach him, and therefore cannot attack him, a well timed cure spell will cancel out the attack, but you will still have zero magic. On top of this, if you do not have the second chance ability, curing will make no difference as you will die before your cure spell has any effect. If you don't stop him in time, he will teleport and use either an attack you will need to block with △ or his regular attack. After this, Sepiroth will continue using Heartless Angel periodically.
 He will not only use his standard attack, but he will use something called Shadow Flare, which is a big fire pillar that sucks you in. Just use Glide for it or if you have the MP, use Trinity. Often there will be dark balls that appear around you. You can either destroy them (it takes only one hit), or use Reflect on them to knock them back toward Sephiroth. The number of balls depends. Sometimes there will be only 3 other times 7 or 8. Also sometimes he will use one of his Flash attacks where you need to press △ . If this happens and the balls are around you press △ and the balls will be blocked too. Also worth mentioning is that aerial dodge can knock the balls away.
 When this happens, double-jump and use glide. Don't stop moving.
 It will still work if you're doing a Berserk barrage. How? You'd have to do a Horizontal Slash or an Upper Slash to "replace" the Finishing move.
 Quickly use the reaction command, dodge ( △ ) to avoid his attack., Use the berserk mode to hack away at a ton of his HP (you will be able to make combos infinitely), but be sure to stay grounded. Do not jump into the air, or you will become more vulnerable to his vanish-reappear move., Quickly cast curaga, elixir or hi-potion from the shortcut menu to replenish your health from 1 HP., The second he warps away from the painful end of your keyblade, be sure to heal, or his next attack might kill you. Usually the next attack will be the dark energy balls ("Give into the darkness") which will give you an extra split moment to heal, but he might also slash at you., Suddenly a dangerous attack will allow you to counter and freely cut down Sephiroth's HP--you can easily eliminate 2-3 of his health bars in one shot with this method.