 Women with PPD can feel isolated and all alone. They may spend countless hours with only the baby and not have anyone they can really confide in. Be this sounding board for her. Allow her to tell you what she’s going through by simply listening and being there.


Try not to interject with any comments or solutions at this moment. Simply listen, look into her eyes, and nod sympathetically. Give her a tissue for her tears, if needed, and hug it out.Be aware that your friend may need you at inconvenient times sometimes. It is important for you to be there for her because rejecting her at a time when she really needs someone may send her into a tailspin. Try telling your husband and/or boss about the situation so they will know that you need to take the call if your friend calls.
 Although it can seem like it lasts a lifetime, PPD is usually temporary. She likely feels like she is drowning and has no chance of escaping these feelings. Remind her that she will get through this and you will be there every step of the way.


Also, remind her that she is not her feelings or symptoms. She is a wonderful person who is simply going through a rough time because of her baby. She is enduring a difficult, yet common, disorder and with help, she will overcome it.Do some research on post-partum depression to help you provide her with specific information on the condition.
 Tell her she can handle this. Having a new baby is stressful for a number of reasons. PPD can make it even worse. She may doubt her skills as a mother, partner, and even a person. Your reassurance can help her feel better about herself.


Tell her as much as she needs to hear that she is doing good enough at this mom thing. She may doubt herself and her abilities. Give her the reassurance she needs to help her understand that motherhood isn't about perfection. And, she is the best person for the job of parenting her child, even if her PPD is telling her otherwise.If you are a mom yourself, then you may even consider sharing your own feelings of self-doubt as a new mom. Just be sure to share from a place of understanding and do not try to minimize what she is going through.
 She may not be aware of how severe her PPD is. She may also feel guilty or embarrassed about getting help. Your encouragement may give her the push she needs to get better.


You could say, “"I think it's time you talked to a professional about this. Many mothers go through this and their doctors have helped them immensely. Get help with medication instead of trying to fight this on your own.”Remind her that this is a chemical issue and it is no fault of her own.

