 This arrangement results in a dark photograph, with white lines reflected along the edges of the glass. This accentuates the shape of the glass object, but can make it difficult to see color and detail., Place a black cloth or black matte paper background behind and under the glass object, so nothing else is visible in the photograph. On the left and right of the object, outside the visible photograph, position white rectangular paper vertically.


If you have a photography light box or can build your own, set up your object inside the light box.
 Cut out two thin rectangles of white paper ("fill cards"), taller than the glass object. Position these standing upright to the left and right of the object, behind it, and out of the camera's field of view. Point it toward the object at roughly a 45ยบ angle in relation to the camera. These will create a white reflection along the sides of the glass, highlighting its shape and contrasting with the black center.


For a more stylized effect with only the outlined sides of the glass visible, you can use white paper to form "walls" directly to the left and right of the object.You can use a single piece of paper instead, and the glass will still reflect it to appear on both sides., This step can take time to set up if you do not have a professional light-box, so be prepared for some tweaking. Point a white light at each white fill card, but take care not to let the light pass through the glass itself. Ideally, use photographic light flags on all sides of the light source to keep it focused on one area.If you do not have any light flags, you can make your own using foam-core board or another solid, opaque material.
 Surround the entire setup with black matte paper or black-painted posterboard, and turn off all other lights in the room. Leave a small gap to fit your camera's lens through.


If you see reflections in the glass, look carefully and make adjustments to make sure all reflective surfaces are obscured.
 Take a photograph and see how it turns out. If you think you can do better, play around with the amount of light and the position of the white fill cards. The brighter the light and closer the fill cards, the thicker and brighter the white lines will be at the edge of the glass.


If you would like more detail, and have a transparent surface to place the object on, you can try cutting a hole in the black paper, and illuminating the object from underneath.Try this with and without the white sides.
Never use flash when photographing glass.

