 A leaking shower head can also be caused by a worn out rubber washer. Over time the washer, or “O ring,” starts to crack. Water seeps through those cracks, resulting in a leaking shower head. Replacing this washer will solve the problem. Shut off the water supply to your bathroom, which you can find either near your shower or in your basement, if you have one.


O rings should be maintained by applying lubricant.
If your shower faucet is a compression faucet, meaning it has two faucet handles to separately control the cold and hot water, you’ll need to feel the water leaking from your shower head to determine if the leak is coming from the cold-water valve or the hot-water valve.This will let you know which faucet you’ll have to work on.
 You can either replace the rubber washer in your shower head or in your shower faucet. The type of shower faucet you have will help to determine which rubber washer needs to be replaced. If you have a compression faucet, also referred to as a two-handle faucet, then you’ll likely need to replace the rubber washer that’s inside the faucet. If you have a single-handle faucet, then it’s likely the rubber washer located inside of the shower head is the one that needs to be replaced.
 To replace the rubber washer in your shower head, start off by taking the shower head apart. While different brands of shower heads are built differently, there should be a collar nut attached to the shower arm. The collar nut looks like a regular metal nut, but it extends lengthwise. It has a neck, or rather a collar, that’s typically about 1.5 times it’s diameter.Protect the fixture with a rag and, using a wrench, loosen that collar nut to separate the shower head from the shower arm. Once removed, look beneath the shower head’s swivel ball to find the rubber washer.
The swivel ball is a metal fixture that attaches directly to the shower head, and is what allows the shower head to move around. Look for a metal fixture that somewhat resembles a large nut with a metal ball on the end. If you can rotate it like you would a shower head, then you’ve found the swivel ball.
When you locate the rubber washer, pull it off, and then replace it with a new rubber washer of similar size and style. To ensure that the new washer works properly, it should look practically identical to the old washer. Be careful to get a washer of the same thickness as this could lead to leaking over time.
 Disassemble the appropriate faucet handle by unscrewing it. (The temperature of the leaking water should let you know whether you should be working on the hot or cold faucet handle.)


Depending on the style of your faucet this screw may be in plain sight or hidden behind a cover cap. If your faucet is an older model, look for the screw to be exposed on either the front or side of your faucet. If it’s newer, use a tiny pocket knife to lift the cover cap to expose the screw.
Once the screw is removed, pull the handle hard to pull it off of the faucet body. You may need a faucet puller to do this, if you’re unable to do it by hand. Once the handle is off, remove the trim and sleeve that covers the faucet stem. Then use a deep socket to unscrew the faucet stem. The faucet stem is held down by a hex nut, so you’ll need to use the deep socket to unscrew the hex nut. The hex nut is simply a nut with six sides. A shower valve socket wrench is made specifically for this.
Now you can replace the rubber washer. If you’ve purchased the faucet washer kit, you can also replace the flat washer at the end of the stem and the seals.
 If you changed the rubber washer in your shower head, connect the shower head back onto the shower arm, and turn back on your water supply to confirm whether the leak has been fixed or not. Be sure you just screw the shower head on snugly and do not over tighten.


If you changed the rubber washer in the shower faucet, then begin putting your shower faucet back together starting with the faucet stem. Use a little bit of plumber’s grease on the threads where the stem will go, then screw the stem back on. Put the handle back in place, but don’t screw it on until you’ve confirmed the leaking shower head is fixed, which you can test by cutting your water supply back on.

