 Whether you're a long-distance or short-distance runner, you want speed and power off the starting line. Jumping exercises, known as plyometric exercises, build fast-twitch muscle strength to give you greater explosive power.To do squat jumps, start out by doing a regular squat. After squatting down, instead of rising back up normally, explode upwards from the deepest point of your squat. Focus on landing as softly as possible. Do as many repetitions as you can with proper form in 30 seconds or a minute.
For box jumps, you'll need a box, step, or other stable platform. Jump on the box, then step back down gently rather than jumping back down. Do as many of these as you can do with proper form in 30 seconds or a minute. You can increase the difficulty by jumping from a further distance, or by using a higher box or step.
 Exercise or stability balls are great tools for increasing your muscle endurance while also working in a balance element. Requiring you to maintain balance while performing any exercise means that you're engaging your core as well as any other muscles.Building core strength will improve your endurance.


For example, one exercise that is good for improving balance and stability along with building strength in your glutes and hamstrings is the stability ball leg curl. Lie on your back, arms flat by your sides, with your feet and lower calves resting on the stability ball. Contract your glutes to raise your hips, rolling the ball toward you with your heels. Stop when your body is in a straight line from your shoulders to your knees, then roll the ball back in a slow, controlled way as you extend your legs straight again. Do three to five sets of 10 repetitions of this exercise.
 If you don't want to build bulky muscles, you should do a lot of repetitions at a very low weight. As the exercise becomes easier, add repetitions rather than weight.Doing high repetitions with a low weight increases your muscle endurance, which is what you need to increase your distance running and the length of time you can run.
 If one of your motivations for strength training is to run faster, high-intensity intervals are an efficient way to build muscle endurance and explosive power. Set your intervals by length of time rather than number of repetitions of any given exercise.Intersperse intervals of cardio and plyometric, or jumping, exercises with static strength-training exercises such as lifting weights.
Alternate muscle groups worked in each exercise to avoid fatigue. For example, if you do an exercise that targets your upper body, follow it up with an exercise that targets your lower body. This gives the muscle groups you just worked a little extra time to recover.
 If you are lifting moderate weight and doing sets with 10 – 15 reps, you only need to rest about 45 – 60 seconds between sets. If you are lifting heavy weights, doing about six to eight reps, then you can rest up to two minutes between sets.


This may seem foreign for distance runners, but muscle endurance and cardiovascular endurance are two different things that use different energy systems. Allowing for full recovery gives the skeletal muscle fibers time to repair. It is the micro tearing and then repairing process that makes your muscles stronger.
To reach full recovery, it isn't necessary that you sit or stand completely still. Have sips of water during the rest period, and walk or jog lightly.

