 Positive relationships are crucial to having a sense of calm, stability, and well-being.To be a leader or a hero in your own life you must be able to inspire and motivate others to be the people they want to be.Focus on building others up. Give compliments readily. Let others know you appreciate them for what they do. For example if your friend helped you volunteer you could say, "I really appreciate that you volunteered at the homeless shelter with me. It shows that you are willing to help not only me, but others in the community. You also did a great job; I noticed how comforting and understanding you were."
Be positive when others are struggling. Tell them that you believe in them and you are willing to help if they need a hand. You could say something like, "I know you are having a hard time and it is understandable. I want you to know that I am here for you. I believe in you and I know you can get through this."
Provide direction and a listening hear for others if they seek it. However, avoid telling people what to do in their personal lives (relationships, etc) as this may backfire. Instead, ask them questions, be interested and validate of their feelings.
 A hero's life is about service to others rather than financial or social gain. Empathy is a crucial component to being a hero. Heroes care about others and want to help them.Take Superman for example; he did not want fame but was focused on helping others– he even had a disguise (Clark Kent) so he could lead a normal life.


If you have the resources, you can donate goods, money, or services to organizations that help those in need.
One option is to help the needy by volunteering at a local food bank or homeless shelter.
When you see someone struggling, don't ignore them, ask them about themselves and provide any support that you feel comfortable with.
 People often learn through social interactions and observation. Setting a positive example for others is a great way to become a hero for others as well as yourself.Show others that you stand up for what you believe in. If someone is being mistreated, say something, do something, intervene. Just make sure you are safe and do not put yourself in risky situations.
 There is power in numbers. Much like the Avengers, sometimes superheroes need to get together to fight for what they believe in or to overcome a great obstacle. In order to help others, we first need to help ourselves by having the support we need to cope with the demands of being a hero.


Join a group of like-minded people. For example, if you are passionate about exercise and health you could join a fitness center, or get together a group of friends to join you on weekly hikes.
Meetup.com is a website for forming groups of people with similar interest such as: rock-climbing, biking, beach-cleanup, parenting, helping the homeless, and volunteering.

