 Include a baking soda and salt mixture in your daily brushing routine. Mix together 1 tablespoon of baking soda with ½ teaspoon of salt into a small bowl. Wet your toothbrush and dip this into the mixture and scrub the teeth with this mixture. Spit periodically and dip the toothbrush into the mixture and continuously scrub your teeth for a few minutes to get rid of accumulated plaque.Do not use this mixture for more than one week each month or you may wear down the enamel on your teeth. Also, salt can cause your gums to become swollen, so stop using it if this happens.
You can also make a mouthwash using baking soda to further fight plaque accumulation. Use ½ cup of baking soda, 1 cup of water, 10 drops of essential lemon oil, 4 teaspoons of vegetable glycerin, and 1 teaspoon of aloe vera gel. Mix all of these ingredients together in a bottle and use it twice per day.;
, Combine two tablespoons each of virgin or unrefined coconut oil and baking soda into a bowl. Dip your toothbrush into the paste and brush as usual to prevent tartar and plaque formation.This will also create an alkaline environment, which fights against bacteria and acids.


You can also add a few drops of your favorite essential oil, such as peppermint, for additional taste.
 Get a teaspoon of sesame seeds and grind them up in your mouth with your teeth, but don’t swallow them. Brush the leftover particles with a dry toothbrush. The powdered bits of sesame seed will act as a gentle, safe, and delicious abrasive to clear and polish the surface of your teeth while also removing existing plaque.Keep your toothbrush dry while scrubbing in the remnants of the sesame seeds for maximum effectiveness.
 Rub the inside or white part of an orange peel on the surface of your teeth for a minimum of two minutes before brushing your teeth. The orange peel contains vitamin C which can help prevent plaque build-up and whiten your teeth as well.You can also grind up the orange peel and apply it to specific stained areas of your teeth. Leave it on for several minutes and then rinse off. This is a more time consuming method, but still quite effective and in some cases it can even create a whitening effect.
 Munching on an apple or a few slices of melon after every meal can help eliminate plaque naturally and effectively. These fruits can clean your teeth naturally by removing the food leftovers on your teeth. They also help keep the gums healthy, too, by stimulating them with the enough force to promote a constant blood flow.You can also try celery sticks, carrots, and peppers for the same effect.
 Aloe vera is known to have many healing properties for the body, including the teeth and gums. Just sprinkle a few drops of aloe vera gel on your toothbrush and brush your teeth for several minutes. This will help keep plaque buildup under control.Make sure you don’t swallow the aloe vera mixture while brushing.
 These are fruits that are naturally rich in vitamin C, which is a very important ingredient for oral health. Try rubbing these kinds of fruits directly on your teeth and let it sit for several minutes. This will help the plaque and tartar buildup soften. Then you can rinse your mouth and brush your teeth to remove the plaque.Try combining some methods – like brushing with baking soda after letting the strawberry residue sit on your teeth. This will maximize your effectiveness in fighting plaque. Both the malic acid found in strawberries and the baking soda whiten the tooth surface, which may give you a whiter smile.
 The single most important factor in plaque removal and prevention is rigorous daily brushing. You need to brush daily to remove plaque as it forms so that it doesn’t turn into hardened tartar that usually has to be removed by a dentist or hygienist. Brush your teeth at least twice daily, making sure to get around the gums and tongue as well.Using an electric toothbrush will help get rid of even more plaque than a normal toothbrush will.
 There are many different kinds of toothpastes and some work better at removing plaque and tartar buildup than others. In order to prevent plaque buildup, you should buy a fluoridated toothpaste because it will help strengthen your tooth enamel and lessens the risk of decay and other tooth problems, including plaque.Fluoride is a naturally occurring ingredient that is safe for consumption and personal use in small amounts. It is actually added to most drinking water to help prevent tooth decay.In addition to containing fluoride, you should also try to purchase toothpaste that indicates it is recommended for tartar control. These types usually contain ingredients designed to kill bacteria that lead to plaque problems.If you are interested in avoiding ingredients like fluoride in preference for all-natural toothpastes, look for toothpastes that don’t include propylene glycol and sodium lauryl sulfate.Tom’s of Maine is a popular brand of natural toothpaste you could try.
 Plaque accumulation often occurs between teeth and along the gum line. This is because these are difficult places for toothbrushes to reach. For this reason, it’s important to floss on a daily basis to get rid of all the plaque that accumulates in those hard to reach places. Dentists recommend that you floss at least twice daily to prevent future gum disease, which can turn into periodontitis.

