 Also known as the lying triceps press, this is one of the very best ways to isolate your upper arms and make them burn. Grab your bar and lay on you back on a weight bench, face up and feet on the ground. Then:


Hold the bar with your palms up, arms shoulder length apart.
Slowly bend your elbows back, bringing the weight to your forehead.
Keeping your elbows parallel to your body, slowly extend your arms to raise the weight above your head.
Note that you can still do this with a single dumbbell. Simply hold the weight with both hands on end, so that the other end hangs down towards your forehead.;
, This machine has a cable, rope, or small horizontal bar hanging from the top. To use it, stand facing the rope with your feet slightly apart. Grab the cable or handle with your arms bent at 90-degrees, then:


Extend your arms downward, pushing the cable to your thighs.
Slowly curl your elbows back up until they are back to 90-degrees.
Keep your elbows by your ribs, not flaring out, throughout the motion.
To make this a bit harder, flair your wrists to the sides as you reach the bottom. The full motion will look a bit like an uppercase "J.", Sit or stand with your back straight and feet firmly on the ground. Grab a dumbbell in each hand and extend them high over your head. Keep your arms shoulder length apart:


Slowly drop the weights back behind your head, bending only from the elbow.
Stop when the weights are roughly behind your neck.
Extend your arms back upwards to complete one rep.
Keep your elbows pointing forward the entire time., Sit upright with a dumbbell in both hands, making sure there is room behind you to freely move your arms. Bend at the waist until you are at a roughly 45-degree angle, keeping your spine straight as your bend.


Raise your elbows to your side at 90-degrees, as if you were doing a dip.
Extend the weights out behind you -- the motion is almost like a skier pushing off with their poles.
Slowly return the weights to your side., Set up for a normal bench press: feet on the ground, spine relaxed, a spotter in place. However, instead of grabbing the bar at shoulder width, try coming in to about nipple width apart. Lower the bar to about an inch off your chest, then push it back up, keeping your arms and elbows stead and strong.


You will not be able to do as much weight this way as you do with a normal bench press!