 Leap off a tall cliff and you'll take a large amount of damage. You may need to repeat this a couple times if there are only small hills available.


If you have a large amount of dirt or other worthless blocks, you can build a tower to leap from. Face the ground at your feet and jump repeatedly, clicking to place the block as you do.
 Dig a pit three blocks deep. Jump inside and place two blocks of sand or gravel above your head. These will fall onto you and cover your head, causing you to take damage until you die.
 Any water two blocks deep can drown you. Step underneath and wait until all of your air bubbles are gone. These should be located next to your hearts.


If you want to die an honorable, wet death at any moment, carry around a bucket of water. Dig a pit two blocks deep, empty the bucket to fill it, and jump into your private death sauna.
 Walk into a cactus repeatedly for the death by a thousand spines. If you're playing multiplayer, the chat will tell everyone that you were "pricked to death.", Lava is most commonly found far beneath the surface. Explore a cave or simply dig straight down and hope for a fiery doom.
 If you're lost in the wilderness, you can take your revenge on the wilderness by starting a forest fire. Note that this will not work on adventure mode.Here's a step by step guide for your funeral pyre:


Break gravel with a shovel until a piece of flint drops.
Mine iron with a stone pickaxe. Iron can be found at ground level, but is much more common lower down.Make a furnace and use it to smelt the iron ore into iron ingots.
Craft the iron and flint together to make flint and steel.
Use the flint and steel to set fire to the top of any solid block, or the side of flammable blocks such as wood. Walk into the fire to kill yourself.
 Enemy mobs spawn at night or deep underground. Run up to the first one you see and it will be happy to kill you.


If you're playing single player, use the settings menu to raise the difficulty to hard
The black, tentacled "Endermen" won't turn hostile until you look directly at their heads., Try the following if you want a flashy way to die:



Create a monster trap and stand at its base.

Build a cannon with the controls sitting in the path of fire.
Craft TNT from 5 gunpowder and 4 sand, then blow it up with fire. Find gunpowder by killing creepers, ghasts, or witches.

