 The goal is to show your dog that all people and pets should be engaged with calmly and respectfully.Take it to public areas, giving strangers the opportunity to pet and play with it. This is a very dominant breed and so you should take the time to socialize it early to avoid that behavior as much as possible. Socialization will help the dog develop an even temper.


This is an important part of raising an American Bulldog. Without socialization, your new dog may be suspicious of all new people and animals, which can lead to unwanted behaviors, such as biting.
You can socialize your dog by taking it to public areas and allowing it to have positive experiences with new people and pets. If at a dog park, slowly introduce your dog to the other dogs and people around you while still on the leash. If your dog seems to be friendly, comfortable, and welcomes the interaction, praise it for its good behavior and gradually allow more interaction off leash and in larger areas.
 If visiting a breeder to pick out a pup, there are some specific things to look for that can indicate socialization has already begun. Observe how the puppy interacts with its littermates as well as its parents. A shy, withdrawn, or overly cautious pup is probably not well socialized and has not been exposed to a lot of different situations. Well socialized pups are accustomed to many different sounds and actions going on around them and your presence shouldn’t be a big surprise. A less socialized pup may make just as good a pet as one who isn’t, it may simply require more time when training.


Remember that when you get a dog you want to avoid bad breeding situations, for example puppy mills. Not only do unethical breeders have inhumane conditions for their dogs and usually inbreed them, but they do not do the early training and socializing of their dogs that is imperative to raising a well-adjusted dog.
 Each dog will develop their social skills at their own speed, so go as slow as needed. As your dog becomes more socialized and comfortable with new things, you will see that it develops an overall better temperament.


Don't forget to introduce cats, children, and anything else that you want your dog to be familiar and comfortable with as well. Take your introductions slow!
When introducing your dog to a cat, don't let the animals see each other right off the bat. Keep them in separate rooms and allow them to smell each other under the closed door. After they get used to each other's smell, let them see each other from a distance. Over several days let them get closer to each other on a regular basis, all while keeping a hold of both.
 Also, know that in some areas there are legal liabilities related to owning this particular breed. There have also been cases of homeowner insurance policies being denied and the breed is actually banned from ownership in some areas. Research the situation in your area before committing to this breed., American Bulldogs are a very intelligent, strong willed, and frequently stubborn breed. This can make them a challenge to train, especially for first-time dog owners. They will need to know that you are the dominant one in the relationship and training them will require a lot of dedication and patience.
 It will be beneficial for you and your new pup to train with voice commands as well as hand signals. The upside to training with both of these commands is that if you are in a situation where your dog can't hear you, they can still see what you are asking them to do and can react accordingly.
 Positive reinforcement goes a long way with this breed, as they enjoy pleasing their owners. Since this breed loves attention from the people that they are bonded with, ignoring your dog when they exhibit bad behavior will work better than other disciplinary measures.


When trained and socialized well, American Bulldogs have the tools they need to judge a situation and decide when everything is OK or when they may need to act on their natural guarding instincts.
 During any sort of training, if you feel overwhelmed or your dog doesn't seem to be learning at a reasonable pace, consult a professional. They will be able to answer any questions or concerns you may be having about the process or techniques that you are using.Obedience schools can be a good option from the very beginning or to correct unwanted behaviors.

