 Use an effective, veterinarian recommended product that is appropriate for the age of your kitten. Be aware that different spot on products contain different active ingredients, not all of which are effective or safe.


Apply the product to the back of the cat’s neck where they can’t reach it to rub off. This is usually a good method for any cat, but if it proves ineffective or the cat manages to get it off, then you should consider using another product--the flea collar method, spray, or shampoo.This is a very common way to prevent flea infestations in your cat. These products usually last for a month. These products may kill combinations of external parasites like fleas and ticks or just one variety. Check the label to be sure.
Common ingredients in these products for cats include etofenprox, imidacloprid, selamectin, metaflumizone, or fipronil. Popular brands include Advantage II, Bio Spot-Spot On, Frontline, and Revolution. Avoid products containing permethrins.;
, You can use a spray can or pump bottle. Choose an effective product recommended by a vet that is safe for the age of your kitten. Keep in mind that these treatments contain different ingredients and they are not all safe or effective.


Do not spray the product on your cat's face. To apply the spray/pump product to the face you should spray the product first onto a standard cotton ball. Then dab the coated cotton ball around the cat’s eyes and ears.
Don’t soak the cat with the product, but make sure you coat all areas of the animal. This is a good method for cooperative cats, but if they don’t like it, you might try the collar or topical method.The pump bottle may be a better idea as the spray can has a hissing sound that may alarm the kitten or cat.
Make sure you’re in a well ventilated area.
 Choose your shampoo carefully. Some shampoos claim to kill external parasites but they do not actually do so - they just drown them! Also, some of the stronger shampoos may be toxic to young kittens or excessively drying on a cat's skin or coat.


To shampoo your cat, lather the shampoo over the entire body of the kitten or cat. Leave the shampoo to set for at least 10 minutes before rinsing it off. Avoid the eyes and ears of the cat.
Shampooing is good for cats that have a more extensive flea issue, and don’t mind bathing. If they resist, then you should try another method--the collar, shampoo, or topical treatment.Shampoos usually are designed to get rid of existing external parasites, but the shampoo will not continue to work after it dries and therefore the cat may quickly become reinfected.
 To know if the collar is fitting correctly you should be able to slip in two fingers between the collar and cat’s neck. Use scissors to cut off any excess portion of the collar once it’s fitted correctly so the kitten or cat doesn’t chew it. Look at the area under and around the collar periodically for signs of irritation. If you notice a problem then you probably need to use another product such as the topical or shampoo.These can be effective if your kitten or cat is cooperative and you can get the right fit. Usually these last several months.
Avoid collars with the following ingredients: amitraz; permethrin; organophosphates on cats.
 The Program product contain an inhibitor to insect development. There is a tablet that can be given once a month (for dogs or cats), and an injection for cats that is good for six months.Program is only a preventative measure. It will not kill fleas already present and it will not kill internal parasites.
 Eliminating fleas from the surrounding area is essential to stopping them from bugging you and your kitten or cat. Clean the carpets, cushioned furniture, and cracks and crevices in the floor to suck up any eggs and live fleas. Throw away the vacuum’s bag and/or wash out its canister. Use cat-safe insecticides around the house, on furniture, and anywhere your cat may wander. Keep your cat away from sensitive areas like food preparation locations in the kitchen, baby cribs, and the outdoors.You need to do this in conjunction with any of the other preventative methods you may be trying.
 Apply the rinse in a well ventilated area and according to the specific directions given by the manufacturer and your veterinarian. These are a little less common and will involve soaking the entire cat. If your cat isn’t cooperative with bathing, then you probably want to avoid this method and try the collar or topical method.Avoid getting the flea and tick rinse in the cat’s eyes or ears. You may want to put cotton balls in the cat’s ears and ophthalmic ointment (eye ointment) in the eyes for irritation just in case.
There may be excess residue from the rinse so clean your hands and surrounding area thoroughly.

