 One of the most important things you can do is to help your teen be responsible about sex. Even if you don't agree with the choice to have sex, you still want to make sure that your teen is safe. Help by providing informational resources.Hearing you talk can be very educational. You can explain to your teen the importance of being with a partner who cares about and respects you.
You can also use science to educate your teen. Provide information about sexually transmitted diseases and how they are passed between partners.
Explain that intercourse is not the only form of sex. Make sure your teen understands that you can contract STDs from oral sex, too.
Organizations such as Planned Parenthood offer a lot of information about sex in general, and teen sex in particular. Contact them to get some very helpful brochures.
 Try to convey to your teen the gravity of having a sexual relationship. Make it clear that there may be physical consequences. For example, sex can result in an accidental pregnancy.STDs are also an unintended consequence of sex. Ask your child how they plan to prevent negative physical consequences.
Make sure to address emotional consequences, too. Explain that there is a different level of emotional intimacy between two people who are having sex.
Talk to your teen about protecting their feelings. Do they know how to express their emotional needs?

, Make sure that your teen has access to birth control. If you provide it, you can be sure that they have a safe method. Even if you don't agree with the choice to have sex, you can still help to make sure that your teen is safe.Give your teen condoms. Anyone who is sexually active, male or female, should have access to their own condoms.
You don't want your teen to have to rely on someone else to bring the protection. Empower your teen to protect his or her own body.
If you have a daughter, take her to the doctor to get prescription birth control. A doctor can help you and your teen decide whether the pill or a different type of hormone therapy will work for her.
 Encourage your teen to only have sex with someone they trust. Explain what a healthy relationship is. For example, it includes trust, kindness, and respect.Make it clear that if your teen is in a healthy relationship, you will be supportive. You can say things like, "It seems like Mary is making you happy, and I'm glad."
If you have concerns about the relationship, voice them. You can say something like, "I'm concerned that Tim's behavior is controlling. Does it feel that way to you?"
Establish that you trust your teen, but that you encourage only having sex with someone when they are in a healthy relationship.
 Just because you talk about sex with your teen does not mean that you are no longer in charge of your household. When you give your teen boundaries, you are actually providing another type of resource. Boundaries help your teen learn responsibility and respect.Set any boundaries that make you feel comfortable. For example, you can make it clear that your teen is not allowed to have sex in your house.
You should feel free to keep enforcing curfew. Just because your teen is sexually active, that does not make him or her an adult who can do what they choose.
Explain to your teen that while they are choosing to engage in adult behavior, they are still your child and must follow certain rules while living at home.
 Let your teen know where your family values lie. Have an open discussion about your feelings on intimacy. This will provide your teen with an additional frame of reference.You can say, "In this family, we feel that intimacy is very serious. It is important to think about your actions before following through."
You can also explain how your faith informs your feelings on sex. Many people to do not believe in sex before marriage, for example.
Let your teen know that your values are important to you. But that you are willing to listen to his or her values, too.

