 This type of drug will help loosen the congestion in your lungs, chest and throat.This helps to facilitate easy elimination of the secretions in your lungs.


The most common generic expectorant is guaifenesin. You can take this drug as part of your running preparation.
The immediate release formulation dosage is 200 to 400 mg by mouth every four hours, or as needed. If you take the sustained release formulation, take 600 to 1200 mg by mouth every 12 hours., This is another type of drug that will help you to eliminate the secretions that have built up in your lungs.The main action of this medication is to thin your mucus secretions so that your body can more easily get rid of them. However, this medication can be challenging to take with you on runs, as you need a nebulizer (or inhaler) to take the drug.


Use the nebulizer to inhale 5 to 10 ml of acetylcysteine every four to six hours., Albuterol is inhaled to help increase air flow to the lungs.If you have asthma or exercise-induced asthma, which is triggered by strenuous exercise, your doctor can prescribe you an inhaler. Make sure you aways have this medication with you, especially if you are going for a run or participating in other exercise.Albuterol relaxes the muscles in your airway, which becomes restricted during an attack, and allows air to travel to your lungs as normal., If you experience a constant obstruction in your lungs that affects your ability to run, or other parts of your daily life, you should contact your doctor. Other situations in which you should seek medical help include:


If you cough up blood. This can be a sign of internal bleeding in your respiratory tract. If the blood is bright red, you may have a problem with your upper respiratory tract, while coffee brown blood could mean damage has been down to your lower respiratory tract.
If you are having night sweats or your cough is accompanied by fever for one week. This can be a sign of tuberculosis and other serious medical conditions.
If you have been dealing with this cough for more than six months. This can be a sign of chronic bronchitis.

