 If your dog begins excessive licking in old age, or at any time, you should take your dog to the vet. Excessive licking is a possible symptom for a number of different treatable medical conditions. Take your dog to the vet and explain when the licking first began, and what area of the body, or objects the dog is licking. Possible causes for licking include:Allergies.
Boredom.
Dry Skin.
Hormonal imbalance.
Pain.
Parasites.;
, Some excessive licking among dogs is caused by allergies. For example, your dog may have an allergic reaction to their food or something they ate. They could also experience an allergic reaction to environmental triggers, such as pollen or mold in the air. Allergies in dogs typically result in a skin irritation, rather than sneezing or a runny nose, so licking can be a common indicator of an allergic response.For example, your dog may begin licking their paws because they have been exposed to an allergen.
Visit your vet in order to diagnose the problem and treat with antibiotics, steroids, anti-itch products, or by changing their food.
 Excessive licking, typically of the air, can also be a symptom of nausea, which can be associated with more serious illnesses in older dogs. Nausea can trigger the production of excess saliva, which will cause the dog to lick in an attempt to remove the buildup.For example, diseases that cause gastrointestinal discomfort and nausea include: liver disease, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, inflamed bowels, and intestinal problems.
Take your dog to the vet and have them run tests to determine if the licking is associated with nausea. Tests may include x-rays, abdominal ultrasounds, blood tests, skin allergy testing, or even endoscopy, if necessary., Excessive licking, primarily among older dogs, can be associated with neurological disorders. For instance, the licking could be associated with a brain tumor, epilepsy, or hydrocephalus. These conditions are more common in older dogs and can often be connected to the progressive nature of the condition. The licking may be a result of a neurological disorder if:It is extremely difficult to interrupt the compulsive licking.
If the dog seems disoriented while licking.
Other symptoms such as seizures or circling are observed in context with the licking

, Once your vet has identified the medical issue that has caused the excessive licking by your older dog, you should come up with a treatment plan. Ask your doctor how best to treat the condition. You will likely need to provide your dog with some form of medical treatment, which may include surgery, medicine, or a dietary change. Read and follow the instructions that are provided with all medications and talk with your doctor about post-surgery care.


Talk with your doctor about how to care for your dog now that the condition has been identified.
Ask the following questions: "How much exercise should my dog get?" "Can they eat their regular food?" "Is there anything I can do to make them comfortable?"

, Problems including senility and dementia can also cause excess licking behaviors in dogs. Other indicators of cognitive dysfunction may include disorientation, irritability, decreased desire to play, inability to learn new tasks, decreased self-grooming, incontinence, and loss of appetite.Diagnosis of cognitive dysfunction should be made by a vet. They will go through the dog's history an current symptoms with you to see if this may be the cause of your dog's licking.
While there is no cure for cognitive dysfunction, therapy, medication, and support can help your dog maintain a close-to-normal life and may help reduce some symptoms.

