 Research surrounding music therapy is in the beginning stages. Many clinical studies have shown positive improvement and response to using music therapy with a wide array of speech problems.However, music therapy has been found to be a highly individualized treatment. This means that no music therapy will be the same for anyone.Music therapists, oftentimes along with a speech therapist, study an individual’s case and determine what the correct type of therapy might be.
The kind of music therapy depends on your speech impediment. Someone with a stutter may have to only sing words, while a person who has lost the ability to speak may have to tap into a memory of a song or tap out a rhythm on a drum as he learns how to speak again.
Discussing your specific condition with your music therapist, or having a family member discuss it for you, can ensure you get the individualized treatment you need for your condition.
 For people who have speech problems, whether it is complete loss of speech or a stutter, singing may be able to help. The lyrics and melody of a familiar song, like a person’s favorite song or “Happy Birthday,” is kept in a different part of the brain than words used for speech. Additionally, lyrics and melodies are kept in the memory, which allows a person the ability to recall them without using the speech part of their brain.Because it’s easier for people with speech impediments to sing memorized songs to a familiar melody, this acts as a starting point to building speech and word usage again.As a person sings, the other side of the brain starts to build and strengthen as words are recovered.
 Music therapy affects everyone differently. Some people fully regain their ability to speak, others can only speak in a sing-song melodic voice, while others are only ever able to learn a sentence or two.Since research is still developing for music therapy and each case is individualized, a person’s response to music therapy will vary.
 Music therapy is used for people of all ages. Since it works for a variety of speech impediments, music therapy is beneficial for those just learning to speak, those trying to overcome speech impediments like stutters or lisps, or those who have suffered brain injuries that affect their speech.


Young children who are just learning to speak can benefit from music therapy to help improve their speech abilities and peer relationships.Older people who suffer from dementia, stroke, or even alzheimer's may benefit from music therapy to help them regain speech capability.