 To complete this project, you will need 10 to 20 sheets of 8 ½ by 11-inch paper, scissors, glue, magazines, catalogues, and other collage materials.If you do not want to paste the images or items you collect on paper, you can use fabric or another material. Embrace your creativity.
 Take a few minutes to think about specific smells, tastes, sounds, places, people, and experiences that you find calming, happy, or relaxing. Keep a record of your ideas., Using magazines, catalogues, photographs, newspapers, or other collage materials, identify images that relate to the things that you find soothing. Cut out the images and set them aside.For example, if you find the beach soothing, find a picture of the ocean, a shell, or a palm tree.
You will need quite a few images to cover the pages of the book, so cut out a lot and then you can discard any you don’t use or have room for.
If you find multiple images that relate to one another, you can group them together so it will be easier to assemble and organize your book.
 After organizing the images however you like, glue them and attach them to the pages of the book.There is no right or wrong way to group images in this exercise, so do whatever makes you feel good.
 Design a cover for your book using the same collage technique.
 Now that you’ve created a cover, you can begin assembling the book. Order and arrange the pages however you would like.Punching holes in the pages and putting them in a binder is an easy and inexpensive way to assemble the book, but feel free to be creative.
 Look through your book and make notes about your thoughts and feelings. Here are a few questions to help you get started:How do certain images make you feel?
What do the images make you think about?
Which type of images do you prefer?
What did you choose not to include in your book and why?

, Add pages and images to your book over time to continue expanding it and make note of how the images you select change over time.
 When you are feeling stressed out, upset, or depressed, take out your self-soothing book and look through the images. Think about why they soothe you.


The exercise of adding to the book can also be relaxing.

