 Butter is considered healthier than margarine and most shortenings because it contains fewer trans fats than these other solid fats. You can try the following replacements for healthier cookies:


If a cookie recipe calls for butter or margarine, replace up to half of it with the same number of tbsp. of olive oil, coconut oil or canola oil. Replacing the butter completely is likely to change the taste and texture too much for most palettes.
If a cookie recipe calls for butter, margarine or shortening, replace it with a fruit puree. Applesauce and pureed pumpkin are popular choices. If it is a fruit cookie recipe, try replacing up to half of the butter with fruit puree. If it is another type, replace 1/4 to 1/3 of the amount of butter, margarine or shortening.
Replace 1/4 to 1/3 of the fat with fruit juice, buttermilk or non-fat plain yogurt. Start with low amounts and work your way up, since these no-fat ingredients can make cookies less moist.
Use a mix of different replacements. You will always use some butter in a recipe that calls for it, in order to give it the same taste; however, you may want to experiment with your favorite ingredients. Perhaps you will use 1/2 the quantity of butter and replace the other half with equal parts coconut oil and applesauce.;
, Bleached, refined white flour has almost no nutritional value, while adding a lot of calories. Consider using 1 or a few of the following high-fiber items instead:


Replace a portion of your all-purpose flour with oats. If you like chewy oatmeal cookies and you don't mind varying their texture, the added fiber will increase the nutritional value and benefit to your digestive system.
Grind oats into flour and use them as a replacement. This method will allow you to replace the all-purpose flour with high-fiber oats, but it will not change the texture quite as much.
Replace all or some of the flour with whole wheat flour. Make sure it is 100 percent whole wheat. If you don't mind a slight change in flavor, consider replacing all-purpose flour completely with this healthier flour in your cookie recipes.
Add 2 to 4 tbsp. (15 to 30 g) of ground flax seeds to your flour mixture. They contain omega-3 fatty acids and high fiber content, making your cookies more nutritional.
Replace up to 1/2 cup (63 g) of flour with almond meal. This will increase the protein content, as well as the fiber content, of your cookies.
 You can still maintain the flavor of your cookies with no more than 1/2 tsp. (6 g) of salt in the recipe. Experiment with using 1/4 tsp. (3 g) for extra healthy cookies.
 Using seeds, nuts, dried fruit and unsweetened coconut in the place of chocolate chips or sprinkles will improve the healthfulness of the cookie. Keep in mind that it is may not decrease the calories, although it will add nutritional value.
 The best way to go about making cookie recipes better is to train your palette to eat something that is slightly less sweet. Yet, there are also some replacement options if you like your cookies sweet.


Cut some sugar and add more spices. This is not a simple replacement; however, you can increase the flavor by adding cinnamon, nutmeg or ginger. Then, reduce your granulated sugar amount by a fourth.
Replace granulated sugar with very ripe fruits. Try overripe apples and bananas, which become very sweet near the end of their shelf life. Try creating a puree and adding it to your wet ingredients.
Replace the sugar with agave nectar or honey. Agave nectar is sweeter than honey, so you may want to reduce the amount you replace slightly when using this ingredient.
 Look for bars or chips with at least 70 percent cacao. This chocolate is filled with antioxidants and often contains fewer calories.


You can also substitute carob chips in place of chocolate chips. This legume is often used because it has a mild chocolaty flavor. Using it will increase fiber and reduce calories. You can order these from natural food stores online, if you cannot find them in your town.
If you cannot find dark chocolate chips at your supermarket, buy bars of chocolate and chop them up.

