 This will be the height you need to look for when choosing your base.The base should be level with your dog's lower chest.
 Choose a material that is easy to cut with a jigsaw, such as wood or plastic. Avoid metal. Here are some ideas for bases to get you started:


If you have a small dog, you could use a short, wooden bench or stool. If you have a medium-sized dog, a wooden create would work great.
If you have a big dog, consider using a larger wooden crate, or even a storage unit with doors and drawers., The bowl must have a rim, as this is what will help hold it up. The bigger the rim is, the more stable the bowl will be. If you are using a wide base, you might even be able to fit one or two more bowls.
 If you don't have a compass, you can simply flip the bowl upside down onto your base, trace around the edge with a pencil, then draw a slightly smaller circle inside of it; be sure to erase the outer circle when you are done.








If you plan on adding more than one bowl to your base, remember to leave room for the rims.
 Make sure that the hole is big enough for the tip of your jigsaw to go through. Also, make sure that the hole goes all the way through your base.








If you are using a wooden crate, you may not need to drill a hole. As long as your jigsaw blade can fit between the slates, you should be fine.
 Slide the jigsaw blade into the hole, then turn the jigsaw on. Carefully cut around the line that you drew until the circle falls out.Save the cut-out disk for another project, or discard it.
 You will be placing your dog's bowl into this hole, so most of the jaggedness will be covered up.If the jaggedness really bothers you, however, or if it gets in the way of the bowl, you can sand it away. Start with a coarser grit, and finish off with a finer one.
 This is especially important if you plan on painting or sealing your base. If you do not wish to paint your base, you are done at this point. If you can either seal the base with a wood stain and sealer, or you can simply place your dog's bowl into the hole and fill it with food., This will help smooth out the texture, and help the paint stick to it better. You can use the brush-on kind or the spray-on kind. If you are using spray-on primer, make sure that you work in a well-ventilated area, preferably outside.

If you are using a storage unit, you will need to remove any hardware. This includes things like hinges and knobs., You can use brush-on acrylic paint, or you can use spray paint. Once again, if you plan on using spray paint, be sure to work in a well-ventilated area so that you don't get a headache. You may need two coats of paint; if you decide to do this, let the first coat dry for 15 to 20 minutes.How long the paint takes to dry will depend on the type of paint you are using. Most acrylic paints take about 20 minutes to dry. Some paints also have a curing time, so be sure to read the label on your paint can carefully.
 There are lots of ways you can spice up your dog's raised bowl, from decoupaging paper onto it to painting designs. Adding a design is not completely necessary, but it can make your dog's raised bowl look much nicer. Here are some ideas to get you started:









Paint on some designs using acrylic paint and stencils.
Stamp on designs using acrylic paint and painting stamps. You can also use a round pouncer for a polka-dot design.
Use stencils, acrylic paint, and a foam brush to paint on words, shapes, or designs onto the box.
Use Mod Podge to glue on some patterned paper to the top of your box. Cut the hole out again, then add another layer of Mod Podge over it when you are done., You can use the brush-on kind, but the spray-on kind will give you a much smoother finish. Choose a waterproof, acrylic sealer for extra durability. Once you have the sealer on, wait for it to dry completely; this could take a few hours.









If you removed any hardware from your base, wait until the sealer has dried and/or cured before putting it back on.Some sealers also have a curing time. While they may be dry to the touch in a few hours, they may not be completely dry for a few days.
 If you made several holes for different bowls, you can fill each bowl with something different: canned food, kibble, and water. If you used a crate or storage unit for your dog's raised bowl, you could use it to store your dog's food.








