 Before you start, have everything ready. Sponge cakes are time sensitive cakes, so you don't want to measure ingredients or wait on the oven to heat while you're in the middle of mixing.Measure all the ingredients and have them nearby before you begin.


Sift the baking powder into the flour before you begin. Set aside until needed.
Preheat the oven to 375ºF (190°C.)
Line the pan with butter before beginning. As an alternative to butter or cooking spray, use parchment paper. Parchment paper is a grease and moisture-resistant paper. When using parchment paper, no butter or cooking sprays are needed because cakes, cookies, or other baked goods won't stick. It also helps with clean up, since you will have no leftover batter to wash.If using parchment paper, cut a piece of paper into the shape and size of the bottom of the pan. You can also line the sides of the pan with paper, or you can use cooking spray or butter.;
, Using an electric mixer, beat well. You can use a standard hand mixer or a standing mixer.


Make sure the eggs are at room temperature when you cook. Take the eggs out of the refrigerator 30 minutes before you begin to make sure they are room temperature.Do not leave them out of the refrigerator much longer than 30 minutes.
 Using the hand mixer, beat well until the mixture is a pale yellow color and creamy in texture.You can also mix the sugar and eggs together with an electric whisk attachment.
 Beat into the mixture. Slowly sift the flour into the mixture, beating the batter until smooth.


Sifting all-purpose flour creates an airy cake, which is what you want to do for a sponge cake.Sift the flour as you measure it when you begin, then sift the flour into the measure before you mix.
The baking powder is added when using all-purpose flour because this type of flour has no leavening agent added to the flour, unlike self-rising flour., You can use a round pan, an angel food cake pan, or any other type of pan. Bake at 375ºF for 30 to 35 minutes.
 Every oven is different, so as the cake approaches 30 to 35 minutes, you need to begin watching it. Check to see if the cake is done by gently touching with your finger. It will spring back if it is done. If you are still unsure, insert a toothpick or fork into the center of the cake. If the cake is clean, it is done., After removing from the oven, let it cool for 15 to 20 minutes before removing cake from the cake pan. If you used butter or spray on the pan, loosen around the edges with a knife, then flip cake and place on a serving plate

