 You may find many natural remedies on the internet for dogs. However, these treatments are not always safe. It's best to ask your vet's advice about a treatment before giving it to your dog. You don't want to make the situation worse.Keep in mind that what's safe for humans is not always safe for dogs. For example, dogs can't have onions, garlic, raisins, grapes, or chocolate.
Simple home remedies can help with a variety of ailments. For instance, you can use pediatric replenishing drinks to help your dog recover after they've been vomiting or had diarrhea. Other people use cooled chamomile tea, both for stomach problems and to spray on mild skin issues. However, you should always ask your vet first about such treatments., Home remedies can cure some ailments and are relatively safe for your dog. However, some ailments are best cured by conventional medicine, especially ailments that would usually require surgery.For instance, for something like a hematoma, which is a blood-filled blister, alternative medicine may not work, particularly if it's in a difficult place, such as the dog's ear.
Also, if your dog is in obvious distress, such as having non-stop vomiting or breathing problems, a vet needs to see it. Constant whimpering or whining is also an indication your dog may need to see a vet.
The same holds true for things like vaccinations. Even if you aren't a big fan of vaccinations, you may find it prudent to vaccinate your dog if a particular disease is going around in your area.
 While you may not want to choose a wholly "natural" vet, as they might not practice any conventional medicine, you should at least pick one who's sympathetic to your mindset. Find a vet who understands that you prefer home remedies, but who will be honest with you when a home or natural remedy won't work.You can also get advice from a holistic vet when you want a second opinion.
 Aromatherapy is the use of essential oils to treat certain conditions. At home with your dog, it's best to only use essential oils in either topical applications or diffusion/inhalation. You should not give essential oils orally to your dog.Dilute oils for your dog. You should only use three to six drops in an ounce of carrier oil or eighteen to twenty-four drops in eight ounces of shampoo. A carrier oil is just a basic oil that can "hold" and dilute the other oil, such as olive oil, coconut oil, or jojoba oil, while a shampoo is just any pet shampoo you want to use. Hydrosols are similar to essential oils, but they are formed from a different part of the plant, so they aren't as strong. Therefore, they may be a good place to start with your dog instead of essential oils.
Remember that a dog's sense of smell is very strong, so you don't need nearly as much as you need for humans. Start small.
Often, the same application you use for humans will work for dogs. For instance, lavender can have a calming effect on dogs.Always be careful when using essential oils, particularly on your dog. You should NOT use any of the following essential oils: birch, wintergreen, anise, camphor, juniper, hyssop, white thyme, yarrow, clove, rue, pennyroyal, mustard, horseradish, tansy, and wormwood. This list is not extensive, so always check if the oil is safe for your dog.
 Just like some people use herbal remedies on themselves, you can use them on your dog to help with some ailments. They are appropriate for a wide variety of applications, but remember that some herbs that are safe for humans are toxic to dogs.Aloe vera gel, for instance, can be used on dogs to help with minor cuts or burns. However, it shouldn't be ingested by dogs, so they shouldn't lick the area.
You can also use herbs like calendula flowers on your dog. You can either apply the flowers directly to a cut, or make an antiseptic by boiling the flowers in water.
 If a dog is eating a nutritious diet and is healthy overall, it likely won't need any supplements. Nonetheless, if your dog has a particular condition, supplements can sometimes benefit a dog's health.Consult your vet before adding a supplement, particularly if your dog is on a special diet.
For instance, you may find that if your dog has joint problems, a supplement containing glucosamine and chondroitin may help. For skin problems, fish oil may be beneficial, and vitamins C and E may help reduce inflammation.

