 To reduce itchy skin, keep showers or baths under 20 minutes and use lukewarm water instead of hot water. This routine helps promote your skin’s natural moisture and can help reduce itching.Avoid hot showers as this can cause your skin to dry more and worsen the itch.
Also avoid using perfumed soaps, shower gels and deodorants that may irritate the skin and opt for soaps that contain a moisturizer to help soften and hydrate skin.
Pat dry your skin instead of rubbing it to reduce further irritation.;
, If the itch is caused by dry skin, it is essential you moisturize your skin immediately after shower and at least twice a day to avoid dryness. Moisturizers help seal in your skin’s natural moisture and help promote a healthy and elastic skin.Use unscented and hypoallergenic lotions (such as Eucerin and Cetaphil) or try oatmeal-derived moisturizers, such as Aveeno. You can even use plain Vaseline to lock in the moisture.
Avoid using moisturizers that contain fragrances, alcohol or other irritating chemicals as these may worsen the itch., Avoid harsh and rigid fabrics (such as wool) as these can irritate your skin even more. Wear loose clothing that is made of non-irritating materials (such as cotton or silk).Also wash your clothes using an unscented or hypoallergenic laundry detergent and avoid using fabric softeners. Some laundry detergents can leave a residue on the clothes, which can worsen the itch.
You may also want to use cotton bed sheets that can help reduce irritation during the night.
 Omega-3s are essential fatty acids that help your skin produce oil and stay hydrated. If you lack these essential fats in your diet, your skin can get dry and itchy.Good sources of omega 3 fatty acids are salmon, walnuts, eggs, sardines, soy, safflower oil and flax seeds.
You can also take a fish oil or other omega-3 oil capsules to ensure you are getting enough.
 Our bodies are dependent on water to survive. A lack of water can lead to dehydration, resulting in dry and itchy skin.The Institute of Medicine has determined that, on average, women should drink a minimum of nine cups of water a day.If you exercise or live in a hot environment, increase your water intake.
 Stress takes a toll on your body in many ways, including causing skin problems. Besides itching, many other skin problems also can be exacerbated by stress including eczema and dermatitis.Reduce stress by making time for relaxing activities each day, such as meditation, yoga, walking, or reading.
You can also try controlled breathing techniques to combat stress.
 Both of these substances tend to act as diuretics, which cause you to urinate more frequently and cause you to become dehydrated. They may also affect blood flow in the skin, making itching worse.Consume caffeine and alcohol in moderation, if you consume them at all.
 If you are not getting all the essential vitamins from your diet, it may result in dry and unhealthy skin. Consider taking a vitamin supplement with vitamins C, D, E and K. You may also want to try topical creams with these vitamins to promote healthy skin and relieve itchiness.Vitamin C is an antioxidant that works in collagen synthesis and decreases cell damage. You can take oral vitamin C or use a topical cream.
Vitamin D3 (available as synthetic calcitriol) can be found in topical creams, which may be effective in treating skin conditions (such as psoriasis) by reducing skin inflammation and irritation.
Vitamin E helps protect against sun damage and can reduce skin inflammation when applied topically.
Vitamin K can be found in topical creams and although the scientific evidence of its effectiveness is not as strong as with vitamin C and E, it may help treat irritated skin.

