 By setting a goal or limit for yourself, you will know ahead of time when you need to stop drinking alcohol. For example, if you know that drinking 3 glasses of wine will cause you to feel inebriated, reduce your limit to 2 glasses of wine instead.;
, A close, trusted friend can help you stick to your goal, and help remind you when you should stop drinking alcohol.
 Having food in your stomach will help slow down your body's absorption of alcohol, and can help prevent you from becoming inebriated at a fast rate. Food that is high in carbohydrates and protein can reduce the effects on alcohol on your body.


Eat snacks while you drink alcohol to help keep your stomach full throughout any holiday event. For example, eat appetizers or finger foods at parties, or bring a small bag of your own snack that is high in protein, such as nuts.
 If you can sip your drinks, or take breaks between drinks, you can avoid becoming inebriated and help reduce your overall alcohol consumption. For example, if you plan on being at a party for 4 hours, have 1 drink every 2 hours.


Drink water, juice, or other non-alcoholic beverages in between alcoholic beverages if you feel fidgety, or want to continue drinking liquids throughout the holiday event.
 Since many people present bottles of liquor or wine to the host as a formality, make sure that drinks such as water, coffee, tea, and hot chocolate are available as alternate options. For example, if you are a guest, present boxes of tea bags to the host.
 Other friends, family members, and party-goers may try to convince you to continue drinking; especially if they are also consuming alcohol.


Prepare an answer ahead of time if you fear that you may give in to an offer of alcohol. For example, inform others that you have to work early the next day, or that you made plans for an early-morning workout if they try to persuade you to keep drinking alcohol.
 Having plans in place after a party or event can help prevent you from over-drinking and help reduce your alcohol consumption. For example, buy movie tickets for a show later in the evening so you will not feel inclined to drink additional alcohol.

