


Apple cider vinegar is an acidic liquid that is created by the fermentation of whole apples. The science behind apple cider vinegar as an effective weight loss supplement is questioned in many academic circles. There are, however, an equal number of nutritionists and dietitians who believe that apple cider vinegar can curb an appetite and promote gradual fat reduction.;
,


Many apple cider vinegar products are distilled too many times. Each distillation or filtration process strips the apple cider vinegar of essential nutrients and vitamins.
Purchase apple cider vinegar or apple cider vinegar supplements that are made from whole apples and that don't use vinegar that has been distilled or filtered.
 This will ensure that the vinegar you are purchasing still includes all of the positive characteristics of a weight loss supplement rather than apple cider vinegar that is designed just for cooking.



Some consumers prefer to dilute the apple cider vinegar in an 8-ounce glass of water or iced tea.
If the flavor of apple cider vinegar is too strong for you to comfortably consume on a regular basis, you may choose to add 1 to 2 teaspoons of raw honey to a dose of apple cider vinegar.



In your journal, list the amount of apple cider vinegar you used before a meal, the method in which you consumed the apple cider vinegar and the meal that you followed your dose with.
Compare these facts with your results to determine which type of apple cider vinegar dose is most effective for your body.
 While apple cider vinegar can help to curb your appetite and boost your metabolism, it will not replace the need for an exercise regimen and a healthy diet. Only by pairing healthy eating with regular aerobic exercise can you hope to lose weight over time.
 Apple cider vinegar is not a miracle drug; in fact, no such miracle drug exists. The only way to lose weight in an effective and healthy way is to do so gradually, giving your fat cells time to adjust and adapt to their new size.


Apple cider vinegar is thought to increase weight loss by about fifteen pounds each year. An extra fifteen pounds of weight loss each year can make a huge difference in one's personal appearance and overall health.
 Set specific weight loss goals for yourself and be sure to make them feasible and reachable. Unreachable goals will cause you to be frustrated and feel as if your weight loss journey is a failure. Set reasonable goals and use apple cider vinegar to systematically help you reach those goals.
