 How are you supposed to sneak out of your house if you don't know how? Make sure you have a fail-safe way to leave your house that's out of the way, preferably from the basement or out a window from your room. Going out the front door is very risky and quite stupid. The only case in which going out the front door is acceptable is if your sibling (who is willing to cover/help you) is coming in and you go out at the same time.;
, Although you can sneak out when your parent(s) are awake, it's much riskier. I mean, what if they go into your room to say goodnight or something like that? The only case that is much less risky for this is if you AND FRIENDS are downstairs and you simply leave while your parent(s) are in bed but not necessarily asleep. Your best bet is to wait an hour AT THE LEAST after they've fallen asleep, but any more is perfectly fine and much safer. Do NOT ever ask when they are going to go to bed; that will just arouse suspicion. Also, don't go to bed too early because a) it will also arouse suspicion and b) it's very hard to stay awake when you're lying in bed in the dark. A tip that's very helpful is if you go into your parent(s) room to say goodnight and casually close the door on your way out. It makes sneaking past their room much easier and it's much less stressful for you.
 You must be prepared to sneak out, even if it's on the fly. For instance, are all the alarms off? The door from which you're leaving unlocked? Are the trouble spots smoothed over? Is your route secure and safe? Also, make sure that you get ready quietly. For girls this is more important; if you weren't wearing makeup before you went to bed you have to put it on quietly and carefully. Make sure you know what you're wearing and where it is. Your phone should be on silent, NOT on vibrate, and it's always safe to turn it off until you're out of your house.
 Do NOT wear shoes when you're going past your parents; in fact, don't put shoes on until you are two houses away from your own house. A technique that works for me is the fake pee. When you're all ready to go, simply come out of your room and go to the bathroom. You don't actually have to pee, but flush the toilet after about 30-45 seconds and then run the water for about 10-20 seconds. Come out of the bathroom, go back to your room, but don't go back inside. Instead, open the door and then close it after about 2-5 seconds. Now is where your ninja skills come in. Tiptoe slowly and carefully past your parents, and freeze whenever you make a sound, like when a floorboard creaks or something. Also freeze when you HEAR a sound, especially from your parents' room. Once your past your parents but not out of your house, you can loosen up a little bit, but still tiptoe like a ninja and be as quiet as you can. When you go out your designated door, do NOT close it completely, but don't leave it wide open. Leave it so that the door is touching the door frame, but it's not closed. It'll make it so much easier to come back in.
 The fake pee can also be used in this case. Using your ninja skills, sneak back past your parents and open and close your door again, but DON'T go inside. Go to the bathroom and flush the toilet, run the water, etc. But this time when you go back to your room, actually go inside. This method is nearly fail safe.

