 Many people like to compare live-action roleplaying to playing "pretend." That is, you hang out with other people and pretend that you are someone else, such as a vampire or a pirate.
 Some live-action roleplays are action-based, where you fight opponents with boffers (weapons made from foam). Others are story-based, where you do not touch the other characters. Instead, you decide whether you win or lose a battle by rolling dice, playing rock-paper-scissors, or comparing character stats.


Story-based live-action roleplays are also called "theater-style" or "freeform."
Some live-action meet regularly in a public area, while others meet seldom (ie: once a month or once a year) in a staged area, such as a campground or hotel.
 When you first enter the world of LARPing, you may hear certain terms that are completely new to you. Most of them are pretty self-explanatory, but some might be confusing. Different groups might have different terms for certain things, but the following are the most common:


LARP: stands for "live-action roleplay."
Boffer: a foam padded weapon, commonly used in action-based LARPs.
Game master: the person in charge of leading the LARP's story. He or she will be in charge of bringing in new characters, dilemmas, etc. They may also be called a "Storyteller," and are common in story-based LARPs.
NPC: stands for "non-player character." They are unavailable to the other players, and are usually played by the game master.
PC: stands for "player character." This is the character that you, the LARPer, plays.
Crew: also called "stagehands." They help the game master setup the event. Some may also play NPCs.
 They will vary depending on which group you join. For example, action-based LARPs often have rules against where you can or can't hit a person with a boffer (ie: the head). Story-based LARPs, on the other hand, often have no-touching rules. Breaking these rules may result in disciplinary action, such as a temporary ban or point deduction.


Many LARPs require you to be in character. You have to indicate when you are not in character. How you do this may vary from group to group.
 Some types of LARPs may have a character sheet for you to fill out, complete with stats like strength, luck, agility, intelligence, etc. Other types of LARPs only require a name and a brief backstory for your character.


Some LARPs require costumes. When creating a character, you might want to keep this in mind, especially if you plan on making the costume yourself.
 Some LARPs require you to be in costume at all times, while others do not. In either case, the costume will help make your character more believable, and the world more engaging. Many people find it easier to get into character while they are in costume.


Many action-based LARPs only require costumes for the actual game or battles. They do not require costumes during training sessions.
 Typically, you would be in-character when the LARP is taking place; you would be out-of-character before and after the LARP, such as when plans are being made and points are being tallied. If you need to get out of character, such as during an emergency, remember to indicate accordingly; again, how you indicate will depend on the group you join, as they all have different rules.
 Most LARPs will have websites telling you where their roleplays take place. Many LARPs have multiple groups in multiple locations, all playing the same game—that is, they use the same character types and rules. If you find a LARP that interests you, look it up and see if it is playing near your city or town. If they don't, then see if you can register a group of your own, and start your own game.


Some LARPs take place at anime, comic book, or science fiction and fantasy conventions. Check the schedule to see if there is one planned. Most cons will post their schedules ahead of time on their website.
 Some LARPs take place in public areas, such as a park, and last only a few hours. Others may span over the course of a weekend, and take place at a campground, forest, or lake. Some of these longer LARPs may have accommodation for the players, such as cottages or hotels, but others won't. In these cases, you will need to pack for the trip, and bring items such as: tents, sleeping bags, food, medications, change of clothes, etc.


A costume and prop repair kit would be highly recommended for any weekend-long LARP session. Even the sturdiest costumes and props break, and not every place will have a repair station.
 LARPing is all about interaction. Once a session starts, you will walk around and talk with other players, while in character. This means that if you are playing a 100-year-old vampire, you will be using lots of Victorian-era mannerisms. Don't be afraid to go out of your shell, but don't take the spotlight and try to be the center of attention. Let other players talk as well!!


If this is a combat-based LARP, have your boffer ready, because people might start charging at you. There is not much chatting or "acting" in combat-based LARPs once a battle starts.
There is no real winner or loser in a story-based LARP, but the last one standing is the winner in a combat-based LARP. Play hard!

