 Create a wall high enough to prevent the tributes from escaping, and make sure there are no ways to somehow jump over it. The arena must be bigger than 60x60 to create the fun. (Small arenas are also fine as this could provide for quick death-matches.);
, Make a redstone circuit to fill the cornucopia after emptied for the feast and land mines with TNT to prevent cheating (use redstone!) If you installed mods with "backpacks", add them as they are more realistic.
 If the arena is big, use commands to change biomes and then make smaller changes as its easier. If it is a city map, ruins map or is a structure that does not naturally generate in Minecraft, you will have to build it. If there are many identical structures (such as multiple complicated redstone circuits that are identical), use commands or mods to duplicate it. If you have a mod, you can make a biome that your tributes will have a hard time recognizing.
 Introduce to your tributes how the arena and weapons work (especially if you used a weapon mod or re-textured your weapons). Give your tributes suites and capital-like feasts. Have a parkour area, maybe a trap-escaping practice area, and so on, have players who are familiar with the weapons become gamemakers.
 Create rabbits to be hunted for food. No killer bunnies; that will be for mutations later. You can also texture the animals and explain their habits to make new animals.
 Add traps with command blocks or redstone and if a tribute wanders in, possibility is that they might get killed. Do not add a specific trap in attempt to kill a specific tribute! If somehow the tribute or others find out that a gamemaker is specifically trying to kill a player in the games, they might leave the server or give you bad comments as it is very unfair to be specially targeted by a gamemaker, who can easily kill a tribute with a command. Only use commands that spawns monsters or creates fire or water. Never use teleport commands and kill commands on tributes.
 Re-texture furnaces to look like bonfires and have a lot of them hanging around, as tributes cannot craft furnaces to cook the food they have hunted.
 Make gold and iron swords. Enchant the swords if needed (or if there are modded weapons that are too strong). Never use diamond Try your best to avoid very strong enchantments or very strong weapons. Do not give any fire enchantments, as it will mess up the game. Avoid using guns or cannons or any modern weapons in mods, they will mess up the game.
,


Make the splash potion of harming a kunai or throwing knife
Make the splash potion of poison a poison kunai or poisoned knife
The splash potion of slowness a tears bomb
The splash potion of weakness the sleeping pill

,


Water: add a mod or command so that there is a scale for that you must drink water to rehydrate or your health would drop
Potion of Strength: energy drink
Potion of Regeneration: Medical Syrup
Potion of Healing: Medicine Pills
Potion of Swiftness: Rehydrating Sugar Drink
Potion of Leaping: Excitant
Potion of Poison: Nightlock Syrup (don't name it that way, name it energy drink)

,
Add sheep and rabbits for the tributes to hunt (have furnaces textured like bonfires hanging around!)

, Do not give helmets for district clothes as it looks weird.
 Have armour stands or chests containing them in loot houses dressed like deserted houses. Make sure you add a item can-destroy tag if tributes are playing in adventure mode.
 Build a reaping area and drop random tribute heads from a dropper circuit. If its only you and a couple of friends or a downloadable map, have 24 rooms and send them "reaping letters" telling them that they are reaped to the games. If this is a server or if a lot of other players will be playing the game, have gamemakers with weapons ready to go. If you have built lobbies for each district, make sure that each lobby has its own reaping area and separate dropper circuits. Have a peacekeeper room in each lobby with a teleport to all the other districts.


Make sure all the players in game shows up at the reaping, and make sure to take out the heads of players who have already left the game (a command circuit will help on that)
If someone does not show up at the reaping, have peacekeepers imprison them afterwards, if it is hard to count, craft a map and keep track of them, have peacekeepers patrol the area or use a command to teleport players by force and keeping them there.
 For the career districts, put training equipment in a specific room. The lobby doesn't have to be big, but it should contain the following things:


sleeping area
eating area
wilderness (forbidden to enter)
peacekeeper room
prison
industrial area (for the district's industry)
reaping area

, Fill it with beautifully decorated blocks and food (cakes or modded foods). Lay the roads with nether bricks and glowstone instead of cobblestone or coarse dirt. If you have decoration mods it will add a surprised feeling to the tributes. Have a huge mansion for the president (skip this if you don't have a president). Build the training center and arena here, and have a lot of peacekeepers or guard dogs here; this is the heart of your game. Make the capital centered area centered, being the most protected of all districts.
 Their district and job will be randomized (offer each a book and quill to write about their background and in-game name (i.e. Sycorax Mullaska, Astrid Ondalina, Kallista Atlantica, or Warrior cats styled names such as Honeystream, Dewclover, Iceflame, and so on. Never use Minecraft usernames as it is often unrealistic and very unclear). If you want, give them a choice to skip the backgrounds and reaps and go straight to the games as an extra tribute or a random volunteer.
 Have them ride on horses, pigs, slow minecarts, or boats and create the parade. Allow tributes to change their skins.
 Practice combat zones with wooden swords and have tributes wear strong armour to prevent death. Use snowballs as arrows. Have a camouflage area which tributes wear re-textured camo leather armour to hide from enemies.
 Use zombies and skeletons as dummies for fighting (as they will fight back), witches will make good replicates for tributes with potions.
 Make the room look like a palace compared to the shack-like houses in the poorer districts. Also make a room in each suite for the stylist.
, Have tributes take foods from item frames on the walls. Putting in desserts or decorated dishes from mods will make the meal more interesting. Have mundane (no effect) potions for drinks.
 Make sure to be fair to all the tributes and never over-score or underscore a tribute on purpose.
 Tell a gamemaker watching to videotape it and post it on a specific public place (such as a specific Twitter or Facebook account so the tributes can see it afterwards).
 Make the foot-stand one block with a pressure plate so when the tribute steps off, it explodes. Have a piston system remove the TNT once the countdown is finished.
 Meanwhile, have them check that no one is cheating, have weapons ready if something is to happen. Tell the gamemakers to announce the deaths at the end of the cornucopia bloodbath. Craft maps for them to keep control of who's where.
 Have several gamemakers videotape it, as the feast comes to also a bloodbath.
, Give the victor a home in the victor's village (in the capital lobby or as a special district). Offer them lifetime wheat, milk, and eggs. Give them a horse or a cow. Have sugar and cake as a gift to their district house (as most districts are very poor and lack food)


If you want, put the victor's background written by him/herself in a Hunger Games museum in the capital.

