 Pre-heat the oven to 350ʡF (177ʡC). Then, gather the following ingredients:









1 1/4 cup flour
1 1/4 cup salt
1 tablespoon cream of tartar
3/4 cup warm water
1 tablespoon cooking oil;
, Use a spoon to mix the ingredients well.









In a variation of this recipe, you can cook the dough in a saucepan. To do this, instead of pouring the the ingredients into a mixing bowl, put them in a saucepan., Pour a small amount of the warm water into the bowl and start mixing the mixture with a spoon. It should start clumping together as you mix.









For the cooked variation, add the water and the oil into the saucepan. Turn the stove eye on low, and continue cooking on low and stirring until the dough has thickened. This may take a few minutes.
 Keep pouring the water in as you mix the batter. Soon the ingredients will form a sticky dough.









Many factors affect the consistency of the clay, like humidity in the air and the type and brand of flour being used. If your clay is too watery, add a little more flour. If the clay is too sticky, add a little more flour. If the clay is dry and flaky, add a little water.Add it in very small measures and knead the dough a little. Repeat the process until you think your clay has the right consistency.
 When the clay gets too tough to mix, add cooking oil to make it softer. Don't add too much, or it will affect the consistency of the dough and make it harder to mold.









Add a few drops of food coloring to give the clay some color. You can also separate the clay into several pieces and color each one separately for differently colored pieces. Knead the color in with your hands. It may appear marbled at first, but will soon evenly distribute.
 After the dough is finished thickening, sprinkle some flour on the counter. Knead the dough on the counter until it is a smooth, stretchy consistency.









You can also use a rolling pin to flatten the dough.
You can knead the dough and add food coloring to the dough made in the saucepan variation. Just make sure the dough is cool before you start kneading so you don't burn your hands.
 After the dough has been kneaded, shape the clay into different sculptures. If you have colored separate sections of dough different colors, knead them into shapes and then place them next to one another to build elaborate crafts.









Use toothpicks to decorate the clay with holes. You can make eyes, noses and other features.
Use cookie cutters to cut out different shapes, or use cookie presses to stamp the clay.
Sprinkle the sculptures with some glitter and gently press it into the clay before baking.
Take a key ring with a small chain attached and press the end of the chain into the clay. Press more clay around it so that it's secured inside the sculpture.
 Place the sculptures on a baking sheet. Make sure none of them are touching or they might fuse. Put the baking sheet of sculptures in the oven. Bake them for 20 minutes, or until the dough is nice and hard. Remove the sculptures from the oven and let them cool completely.









Since the clay you made is basically a dough, it can be baked in the oven until it becomes very hard. Make sure to watch it in case the sculptures start to burn. Baking the sculptures you molded will preserve them for years.
 Use poster paint, glitter glue, and other fun craft supplies to paint and decorate the sculptures you have made. You can seal with a coat of clear varnish once the paint has dried. This adds a shiny finish to your clay objects.







