 Gender dysphoria can be diagnosed by a mental health professional. You can schedule an appointment to discuss gender identity. During your appointment, the therapist may ask about personal and family history. You may be asked about childhood and adolescence and what thoughts and feelings you or your loved one experienced.For adults to be clinically diagnosed with gender dysphoria, you must have persistent feelings of being in the “wrong” gender for two or more years.
For children, gender incongruence is diagnosed after six or more months of expressing differences in the preferred gender and the assigned biological sex.Look for a therapist that specializes in issues related to gender. You may find resources at a community LGBTQ center or your local mental health clinic.
Seek out other forms of support as well. Having a supportive therapist is important, but it is also important to have other kinds of support. Surround yourself with supportive friends and family members, or join a support group.;
, Many children and adults who have symptoms of gender dysphoria may feel like they are trapped inside a body that is not theirs or that does not match their own gender identity.The person may feel like there was a terrible mistake at birth. Discuss these feelings with the mental health professional and talk about when the feelings first started, how long they have persisted, and how they affect you or your child today.


You may wonder why you have the body you have or how you ended up being the “wrong” sex.
Some transgender people do not experience this symptom, and feel comfortable with their bodies while stating that their sex and gender do not match. Many of them still benefit from a transition and community support.
 It’s common for children, teens, and adults to feel alone. They may isolate themselves or socially withdraw.The distress of feeling like a different gender may affect social relationships, or the person may feel shame associated with the gender identity. When meeting with a mental health professional, note any loneliness or isolation you or your child experience.


You may purposefully avoid intimate relationships or friendships with people for fear of disclosing your identity.
 Your mental health professional may ask questions about sexual orientation versus gender dysphoria. Gender dysphoria and sexual orientation are fundamentally different. A person who identifies as gay is attracted to members of the same gender. For a person with gender dysphoria, an internal conflict exists between the sex assigned at birth and the gender that matches the person’s identity.It is possible to have gender dysphoria and be gay at the same time. For example, a transgender man may like other men. Gender and sexual preferences are two separate things, which do not affect each other.
 Girls acting like a “tomboy” can be normal behavior, as can boys playing dress-up in their mother’s or sister’s clothes. Exploring activities and preferences is a part of normal development. Yet, for many children, these behaviors often evolve or change with time. For others, the mismatch of gender identity is distressing and persists throughout development.Notice how the distress of being the “wrong” sex affects your child.
 A child may tell others that they are the other sex.A child you thought to be a boy may say she is a girl, and a child you thought to be a girl may insist he is a boy.


Sometimes a child may rename themselves based off of their gender identity. For example, a trans girl named Stephen may write "Stephanie" on all her notebooks, and light up if you start calling her this.
A child may correct others about their gender, and surprise adults when told "boys line up here."

, A child may express a strong dislike of activities that are associated with the gender adults perceive them to be. These can include tea parties and dress up for trans boys, or pretending to be cowboys and wrestling for trans girls. The child may also refuse to play with typical toys associated with the gender. Instead, the child may prefer toys and activities more commonly associated with their true gender.Refusal may be out of genuine dislike, or for fear of being called the wrong gender.Some children will not display this trait.
 A dislike of anatomy can also be a sign of gender dysphoria, but this is not an indication of gender dysphoria on its own. Kids who are just becoming aware of their genitals may express a dislike of their genitals, which is normal. However, the child's dislike of their genitals may be a sign of gender dysphoria if it is accompanied by other signs of gender dysphoria.


For example, a trans boy may want to grow a penis while a trans girl may want to get rid of her penis. The child may insist or hope that the genitals will change in development.A girl may say, “When I get older, I’m going to have a penis!”
If a boy says he wants to cut off his penis, explain to him that this is very painful and unsafe. Make it clear that he can be feminine while having a penis, and that if he still doesn't want it when he's older, a doctor can cut it off properly.
 They may choose opposite-sex playmates and friends over children of the same biological sex.


Reflect on your child’s friends. Does your child tend to prefer playmates of the opposite sex more often than those of the same sex?
Keep in mind that having friends of the opposite sex on its own is not a sign of gender dysphoria. There are lots of other reasons why a child might be friends with children of the opposite sex.
 Children with gender dysphoria may express a strong dislike of their anatomy. They may also express a strong desire or wish to have the opposite gender's anatomy.For example, a boy with gender dysphoria may express strong dislike of his vagina, and say he wants to grow a penis.
 A child with gender dysphoria may become extremely distressed during puberty. It can be upsetting or traumatic to watch the body change to be more like the assigned sex when the child wants to be the other gender.Suicide is a major risk factor in teens with gender dysphoria or that identify as LGBTQ.Look out for the risk factors associated with suicide. For more information, check out How to Prevent Teen Suicide.
Offer to take the child to get puberty blockers right away. This can ease their distress and lower the suicide risk by halting the traumatic puberty. Depending on their situation, they may continue puberty blockers for a while, or start taking hormones to begin puberty that corresponds to their correct gender.
 As an adult, you may have felt throughout your entire life that your body and your identified gender are fundamentally different. You may feel entirely confident of the mismatch without any hesitation., During adolescence, the dysphoria may be accompanied by symptoms of depression, anxiety, or behavior problems. These symptoms can increase an adolescent’s distress while dealing with issues of gender identity.If you think you may be anxious or depressed, see a mental health professional to receive treatment. If you're unsure how to start, your general practitioner can help you.
 Some people with gender dysphoria cover up their appearance out of shame, or make themselves look more like the desired gender. For instance, a person with breasts may wear baggy clothes or minimize the appearance of the breasts and use a binder. Or someone with facial hair may go to great lengths to hide the hair.The physical characteristics may cause shame or embarrassment, which is why the person chooses to cover the body.


Are there things about your appearance you hide or minimize? What motivates you to do this?

, It’s common for people with gender dysphoria to enjoy dressing as their true gender. They may choose clothing styles and trends of their real gender, and shop at stores oriented towards their gender. Individuals may also use mannerisms or speech patterns associated with their real gender.These patterns may be a part of daily life, be done in secret, or occur in other environments.


A "man" may use speech more typical of a woman, or a "woman" may engage in behaviors more typical of a man.
 Aside from having patterns and behaviors of this gender, many people choose to openly live life as their gender on a daily basis. Adults and teens may wish to engage in the lifestyles typically associated with the other sex, or make physical and/or surgical changes to their bodies to embody their true gender more fully. This can affect lifestyle choices, home decor, clothing options, activities, social circles, personal life, and professional life.
Some transgender people may be hesitant to live openly, for fear of discrimination and other social repercussions. Respect their choice and offer plenty of support.
 Teens or adults can start hormone treatments, and adults can do genital reconstruction surgery.This signifies a great commitment to identifying as their gender, and taking steps to help their body reflect it. It’s important to note that symptoms such as sadness, self esteem issues, and depression may continue to persist even after treatment.

