 An earthquake while driving sometimes feels like there is something wrong with your car. Use your senses. Look around. You will feel the earth jolting and shaking, and begin to see things falling or cracks opening.;
, Do this as quickly as possible but keep your mind totally focused on safety. It is likely you won't be the only person on the road, so keep an eye out for traffic and be aware that some drivers may panic.


As best you can, avoid pulling up under bridges, overpasses, signs, building overhangs, power lines, trees, or any other hazards that might fall onto your car. Avoid parking next to buildings. The car offers very little protection should heavy objects fall on it.
If in a parking lot, exit the car and crouch down low and close to the side of the car to use it as protection - do not get under the car as it will take the impact of any large falling debris such as concrete.
, Stay calm.
, See "Warnings" below for what to do if a power line has fallen on your car. If you have emergency supplies inside your car, find them. The ideal items to keep in a car are listed under "Things You'll Need" below. Assess the damage to your car and in the immediate vicinity to see whether it is safe to proceed.


Check to see that the passengers are all right. Expect some shock or panic and do your best to reassure such persons.
Attend to any injuries using first aid.
The fire department and other emergency services will be dealing with their own issues. You, and those around you, need to work together. DO NOT phone 911 and needlessly overload circuits.
 Provided it is safe, rendezvous wherever it is safest and most convenient to do so. Remember that it may be safer to stay where you are, especially if there is chaos on the roads. Use your phone to call people and let them know you're alright. However, remember cell phone towers may be damaged. Listen to the local radio station for warnings and updates as you drive or walk.


Do not ever drive through flood waters.
Do not drive over large cracks in the road. You risk becoming stuck.
Do not drive under bridges that have cracks and other visible structural damage. Even without visible damage, be wary of all overhanging objects, bridges, signs, walls, and overpasses.
Be wary of the potential for landslides onto the road.
If you're driving along a coastal road in an area known as a potential tsunami zone, drive to higher ground as quickly as possible.
 The main quake will be followed by aftershocks which can easily dislodge damaged buildings and other structures that haven't already fallen apart.

