 Keep up your grades in school, and participate in clubs and activities that show you have an interest in the financial markets. Take advantage of internship and job shadowing opportunities with stockbrokers while you are still in high school.;
, Junior stockbrokers almost always need a bachelor's degree, preferably in an area such as finance, business or economics. Take as many courses as you can in Math, Statistics and Accounting, as well as liberal arts courses in English and Writing.A variety of science classes will also come in handy as you may be investing in pharmaceutical, medical, chemical and mining companies.
Proficiency in a foreign language will set you apart from the crowd, particularly if you speak French, Spanish, Russian, Chinese or Japanese., Many colleges will help arrange an internship with investment banks, brokerage houses and other financial institutions. While you will be responsible for a lot of administrative work, the exposure will help you find a job as a junior stockbroker.


Take summer jobs as an intern whenever you can. Use your time off from school to get experience, even if it is unpaid.
 Having an advanced degree will make you more competitive in the job market. If you can land your first job without an MBA, the company might pay your tuition to get your Master's degree part time., Make professional contacts through your internships, school studies and through clubs and activities. Make use of your college's career center and contact alumni to arrange informational interviews.


An informational interview is when you ask someone to tell you about his or her job and the education and experience required. This is different from an interview where you are applying for a job.
Get business cards from everyone you meet so you can stay in touch. Ask questions about their career path and what they have done to become successful.
 Many professional associations such as the National Association of Stockbrokers or the National Association of Securities Dealers welcome students to join who are interested in the field of stocks and finance. This will help your networking, and will give you resources on jobs and career training., List your work experience, educational credits, leadership positions in clubs, and your career objective. Be sure to include strong references.Even after you graduate from college, the career center there can help you write a resume and practice interviewing. They also offer up-to-date listings of job openings.
 These could be at your school or in the surrounding community. You will meet hiring managers and have an opportunity to discuss your qualifications and career goals. Be willing to relocate anywhere in the country for the right job opportunity.


Talk to your professional contacts and send your resume to firms you would like to work for. Check online job boards daily such as Monster and Indeed.
 Read papers such as The Wall Street Journal and The Financial Times. Watch CNBC and Bloomberg Television, and pay attention to breaking financial news.
 You will likely need to pay attention to financial markets all over the world, so your hours will not be 9 to 5. You might need to meet with clients in the evenings and on weekends., As a junior stockbroker, you will spend a lot of time on the phone. Get as much experience as you can with cold calling., Work closely with a more senior stockbroker whom you respect. Developing a relationship with a mentor will help your career grow.
 Once you get a job you will need to pass an exam called Series 7 to be licensed by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA. In many jobs as a stockbroker you will need to take continuing education classes to remain legally licensed.
 Once you are a licensed stockbroker, you may wish to further your career in the finance industry by pursing different certifications. A Certified Financial Planner (CFP) certification, for instance, provides counseling and financial advice for their clients. Or you may wish to become an analyst and pursue the highly respected Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) certification. Many of these certifications require additional education, significant work experience, and several exams, but they can help take you to the next level of your financial career.