 Nearly all independent jewelers will offer appraisal services. Ask friends and family for recommendations, search for listings of accredited and certified jewelry appraisers in your area, or simply look for online reviews to find a jeweler that is well respected and professional.


Nearly any appraisal services will be done for a small fee. Usually, the fee will be under $50, but it can vary depending on the ring and the area where you live.
You will be giving your ring to the appraiser for inspection, so make sure that this person has professional credentials and that he or she has been educated in appraising jewelry.Usually, you cannot insure an engagement ring without an appraisal because insurance companies do not want to rely on you to set the value of the item to be insured. Appraisers, on the other hand, have to stick to the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice, which requires that professional appraisers give you a fair appraised value for your jewelry, so they are trusted by insurance companies.;
, The jeweler will appraise your ring by inspecting the stones, as well as the setting. A good appraisal will take a variety of factors into considerations, including carat weight, the color of the stones, the cut of the stones, the metal type, and any markings, in addition to other factors.When the appraisal is finished the shop will get back to you with a concrete value for your piece of jewelry. You should receive a formal document from the appraiser that you can use to insure your engagement ring.
Additionally, if you have a larger or higher value ring, you may have received a GIA certificate, or some other official certification, with your ring. This type of certification is not an appraisal, but is accepted as one by many insurance companies. Ask the company you choose whether they will accept certification instead of an actual appraisal.
 Lots of experts recommend taking a set of photos because they can further document what you own. Remember to keep one set of photos with your own documentation and send another set to the insurance company when you get your insurance policy.
 Call your insurer, and ask them about adding your engagement ring to the policy.


Usually, high price items such as engagement rings are insured through a “rider” added on to your homeowners or renters policy. With a “rider,” insurance coverage is specifically assigned to the high priced item.
If you insure your ring with a rider that is added to a current policy, make sure that the coverage is as complete as you want it to be.
 If your ring isn’t, or can't, be covered under an existing homeowners or rental insurance policy, you will need to find an alternative policy. Contact a jewelry insurance representative to get information on rates to insure based on the ring's value. You can find listings for representatives online or in your local telephone directory.


The information you receive should show you where to send your appraisal and include all of the specific limitations or conditions for coverage.
Additionally, some people prefer to get a referral to an insurance company from the store that they buy the ring from, to ensure they insure the ring through a recommended company.
 For example, you should always ask what types of loss does the policy covers. Does it include accidental loss or damage, or only theft?


You will also want to ask about how a lost or stolen ring will be replaced and if there are circumstances when the ring will not be insured. Will you be paid for the value of the ring in cash or will you need to order a replacement through a jeweler that is specified by the insurance company.
You should even know how you will document that your ring is lost, stolen, or damaged. The insurance company will have very specific steps that you will need to go through to make a claim.
 The deductible is the amount that you will pay to replace the ring before the insurer picks up the tab for the rest. Most jewelry insurers offer a range of deductibles when you insure your engagement ring. A higher deductible will lead to a lower annual insurance premium.


A good rule of thumb to keep in mind when estimating your costs is that you can expect to pay around 1-2 dollars for every $100 your ring would cost to replace. This can vary based on the type of policy you choose.
 They will send you your policy once the paperwork is processed. Keep your policy on hand to be sure that in any unfortunate event, where the ring is lost or damaged, you will not lose the value of your investment.


Additionally, some companies could have other instructions or requirements for making claims included with the policy paperwork, so make sure to become familiar with your insurance company’s policies.

