 On a warm summer day, it’s nice to cool off and relax in a swimming pool. Enjoying a day at the pool with your friends is a great way to spend a day of your summer.

Many neighborhoods have swimming pools for neighbors and their friends to use, and you can also find public community swimming pools in some cities.Athletic clubs usually have swimming pools to use but it’s typically only for members and their guests.
Some communities have pools that you can pay a daily fee to swim in, and there are also fun water parks located in many cities.
 Reading a book is a wonderful way to relax during your free time in summer. Challenge yourself by making a summer reading list to accomplish by the time summer is over. Check out your local library or book store for recommendations on great books to read.

You could even make a book club with your friends. Send the reading list to everyone in the club and then meet a couple of times to talk about what parts of the books you liked and what parts you didn’t like.
Sometimes schools will have a required summer reading list to complete, but you can always add on more to the list!
Many local libraries and schools have summer reading incentives that reward you when you read a certain amount of books over the summer.
 Summer is a great time for camping because it typically doesn’t get too cold at night to be sleeping in a tent. Buy or borrow a tent to use to camp out in for a fun summer night. You can camp at a local campground, or even pitch the tent in your backyard to experience the fun of camping.

Be prepared for camping by having a sleeping bag, pillow, flashlights, bug spray, sunscreen, and campfire starters.
If you’re camping at a campsite be sure to bring plenty of food and drinks for your trip.
 All the free time you have during summer is great for having a movie marathon! Invite a couple of friends over and rent a few movies for a relaxing day and night filled with action packed movies.


You could ask each friend to bring their favorite movie over and watch everyone’s favorites!
Make sure you have plenty of snacks to enjoy while you watch all of your movies. Popcorn, candy, trail mix, chips and dip, and wings are great options to have for munching on during the movie.

