 Lift the lid off the water reservoir, located either on the left side or at the back of your machine. Depending on your model, either pull out the reservoir from the left side of the machine to fill it, or use a cup or mug to pour water into the back reservoir to the desired quantity.


Don’t fill water to above the line on the reservoir that says “MAX FILL.”
It’s best to use filtered or spring water, as hard water from the tap may leave mineral buildup in the machine over time.;
, Put your cup, mug, or small travel mug on the drip tray plate of the machine, under the spout where your brewed beverage will pour out.


For a slightly larger variety of mug, gently remove the drip tray and place the mug on the base underneath., Insert the single Keurig pack, called a K-cup, into the machine by lifting the handle on the front and center of the machine and placing the K-cup inside. Have the foil top facing up.


You don’t need to open the seal on the K-cup or do anything else to it; just place it into your machine as-is. The machine pierces holes in the seal and bottom of the K-cup when you close the lid so water can flow through when brewing.
 Depending on your Keurig model, you will either select the “Brew” button on your machine or choose a mug size to start the brewing process.


If you have the option to choose a brew size, choose “Small Cup” (5.25 oz.), “Small Mug” (7.25 oz.), or “Large Mug” (9.25 oz.) based on the size of your cup or mug.Don’t move your cup or mug or lift the top handle of the machine during brewing.
Depending on your model, the entire brewing process will take approximately 1-2 minutes.
 Take your cup or mug from the drip plate once liquid stops pouring from the machine and ends with a burst of air to push any remaining liquid out.


If your cup or mug overflowed with liquid, select a smaller size on your machine, if applicable, or use a larger cup or mug for future brews.
If your cup or mug doesn’t have enough liquid, select a larger size on your machine, use a smaller cup, or consult the user manual for your machine to learn how to check for blockages or other problems that may have occurred., Lift the top handle to remove the K-cup after it is done brewing, and dispose of it in a trash can.


Be careful when handling the used K-cup, as it will be very hot.
 Clean your Keurig every so often when you notice stains, mineral buildup, or a full drip plate tray.


Clean external parts with a soft damp cloth and soap. Slide out the drip tray to empty and rinse it with water and soap. The K-cup pack holder (the parts under the top handle) can be placed in the top rack of a dishwater in a low-temperature cycle.Always clean parts individually and without submerging your machine into water or other liquid.
 Descale your Keurig every few months to remove calcium or lime scales that develop on your Keurig from the natural mineral quantity in water. Obtain 20-48 ounces of undiluted white vinegar (depending on your Keurig’s size), a ceramic mug, and access to a sink.


Fill the water reservoir with the white vinegar and place the ceramic mug on the drip tray. Then press “Brew” without using a K-cup, and discard the resulting hot vinegar in the mug into a sink. You can repeat with a second vinegar cycle, or with a cycle using just water. Make sure to run a cycle with just water and rinse the water reservoir thoroughly before using your machine again normally., Keep your machine upright in a dry environment that is not exposed to freezing or very high temperatures.

