 Are the neighbors simply noisy? Is their property a nuisance or hazard? Have they damaged your property in some way? The level of annoyance should determine how much action you take. For example, the neighbor with an infant who cries at 4 A.M. isn't doing anything bad on purpose. Some things you may not be able to prevent or control.
Before taking any official actions, consider how you might solve the problem on your own by talking to your neighbors.
However, if your neighbor's behavior puts you at immediate risk, such as a sanitation issue, don't hesitate to speak up.;
, You may have behaviors or habits that cause issues for your neighbors.


If you tend to be noisy or messy, consider quieting down or cleaning up.
If you have annoying habits, your neighbors will be less accommodating if you complain about them.
Therefore, make sure you are on your best behavior and see if your neighbors follow suit.
 You should see if they are having problems or issues with the people you find annoying or that are causing issues for you. If others are having the same problems with the offending neighbors, this justifies your complaint.
If more than one person is having the same problem, you can consider talking to the offending neighbors together.
There is strength in numbers. If you need to make a formal complaint, you should do this jointly.
 Being demanding and mean to your neighbors can cause hard feelings and may tempt them to be more annoying. Instead, use kindness and reason when dealing with them. Be clear about what is bothering you. You just can't say they are bothering you for no reason.
Be straightforward, but reasonable. Don't yell or shout at your neighbor as that will just cause the situation to escalate.
If your neighbors aren't home often or if you can't get them to agree to sit down and talk, write them a polite letter that states your concerns. , Be creative in thinking of ways to allow the neighbors to do what they do, but in a less annoying manner.


For example, if they like to have noisy parties, ask them to end them earlier or have them only on the weekend.
If their property is a nuisance with tall weeds, garbage, or clutter, offer to help them clean it up.
If they have a pet that is causing a problem, suggest how they can keep the animal on a leash or build a fence.
If they have caused damage to your property you can suggest how they can fix it.
 Do what you can to fix the situation, especially if it is something the neighbors can't help or aren't able to fix. For example, if your problem is a crying infant at night, try sound proofing your walls.
If pets or kids are coming into your yard, consider building a fence.
Try to resolve the situation yourself before lodging a complaint.

