 Expulsion from school means that the child is no longer allowed to attend school at that institution. This is different from suspension where the child is banned from attending school for 1-20 days.


There are different types of expulsions from school. The main two types are expulsion and cancellation of enrolment. Most students are expelled from school but if your child's enrolment is cancelled this is a special consequences which only applies to students who are older than compulsory school age who are not participating in their education program, for example truanting or not doing work.
Expulsion can be for up to a year or permanent. Most expulsions from school in Australia are permanent. But some schools may choose to expel for up to a year. This is more common in rural areas where there are not many schools for a child to attend so it's not an easy option to just enroll in another year.
Most expulsions in Australia are from just one school but a child can be expelled from a group of schools or even all schools in their state.
Schools can expel kids for disobedience, defiance, misbehaviour, drug offences, truancy, failing to wear correct uniform, bullying, assault, swearing, verbal abuse, property damage, disruptive behaviour, criminal behaviour and so on. Most offences that a student can commit can be put into one of those categories.
Usually when your child is expelled from school a great variety of other behaviour modification methods have been tried first. This may include detention, community service, counselling, in school suspension, out of school suspension, behaviour improvement contracts and so on. For more severe offences like physical assault, drug offences, weapon possession and similar behaviours the school will usually expel a student without using other methods of discipline first.;
, If your child is to be expelled he or she will be suspended from school for 5 days first with the recommendation for expulsion. The Governor General will evaluate the case and make the final decision as to whether the child should be expelled or not.
 A parent and a child have the right to appeal against the expulsion before it is finalized . You will receive a letter not he first day of the suspension with the information about appealing. Appealing is almost never successful so only appeal if you have very good reason to believe your child is innocent.
 If your child is expelled the first thing you must find out is why. Does your child have an underlying condition that is not being treated, are they victims of abuse, have they gotten in with the wrong crowd, are they suffering with mental problems or substances use. Before you try to enroll your child in another school you need to do what you can to ensure your child is not just going to be expelled again. Often an expulsion from school can be a wake up call that a problem needs addressing.
 In 99% of cases it is best for the student to continue their education. If your child is of compulsory school age they must continue their education. This is if they are under 16 and have not yet completed year 10. If they are over 16 or have completed year 10 but are under 17 and have not completed year 12 they are in the compulsory participation phase, this means they must be in full time education or have a full time job. If they are over 17 they do not have to attend school. If your child is over compulsory school age they may prefer to look for a job or attend a TAFE course.
 Most state schools will take your child even if they have Been expelled from a school. Previously. Any state school. It's accept your child as long as the school is not at capacity, your child has not previously been expelled from that school, they are the right age for the school and don't have a disability which the school can't cater for. Shop around and look for a school that might be a better fit for your child. Perhaps a smaller school, one with a special behaviour management program, one with an excellence area your child enjoys. Sometimes just a fresh start helps.
 The director general can expel your child from attending certain schools or all schools. But this is quite rare.


Sometimes it takes a while to find the right fit. Don't be deterred if your child is expelled again. Some kids need very specific environments to succeed. Just because the first 5 schools didn't work it does not mean the 6th won't work.
 A child who is expelled can still attend a private school and a child who is expelled from all schools in the state can still enroll in a private school. Many private schools won't take expelled kids, but some do and can provide an excellent supportive environment.
 All states have both public and private schools and alternative program's for students with major behaviour problems who don't fit into the normal school environment. These may be perfect for your child. Ask your case manager about them.
 You can choose to enroll your child in one of the many schools of distance education which provide online classes for your child to attend or you can home school them.


If your child is expelled from all schools you can send them to a private school or private special assistance school, you can enroll them in. Boarding school in another state. You can home school them or you can send them to a therapeutic school overseas.
