 Attending a fancy event doesn’t mean that you have to worry about tripping in your stilettos, losing your pashmina, or tolerating heavy earrings. Select your accessories based on how they can help you be comfortable.
 Since your strapless dress necessarily exposes quite a bit of skin, it’s a good idea to bring along some kind of cover-up. Stash it in your purse just in case, or don it at home and make it part of your outfit.


Even if you are attending a summertime event, a gauzy cover-up can come in handy in case of gusty winds or rain showers.For cooler seasons, throw on a fur stole, cardigan, or blanket scarf.If you have trouble matching separates, ask the salesperson for help in selecting a cover up at the same time as you’re shopping for your strapless dress. Already own the dress but still need the cover up? Bring a picture of the dress and your friendly salesperson can still assist!

, If you’re anxious about exposing your arms, shop for a matching cardigan or lightweight jacket at the same time as you purchase your dress. This will allow you to experiment with lots of options and ensure that you find a combination you feel confident wearing for the entire event.


If you have other trouble spots, think creatively. Sport an eye-catching necklace that will draw attention to your face if you feel insecure about your body. Wrap a scarf around your neck if you have scars or wrinkles on your décolletage, and pop some high heels on your feet if you struggle with stocky legs in order to make them appear longer and leaner., No matter what you’re doing or where you’re going, you’ll need some kind of vessel in which to carry your essentials.


If you’ll be dancing or travelling from place to place, or if your prone to misplacing things, select a clutch with a strap.
You can still be stylish if you have a lot of things you need to carry with you. Whether you’re a new mom who needs a diaper bag or a professional continuously saddled with her computer, you can find the right slouchy hobo bag or tote that seamlessly blends fashion and utility., You don’t want to be squinting through your friend’s birthday or find your mascara smudged in the wedding pictures, so make sure you grab a pair of sunglasses for the sake of both looks and comfort.


For a black, classic dress, opt for oversized retro square frames. For a breezy summer get-up, don a pair of gold-rimmed aviators or colorful round frames.

