 Decide on a date in which you want the project completed and write it down in your calendar. Then pick dates along the way when you want certain tasks completed. If possible, give yourself plenty of time by selecting a timeframe that is achievable. Setting dates that are unrealistic may put too much pressure on you and cause you to become discouraged if you don’t reach them., You may not complete a project because you are unsure of where to begin. A simple way to start is to do something productive towards it for two minutes. You may find that this little bit of time is all you needed to get the ball rolling.


For instance, if you want to finish a painting but are unsure of where to start, paint a quick scene on a separate sheet of paper for a few minutes. This may get the creative juices flowing and allow you to finish your project., If you have a habit of leaving things undone, you might want to start looking at your reasons for putting things off. There may be a variety of reasons why you have put off doing something, which may include lack of time, resources, or interest. Think about why you have put off the projects that you have and try to determine if there is anything you can do to overcome these obstacles.


For example, if you have put off finishing a paper for a class, then maybe it is because you feel like you don’t have enough to say or because the project is difficult. To tackle this project, you could meet with the teacher or professor to discuss your concerns and find a way to move forward.
Or, if you have put off a project at home, such as assembling a new piece of furniture, then you might cite your reasons for putting it off as lack of time or energy. Perhaps you could set a time to assemble the furniture and ask a friend or family member to help you.
 Sometimes, in the midst of a long project, you may become disconnected from the reason you wanted to complete the project in the first place. Write down the core reasons you want to get this project done and your list might serve as motivation.For example, if you are working on a college degree, then you could write down the reasons why completing your degree is important to you.
 A helpful tactic to keep yourself inspired while completing a project is to pat yourself on the back for incremental successes. This is especially handy if the task you are trying to complete takes a long time—time in which you willpower and motivation will gradually dwindle. Celebrate the miniature accomplishments along the way to boost morale and keep yourself forging ahead.For instance, if your goal is to complete a certification course, you might celebrate the act of signing up and enrolling. Then, you might celebrate again after completing your first week of assignments, and so forth.

