 Complimenting your girlfriend’s appearance once in a while is a great way to make her feel good about herself. But, remember to be sincere. For example, don’t say you like her new haircut, if you actually don’t like it.


Tell your girlfriend that you think she is beautiful. Be specific when you tell your girlfriend that she is beautiful. For example, "I love your dark brown eyes" or "Every time I see you smile, it brightens my day.", You can compliment your girlfriend by admiring her emotional bravery. For example, “I know last week was a really rough week for you. But you were able to focus and put all the negativity aside, and put together a great presentation. Everyone loved it.”, You can compliment your girlfriend by congratulating her on a job well done. These type of compliments will build her self-confidence. For example, “Good job on winning the talent show. I know the competition was fierce!” Or, "I knew you were going to ace your test. I know you studied really hard for it. You deserve that A.", You can compliment your girlfriend indirectly by asking her how she did something. This way, you can admire her skills and expertise. You can say, for example, “Can you tell me how you studied for the midterm?” Or, “How did you create your own blog?”If your girlfriend is creative, admire her creativity. You can praise her creative touches by saying, “You did a great job on that poster board for the presentation,” or “The painting you gave Emily for her birthday was stunning.”, Compliment your girlfriend on her intelligence, but don’t just say, “You’re smart.” This seems generic. Remember to be more specific when you compliment her. For example, “You really deserved that reward for your paper. It was a thought-provoking and insightful paper.”

, It’s helpful to know which compliments can be misinterpreted or taken the wrong way. Try to stay clear of these comments. The last thing you want is miscommunication between you and your girlfriend, when all you wanted to do was to make her feel good. For example, if your girlfriend struggles with her body image, then you might think that you're helping by frequently complimenting her appearance. However, this may lead to her fixating on it. Some other examples of bad compliments are:“You clean up nicely.” She can misinterpret this as, “You don’t usually look good.”
“You’d be prettier if you smiled more.” This can be misinterpreted as, “You are not pretty.”
Any compliment that ends with, “for a girl.” For example, “You’re smart for a girl,” or “You’re funny for a girl.” These types of compliments are very demeaning to all women and girls.
 Sexually-charged compliments are ones that have sexual overtones, or are ones telling her what you would like her to do. For example, "I heard you were great at kissing. Can I have a kiss after school behind the gym?"Also, avoid commenting on body parts that are explicitly sexual, like her breasts, buttocks, lips, or tongue. For example, don't tell your girlfriend, "You have a nice butt," "I like the size of your boobs," or "You're hot." You can make your girlfriend very uncomfortable by complimenting her in this way.Instead, focus on other attributes, like her hair, skin, eyes, the shape of her nose, or something unique, like her freckles. For example, "I love your freckles. They are cute."

