


Put on sunscreen, remaining conscious of the fact that the white sand also reflects solar rays upward. Don't forget the underside of the chin, the underside of your nose (even the septum and edges of the inside of your nostrils--a sunburn there is painful!), and the underside and back of the ears and earlobe. If you have sensitive eyes, bring sunglasses and a hat as well.
Wear an old pair of shoes, or at least bring an extra pair with you. They will definitely get loaded with sand, which is much finer than the sand on beaches. If you don't want too much sand in the car, bring another pair of shoes and put plastic or sheets on the upholstery (but you'll still need to vacuum the interior after your visit, no matter what you do). On the dunes themselves, it is fairly safe to go barefoot, but there is a small risk stepping on litter or a tarantula. The sand itself, though, is easy on bare feet, unless it's in the winter, in which case it can be very cold. It doesn't heat up too much in the summer due to its highly reflective qualities, but it might be uncomfortable for some.;
, You can ask the employees for an abridged explanation or you can walk through the adjoining room to get a more detailed understanding. Maps, books, and other useful items can be found here as well.
 Here, you can:


Purchase unique souvenirs for friends and family (e.g. prickly pear candy, stone night lights, White Sands post cards and magnets, t-shirts, authentic Native American jewelry and pottery, etc.).
Buy a plastic sled for downhill sledding on sand dunes. Don't forget the wax! If you buy a sled you can return it and receive a portion of your initial payment. Sometimes used ones are available, but the new, slick ones are faster.
Use the bathroom. These bathrooms are much nicer than the ones you'll find on the sands.
 Each adult pays a fee but children get in for free. Tickets are valid for 7 days. As you begin driving through, you'll see the landscape gradually change. It'll take about 15 minutes before you reach pure white sand. Be sure to get enough information brochures from the booth for everyone interested.
 Running your hand along the railing will generate static electricity that can cause mild discomfort if you touch a metal object (such as the screws in the railing). This can be a lot of fun, though, if you chase someone up and down the boardwalk and zap them with your finger!

, Look for pull-off areas.
 Simply wax your board (with canning or candle wax) and slide down, making sure to avoid sliding into the road! The steepest slopes are by the picnic area.
 Because of the brightness level outside, you'll have to adjust your lenses accordingly. Note in the picture to the right how the white sand washes out into the white background.
 Stand still and notice the quietness around you. Also, look down and try to spot traces of animal life, such as bird tracks or scattering ants.
 White Sands looks very pretty at that time, and there's a guided walk, usually at 4pm. Consult the visitor center for when and where the walk starts. Also, the park is open until midnight on full moon nights. Take advantage of this as it gives a very different perspective.
 If you're interested in other attractions in New Mexico, the information center and gift shop areas have a large map outside that outlines various activities in the surrounding area.


In nearby Alamogordo, you can visit the Museum of Space History and IMAX theater or the Alameda Park Zoo. From Alamogordo, you can make a 25 minute, 4,000 foot (1,219.2 m) climb into the mountain village of Cloudcroft; seeing the landscape change from desert to sub-alpine forest within a short drive is breathtaking.
You can check out pistachio farms and wineries around Tularosa, and less than an hour away is the Three Rivers Petroglyph Site.


