 You can dispel that anxiety by simply telling them, in age-appropriate but honest ways, what they can expect. This approach uses information to allow them to visualize, in advance, the encounter that has them so worried because it is unknown.


For example, you can tell them that "The doctor is going to have a soft wrap that will hug your arm like this. The hug will get harder and then stop, and that way we can learn how fast your blood is moving."

, Similar to telling them what to expect, explaining the purpose of the appointment or check-up lets your child know why it's important and how the visit connects to their health and your family life. Educating your child will help ease their anxiety through knowledge.


For example, you can explain your child's dental check-up by saying, "We need to keep our teeth clean so our mouths can smell good and our teeth can stay strong. We do a pretty good job when we brush our teeth after every meal, but the dentist has really special tools that can see hidden things we might miss because they're so tiny."

, As you talk with them, have them ask you questions about what they don't know, what confuses them, and especially what they are afraid of. Take time to help them generate their own questions that they can write down and bring with them to the appointment. It will give them a greater sense of control and comfort if they can walk in with specific questions for the nurses, assistants, and doctors that they have come up with on their own.


For example, your child might be nervous about the pieces of gum they keep swallowing (that you have told them not to swallow). You could encourage them to ask the doctor, "How long will it take for my gum to go through my body?"

, This can cause great feelings of guilt, with your child feeling that they are the cause of all the anxiety around them. Talk honestly and lovingly about any guilt they might be holding, assuring them that going to the doctor is not a punishment but an opportunity the family is fortunate to have.
 Take them along when they don't need to be examined, and let them see, by watching how comfortable you are, that there is nothing wrong!

