 Before you begin, remember that paint thinner is quite toxic.When attempting to clean your stains, wear proper safety clothing, including gloves, safety goggles, and a respirator. If you're cleaning the stain while inside in your home, open a window to properly ventilate the fumes. This solvent is also very flammable, so be sure not to bring it near any sort of open flame.


Even though turpentine is less toxic than most paint thinners, there's no harm in being safe and wearing the proper gear when cleaning fabric with it.
 Paint thinner or turpentine works best for oil-based paints, especially if the paint has dried significantly. Oil-based paints are much harder to remove than water-based paints, but can still be attacked with a little bit of know-how.









Keep in mind that oil-based paints take a significantly longer amount of time to dry than washable or latex paints.After an oil-based paint has dried completely, it's a much larger pain to get rid of. If you notice an oil-based paint stain on your clothing, you should rub it out immediately. Your chance of saving the fabric will increase exponentially if you can treat these stains early.
If the stain has set, you can even use a knife or other sharp object to scrape the dried paint from the fabric. Be careful not to stab into the garment and damage it.
 This will help catch any paint that seeps through the back of the fabric. If the paint bleeds through to the other side of your garment, you may end up staining the other side of your fabric. You also don't want to damage the surface that you're working on. This especially important with oil-based paints, as they won't wash out nearly as easily as a latex or water-based paint.









You will have to change out this backing pad a few times throughout the cleaning process. If the paint has bled through completely and stained the pad, then you won't be able to avoid staining other parts of your clothing. Make sure to be conscious of how much paint the pad has been absorbed. If you think the pad will start leaking soon, you should swap it out.
 Make sure that if you're using paint thinner, it's a thinner that matches directly to the paint that was used.Anything too volatile and flammable will most likely damage your fabric. You don't want to discolor your clothing in the process, then you have to be careful with the thinner that you choose. If don't know what sort of paint is responsible for the stain, then your best bet is to use turpentine., After you've treated the stained area properly with your paint thinner or turpentine, you'll want to apply detergent to it. Make sure that if your fabric can't be bleached, you don't use a detergent with bleach. You can apply the detergent liberally to the affected area, blotting it with a small sponge or cloth. Be careful not to rub too harshly, as you could push the paint deeper into the fabric.









If you are still wearing your rubber gloves, you can use your fingers to apply the detergent. If not, don't let your bare skin touch the paint thinner. Many thinners can be quite toxic to your skin, and you want to avoid any potential risk.
 Fill a bucket with hot water and let your stained article sit overnight. Check the tag on your garment to check the maximum temperature that it can handle. When you wake up the next morning, you can run it through a normal laundry cycle. Be sure not to wash it with any other articles of clothing, as you run the risk of staining the rest of your load.


If you see a significant change in the coloration after the first attempt, then it's worth repeating the process again.If not, however, the stain may be permanent. This means you may have to throw the garment out. The more times that you apply the thinner or turpentine to the fabric, the larger the risk of further damage to the material.

