 Screenplays are specially formatted so that each page takes up roughly one minute of screen time. This format is the industry standard, and deviating from it will often end with your screenplay in the trash. The best way to avoid this is to use script software, such as Celtx, Writer Duets, or Final Draft.Television scripts are formatted differently than movies, because you need to make act breaks, or where the commercials would go. Make sure you're reading and studying TV scripts to learn these conventions.
There are many examples of formatted scripts online, such as this lesson written in the form of a screenplay.
 Go online and check out scripts from every show similar to yours. Watching TV is a great way to understand plotting, but if you're going to write scripts you need to understand the art of the script. Take notes as you read about style, plotting, and substance.


Reading screenplays is a must in this business. You need to learn how to be funny, dramatic, thrilling, and engaging without any actors, cameras, or music to help you.
Make notes of what that works, what doesn't, and how the writer builds the world of the episode on the page., A pilot is the first episode of a TV series, and they are notoriously difficult to write well. Why? Because pilots require you do many things at once with a short page count. You must:



Introduce the characters: You don't need to go into the entire backstory, but the viewer needs to know enough about these characters to want to follow them. The very first time you see a character should show their basic personality.

Introduce the world: This is about more than just the setting, it is the "rules" of the show. What are some of the main concerns for the characters? What kind of events happen regularly? This is the exploration of your "what if" premise.

Show the general pattern of the show: Your pilot episode doesn't just have to introduce everything, it has to be a good show. You need to give people an idea of what they'll see each week. Arrested Development, considered one of the best pilots ever, does this perfectly -- it sets up the characters, shows the world (rich, corrupt socialites and hedge-fund managers), and shows the farcical, interlocking plot structure the show later became famous for., TV shows, despite their originality and diversity, have a pretty rigid structure. Because most TV comes with commercials, these little breaks are convenient places to end each Act. Think of an act as a collection of scenes that tells the mini story of an episode. Between each set of commercials, you have the progression of the story, ending in a big moment, change, or climax that excites the viewer to keep watching when the commercials end. Understanding this "grid" helps you plug your show into the formula:The Cold Open: Common on sitcoms, this is the brief, 2-3 minute scene right before the title credits. It can impact the plot or just be a quick joke or scene. In dramas it is often the instigating incident, like finding the dead body on Law & Order.


The Acts: Hour-long shows have 5 acts, and half-hour shows have 3. You want each act to be somewhat self-contained: it has a beginning problem, a series of complications that prevent the characters from solving the problem, a climax, and a resolution.

Act 1 introduces a problem, and the characters try and fix it but fail.
In Act 2, the characters are in an even bigger mess, thanks to their failure, they make another attempt and things end up worse than before, or a new problem arises thanks to the old one.
In Act 3 everything returns to normal, either by the characters crashing back down to earth or finally fixing the mess they got into.



The Ending: Your last act brings the audience back around. For a pilot, you need to prove to the audience that they should come back next week.

In dramas this usually occurs with a cliffhanger, or the promise of next week's adventure.
In comedies the episode almost always ends where it started. Your characters don't change much and are ready for next week's hijinks. The status quo is returned.



The Tag: This is the small scene right before or after the credits. Usually, it is to continue a joke, show a little resolution, or hint at what happens next episode., Get some friends together and hand out copies of your script, then have them read out each part as if they were actors. You can narrate, but try not to play any of the characters. Instead, take notes on what sounds natural and what doesn't. Ask you guests afterward what they thought about the script: where were they confused, what did they enjoy, did their characters feel "real," and would they watch the show? You need to get outside input, and hearing your script out loud is the best way to find mistakes you might have missed while reading.
 Take a few days away from the script and approach it again with fresh eyes. You need your script to be as polished as it can be in order to make an impression because there are thousands of scripts competing for attention. Some things to look out for include:


Spelling, grammar, and formatting. A typo on the first page is a good clue for someone to throw the whole thing away without reading.
Pacing. Every single scene should move the plot forward. If it is not, the show automatically starts to drag. No scene should start in one place and stay there the entire time. Your characters or situation need to change each time, otherwise the scene is too slow.
Dialog. Do you characters sound natural? You need to put the image of a character in your readers' mind with just dialog, so each character needs to talk in a unique, natural way, not just the way you need them to talk in the scene. Character is important, and you show character through speech., Cut away unnecessary exposition, scene descriptions, and character traits. If it doesn't matter to the plot, it needs to go. All the other stuff, from an actor's looks to the color of the walls, will be decided by the director, not you. You want the script to read like a show, moving briskly along and sweeping up the reader in the story and characters. Shorter is always better because it means you cut away anything that wasn't amazing or essential.


Hour long shows need to be between 45-70 pages.
Half-hour programs are usually between 25-37 pages.