 Just because play is rough does not mean that dogs are hurting each other. Dogs often enjoy and benefit from wild play. Watch their body language to see if they are becoming aggressive.Sign of aggressive play include tense facial muscles, a stiff posture, and raised fur on their backs. Dogs may also snarl or bare their teeth at the other dog. If this occurs, you should try to separate the dogs.
If the dog bows or rolls over, they are likely just playing, and you do not need to separate them. They may also crash into one another, nip, jump onto one another, lightly growl or bark, and chase each other. These are all normal behaviors.Dogs growl while playing, but if the growl suddenly drops to a lower tone, they may be becoming aggressive.
 Before you let two unfamiliar dogs run free together, put them both on a leash, and let them meet one another outside on neutral territory. Allow the dogs to sniff each other before taking them on a short walk. If the dogs are friendly towards one another, you can let them play together off the leash inside or outside.If you introduce the dogs inside your house, your dog may feel territorial over their home.
 If your dog becomes aggressive or territorial around their toys, you may need to hide or remove these toys when another dog is present. This will prevent your dog from becoming defensive over the toys, and it may allow them to play normally with the other dog., If the dog is demonstrating aggressive behavior or if it seems that they are about to engage in a fight, get your dog away as soon as possible.If your dog is trained to respond to commands, use a “come” command or call their name.
You may be able to distract the dogs by splashing them with a little bit of water.
Do not grab the dog by the collar or front of the face, or you risk being accidentally bitten. Instead, if you absolutely have to handle the dog, grab the dog by the hindquarters.
 If your dog repeatedly becomes aggressive during play, you may need to remove them from the situation when it arises. You can prevent these situations by placing the dog in a separate room if there is a strange dog in the house. You may also need to avoid dog parks. You can take your dog on a leashed walk instead or play with them in an enclosed yard.

