 Biscuits prepared with self-rising flour may rise better than those made with standard all-purpose flour.
 Sour cream biscuits are generally a bit denser, richer, and flatter than those prepared with milk.
 Tangy buttermilk is a common ingredient found in Southern-style biscuits, and using buttermilk instead of whole or 2% milk may create a richer flavor.
 Angel biscuits have a light, airy texture that is accomplished by using both yeast and baking powder to leaven the dough.
 Cake flour is less dense than all-purpose flour. By swapping some of the all-purpose flour out for a little cake flour, you can create even fluffier biscuits.
 Commercial baking mix contains a variety of basic ingredients needed for many different baked recipes, including biscuits. You can use it to prepare biscuits by combining the mix with milk, butter, and baking soda.



Mimic restaurant-quality cheddar biscuits. By adding cheddar cheese to a biscuit recipe prepared with baking mix, you can easily create cheesy biscuits at home.
 If you or a dinner guest are on a strict vegan diet, you can make a vegan biscuit alternative by using vegetable shortening and soy milk.
 If you are more interested in learning how to make crispy biscuits suitable for afternoon tea than fluffy biscuits to serve alongside dinner or breakfast, consider one of the following varieties.



Try Viennese biscuits. These biscuits contain the flavors of vanilla, confectioner's sugar, dark chocolate, and butter.

Make German biscuits. These crisp, buttery biscuits combine the flavors of spice and citrus.

Consider making caramel biscuits. This is a good option for someone with a sweet tooth. These biscuits are infused with the flavors of caramel and coconut.

Make butterscotch biscuits. The rich, decadent flavor of butterscotch is baked into these biscuits along with a praline mixture consisting of cashews, almonds, and walnuts.

Prepare a batch of almond biscuits. These simple, dainty biscuits have chopped almonds blended in.

Create something elegant and aromatic by making rosewater biscuits. These biscuits are prepared with rosewater, giving them a unique flavor.

Satisfy your sense of taste and sense of smell with orange blossom biscuits. Orange blossom biscuits are prepared with orange flower water and orange zest.

