 Dye only adds to what color is already there; it does not replace color. If you want the dye to come out true to its color, you should use white roses.
 Use a sharp knife to cut the stem down until they are 10 to 12 inches (25.4 to 30.5 centimeters) long. Make sure that the bottom is cut at a slight angle. Take this time to trim off any leaves, thorns, and buds as well., Set the rose down on a cutting board or cutting mat. Use a sharp craft blade to cut the stem in half lengthwise. Stop when you are halfway up the stem.If you are using shorter glasses, you can split the stems only 3 inches (7.6 centimeters).If your rose had a very thick stem to begin with, you can cut the stem into three or four sections instead.If you snap the stem by mistake, cut the entire stem down to 5 to 6 inches (12.7 to 15.2 centimeters), and dye it a single color., At this point, you can cut and split more roses, or move onto the next step., You will need ½ cup (120 milliliters) of warm water. How many cups you use depends on how many sections you cut your rose stem into. You will need one cup per section. Use cups that have straight walls.Roses drink up warm water more quickly than cool water.
 You will need 20 to 30 drops of food coloring for each cup. If you can't find food coloring, you can use liquid watercolor instead. Use a different color for each cup., Move the cups close together first, so that the rims are touching. Carefully spread apart the split rose stem. Place each section into a separate cup. Make sure that the stem is submerged in the dye as far as it will go., The longer you let the rose sit in the dye, the deeper the color will become. If you want a pastel color, wait at least 4 hours. If you are a deeper color, wait several days.These roses won't end up with each petal a different color. They will be dyed in sections, like a pie chart.Rose petals have veins in them, which will look darker. If you want them to be less visible, leave the rose in the water for twice the recommended time., If you want to, you can trim down the split end until the stem is whole again. To help you rose last even longer, still some floral preservative into the water first. Keep in mind, however, that some of the dye may leak back into the water and make it change color.

