 Sweet but savory, with a good size for mashing and a creamy texture, they are the top refried beans.

Black beans are slightly courser, without the sweet notes of pinto beans, which can lead to a somewhat more muted flavor that compliments many flavors well without overpowering.

Navy, cannellini, and white beans can all be used for delicious refried beans, though they won't be "classic" by any stretch. They tend to have a lighter flavor and creamy texture, but are all open for culinary experiments.;
, The water should be at least a few inches above the beans, as they will absorb the liquid as they cook.
 You should be able to easily pierce each bean with a fork when they are done.
 These water, which is lightly flavored, will help cook the beans the second time, in your frying pan. Ladle out at least one cup of the bean cooking liquid for later.
 Use a skillet big enough to fit the beans, melting your frying fat first while the cooked beans sit to the side. The type of fat you use will greatly impact the flavor of your final dish, so choose wisely:










Lard: the "king" of refried bean fats, this is the most common fat used to cook the beans. Pork fat, in particular, is a spectacular choice.

Bacon drippings: the second-most common fat in recipes, as it is readily available and lends a rich, smokey flavor to the beans. Can be mixed or cut with vegetable oil.

Vegetable or Canola oil: these mild oils will allow the flavors of your spices, beans, and onions to shine through. Don't use high-flavor oils like olive or truffle unless you want those flavors in the beans -- which most cooks don't.

Butter: not incredibly common, but still delicious, butter imparts a rich creaminess to the beans that is unconventional, but certainly delicious., Cook them over medium heat for 4-5 minutes, until translucent, at least, adding a dash of salt right when they hit the pan.This means they are starting to become see-through. The longer you cook the onions, the sweeter they'll get, which can be a good thing if you want a rich, sweeter dish. If so, cook until the edges brown and begin to caramelize.

You can add as much or as little onion as you want. Most cooks aim between half of an onion or one full, medium-sized onion.
 Add as many cloves of chopped garlic as you desire, a dash of salt, and any combination of the spices listed below. These ingredients only need a minute or less to cook up, so work quickly. It can help to pre-mix the spices in a small bowl ahead of time, then add them all at once:

1 teaspoon cumin
1 teaspoon chili powder
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
Juice from 1/2 a lime, Let the flavors meld, stirring regularly to make sure everything is well coated in spices. They should start to bubble and simmer before moving on., Stir in the mixture, then start beating. You can smash the beans into any texture you want, from creamy, perfect purees to chunkier, more hearty spreads. Don't have a potato masher? There are other methods, as well:









Pour the whole mixture into a food processor or blender, pulsing until your desired texture then returning to the bowl.
Use a hand mixer or stick blender to puree the beans right in the pot.
Use the back of a wooden spoon to hand-mash the beans., Add another pinch of salt and adjust the seasonings to your liking. Now, simply let the mixture cook on medium-low until it thickens to your liking. If things get too dry, add some more of the bean liquid, plain water, or a splash of brown to rehydrate and thin them out. Serve hot.









These beans are incredible with a squirt of fresh lime juice, a sprinkling of queso fresco, or a spring of fresh cilantro.