 Depending on the age of the dog and where you got them, there may be veterinary records or other information that you should know about. For instance, if you got the dog from a shelter, they will provide you with all the information they have on the dog, including medical records, immunizations and vaccines, and other medication regimens.


Reach out to any vets that have worked with the dog in the past as well. This can be especially helpful if you’re getting the dog from a previous owner that did not keep records themselves.
 One of the major health risks for dogs is heartworm. Fortunately, prevention is low cost and easy to administer. Treatment for heartworm, on the other hand, is dangerous and expensive. As such, it’s important to find out if your dog if heartworm free and has begun a preventative medication regimen. It is also important to administer preventative medication for fleas and ticks. Talk to whomever provided your dog to you about what tests and medications have been specifically administered.If you’ve gotten a puppy, follow your vet’s advice regarding when to start providing heartworm, flea, and tick medications. Do not provide medication to your dog without their vet’s approval.
If you need additional motivation to protect your dog against heartworm, fleas, ticks, and other parasites, note that many parasites can be transferred from dogs to humans.
 Aside from heartworm and other parasites, your new dog is hopefully already receiving treatment to prevent fleas. In fact, many medications that prevent parasites also kill fleas. Ask your doctor which specific medication they recommend, as they will take into account your dog’s age and the relative level of certain infections in your area., Don’t overlook your dog’s dental health. While your vet will check their teeth at their check-up, you need to monitor for signs of gum disease and keep up on their dental hygiene as well. Dogs’ jaw and heart health, in fact, have been linked to their dental health.In particular, don’t ignore bad breath. This is usually the first sign of a potentially more serious condition. If their breath is ever bad enough to make your gag, take them to see the vet.

