 Take 1 teaspoon of sea salt or table salt with 1 cup of warm water. Stir the solution then use it to rinse your mouth several times. This helps to disinfect your mouth. It also helps to relieve the pain. After rinsing your mouth with the salt water, collect a pinch of salt and place it directly on the canker sore. This is usually a very painful process, but it's one of the best ways to speed up healing. You can do this 4 to 5 times a day., Pour about a teaspoon of Milk of Magnesia into a spoon. Take a clean cotton swab and soak it in the Milk of Magnesia. Dab the canker sore and let the solution sit on the sore for 5-10 seconds with your mouth open. The magnesium hydroxide will dehydrate the canker sore and speed up the healing process. Repeat this 7-8 times a day.Milk of magnesia is available in most pharmacies - usually in the aisle with products for constipation.
 Buy some alum powder (in the baking or spice section of your grocery store). Pour out a small amount (about the size of a pencil eraser) onto a spoon. Take a cotton swab and dip the tip into water and then into the alum. Apply directly onto the canker sore. Leave it on your sore for 1-2 minutes. It may burn a bit. Have a glass of water nearby to rinse out your mouth. Alum is used as an astringent to shrink the tissues. In addition, alum may stimulate the immune system, though that may be little help if your canker sore is not caused by a virus. Do this 1 to 2 times a day.Alum is used in baking and cooking, so if you swallow some, it isn’t a problem.
 Using a cotton swab, apply aloe gel directly to the canker sore. Leave it on for 1 to 2 minutes. Most likely the aloe will dissolve in your saliva. If not, rinse afterwards. You can repeat this treatment 4-5 times a day.
 Make a paste with about a tablespoon of baking soda and a few drops of water. Use a cotton swab and dab the paste onto the canker sore. Let the solution sit on the sore for 5-10 seconds with your mouth open. The baking soda speeds healing and increases the pH of the mouth, reducing the risk of bacterial infection. Repeat this 7-8 times a day., To make sage tea, use 1 level teaspoon of sage per cup of hot water. You can make the chamomile tea in the same way, or use 1 bag per cup of hot water. When the teas are cooled down, mix them equally and then rinse your mouth out. Both sage and chamomile are known to be anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory, reducing the risk of infection and general discomfort.You can also hold a chamomile tea bag against your canker sore. The chemical bisabolol in the tea will act as an anti-inflammatory and will reduce your canker sore's redness., You can buy these from your local herb or health food store. Let the lozenge rest on the canker sore until it dissolves. The DGL speeds healing and decreases the size of the canker sore. DGL is commonly used to treat ulcers in the digestive system. Don’t use lozenges with children, because it may be a choking hazard. Also, DGL is an acquired taste, so have that glass of water nearby.
 Mix a tsp of cayenne pepper with a couple drops of water. Use a Q-tip to apply the mixture to your canker sore. It may sound terrifying, but the capsaicin in the cayenne pepper triggers sensors in your body that alert you to pain. So after the spicy taste fades away, your body will basically ignore your canker sore for 30 minutes to 1 hour., While coconut oil has not been medically proven to get rid of canker sores, it does have anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial properties. So it can't hurt, but it can taste good!