 You need to be familiar with the controls. Play through the story mode or otherwise practice until you are comfortable with how the controller works. Another great way to practise both movement and shooting is offline in a private match. You can test out guns and get familiar with the basics of the game. In some games in the Call of Duty franchise, you can set up bots, virtual humans who change their skill levels depending on how difficult you set them, recruit being lowest and veteran being highest.


You can even change the controller settings! Experiment and find something that works best for you.;
, Choose a class that you are either comfortable playing or that you feel you can learn to play. This may take some experimenting, but it's very important to getting really good at the game. Each class will have its own little quirks and tricks, and the more you play that class, the more you'll learn about how to do it well. Take advantage of the skills and abilities for the class you chose. Don't try to play outside of your class because you'll be weaker.
 If you're playing in a group, either with people that you know or random online people, make sure to make use of your teammates class and skills. You want to have your classes compliment each other and you want to play the role that you've chosen for your team, in order to reach peak performance. It's also important to communicate and help each other out. This will achieve the best results.
 Talk with your teammates to find a strategy for each game. This cuts down on "Running around like a chicken with its head cut off" time and increases the efficiency of your kills and reaching of the end goal. If no one else is taking the lead, it may be time to man up! The more you work with a set group of people, the easier this will be. But talking to each other is the real key.
 Choose perks that are best for your class and how you play. These perks should help you do your job best. You can choose general perks, which are useful across all classes, or ones which are a little more helpful for just your class. It can be useful to coordinate with teammates to make sure that your boosts cover all the team's needs.


For example, a good general perk in Call of Duty: Ghosts is Ping, which alerts you to other enemies in the area whenever you kill an enemy.
Quickdraw and Stalker are good examples of class specific perks, being best for if you plan to be sneaky rather that run in guns blazing.
 Choose the best variety of weapons for your class and playing style. Don't take a big ol' gun if you're a sneaky type guy, cause you're going to have a heck of a time meshing the two. Consider all of the situations you are likely to find yourself in and choose the best variety of weapons. If you want to play to the best of your ability, you're going to want to choose the right weapons for you and for the map you're playing.
 Different weapons work better in particular situations, so use them correctly. Shorter barrel guns are better up close kills, while a sniper rifle will be necessary for distance kills. Choose a gun which is best suited for the particular shot you are trying to make.
 One of the best things you can do, in order to play like a real pro, is to memorize the map and strategize based on your knowledge. Don't just think about where things are, think about how you can use them. Learn choke points, sniping spots, areas with no good escape route, escape routes, etc. Keep these in mind and make use of them during battles. This links to teamwork, as you can learn names for specific locations on each map, better known as call-outs. This is when you notify teammates on the current places your enemies are.


Keep in mind that other players may use the same strategies, so you can use this knowledge to do things like seek and take out troublesome snipers.
This will take time and practice, especially since you may have to learn many different maps.
Share your knowledge with your teammates but don't be a jerk about it.
 Avoid the centers of maps, as these areas tend to have the least amount of cover. Avoid open areas. Hug the perimeter and always keep cover nearby so that you can fall back if you get ambushed. However, if you are in a game of domination, a game mode with 3 flags you might just have to have a coordinated attack on the middle of the map, so sometimes, you will have to make exceptions.


In CoD: Ghosts, there is a distinct disadvantage to sprinting, so save sprinting only for getting from cover to cover.
 Players are often killed while reloading. To reduce the likelihood of being killed while reloading, don't immediately reload after getting a kill. Getting a kill or shooting your weapon alerts others to your presence (unless you use certain attachments and perks, and if you immediately reload you are making yourself vulnerable. Instead, wait. If you can, get to an area with more cover in order to reload. Only reload in an open area if you have no other choice. In the newest addition to the Call of Duty series, Advanced Warfare, you can speed reload by double tapping the reload button, however you do loose bullets in the mean-time. Also, you can get fast-mags, a perk which enables you to reload faster. You can also use extended-mags, another perk which make you have more bullets per magazine.
 Headshots do more damage and give you serious bragging rights (not to mention unlocking all sorts of in-game content), so this is a good skill to learn. Choose perks that increase your accuracy and reduce your flinching or movement, especially when you're being shot at. Also focus on being able to move fast. Reflex sights are also useful. Other than that, there's the obvious: aim. Good luck!


Headshots also count for more XP, which will allow you to rank up quickly in the game.
 When you snipe, make your shot and then sneak out of the area, so as not to become a target. Also, try to snipe in less obvious locations. Other players who occasionally do sniping may know all the good spots and using these areas can make you a target, because you won't really be hidden.
 There are lots of little extra tools in the game that you can use to get a real leg up. Strategize and use items wisely, or make sure that your teammates use them wisely if you don't have access to them.


For example, claymores can be placed behind you when you're being chased. These are available in almost every version of CoD.
I.E.D.s, available in Call of Duty: Ghosts, can be placed in an area you know where an enemy is about to enter. They can also be useful to cut off choke points and allow you to gain excellent map control. You can also stick them on flags in domination, making that flag almost impossible to access for the opposite team.

