 Nothing drives down Christmas day like the knowledge you've got fourteen essays to write between now and the start of term. Yes, they're boring, but get them done BEFORE the Christmas season really kicks off and trust me, you'll be glad you did later.;
, If possible, try to meet up with some you haven't seen in a while. Do whatever you like best to catch up with them, whether it's bowling, ice skating, shopping or watching a film round your house with a tub of ice cream.
 Lots of places need extra help around the holiday and winter season, and you'll be helping people in need. It will make you feel better about yourself and your current life situation, whatever it may be. If you can't find the time to volunteer, at least donate a winter coat to a homeless shelter or drop a few dollars into the Salvation Army tins.Why not do something extra this Christmas, either a stall on the street (why not sell mince pies?), or collect sponsors for running, dancing, skipping, or anything for about 1 hour. Donate your money to a charity, and you will feel good about helping someone.
 What defines too early varies from person to person, but at least wait until after Halloween. If you start decorating too early, by Christmas you'll be tired of the decorations. They're special because they aren't up year round. Most people start in late November or early December.
 Decorate your bedroom and ask your parents if you can set up some of the decorations they typically do, such as arranging a table centerpiece. And don't forget to decorate the tree! Some people like to do this with family and others with friends, so do whichever you prefer, or whichever is tradition in your family. Why not make your own decoration?

, Write a list of names and tick off each name when you have written them a card. You can use the same list year after year! Some people find writing cards fun, others find it boring. Picking cute cards, sparkly paper and picturing the smile on their face will make you feel better! Send cards to as many people as possible!

, It's okay to go hang out at the mall on Christmas Eve, but make sure all of your shopping is done before then. Shopping for presents or things you need on Christmas, on Christmas Eve, will only frustrate you. You could also go see a movie, visit a friend or relative, or see if you can help out around the house.
 It will be trying to have to go to a hundred appointments.
 Get your special friends something more expensive, depending on what they want/like.
 So maybe that too-big jumper that is made from itchy wool doesn't suit you and isn't the best present you've ever got, but be grateful. Many people don't even have a home or food, never mind presents. Thank the gift giver and they'll feel better, with any necessary hugs, making you feel better in the process. Scowling and saying it isn't what you wanted will only make the entire day awkward, and it will ruin everyone's holiday.
 Whether that means a bubble bath with nice shampoo, eating tons of good food, cuddling with a dog or stuffed animal, or watching a favorite movie, go ahead and do it!

, It only comes once a year, after all!

