 Don't sweat it.This is designed to be low-cost, minimal heat required, and a quick up-do.;
, Sometimes it's actually easier to work with untangled hair, but dirty hair, so don't shampoo or conditioner (but do wash, because with all these dates you'll be blagging with your new up-do. You'll need to smell as lovely as a flower.) But when you're hair is damp, you can use a fine-toothed comb to brush it out, if you haven't already.Next, squeeze on any hair products you want, (volumizer for the straight look, anti-frizz serum for the more curly effect etc.
, So, for now, just straighten where you usually have your bangs.
 Sweeping on the same wavelength as your cheekbones, following the frame of your face. To make a pretty, girl-next-door look, allow a thinner strand of hair from the opposing side of your face to fall loose. But for now clip both bits of fringe together to keep out the way.
 You can either braid or twist either both sides of your head or just one. Take sections of hair from directly behind where you're desired fringe will end. A thin braid will look the best and a twist (for the more indie/hippie/rock~pop chick look that this Updo is so popular with) thick at the base of the hairline, getting thinner past the ears before just tucking itself in there with bobby pins/kirby grips (no difference).No matter what you choose either braid or twist sections of hair from the front and for now, leave to one side.
 Pacing and not concentrating on the World around you is a nice technique. Imagining what your hair will be looking like drag up your hair. Don't worry about sharkeys (the lumps and bumps forming as you drag it up). This works better high but at the nape of the neck you are better suited to twists rather than braids. You can brush out the worst of the sharkeys (so called because they resemble shark fins)

,,, Loop around wrist.
 You can either grip behind you're ears with bobby pins or with your hands take them up and hold them in one fist at the base of your pony.
 Should be firm.
 Keep wrapping.
 If you don't want to do this just be patient a second.
 It can be colorful and it only needs to go round 2+ This should form a fat topknot.
,,,