 Lined paper will help you write each letter evenly and uniformly. It will also help to distinguish the difference in size of the upper case and the lower case letters.


If you are teaching your child how to write the alphabet, interact with them as they write each letter. Once they finish writing the letter “A” and the letter “B”, for example, ask them about the differences between each letter. This will help your child remember each letter and start to get a sense of the different shapes of each letter., Draw one angled vertical line facing right: /. Draw another angled vertical line facing left: \, ensuring both lines touch each other at the top upper tips: /\. Draw a horizontal line in the middle of the two lines: A. This is A., Draw one vertical line: | . On its right side, draw two half-bubbles, going down the line: B. This is B.
, Then, starting at its top right, draw a backwards C (step 3): D. This is D.
 Draw three horizontal lines, all on the right side of this, each 1/3rd shorter than the original (but the middle line is shorter than the lines on the top and bottom). One goes on top, one in the middle, one on bottom: E. This is E.
, Then, draw a horizontal line, beginning at the base of the bottom tip, half-way through the C: G. This is G.
 Then, draw a horizontal line in the middle, connecting them: H. This is H.
 Draw one vertical line: |. If desired, put two short horizontal lines at the top and bottom of the vertical, placing them so the vertical connects them in the middle of the horizontal lines. This is I.
 Draw a backward-facing fish hook: J. This is J.
 Then, draw two lines, starting from the right hand side, each emanates from the middle. One angles up, the other down: K. This is K.
 Then, draw a shorter, horizontal line on the bottom right: L. This is L.
 Then, starting from the inner, top tips, draw two shorter angled lines that touch 1/2 way in the middle: M. This is M.
 Then, draw a line that starts from the inner top tip of the left line, and angle it so it touches the other line, on the inner bottom tip: N. This is N.
 Draw a full moon: O. This is O.
 Then, draw a 1/2 bubble on the right side upper tip, and touching the middle of the vertical line: P. This is P.
 Draw a full moon: O. Then, on the near-bottom right, draw a vertical line angling right, part-way in the O, and part-way out: Q. This is Q.
 Then, starting from where the bottom 1/2 bubble touches the vertical line, draw a small line angling right and down: R. This is R.
, Then, draw a shorter, horizontal line on top: T. This is T.
 Draw the shape of a horseshoe, with the open side facing up: U. This is U.
,, Draw one vertical line headed up and right. Draw another vertical line up and leaning left: X. This is X.
 Draw a V (step 22). Then, where the two lines meet, draw a vertical line: Y. This is Y.
 In one stroke, draw a horizontal line, then a vertical line that angles downward left, then a horizontal line to the right: Z. This is Z.

