 Preppy girls like to wear things like dresses or a cute top with a skirt and leggings. Examples of preppy attire include simple, graceful styles, sweaters, skirts that never go out of style and dresses with a timeless, classic look that is moderate and trim. Preppy clothes have smart lines, and feature upscale, fitted tailoring. Selected clothes at department stores may seem just as high in quality as Abercrombie&Fitch, Hollister, American Eagle, Gap, Ralph Lauren and Tommy Hilfiger. Also, look at Old Navy and Target (and check some thrift stores which may have lots of quality at low prices), etc.
 Always keep a cute handbag with you that includes all of you essentials. Essentials may include: cellphone, comb, make-up, pads, etc. Wear jewelry, cute headbands, or just colorful bobby pins. People really do pay attention to your accessories.
 Cut, file, and paint your fingernails. French Tips are an excellent idea for a nice preppy look. Don't bite your nails; it is nasty and can ruin your nails if it is done for a prolonged time.
 Cute preppy hairstyles include things like: French braids, beach waves, or just a simple ponytail with two strands of braided hair pinned back with a bobby pin. Trim your hair every couple of weeks. It is best if you go see a stylist to trim your hair rather than cutting it yourself, but it is your choice.


Deep condition your hair at least once a week, rather than your quick shampoo and conditioner. Soft hair is a must for preppy girls, ask your hair stylist what kind of deep conditioning you should use for your hair.
 Wash your face at least twice a day. Talk to your dermatologist to find out what kinds of products would be best for you. Don't let acne get a start; go to an expert on teen facial care or a doctor immediately, if it becomes problematic!


Don't forget to moisturize every day. Moisturizing will help prevent your face from getting dry.
 Preppy girls like going to a spa to get a facial, but it is okay, if you can't afford it. Instead, you can just make one yourself and apply it yourself. The spa day can take place at your house, at a friends house, or even at an actual spa (if you can afford it).
~ Get your eyebrows waxed. It is better if you get your eyebrows at an actual spa, but if you have a friend that works at a spa then you could ask them to help you wax your eyebrows by yourself (which is not recommended).
 Exfoliate peach fuzz on your entire body at least twice a week. Exfoliating your body will get rid of dry skin and rough skin leaving your body smooth. Also, remember to apply lotion after exfoliating. Carefully shave your legs with cream or gel, including armpits as needed. Shaving is another way to make your skin soft (see tips).
 Use the back end of your toothbrush to gently scrub your tongue, roof of your mouth, and cheeks.


A mixture of baking soda and peroxide can whiten your teeth. Get your teeth whitened on occasion. Even if you do the whitening at home an occasional teeth whitening will really bring attention to your smile (see warnings).
 Choose a scent that you will enjoy and isn't too harsh.
 Minimum foundation and lightly powdered look is okay to use, but only if it is needed.


Use concealer to blend out pimples. Remember that using concealer only covers pimples but does not removes them. Also, concealer can irritate a pimple and cause it to enlarge or become more red when the concealer is removed (see tips).

