 Although a makeup school can be expensive, it will also prepare you thoroughly for finding work as a makeup artist. Look for schools that offer special effects makeup courses or concentrations. Horror makeup is a large component of special effects makeup, but schools don't generally have courses solely in horror makeup. The profession is generally called a special effects makeup artist.See if there are any makeup academies in your area that offer special effects makeup courses, and assess if you can financially cover the cost.
You can teach yourself how to become a horror makeup artist, but it will be a harder road. A makeup school provides the resources and facilities that you need for your projects as well as personalized guidance.
You can also see if it’s possible to just take a course or two if you don’t want to enroll in a program.;
, Knowing anatomy, particularly facial anatomy, is important for any kind of makeup artist, but it is particularly important for horror and special effect makeup artists. Because horror makeup often features characters whose bones or muscles are exposed, it’s vital to understand how the face and body are structured.Use books or online resources to learn more about facial anatomy. Test yourself by trying to draw skeletal or muscular systems from memory.
If you are studying at a makeup school, you will take classes that cover anatomy.
If you are enrolled in a non-makeup focused college, enroll in an anatomy course. You can also try to take an anatomy class at your local community college.
 Learn the basics of makeup application, starting off with learning about beauty makeup. Even though horror makeup artists use materials like latex, paint, and prosthetics, they also use beauty products like foundation, powder and lipstick. This is why it’s best to have a basic knowledge of beauty products that you can work off of.Many techniques that are essential in beauty makeup application, such as learning how to contour and how to use makeup brushes, are skills that you will use as a special effects makeup artist. With horror makeup, you push these techniques and exaggerate them to achieve a gory or horror effect.
If you cannot take a class in makeup application, watch Youtube videos from makeup artists and practice on yourself or a friend.
 Unlike beauty makeup artists or estheticians, special effects makeup artists use paint on their subject’s face or on prosthetics to create their makeup look. This involves learning how to mix paint and create colors. It also requires the makeup artist to understand which colors look good together and how to create basic skin tones.If you are enrolled in a makeup school, you will receive schooling on color theory. Many art schools also offer color theory courses.
If you don’t have access to classes, learn by taking a basic painting class or by using online resources like Youtube or Internet articles from credible sources.
 Although some studios and projects hire a separate hair stylist, you will be asked to do both makeup and hair in the course of your career. This is why it’s valuable to gain a basic knowledge of hair styling. You may also need to know hair basics to be able to create wigs or add hair to prosthetics., One of the first special effects-related skills you should learn is how to paint realistic gore and other special effects. Invest in some professional-grade face paint to practice. Learn how to apply paint either through classes or though Internet videos made by professional makeup artists.


Many special effects are created by patiently layering paint. You will need to learn how to build up the surface to create a realistic effect.
 After you have gained foundational knowledge, it’s time to learn about the different ways in which horror makeup artists achieve their creations. Learn about the basics of making prosthetics from latex and other materials.If you are enrolled a makeup school, you will gain this knowledge through your classes.
If you are not taking classes, use the Internet as a resource to practice and learn how to make prosthetics.
 Many special effects makeup artists incorporate wigs or hairpieces along with the actor’s regular hair to create their characters. Learn to create wigs, and also how to weave them into the actor’s hair using ventilation and other methods.