 Communication is easier than ever with the onslaught of cell phones and social media outlets. While this is not necessarily a bad things, as people are becoming increasingly social and more connected, it has changed the way we communicate and what information we expect to know about others.Communication used to be confined to certain times and places, but with social media and cell phones we can stay in touch with loved ones wherever and whenever we want. We've come to expect an onslaught of information immediately.Social media fuels nosiness in that it invites certain questions. Posting online about your job, travel plans, interpersonal relationships, and your own emotional state fuels curiosity. If your parents are already nosy, consider either blocking them on social media or using filtered settings to limit what information they can see.;
, Is there a reason your parents are particularly nosy about you and your behavior? Are they equally invested in your siblings and other relatives? If not, there might be a reason they're focusing their attention on you.


You might not be communicating effectively. Oftentimes, people think they're being as open and honest as ever but due to communication barriers they are not fully aware of they've recently changed how they communicate. Has there been a sudden change in your situation? Are you busier than you used to be? More stressed? Dealing with more information than usual? If there's been any change to your situation, you might be putting up communication barriers that are making your parents push for more information.
Has there been a major life change recently? New babies, marriages, divorces, and moving from place to place triggers parental nosiness. While your parents might think they're being helpful with their constant questions, it may read as nosy to you.
 Your parents might not think of themselves as nosy. Many people simply have a greater need for communication and are more open about their own lives, emotions, and needs and expect the same in return.


Some people are compulsive communicators. This means they talk and ask questions because they don't know any other way to interact, and quiet time makes them nervous.People with anxiety issues often talk more without realizing it. If your parents are the nervous type, this might be a habit they picked up over time to deal with excess stress. Knowing exactly what's going on and nitpicking for information provides temporary relief from anxiety inducing thoughts.Extroverts communicate in a different way. While it's a myth that extroverts are bad listeners or that they talk too much, if your parents are far on the extrovert side of the scale they're more likely to try and draw out information by asking leading questions. They're not trying to be rude or nosy. This is simply how they process information.