 Plugged drains and leaky faucets are two of the most common problems homeowners face with their plumbing. Preparing your home for sale requires you identify and fix these common issues.


Sinks might be clogged at the top. Check the pop-up plug in bathroom sinks. Pull the plug up and place any debris attached to it in the garbage.If clogging continues, obtain a chemical drain-cleaning agent such as Drano.
To prevent future clogging, insert mesh sink traps in the bowl of your sink and tub to catch food scraps and hair, respectively. Both can clog your drain if washed down into the pipes. In a typical bathroom sink, this means removing the pop-up plug and inserting a (more effective) mesh sink drain.
If water leaks from the spigot, contact a plumber to replace or fix the leak. It’s better to shell out a little cash then to risk flooding your whole house. Plus, you’ll save time and energy if you’re not trying to fix it yourself.;
, A disclosure statement is the document which outlines all the known defects of the home. Even though buyers usually get an inspection of the home before buying, you still have to be honest and forthright in your disclosure statement.


Do not be worried about laying out all the ugly details of your home. The buyer’s inspector will find the defects anyhow, and you can build trust with the buyer if you. When trust exists between the buyer and seller, the property sale can proceed more smoothly.Your home needs to be checked for the presence of lead-based paint unless it was built after 1978.
Disclosure form rules vary from state to state, you’ll almost always need to report on the condition of the major appliances such as your fridge, washer, dryer, furnace, and hot water heater. Issues with mold or crumbling foundations will also need to me made clear.
 Before taking all the many tasks which may need doing on by yourself, consider getting some help. Removing and installing a carpet can be time-consuming and back-breaking. Painting can be messy and requires practice. You might want to save yourself a lot of time and trouble by hiring a professional carpenter, painter, plumber or other maintenance professional to deal with certain home issues.


If you are unsure whether or not you can accomplish a certain maintenance task, don’t risk making a mistake. Some home maintenance tasks can be dangerous. Trying to rewire an electrical socket, for instance, puts you at risk of electrocution, or a home fire if you incorrectly complete the project.
Ask for credentials. Ensure your contractor(s) are licensed, insured, and bonded. Someone who doesn’t know what they’re doing could damage your house and cost you more money.Get a pricing plan up front. If the contractor(s) will be at your home two or three days, ask if the $300 pricetag you’ve agreed to is per day or for all three days. Always ensure you are clear about the price and the work being done.
You can locate a qualified home improvement professional near you by inquiring with the Better Business Bureau, an organization dedicated to connecting consumers to good businesses. You can search their database at http://www.bbb.org/.
 If your home needs to be massively overhauled and updated, you might not be inclined to do so since you’re selling it soon. However, there are things you can do to upgrade the home’s quality to make it more attractive without breaking the bank. Hardware, paint, and plumbing are all good things to consider when looking to make a handful of quick, affordable improvements.


Mend broken fences in the front or backyard. A few nails and a hammer is all you need. If you’re feeling really handy, slap a new coat of paint over it. Of course, you might find a more rustic fence with a bit of peeling paint gives the place a homey feel.
Upgrade old lighting fixtures. At the very least, you should remove the old ceiling light fixtures and clean them of dead bugs and dust which inevitably collect over the years. Lighting fixtures are easy to remove.
Ensure window blinds have pull strings and window shades retract and pull down properly. #*Keep your home well-lit. Replace broken bulbs as needed. Open your curtains and pull up your window shades to let daylight in. A home shrouded in darkness is gloomy and depressing. In contrast, illuminating your home will make it more attractive and inviting., Doors might stick or close improperly due to faulty locks, handles, latches, or door frames. Correcting these deficiencies can make your home seem more attractive to potential buyers. Preparing your home for sale means making your doors easy to open and close.


A latch which doesn’t function correctly might be caused by a poorly-fitted door. Close the door slowly and observe how the latch contacts the strike plate (the piece of the door frame into which the latch is inserted). If the bolt is above, below, or to the side of the strike plate, you can remove it and use your observations to adjust it to a correct position.As a last resort, replace the entire door. This will give you a new strike plate as well as a door with a new latch.


For serious door and lock problems, call a professional locksmith. They will help you evaluate, replace, and correct problems with your doors and locks as needed.
 If your front or back doors are drafty, consider installing a storm door. Storm doors provide an extra barrier between the inside and outside, usually with a glass window affixed to a metallic door. If you live in a windy city or a place that has intense winter weather, a storm door is a good option.


If you’re in a bad neighborhood characterized by high crime, consider installing a security door. A security door is usually made of steel and contains vertical bars running down its face. It will prevent intruders who can easily break or detach a regular door handle to rob homes.
 This means not only vacuuming rigorously, but renting a steam-cleaner for a deep cleaning. Before cleaning, move as much as possible out of each room so that the maximum amount of carpet space possible gets cleaned.Be careful not to scrape against baseboards or furniture.
Always vacuum and clean the carpets after you’ve dusted furniture, made the bed, and wiped crumbs from counter tops and tables. This minimizes the accumulation of new debris on the carpet.If you have a large home, it might be best to hire professional carpet cleaners to clean your carpets. This will save you time and energy you can use to accomplish other important cleaning tasks around your home.
 Put some fresh-cut flowers in a vase by the sink. Place a basket of appetizing produce or fruit on the kitchen counter. Place a few small potted plants in an empty corner. Spray the bathrooms with a slightly zesty, clean smell.Keep your home smelling fresh. Do not cook greasy or odoriferous foods such as bacon on the day of a showing.If you detect an unpleasant odor, open the windows and run your fans to evacuate the stink. Use scented candles, essential oils, or incense to keep your home smelling nice. Pleasant scents can leave visitors with a positive impression.
Bake cookies or pies on the day of the showing. Not only will you make the visitors feel welcome in the house, but it will give the house a “homey” scent and evoke visions of an idyllic domestic life.
If you have pets, try to confine them to a smaller area of the house while the home is on the market, and take them out of the house with you while potential buyers conduct viewings.
 Power washers can be rented or bought at local home improvement stores. Ask store employees for advice on how to use the device and consult the instruction manual before beginning. A good sprayer should provide 1800 pounds per square inch (psi) of pressure and a white 40 degree nozzle. If your power washer exceeds this pressure, you may damage your home’s siding.To clean the sidewalk, move the nozzle in a back-and-forth sweeping motion down the length of the walkway until all dirt and leaves are thoroughly flushed out.
Before beginning to clean your siding, look overhead to check for power cables. Do not spray in or near power outlets, power lines, electrical meters, or lighting.
Washing can be exhausting due to the powerful kickback which the washer produces. Ensure you are strong enough to complete the job yourself, or get a partner to help you. Many home-cleaning companies offer power washing of home siding and walkways.
 Your porch is the portal into the house and the first significant space a potential buyer will see. Ensuring your porch is organized and clean are important steps in prepping your home for sale.If you have a swing, check the hinges to ensure they are securely attached. Replace or tighten any screws missing or loose.
Dust any furniture which may be on the porch. Remove the cushion covers and wash them if they’re dirty, or replace them if stained.
Remove any debris like toys, tools, books, or other miscellaneous personal objects from the porch. Place them in their proper homes inside the house or garage.
Take a broom to sweep cobwebs and dead leave from the corners of the porch. Check the upper corners of the porch for cobwebs as well.
 You might not be fully moved-out by the time potential buyers come to your house looking to walk through it. But cleaning out clutter and tidying up a bit will help people envision how the home could look when empty or organized nicely. There are several things you should do to help potential buyers get a feel for the space:Empty and open closets
Remove large furniture when possible; rent a storage unit in which to stash them
Leave only neutral decor; an impressionist landscape print can stay, your exotic collection of shrunken heads should be removed or covered

, Walls, trim, baseboards, and cabinets might need to be repainted. Check each carefully for chipped or peeling paint. Pull beds, sofas, and tables positioned against walls out to investigate the painted wall behind them. Scuff marks which cannot be washed off should also be painted over.


Multiple layers of paint should be replaced or covered with oil-based paint. You can identify how many layers are on a wall by scraping steadily away at a small, chipped corner of the wall (scraping from a bottom corner is best) and observing how may layers you see..
Whatever you’re painting, choose a neutral colored paint. Neutral paints make selling the house easier. Any off-white, gray, or cream color is a good choice. Avoid loud colors like lime green, red, or yellow.
Painting is another area where it might be good to hire professionals. Knowing what kind of paint to buy, what kind of wood your cabinets are, or what the best sandpaper to use can be difficult. Pro painters are familiar with all these choices.
 Close all windows tightly. Windows should be cleaned both inside and outside. Both take time but are easy maintenance tasks which will bring out your home’s inner beauty.


Use a strip applicator dipped in soapy water to wet your windows across their entire surface. Take a squeegee to wipe the sudsy water away. Move your hand in a reverse “S” pattern starting from the top left. This basic cleanup task takes only a little time but is an easy way to make the outside sparkle.
To clean the inside of the windows, use a commercial window cleaning solution and spray liberally across the surface of the window from the top to the bottom. Use disposable paper towels to wipe away the solution and any grime that has accumulated.
 Plant some flowers and trim any trees or shrubbery outside the house. Rake any leaves, twigs, and debris off the yard and give it a mowing. If you don’t have any external foliage to speak of, think about what species thrive in your climate and get some for your yard. Plant them directly along the front of your home. At the very least, water and mow your grass, and invest in some small potted shrubs you can line up along the front walls of the house.