 Define the “visual temperature” of the natural light in the room. Choose warm-hued accent walls to create balance in eastern or northern rooms and cool-hued accent walls for western or southern rooms.


If your room is located on the east or north side of your home, the quality of light entering the room during the day through the windows is cooler than the light coming from southern or western-facing windows.
 An accent wall often looks the most dynamic and fitting when there are not any windows or doors to further busy the space.However, sometimes architectural features, such as a fireplace or nook, can be highlighted with an accent wall., Different colors play tricks on perception in different ways. Warm colors tend to pull a wall toward the eye while cool colors tend to push a wall away from the eye. If a room feels too big or awkwardly long, you may want your accent color to be warmer, while a smaller room benefits from a cooler accent color., If you have the furniture in your room organized in a way that you want to keep, pick your accent wall and color in a way that further highlights one of your more eye-catching pieces in the room.Pick a wall that an important piece of furniture sits in front of, such as a bed in a bedroom, or a large couch in a living room. This compliments an already attractive part of the room.
Look at the tones in your throw pillows and wall art for inspiration.
 While you have many color options for your accent wall, you should pick one that contrasts well with your decor. There’s a fine line between contrasting and clashing, so be careful with which combination you select. Some good examples are:Yellow wall with blue or purple details
Blue wall with yellow or blue details
Red wall with white or blue details
Orange wall with green details
Purple wall with purple or yellow details
Green wall with red, yellow, orange, purple, or blue details, 60% of a room, including the majority of paint and decor, should be made up of the most dominant color. 30% of a room should be in a secondary color, and 10% should be in an accent color. Try following this as closely as possible to achieve the best sense of balance.