 Take the unwanted clothes, games, toys, and other stuff lying around your room and sell it. This is a good way of not only earning money, but getting rid of clutter.


Get your parents to help you sell it on eBay or Craigslist. You can sell everything from clothes to toys on there.
Take your clothes and shoes to a consignment shop. Consignment shops pay money for quality, second-hand items. Some consignment shops will even take toys. Make sure the items are in good quality so you get the best price.
Sell your old video games and video game systems back to gaming stores. Or try selling them on eBay or Amazon.
Have a yard sale. This might not be easy since your parents will have to do a lot of work, but maybe you can convince them to share some of the profits from their sales if you do a lot of the organizing work., Are you good at math, language arts, or science? Did you ace your standardized tests? If so, you can tutor kids younger than you in your community. Tutoring sessions usually last 30 minutes to an hour, once or twice a week., If you are an experienced musician, think about giving music lessons to people in your community - both young and old. Teach people how to play the piano, the guitar, the flute, or the violin. Use your years of hard work and practice to your advantage now.


Offer your musical services for a fee at local events. Play the piano at a reception, play the guitar at a wedding, or play the violin at a local festival.
 Do you know sign language? Then you can sell your time as an interpreter. If you Learn HTML or a programming language, people or companies can hire you to build websites and applications.


If you're good at drawing and painting, think about painting faces at birthday parties and other events for a small fee., The holidays are an extremely busy time for families. Offer to help them in various ways. Help them decorate their house, bake, wrap presents, and address greeting card envelopes. People always need a little extra help during such busy times., Baking, knitting, crocheting, sewing, and making crafts can be extremely lucrative. Bake cookies, cupcakes, cakes, pies, and cinnamon rolls and sell them. Crotchet and knit scarves, hats, and gloves. If you're extremely good at crocheting, consider crocheting small animals. If you're good at sewing, sew dresses and clothes for people, or offer to darn their clothes by sewing up tears and sewing buttons back on.
 Some states offer money for cans, glass bottles, and plastic bottles. Others pay for the aluminum. Find out the recycling incentives in your area and start collecting. Start with the cans and bottles from your own home, but also go around the community to find cans and bottles lying around. You're not only making money, but you're cleaning your community and helping the environment.