 If you are feeling anxious, scared, or nervous during an election season, you should not judge yourself or be critical of your emotions. Instead, you should practice self compassion self-compassion and accept your emotions. This will help you get in touch with what you are really feeling.For example, tell yourself “It is okay to feel nervous about the upcoming election. This is a completely normal emotional response.”
Only when you accept your emotions can you begin to move past them.;
, If you find that the stress of the election is overwhelming, try practicing meditation. This will help you relax and clear your mind. Sit in a quiet room, close your eyes, and focus on your breathing. Try and clear your mind, or visualize a happy place, such as a beach.You can also try other relaxation techniques, such as yoga.
 You can also cope with the stress and fears concerning the election by talking about it with people who have similar views, including friends and family if you know they do not have conflicting opinions. Have an open and meaningful conversation about the election. This will help you work through your emotions. You can also find support and validation when you talk with like-minded individuals.Avoid talking about the election with people who will cause you additional stress. If your friends or family have drastically differing opinions on the election, it may be a better idea to let them know that you do not want to talk about politics or engage in debate.
 You may find that all of the news and media attention surrounding the election is overwhelming. To cope with election-based stress, try unplugging or disconnecting for a while. Turn off the push notifications on your phone so that information about the election doesn’t interrupt your daily activities. Take a break from Facebook and Twitter and avoid watching the news and commercial T.V. because there are so many political advertisements.Instead, set aside time each day to read about the election. This way you can stay informed without being completely consumed by the election.
Try going out with friends or getting out in nature instead of focusing on politics. Look for activities that will help you focus on others and strengthen your relationships rather than engaging in political debate.
 If the stress associated with the election is causing you to have sleepless nights and you are unable to manage it through other forms of self-care, then you should seek professional medical assistance. High levels of stress can lead to a number of medical issues including increased blood pressure and heart problems. Talk with your doctor about your anxiety and come up with ways to manage your stress levels.