 Other skills may also be useful such as climbing, combat, modification, spying, lock picking and stealth.;
, Stealth is a key ingredient to a being a good assassin. Being able to climb, shoot, fight, reload and use other skills silently and without disturbing other people will help you greatly in a Nerf war. Silent walking is a lot better if you can take your shoes off. It may hurt a little, but its worth it if some thing's on the line.
 Traps are good for catching people for immediate termination. Stun traps are good for if you are waiting for someone. A balloon hidden under leaves makes them suspicious, then you can shoot them.
 Equipment is a vital part to a good assassin. Things such as stunners, throwing darts, and smoke bombs can be incredibly useful for saving your life. However, most of these item are not readily available. Stunners you can use when someone sees you. Throw one and run. Throwing darts for not having that Nerf gun shot unless you have the silence mod (very useful). Smoke bombs are useful for signaling people, or smoking someone out of a fort. The best Nerf gun for the job is the Jolt. It's tiny, shoots very far, and is very accurate.
 When your captors aren't looking, throw some smoke bombs to distract them and then run like heck.
 You might think that Nite-Finders are good, but they only hold one dart at a time, and have bad range and power unless you mod it. Secret shots you can conceal easily. The jolt is the best though. You can conceal it and it has good power.
, This really only needs to be some chewable candy to "revive" someone. Have some water and band-aids etc. in your bag too in case someone actually gets hurt for real.
 A medic needs to be able to run to a downed teammate quickly, and then needs to be able to get out quick as well. Make sure you can move fast over and around obstacles.
 Because you'll be running 50% of the time as a medic, that means 50% of the darts that will be coming at you will be when you're running. If you can dodge darts when running this means sprints are less dangerous.
 Get a system down where you can revive them in under ten seconds. Having your pistol out while reviving also helps, so you can fend off enemies who want to take you down.
 If you get downed, then the other medic on your team will have to revive you or your team will be without a medic. Don't get involved in heavy conflict without having some more troops with you.

