 Many businesses choose to incorporate in Delaware because it has a clear and established case law related to corporate law, processes filings quickly, and offers a flexible corporate formation process.You are only subject to Delaware franchise tax requirements if your business or company is incorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware. You can check whether you are incorporated in Delaware by entering your business’ name in the Division of Corporations’ business entity search located online at https://icis.corp.delaware.gov/Ecorp/EntitySearch/NameSearch.aspx The type of business entity determines your franchise tax and annual reporting requirements. Below are some of the common types of business entities:


Corporation. Corporations are formed under state or federal law with a business identity separate from its owners, which means it can conduct business, be sued or sue, and acquire goods and property. Corporations can be for profit and issue stock or not and can also be not-for profit. Most corporations have a board of directors who elect directors to manage the business of the company.Limited Partnerships. Limited business partnerships (LP) are formed with two or more individuals, one of whom acts as the principal partner and one who is a limited partner, which means that they are limited in responsibility for the company's debt, as well as in governing/managing the business. Like corporations, limited partnerships have a separate legal identity from the business owners.Limited Liability Companies. Limited liability companies (LLC), like corporations, have a separate legal identity that can conduct business, be sued or sue, and acquire goods and property. LLC’s management structure is governed by an LLC agreement that set forth the responsibilities and authority for managers, who have the authority to bind the corporation in contracts and who are generally not personally responsible for the debts of the company.General Partnerships General partnerships (GP) are associations between two or more people who run the business as co-owners. Each partner is an agent for the company, they are not required to file any formal partnership documents, and for non-tax purposes the GP is a separate entity from the partners that can conduct business.;
, Pursuant to Delaware law, Title 8 Chapter 5 § 501(b) certain corporations are exempt from franchise tax. In order to be exempt, your corporation must meet one of the following requirements:


Corporation is considered exempt under the 26 U.S.C. § 501(c) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, which includes but is not limited to: corporations organized under an act of Congress; corporation that only holds title, collects income and turns the entire amount over to another entity; corporations operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, testing for public safety, literary, or educational purposes, amateur sports; not-for-profit civil; labor organizations; and recreational clubs.For a complete list of 501(c)(3) exempt corporations review the Internal Revenue Code available at https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/26/501

Corporation qualifies as a civic organization owning parkland under the Delaware legal code § 8110(a)(1) of Title 9 Corporation qualifies as a charitable/fraternal organization under Delaware law
Corporation is listed under Delaware Code § 8106(a) of Title 9, including but not limited to: Delaware Historical Society; New Castle Historical Society; incorporated relief associations for volunteer firefighters; Nonsectarian Young Women's Christian Associations; Nonsectarian Young Men's Christian Associations; Salvation Army; Burial lots and cemeteries. For a complete list, review the Delaware Code at http://delcode.delaware.gov/title9/c081/sc01/index.shtml

Corporation is organized primarily or exclusively for religious or charitable purposes, is a religious corporation, purely charitable or educational association, is a company, association or society for assisting sick, needy or disabled, to defray funeral costs or to support widows. Corporation is organized as a not-for-profit business and none of the corporate earnings benefit a member or individual., Not all business entities are required to file Annual Franchise Tax Report even though they may still be required to pay a franchise tax. Annual reporting requirements, by type of business entity are as follows:


All corporations incorporated in Delaware, including franchise tax exempt corporations, are required to file an Annual Franchise Tax Report by March 1st of each year and pay a filing fee of $50.Foreign corporations, i.e. corporations that are incorporated in a different state but are registered to do business in Delaware, must file annual reports and pay franchise taxes by June 30th each year.Limited Partnerships, Limited Liability Companies and General Partnerships formed in Delaware are not required to file an Annual Report but they are still required to pay applicable taxes., Corporations should receive in the mail an annual Franchise Tax Notification sent to its registered agent.This notification will include a calculation of your franchise tax using the authorized shares method (see below).Delaware also accepts franchise tax payments calculated under the assumed par value method and will accept the lower taxes due between the two methods. You should calculate your taxes under both methods to determine, which method is less expensive.


Non-stock for profit corporations that are not exempt must pay a franchise tax of $175.Calculate franchise taxes using the “authorized shares method.” For corporations having no par value stock (i.e. the stock value stated in the corporate charter)the authorized shares method will always result in the lesser tax. The tax is calculated as follows: 5,000 shares or less (minimum tax) required is $175.00; for 5,001 - 10,000 shares required tax is $250.00; for each additional 10,000 shares or portion thereof add $75.00 with a maximum annual tax is $180,000.00.Calculate franchise taxes using the “assumed par value capital method.” In order to calculate under this method, you must identify the amount of all issued shares and total gross assets, which are assets that you report to the IRS on Form 1120, Schedule L . The tax rate under this method is $350.00 per million or portion of a million. If the assumed par value capital is less than $1,000,000, then you calculate the tax by dividing the assumed par value capital by $1,000,000 then multiply that result by $350.00. You may want to retain a corporate tax expert to help you calculate these figures., If your tax has par value, you can use the Division of Corporations’ franchise tax calculator to assist you. The calculator is available online at https://corp.delaware.gov/taxcalc.shtml

, An annual tax report must include the following information:


Location of the registered business office located in Delaware.
Name of business agent who will accept service of legal process.
Location (city, town, street and number of same, if number there be) of the principal place of business of the corporation;
Names and addresses of all the directors as of the filing date of the report and the name and address of the officer who signs the report;
Number of shares and the par value per share of each class of capital stock having a par value and the number of shares of each class of stock without par value which the corporation is authorized to issue;
If exempt from taxation for any cause, the specific facts entitling the corporation to exemption from taxation; and
Any other information necessary to ascertain the calculation of the franchise tax., As determined above, if you are a corporation required to pay a Franchise Tax and/or submit Annual Franchise Tax Report you must do so in the following ways:


Corporations incorporated in Delaware must Pay Franchise Tax and/or submit Annual Franchise Tax Report by March 1st online at https://corp.delaware.gov/paytaxes.shtml the penalty for not filing a completed Annual Report on or before March 1st is $125.00 Interest at 1.5% per month is applied to any unpaid tax balance.Foreign corporations, i.e. corporations that are incorporated in a different state but are registered to do business in Delaware, must file annual reports and pay franchise taxes by June 30th each year via mail. Foreign corporations are assessed a penalty of $125 if the Annual Report is not filed.Exempt corporations must pay a filing fee of $50.Contact the Department of State if you do not receive your franchise tax documents after the first of the year. You can call them at (302) 739-3073, or send an email to corp@delaware.gov.
 Limited Partnerships, Limited Liability Companies and General Partnerships formed in Delaware are not required to file an Annual Report but must pay an annual tax of $300.00.
 The Delaware website will accept your payment anytime after the beginning of the new year.Just find the link for "alternative entity" and make the payment of $300, before the first of June.
 Prepare to file a tax of $300 by June 1. Late payment results in a penalty of $200. Interest accrues on both the tax and the penalty ($500) at the rate of 1.5% per month. 