 Don’t start the makeup conversation when your parents are busy or in a bad mood. Wait until they’re in an open, approachable mood to bring up your desire to start wearing makeup. Make sure they have the time to have a long conversation with you at the time. If you catch them at a bad time more than once, your parents might start to feel like you're nagging them, and that never helps you win an argument!;
, Instead, show how mature and responsible you are. Don't ever raise your voice, and do your best not to let your voice get whiney. If the argument isn't going your way, control your emotions instead of crying or yelling.
 The hormonal changes in your body might cause your skin to break out, and that can be incredibly stressful.Explain to your parents that makeup isn't always about attracting boys. Concealing your skin problems until you grow out of them will make you feel more comfortable in your own skin.
 Research shows that women who view makeup positively feel stronger and more confident in themselves when wearing it.You're at a delicate age, and your self confidence is very important. Without it, you might not make the best decisions for yourself. Your parents want what's best for you, and feeling strong is in your best interest.
 Your parents might think that you want to wear makeup to attract boys. You need to convince them that you want to wear makeup to express yourself, not to fit the mold of what boys like.Just like clothes and hairstyles, makeup tells everyone around you — boys and girls, young and old — something about who you are. This is about sharing something about yourself with the world. Just make sure your parents know what you're doing this for yourself, not for boys.


Makeup is just one aspect of your overall image. Encourage your parents to see it as ‘’part’’ of who you are, not as a defining feature.
You’re at a time in your life when self-expression is very important to you. You’re figuring out who you are! Try to persuade your parents that a little bit of makeup will help you explore your identity.
 Whether right or wrong, society judges women by how they look. Being able to wear makeup properly will help you succeed in the professional world as an adult.Your teenaged years are a time to hone the skills you'll need later. You need to make mistakes like smudging your eyeliner or wearing unflattering colors at a young age, when the stakes are low. You definitely don't want to make them as an adult, when your appearance has more real-world consequences.
 Don't just be willing to hear your parents out — actively ask for their input in the decision. The better you understand why they don't want you to wear makeup, the better you can address their concerns.


"I know why I think makeup will make me feel better. Why do you think it will be bad for me?"
Pay close attention to what they say, and try to answer each of their concerns directly.
 Your parents might be worried that overnight, you're going to change from their little girl to a fully made-up woman. Ease that concern by starting small.


Say that you want to start with only concealer and blush to hide your acne.
You might ask for a little more leeway every year, as you get older. After a year, ask if you can add eye-shadow to your makeup routine, or eye-liner.
 If your parents are worried that you're trying to grow up too fast, they might be right. Think of how silly your mother would look with bright pink lipstick and blue nail polish! She looks good in makeup because she wears makeup appropriate for her age. Explain to your parents that you'll do the same thing.


Ask for lightly tinted lip balms or glosses instead of a deep red, sexy lipstick.
Keep all makeup on your face light and natural-looking. You want to enhance your natural beauty, not change your face. Maybelline Baby Lips is a good tinted lip balm to start out with.
 Be willing to give them something they want in return for your makeup privileges. Some examples might include:


You can only wear makeup as long as you keep your grades up.
You'll take on an extra weekly chore around the house.
 Makeup doesn't have to mean that you're growing up and away from your parents. It can actually bring you closer together! Go to sephora/local makeup store or watch YouTube tutorials with your mom, you could look at products and find out what is acceptable and unacceptable. YouTube tutorials would give clear ideas of what makeup looks are okay and what aren't. Going into the store also allows for an associate to help find products that satisfy your wants and your parents rules.Ask your mother to go shopping with you for the first time so she can teach you how to choose makeup. When you get home, ask her to help you practice applying it.


Get her advice on how to match makeup to your skin color.
Take her advice on what colors she thinks will look good on you.
Make sure to maintain a good attitude the whole time. By making makeup fun for your mom, you increase the odds that she'll let you wear it more often.

