 Colleges and universities may offer courses on organic farming. If you plan to farm for a profit, formal training can be a major asset. You also may find a local organic farm that offers training to farmers who are just getting started. As organic farming has a certain science behind it, training is a good idea if you're serious about starting your own organic farm.You want to make sure you're able to grow a large amount of crops so you can sell them for profit. Training will teach you how to best assure your crops grow, and also tips about harvesting and packaging your crops for sale.
Training is also an excelling networking opportunity. You will meet other aspiring farmers who can help you find a market for your crops. Many of your teachers may already farm professionally, and may have connections for you down the road.
 Certification programs will evaluate your farm and provide you with paperwork certifying your farm meets the standards of organic farming. Certification programs can be beneficial to your farm for a variety of reasons.If you end up selling your products, you can use the USDA organic seal if your farm is certified as organic. This will give legitimacy to your products and make health conscious consumers feel safe buying from you. This seal is usually required if you're selling food labeled as organic.
If you only give your consumers your word, they may be nervous about purchasing your crops. Certification shows you put the work in to make sure your crops are grown according to proper guidelines.
 The process varies based on which program you're working with. You can get certified using a private, foreign, or state entity. Usually, you have to prove your farm meet United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) standards for organic farming practices.There is usually an application process in which you will have to provide a detailed account of how you grow your crops. An agent will review your application and accept it if he feels your farm meets the correct standards. Usually, there is also an on site inspection.
There are often fees associated with getting certified, which can be costly. Fees vary greatly between organizations, so choose an organization within your price range to get certified.
 Many consumers and farmers disagree with the USDA standards for organic. Some farmers also do not have the time and money for certification. A program called Certified Naturally Grown provides easier certification for small scale farms. If it's difficult and costly for you to meet USDA requirements, consider certification via a grassroots program like this.


If you live in a smaller area, you can also try to be simply be upfront with consumers about your practices. A tiny farmer's market may operate more on word of mouth than official certification.

