 Once the cat exits the carrier, reset your stopwatch and measure the time the cat spends interacting with you. Interaction is defined as sitting in your lap, rubbing against your leg, meowing or chirping at you, and looking at you. Do not encourage the cat to interact with you. Make no sound or motion apart from looking at the cat.If the cat spends less than 30 seconds interacting with you, it might be shy or afraid.
If the cat interacts with you for 30-60 seconds, it has a pleasant and agreeable personality. In day-to-day activities, the cat will probably divide its time equally between playing or interacting with you and spending time in solitude.
If the cat interacts with you for over 60 seconds, it has a very friendly and agreeable personality, and probably craves human attention.
 Once you’ve measured the length of the cat’s baseline level of interest in you, move to a distance of about six feet (two meters) from the cat. Crouch down. Call the cat to you in a soft and encouraging manner. Watch carefully how it interacts with you.If the cat does not make eye contact, it is more cautious and shy than a cat that does make eye contact.
If the cat sniffs or nuzzles you, it is very friendly and enjoys being the center of attention. If it rolls on its back, inviting a tummy rub, it has a trusting personality. This is also a sign it is friendly and open to new experiences.
If the cat watches you from a distance and does not approach, it has a relatively private personality, and prefers monitoring the situation rather than engaging with other pets or people.
If the cat retreats, it has the type of personality that spooks easily and perhaps needs time to develop trust.
 Your hand should be below the cat’s head with the palm facing up. If the cat didn’t approach you when you called it, approach the cat slowly and carefully. If the cat swats at your hand, hisses, or tries to bite your hand, back away. This indicates that the cat likes being left alone and doesn’t enjoy social interaction. If the cat sniffs, licks, or nuzzles your hand, this indicates the cat is relatively outgoing and social., While talking to the cat in a gentle, reassuring manner, turn your hand over so the palm faces down. Curve your hand slightly. Place your hand on the cat’s head, then move it gently along the length of the cat’s body until you reach the mid-back. At that point, lift your hand up, then place it again on the cat’s head. Repeat the motion several times while monitoring your cat’s reaction.Cats that are fearful or hostile will bite or swat your hand away.
Cats that are independent but also enjoy spending time with people will roll on their backs, meow or make another vocalization, and circle you attentively.
Cats that are highly social and very outgoing will rub against your hand, encouraging you to continue petting them.
 In order to test their cat’s personality, some people like to “stroke” the cat using a hand made of rubber or plastic. However, these objects will alarm most cats, who rely on smell more than visual data to identify what is and is not dangerous., Happy and healthy cats will never pass up a chance to chase a toy. Move about three feet (one meter) away from the cat and sit on the floor. Slowly pull a piece of yarn along the floor in front of you. You could also roll a ball or use a similar cat toy. Observe the cat’s reaction.Cats that have playful and energetic personalities will watch the toy intently and chase it. They might try to snuggle against you while you move the toy about, too.
Cats that are less energetic and extremely independent will ignore the toy, attend to something else, and/or not make eye contact with you.

