 Knowing why companies and organizations use psychometric testing can ease some of your possible concerns that the tests are out to typecast or dismiss you. On the whole, the tests are aimed at finding out the most able and best suited persons for a job or course of study in the most efficient manner.


Psychometric testing can be an indicator that there are a lot of applicants for a job and the employer is seeking to identify the most suitable candidates in the most economical way possible.It is viewed as an efficient way of gauging a potential employee's thinking, ability to be a part of a team, and personal priorities.See it realistically: if you're not the best fit, you're better off not working in this work environment. It doesn't reflect on your worth as a person.;
, Psychometric tests can be given in the potential workplace, or on the premises of a business that runs the testing on behalf of the company or organization. Read the attendance instructions carefully and if you don't know where to go, be sure to work it out well in advance rather than turning up late. Also, read any instructions about the test itself with great care and learn what you can about the types of questions, the timing permitted, and the sequences the testing will be provided in.


Psychometric tests can be written (pen and paper), on a computer, or a combination of both.
While most testing will take place seated at a desk, it's also possible to be given psychometric tests while undertaking a workplace task, or even when in a gym or on a running machine.Average testing time is around 15 minutes but it varies depending on the extent of tests being taken.Even the timing can be treated as part of the assessment of completion or non-completion of particular tests.
If you have a disability that might impact your ability to take the test, let the employer know in advance. They may be able to rearrange the testing process to accommodate your needs.

Dress smartly. You are competing with other people; every little part of you that suggests you care and are taking this seriously will count in your favor.
Bring along anything you're asked to bring, including gym clothes if necessary.
 This can be hard if you're prone to dismissing the worth or resenting taking psychometric tests. You might harbor personal disbelief or even disgust at the use of such tests to sort through people but it's about facing the reality that these tests stand between you and a job, not about fighting your personal war against using psychology as a corporate tool (Use your blog for the latter!). Instead, expect to give the tests your absolute best shot by taking the right mental approach and being determined to work hard.Sleep well the night before.
Look forward to the challenge.
 For those who have never had psychometric tests or who have been out of formal education for a while, practice can be an important introduction to the things that you'll be expected to answer. As soon as you're told to attend for the tests, start practicing. Practice is the best chance that you have for succeeding, especially when you work with materials that are similar to those you'll be tested on.Mike Bryon recommends that you do a minimum of 20 hours of practice if you can,, so if you have enough lead-in time, break up the practice to a few hours a day.


Ask the potential employer for samples of the questions expected. If you receive any, this will give you an opportunity to work out the type of questions you'll need to practice.
Find websites and books that have practice tests. Do as many as you can before your own testing day.
Focus on your areas of weakness. If you're great at spelling and word association but lousy at spotting patterns or number skills, don't spend too much time on the easy stuff. Instead, focus most of your energies on practicing the skills in which you're weakest, to improve them and your confidence.
Challenge yourself and push past what you cannot do. Practice will only be effective when you force yourself to do that which you don't believe you can., As most of the aptitude part of psychometric tests are timed, it pays to practice under pressure. Practicing this will get you used to answering a lot of questions in a short space of time and to learn to balance speed and accuracy. Use a timer to practice with; a good time period is to allow yourself about 20 seconds per question before moving on the the next one. Either follow the time allotted on the practice tests or use a 10 to 15 minute period (the time you're likely to get in the actual test).


Practice time-keeping without checking the clock. Get to know how long 20 seconds feels like when approaching and answering each question.
Don't fuss about running out of time. Just keep practicing to improve your time.
 As well as using psychometric tests, find all sorts of relevant test material to broaden your knowledge and fast answering ability.


If you find magazines that have surveys that tell you your personality, do these; again, set up a timer for 15-20 seconds per question. Usually, the personality tests are not timed, but there are a couple of hundred questions - it's about sufficiency of evidence in this case. The timer part of this step is, again, about helping you get used to reading quickly, and to give you some more practice at time pressure.
Any sort of IQ test, visual puzzles, Trivial Pursuit style questions - the name of the game is to buff up your mental mathematics, reading, and comprehension skills. Do all of this within short time frames.
Find puzzles where there are simple graphics. The types of questions you'll be asked will include picking the odd one out, or "if this is to this, then that is to ...?" type pattern sequences; these kinds of tests look at your reasoning and spatial abilities. Find them, time them, do them. Sudoku helps you look at patterns, and again, add a timer to spur you on.
Use any online word-of-the-day type services, along with crosswords, hangman, word match, and other sorts of word puzzles. Keep doing the puzzles with a timer, and try to get faster, and of course, accuracy is the name of the game. Challenge colleagues, friends and family.
 Mathematics questions usually take the form of problem, with five or six possible answers. If you've slipped away from percentages, fractions, decimals, proportions, ratios, and numerical relationships - it's time to return to those kinds of questions and get them accurate.
 Once it is test time, be prepared. Read or listen to the instructions with great care (after all, if you can't get that right now, will you actually listen on the job?). Avoid feeling pressured and be prepared to enjoy the experience. If there are sample questions, use these as a way to warm up calmly, check your answers, and to get a feeling for the layout and style of the questions.


If you're not clear on the time period allotted, ask again. Be aware of the need for any delays prior to or after tests.
The timing doesn't start until you start the test, so spend a few moments relaxing and getting yourself ready for action.
If you don't feel well, have the test rescheduled and get a doctor's certificate. This isn't "I've got the butterflies" type of unwell but genuine sickness.
 Trust yourself. You get a better chance to find questions you can answer if you move on rather than spend two minutes grinding away on a single problem. Doing that would waste the opportunity of another 6 questions at 20 seconds each! Just keep working through and if you have time left, come back to skipped questions. Remember that everyone will get something wrong and it is better to push through to answers in which you excel than to remain stuck in the ones that won't click.


Notice any little messages at the bottom of a page asking you to "Turn over". Unfortunately, a lot of people miss that and think they've finished the test!Educated guesses are worth trying when you don't know the answer.Maximize your speed on the easier questions; this will free up time for the more challenging ones.
 Whether or not you're successful in getting through to the next stage of the job hunt, ask for feedback on the psychometric tests. This can give you important insights into how your personality and aptitude have been perceived and which areas it might be worth concentrating on more. While there are no wrong or right answers in personality tests, there can be indicators of areas in which you would benefit from self-improvement, such as training in ethics or assertiveness.


Keep trying. If at first you don't succeed, try again until you do. Failure at psychometric tests stands at around half of the candidates sitting the test.It can be an indicator that you need to practice the tests more, so try to recall which areas of the tests caused you the most difficulties and concentrate on improving those for the next time. Apply again after practicing more. Be confident that your refocused practice will enable you to pass the psychometric tests the next time around.

