 They are used to fire large caliber "shells" that contain either shot (a multiple quantity of metal pellets) or a single large slug.
 The spreading out of the shot when fired allows a larger area to be hit with each trigger pull, reducing the requirement for precision shooting, and, depending on the type of ammunition and range, can cause greater damage than a single bullet from a handgun.






Some shotguns have the flexibility of shooting shot or bullet-type projectiles (known as "slugs"). This allows them to have the characteristics of rifles but also the option to use shot depending on the situation.






Shotguns, like many long guns, are also customizable and versatile. Most modern shotguns can be outfitted with different length barrels, stocks, fore ends, sights and many other accessories to fit your needs.






The use of chokes, a narrowing "funnel"-like section at the end of the barrel, allows you to control how much the shot disperses out of the end of the barrel. Some shotguns have threading or another method at the end of the barrel to allow you to easily change a choke depending on your needs. For defensive use, cylinder bore (or basically no choke at all) and sometimes improved cylinder (IC) chokes are most common. These allow the shot to spread out quickly and increase the chance of hitting your target. However, at longer ranges (greater than 20yds or so) the shot spreads out too much and will not be able to guarantee a good hit.






Another benefit of shooting shot from a shotgun is the inherent lack of penetration. For home protection, lighter shot will likely become less than lethal once it goes through a wall, protecting innocent family members or neighbors. Typically, the penetration is proportional to the size of the shot (for example, large buckshot is still capable of substantial penetration.) Although the "best" size is a hotly debated topic, smaller bird shot and skeet/clay target sized shot at close range can be very effective.
Shotgun barrels range in length from 18.5 inch (47.0 cm) "home defense" barrels to 24 inch (61.0 cm) hunting barrels. Also, many shotguns are made so the barrel can be changed easily. This way, you can put a short barrel on for home defense, and a long barrel for hunting or busting clays. Don't forget to practice with your short barrel, though.
 At normal household room distances, the shot spread, even with no choke, is barely the size of a softball.






Unless you are using slugs, shotguns are useless at longer ranges. Between the spreading of the shot, and the light weight of the pellets, the power of the weapon drops off precipitously as range increases. That said, most self defense encounters happen well within range of a shotgun.






Shotguns with heavy loads, such as 00 buck, can kick pretty hard, making them potentially difficult to control without practice.







