 In some cases, you may have already been automatically given Canadian status. The Government of Canada allows you to submit an application for proof of Canadian citizenship to help you determine if you are a Canadian citizen (this is different from applying for a Canadian citizenship). If you are indeed a Canadian citizen, you will be given your Certificate of Citizenship. In most cases, you are a Canadian citizen already if:


You were born in Canada.
Your parent or legal guardian naturalized you as a minor by applying for your citizenship.
You were born outside of Canada after April 17, 2009 and at least one of your parents were born in Canada, or naturalized before your birth.
The changes made in 2015 and 2009 of the Citizenship Act apply to you. A comprehensive list of changes can be found on the Citizenship and Immigration Canada website.
 Before applying for Canadian citizenship, you should check if you are eligible to receive citizenship. To be eligible for Canadian citizenship, you must meet these conditions:



Age: You must be at least 18 years old to apply. If you are applying for a child under 18, you must be the child’s parent, adoptive parent or legal guardian, the child must be a permanent resident, and one parent must be a Canadian citizen or be applying to become a citizen at the same time.

Permanent Resident Status: You must have permanent resident status and must not have any unfulfilled conditions related to your status. That means you are not under investigation, have no committed any crimes, or under a removal order. Fortunately, you don't need a PR card to apply for citizenship.

Time lived in Canada: After you have obtained permanent residency, you will have needed to be physically present in Canada for at least 1460 days (4 years) in a 6 year before before you apply for Canadian citizenship. Also, within these four years, each year, you must have been physically present in Canada for 183 days. These conditions do not apply to children under 18 or certain Crown servants. Luckily, the government has provided a tool to help you find out if you have lived in Canada long enough.

Income tax filing: You must have met your personal income tax filing obligations in four taxation years that are fully or partially within the six years immediately before the date you apply for citizenship.

Intent to reside: You must declare your intent to reside during the citizenship application process. That means you intend to live in Canada, work outside Canada as a Crown servant, or live abroad with certain family members who are Crown servants.

Be able to speak English or French: You will need to send documents to prove that you can speak and listen in English or French. An officer during your application process will also evaluate your language skills. Being able to speak in English or French means you can take part in short, everyday conversations about common topics, understand simple instructions, questions and directions, use basic grammar, and know enough common words and phrases to answer questions and express yourself.

Know Canada well: You will need to take a citizenship test that tests your knowledge of Canada. You will need to know Canada's history, values, institutions, and symbols. It is usually a written test but can sometimes be taken orally with a officer.

Prohibitions: If you have committed a crime, you are not eligible for citizenship for a period of time. That means you are not currently on parole or probation, you have not been convicted or indicted of any crimes, and you are not on trial or involved in an appeal of an offence.
 On Canada's Immigration website, you can find information guides about how to fill out applications, how to pay fees, and how to submit applications. There are three kinds of application packages:


For Adults (over 18 years old).

For Minors (under 18 years old).

For Canadian Armed Forces (over 18 years old).
Make photocopies of all documents. The detailed instruction guide will tell you what original documents you will need to bring to you test or interview.
When you submit your application, you must include all the forms, information, documents and fees, including postal codes for all Canadian and overseas addresses.
 You will have to take a citizenship test if you are between the ages of 14 and 64 when you apply for citizenship.If a minor is taking the citizenship test or going for an interview, a parent or guardian may accompany them, but they cannot help the child during the test or interview. Prepare for the citizenship test by:


Reading Discover Canada. You download a PDF or eBook copy as well as listen to an audio version of the book.
Brushing up on Canada's beliefs on the rights, freedoms and responsibilities of Canadian citizens, Canada's democracy and ways to take part in Canadian society, Canadian political and military history, social and cultural history and symbols, and Canadian physical and political geography.
Improving your English or French to prepare for the oral or interview portion of the test.
 You will receive a notice about the time, date, and location of your test. If you cannot make it to the scheduled date, contact the Call Centre and they will reschedule your citizenship test. If you don't attend the test, you will also have to contact the Call Centre or they will close your application.


Bring your original documents that you sent with your application to the test and any passports or travel documents you have had in the past four years.
Depending on your application, Immigration Canada will decide whether you do an oral or written test. If you have trouble reading and writing in English or French, you will most likely be given an oral test.
Your test results will be given to you right after your test. If you pass, a ceremony date to take your Oath of Citizenship will be given to you at the same time as your results. The ceremony will occur within six months after your test. If you do not pass, you will either be asked to reapply for citizenship or you will be rescheduled to take another test or interview with an officer.
 To receive your certificate of citizenship, all applicants over the age of 14 must attend the ceremony. You will need to bring:


Your original immigration documents.
Your permanent resident card, if you have one.
Your Record of Landing if you became a permanent resident before June 28, 2002.

