 Any type of pepper can be frozen, either raw or already roasted. The peppers typically remain flavorful for eight or nine months, but they will be mushy once thawed.This makes this method best suited for peppers that will be diced and used in recipes.


Unlike most vegetables, peppers do not need to be blanched to maintain quality while frozen.This makes freezing a faster, easier preservation method than with many vegetables.;
, Hot peppers can cause a painful skin rash. Always wear rubber gloves while handling hot peppers, and avoid touching sensitive areas of your body, such as your face.Wash anything that comes into contact with the peppers with soap and warm water before using it for anything else.


While more scientific studies are needed, there is anecdotal evidence that latex gloves may not be able to prevent "burning" from prolonged contact with hot peppers., Cut the peppers in half and scoop out the seeds and the white membrane inside. Slice the peppers into strips, or dice them into small pieces, depending on how you prefer them in your recipes.


Red peppers are often roasted before freezing, but this is optional.
Cutting hot peppers before freezing is optional., Spread the cut peppers out in a single layer, so they will freeze separately from each other and not stick together. Put the tray in the freezer until the peppers are frozen firm, checking about every twenty minutes.


A baking sheet with sides is best to prevent the peppers from falling, but you may use any flat tray.
Alternatively, wrap each pepper in wax paper or another freezer-safe material instead, to keep them separate from each other. Move on to the next step.
 Once the peppers have been tray frozen, they are unlikely to stick together into one lump in the freezer. At this point, they can be collected and placed in airtight, waterproof containers, such as freezer-safe zip locked bags or sealed plastic containers. Remove as much air as possible from bags before closing.


Keep your freezer at 0ºF (–17.9ºC) or below for safe, long-term preservation.Label the containers with the variety of pepper, or with the general description, such as "spicy" or "bell pepper".

