 Have an idea of what direction you want your conversation with your spouse to go? If you want to embrace being a good listener, you have to get rid of it. Conversations in which two people are participating equally by listening and replying grow organically. Don’t sit down to listen to them with an expectation of guiding the conversation your way. When you do this, you aren’t truly listening.
 Sometimes our spouses simply want to come to us to vent or talk through their problems. When you step in with unsolicited, quick-fix suggestions, this belittles your spouse and minimizes their concerns. Avoid offering advice unless your spouse specifically asks you what you think.This especially applies to men. This tends to be a very gendered problem, with husbands seeking to fix their wives’ problems, rather than listening to their wives talk about their problems. For instance, if your wife comes to you with concerns about a disagreement she had with her mother, resist the urge to tell her to simply call her mother and apologize. Instead, actively listen and acknowledge her struggle., The way that you and your spouse communicate and listen to each other will be the model for your kids in their future relationships. Children are sponges for information, so make sure that the model that you’re providing them about how to best communicate with their partner is one of respect and openness.
 Your spouse might bring up that you haven’t listened to them in the past. When they mention this, it’s important to not become defensive or angry. Instead, acknowledge that you haven’t been as attentive as you should have been and that you’re working on it. Try asking them what things you specifically do that make them feel that you aren’t listening. This way, if they have specific examples, you’ll have concrete things that you can begin to work on.
 If you’ve been neglectful of your spouse in the past and failed to listen to them, then a genuine apology can go a long way. Be sure that your attitude is remorseful and matches your words. Avoid sarcastic or passive-aggressive comments that can seem more like a veiled attack than a genuine apology.


Try saying something like “I know that I haven’t been listening to you. Let’s set a date to go get coffee or lunch/dinner and talk. I want to know what’s going on in your life.” Then be sure to follow up and set concrete plans by picking a date, location, and securing a babysitter (if needed).
 Ask your spouse if they feel like you listen to them. You need to be prepared for their answer. Ideally they will say yes, but if they are hurting they might not be kind in their response. Asking them whether they feel like you listen to them can be tough, but it is your most effective means to gauge their perception of how well you listen.
 If things aren’t working despite your best efforts to become a better listener for your spouse, then you both might benefit from speaking with a professional. Find a trusted therapist or member of the clergy, and speak with them about your listening and communication related marital problems. They are trained to help couples in this area, and this can be helpful when managing the issues on your own have failed.