 Any release prior to your maximum release date will be an early release. To calculate your maximum release date, start with the length of your sentence. Then subtract any day for which the judge already gave you credit. For example, you might have received credit for days served in jail prior to sentencing, any days after sentencing before you were transferred to prison, and credit for good behavior during your jail term. This is the maximum time you can serve if you stay out of trouble but do not earn any additional credit during your prison term.For example, if you were sentenced to three years (1,095 days) in prison, but received 120 days of credit for time served prior to sentencing, 60 days for good behavior, and 20 days after sentencing, then you can subtract 200 days from your 1,095 day sentence, setting your maximum release date 895 days into the future.;
, Correctional counselors provide guidance to inmates as they serve their sentences.Ask your counselor if you are eligible to participate in a credit-earning program. These programs are educational and career-based programs that reward you with time off your sentence for your participation. For example, in California, you can earn up to six weeks off your sentence each year.Your prison counselor can help you sign up for a program that would be a good fit for your skills and interests.
 If you break prison rules or commit an offense in prison, you could lose some of your earned credit as part of your punishment.You might even lose the opportunity to participate in credit-earning assignments, forfeiting the opportunity to earn back the credit you lost in the disciplinary process.


In federal prison, you can get “time off for good behavior.” If you are found to be in “exemplary compliance with institutional disciplinary regulations,” you can earn up to 54 days off your sentence each year.Stated simply, obey all the rules and make yourself a model prisoner.
For example, Arizona defines a model prisoner as someone who has had little to no disciplinary action taken against him or her, has helped stop criminal activity by others, has improved his or her own education (earning a high school diploma or equivalent in prison weighs in favor of time off for good behavior.), has found religion or spirituality, and who voices new positive goals for the future., As your release date approaches, continue to subtract your earned credit from your maximum release date. You can also factor in the amount of credit you can expect to earn during the remainder of your prison term.

