 In order to reach the lock slider for push or pull locks, you will need to straighten the hanger out, then bend it again in the right manner to reach the it. Depending on your vehicle, this may require a number of bends or few at all.You may need to guess and check the proper bends in the coat hanger a few times in order to get it right.
Try not to bend the hanger too far, as bends will reduce its ability to press or pull directly on the slider.
 If you need to pull the slider to unlock it in your vehicle, you will want to bend the end of the hanger into a hook that can snag the ledge on it. If you need to push it, it’s more important that you bend the tip in such a manner that can put the force necessary on the slider to push it over.Use a pair of pliers to make a small, strong hook or ledge.
If you are sliding the hanger in the gap in the door frame instead of a window gap, it will need to be very thin.
 If you are unable to pry the window away from the door frame, you will need to instead slide the hanger through the very narrow gap between the door itself and the frame. The door and door frame are separated by a thin layer of weather proofing that you may damage in the process. Press the hanger through the weather proof layer and into the car.Some vehicles will not permit the hanger to pass through because of the angle. You will then have to find a way to pry the window away from the door.
If you tear the weather proofing, you will need to replace it or the door may leak.
 Once the tip of the hanger is inside the cabin of the car, you may not be able to see the slide for the door lock from your position. Ask a friend to stand on the passenger side of the car and guide you by looking through the window.You can still find the lock without a second pair of eyes, but enlisting some help will make the process far easier.
Be patient and continue trying until you are able to snag or press the slide.
 Once you get the hanger on the slide, push or pull it as necessary to unlock the door. This may take a number of tries and you also may need to make changes to the bends in the coat hanger in order to get to the slide from the right angle.Be patient and continue trying until you are able to snag or press the slide.
Be careful not to do further damage to the weather proofing as you move the hanger around.

