 Sometimes, the cause of peeling lips is the result of our own actions. Oftentimes, people bite their lips somewhat unconsciously when feeling anxious, bored, or stressed. If you notice your lips are peeling or cracked, try to figure out if you've been biting your lip. If you have, take measures to stop the habit.


Try to figure out what situations lead to lip biting. Do you bite your lips when you're feeling anxious or engaging in certain social situations, like meeting new people or interacting with co-workers? Do you simply bite your lips when you're bored, like when watching TV or waiting for a bus?After identifying what situations lead to lip biting, engage in anxiety and boredom reducing behaviors that do not have a negative effect on your body. You could try deep breathing, relaxing your muscles, or what is called a competing response. This is a behavior you engage in that makes it impossible to bite your lip. You could, for example, chew gum to occupy your teeth with an alternative activity., If your lip peeling occurs after exposure to a certain food, cosmetic product, or season it may be allergy-related.


Cosmetic products, lip balms, toothpastes, dyes, and fragrances often contain material which irritates the lips, eyes, and mouth. If you notice your lips peel after using a particular product, you might want to ditch that item and opt for an alternative.Even if you don't believe your peeled lips are a result of cosmetic products, it's best to ditch the lipstick and lip balm until peeled lips heal. Such products can carry germs and peeled lips are more susceptible to infection.Certain seasons, like early spring, can trigger allergic responses due to the increase of pollen in the air. If you're sensitive to seasonal change, try spending more time indoors or purchasing over-the-counter allergy medications.
Allergen exposure can also lead to mouth breathing, which puts strain on the lips by exposing them to more air and debris. This can cause peeling and chapping.
 When our lips are dry and chapped, it's tempting to lick them and peel them to relieve symptoms. These habits do harm longterm, however, and can prolong the healing time for peeled lips.


Do not pull at peeling skin. While it might be tempting, it does not actually provide relief. It usually causes pain and leads to bleeding, which increases the likelihood of infection and prolongs the healing process., Dryness is one of the most common causes of dry, peeled lips. Making hydration a habit can prevent lip peeling from occurring long-term.


Drink plenty of fluids throughout the day. Roughly 1.5 liters of water are needed for the average person, but depending on your lifestyle that number may change. If you exercise frequently or have a physically demanding job, for example, you may need more. In general, you should drink enough water that you rarely feel thirsty. If your urine is colorless or light yellow, you are probably in the right range.Eating a balanced and healthy diet can help keep lips healthy. Food can provide about 20 percent of your total water intake. Watermelon and spinach are two examples of foods that are 90 percent or more water by weight.If the air in your home feels dry or if you live in a region prone to pollution and dry air, invest in a humidifier. This will keep the air moist in your home and make peeled lips less likely.