 There are times in life when you are afraid to ask for help. You must avoid waiting until it is too late. If your eating behaviors have become hard for you to manage alone, you need to ask for help. Don't wait. Eating disorders are responsible for more deaths than any other mental illness.All eating disorders pose serious health risks. Anorexia nervosa has the highest mortality rate of any eating disorder: 5-10% of people with anorexia die within 10 years of developing the disorder, and 18-20% die within 20 years.The sooner you seek treatment, the more likely you are to make a recovery.If you aren't sure where to start, you can try calling a helpline. The National Eating Disorders Association (NEDA) runs a helpline at 1-800-931-2237. These helplines are run by people who have been trained to offer support and guidance. They can also put you in touch with mental health resources in your area.You can also talk to your doctor about getting a referral to a mental health provider.
NEDA also has an online "Find Treatment" search directory to help you locate a mental health professional. You can search by your state and by eating disorder specialty, such as anorexia, bulimia, or binge eating.;
, The goal is to pick a program in which you feel safe, comfortable and accepted. The unique aspects of your situation will drive the decision. Eating disorders do not have a single cause or a predictable course.All forms of treatment require a large dose of self-help to make the program successful. Treatment options include:


Family-based therapy. Because family dysfunction often directly contributes to disordered eating, family therapy can be helpful in treating it.This involves family members joining you in a therapeutic environment under the coordination of a therapist.
Inpatient treatment centers. You are required to check-in to the facility and remain there for the entire program. This involves both individual and group therapy sessions, activities that encourage social interaction, and a nutritional program.
Outpatient therapy. You attend therapy at an eating disorder clinic, but are able to stay in your home. This may involve individual therapy and/or group therapy.
Group therapy. You attend meetings with a group of other people suffering from eating disorders and discuss your issues together under supervision of a therapist.
Individual therapy. You attend one-on-one appointments with a trained therapist to explore your feelings, beliefs, and behaviors and build strategies for improvement.
Each program needs to include a nutritional component. A nutritionist familiar with eating disorders can develop a healthy program for you to include in your daily routine. This will add another level of accountability as well.
 You can always ask someone to help you make this decision. Make visits or discuss each therapeutic option with the parties involved. It is an important decision so gather as much information as you can.


Research has shown that successful treatment for anorexia nervosa includes medical management, behavioral therapy, cognitive or family therapy combined with pharmacotherapy (drug therapy).The effectiveness of any treatment depends on the individual person.
Bulimia nervosa is often effectively treated with cognitive-behavioral therapy. Some people may also be helped by adding an antidepressant such as fluoxetine (Prozac), which has been approved by the FDA to treat bulimia. Prozac appears to help reduce bingeing and purging and the likelihood of relapse.Binge eating disorders respond well to cognitive-behavioral therapy and interpersonal therapy results in significant, long-lasting changes. Fluoxetine or other antidepressants may help reduce bingeing behavior and relieve depression that may trigger episodes.It is common to feel awkward and nervous in new situations like entering therapy. Once you get past the initial newness of the situation you will start to see the benefits of your involvement. Hang in there because the change will be positive., Your therapist will likely teach you how to catch negative self-talk and challenge it with self-compassion. If you find yourself having an internal dialogue that includes negative put-downs or self-bullying, notice these and then express kindness to yourself.For example, if you tell yourself, “I’m so stupid and ugly. I know everyone hates me,” acknowledge that you had that thought. Remind yourself that it is a thought, not a fact. Then, present a self-compassionate alternative: “I just caught myself having an abusive thought toward myself. I'm working on being kinder to myself, and those thoughts aren't helpful for achieving that goal. I am learning every day how to have a healthier relationship with food and myself. I will keep fighting to develop healthy behaviors and healthy thoughts.", Using visualization techniques has been shown to be effective at helping to manage bingeing and purging behaviors in bulimia nervosa.Your therapist can help you develop a safe visualization through guided imagery techniques.


You can also try this out yourself. Imagine a place that feels safe, secure, and calming. It could be a beautiful scene in nature, or a particularly happy memory. Imagine it in great detail. Think about what you smell, hear, see, taste, and touch.When you feel the urge to engage in unhealthy eating behaviors, visualize this safe space. Remember the safety and strength that you feel in this place.
 This will help you understand what is causing your eating disorder. Asking yourself key questions will help you determine why you act the way that you do.


Ask yourself if you feel inadequate or suffer from low self-esteem? Do you feel depressed, anxious, angry, stressed or lonely? Does it seem that you have little control in your life?
Are you having problems with personal relationships? Do others tease you about your weight? Is there a history of sexual or physical abuse in your background? Do you have a hard time expressing your emotions and feelings?
Are you feeling a lot of social pressure that can greatly affect your feelings about food? Men and women are portrayed in advertising for the sole purpose of increasing sales of a product. They are portrayals of men and woman cast in a highly-stylized manner that is heavily airbrushed and manipulated to create an unattainable “ideal.” It is unrealistic and harmful to compare yourself to these impossible standards.
Are you using food to address any or all of these issues? For example, if it seems you have no control over your life due to a family or relationship situation, you control your food intake because that is the one thing you can control.
Write your answers to these questions in a journal. This will help you organize your thoughts. It will also show you that you are making positive changes when you periodically look back over what you have written. Journaling under the guidance of a therapist can be very helpful in overcoming your eating disorder.
 She can help guide you through interpreting and processing them. What are your emotional triggers that result in unhealthy eating? Determine what situations create anxiety, fear, dread, stress and generally unpleasant feelings. When a negative emotion is triggered, substitute the unhealthy behavior with non-food related behavior.


For example, you might work really hard on a school project and you think it is great and you feel really good about it. The grades come out and you get a low grade. Others in your class find out and make fun of you. This makes you feel dumb, ashamed and alone. You go home for the day and want to go immediately to the refrigerator and eat a lot of food to make yourself feel better hoping food will take away the negative feelings. You stop yourself and instead go to your room and write in a journal the feelings you felt and the reactions you had. This will help you make a list of situations that trigger emotional responses that lead to eating. Writing in a journal is always a healthy substitute for negative eating behaviors.
Find something that will hold your focus and appeal to the emotional needs your eating disorder attempts to meet. For example, if you feel trapped, read a book or go to a movie that will temporarily take you to a different world.
 Making the decision to help yourself starts as simple as that – you decide. When it comes to eating disorders, there is a good chance that your health and possibly your life are currently in jeopardy. This is an urgent matter and you must act quickly.


Your heart, kidneys and liver may be permanently damaged as a result of an eating disorder.Your teeth can get permanently damaged from stomach acid related to purging food.
You may suffer such medical issues as: muscle loss, weakness, severe dehydration, peptic ulcers, high blood pressure, and type II diabetes.
Your psychological health will continue to deteriorate if you do not get help.
Mark today on your calendar as the day you decided to change your behaviors and live a more healthy life.
 When learning about these conditions you might recognize some of your own behaviors. This can be a normal response, but you must be cautious to not self-diagnose to the point of upsetting yourself. Leave an official diagnosis to the professionals trained to do so.


Other eating disorders might have behavioral variations such as: anorexia where weight is not below normal; binging and purging that occurs on an infrequent basis; night eating syndrome where you eat excessive amounts of food at night; only eating certain foods (avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder); eating things that are not considered food like chalk or dirt (pica); rumination disorder that involves eating food then regurgitating it into your mouth and chewing it again., Symptoms vary from one type of eating disorder to another and from person to person. The symptoms of eating disorders include the following:


Anorexia nervosa symptoms: being overly focused on body image; eating minimal amounts of food that results in a weight that is too low for your body size; and a refusal to acknowledge there is a problem.
Binge eating disorder symptoms: eating mass quantities of food and feeling out of control; eating large amounts when you are not hungry; or eating large amounts of food in private because you are ashamed of your behavior.
Bulimia Nervosa symptoms: consuming large quantities of food and relieving your body of it by making yourself vomit or abusing laxatives; using these methods to control your weight; feeling out of control; being overly focused on your body image.
 If you are using food to cope with difficult situations, there are alternatives you can use. Are you bingeing to create comfort, or purging to punish yourself? If so, you are using food as a coping mechanism.Take the time to develop alternate ways to comfort yourself. For example, if helping others, or animals brings you comfort, reach out to others to help instead of reaching for food.
Looking to others for support and rehearsing responses to difficult situations are two forms of effective coping responses you can use., Arts-based therapies are sometimes used to treat eating disorders, and you may find that your therapist recommends artistic expression.Just having an outlet to express your emotions and anxieties can often help you feel better.Find a way to express what you're feeling in a creative, helpful way, rather than using food to cope.For example, you could try writing stories or poems about how you feel.You could draw or paint, if you connect with that.
Remind yourself that creative expression is not about "right" or "wrong." It isn't about creating a "perfect" product. It's about expressing yourself through an enriching, exploratory process., Discover who you are beyond your image. You are not what you wear or what you eat. You are a person of substance and you get to unveil what you are all about. Approach others with the same attitude, which will help eliminate the stigma associated with having an eating disorder.Make a list of the traits you possess that you believe are positive. Write down how each of those qualities benefits you and the world around you.
If you catch yourself judging someone pause and replace the thought with something like, “I wish you the best in life and I am going to focus on improving mine.”
Practice showing yourself compassion. For example, stand up for yourself in the same way that you would for someone you love and want to protect.
 In order to support you on your journey of recovery, your loved ones need to know what's going on. Setting up a specific time to talk will give you a focused deadline that will prevent you from backing out. A conversation about sensitive subjects warrants special consideration. You need to feel comfortable.


Write out your thoughts ahead of time and practice what you are going to say.
Give the person a letter if you are uncomfortable talking about it. The letter will break the ice and start a conversation.
Tell the person how you would like her to be involved. Do you want the person to just provide support? Do you want the person to hold you accountable in your recovery? These are all things to consider and address.
 There are people around you who want to help you through life. They are there for you in your time of need, and you may be there for them as well. Once you know the support is there it gives you a strong foundation to rely upon. It is essential that you continue to ask for support when needed.


Remember that there is no particular requirement for who you "should" include in your support group. Sometimes, pressure from families and parents can actually contribute to eating disorders.If you'd feel more comfortable reaching out to your friends for support, do that.
Agree to medical monitoring. The medical personal who have helped you succeed can only continue to help you if you keep them informed of your progress, attend scheduled appointments and be open and honest in your communication.
Keep contacts updated. If you lose your phone, change numbers, or move, you need to update everyone who has been a part of your wellness team. You don’t want anyone to worry about you unnecessarily.
 Whichever program you choose to attend, continued work will be required to uphold your progress and health. Trust the process that helped you achieve a more positive way of dealing with your emotions and thoughts.


Join groups such as Overeaters Anonymous and other peer-based 12 step groups that have proven to be effective when paired with psychotherapy and medication.Find inspiration from others. Talking about eating disorders can make you feel ashamed or embarrassed. You might feel like there's nothing you can do to get better. Many eating disorders are tied to feelings of low self-efficacy, or feeling like you don't have control over your life and actions.Hearing stories from others who have sought treatment for their eating disorders and made recoveries can help inspire you to do the same.If you would like to connect with other people who have had eating disorders you can call NEDA, The National Eating Disorder Association at 1-800-931-2237 for a referral. As noted above, this is a confidential Helpline. They have an expansive network of service providers who can help you.Be kind and encourage yourself. You have put in a lot of work to make your life meaningful. Celebrate your successes whenever possible.
 When you’ve been through a struggle, you may forget what it feels like to enjoy life. There may be things you used to like to do that you haven’t done in a while. If they still bring you joy, make plans to do them as soon as possible.


Open yourself to new experiences that will enhance your knowledge and experience in the world. These types of things always help you gain a new perspective on your life and the meaning you place upon your circumstances.
Identify activities that will motivate you. Sustaining motivation is difficult, but possible. If you know you lose motivation when you don’t get out into nature at least three times a week, put it on your calendar and attend to it as if it was an appointment.
Smile more. Studies have shown that the act of smiling improves your mood and it is contagious.A smile is something you can always share.
 Let go of the past. If you try to let something go and it continues to eat at you, hold you back or elicit feelings that lead to undesirable eating, you likely need to process residual feelings. You will eventually reach a point where you feel and believe your struggles are behind you. Living each day in the present moment allows you to leave the past behind.

