 You must fill out form TR-205, Request for Trial by Written Declaration. The clerk will send you this form to fill out or you can pick it up. You can also download the form from the California Courts website., Explain what happened in your own words. Remember to be honest and not lie, which can get you in trouble. Make sure to proofread your statement because typos and other errors will reduce your credibility. Ask someone you know to read the statement and ask them what they think.


You can use form MC-030 and form MC-031 for additional pages. You must print your name and then sign and date your statements. Attach them to form TR-205.You don’t have to use the forms. Instead, you can write a letter. However, you must put the following sentence at the end of the statement: “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that this statement is true and correct.” Sign underneath this statement.
 You might have cell phone records that support your case or witness statements. Witnesses should type up their own statements and sign them under penalty of perjury. Remember to mention this supporting evidence in your statement.
 Make a copy of the forms for your records, and then send the entire packet of original documents to the court clerk before the due date.You can mail it certified mail, return receipt requested so that you know it has been received.


Remember to include your bail amount. Send a check or money order, but not cash.
 After you submit your materials, the police officer who cited you will respond. A judicial officer will then review the materials and make a decision. You will be notified by mail.


If you’re found guilty, your fine, fees, and penalties will be deducted from your bail deposit. You may end up owing more money.
If you’re not guilty, your bail deposit will be refunded to you.
 You might have been unhappy with the result. In this situation, you can request a new trial, which will be held in court. You have 20 days to make a decision. Fill out and submit form TR-220.With this option, the entire case starts over completely. You may choose not to testify in your new trial if you don’t want to.

