 Melt 1 tablespoon of butter over medium heat in a nonstick skillet. Place the green onions in the skillet and saute them until they become slightly soft. This should take about 2 minutes. Remove the skillet from the heat.If you do not want green onions in your biscuits, you can omit this step.
 Measure the baking soda, baking powder, salt, sugar, cornmeal, and flour and put them in the bowl of a food processor. Blend the ingredients in the food processor until they are just combined.


If you do not have a food processor, you can blend them together by stirring with a wooden spoon.
 Add ½ cup (150 grams) chilled butter to the food processor bowl. Using the pulse button on the food processor, cut the butter into flour mixture until the ingredients look like a coarse meal.If you are not using a food processor, you can cut the butter by hand using two knives., Once the flour and butter mixture resembles coarse meal, add the cheese to the food processor bowl or your mixing bowl. Using the pulse button on the food processor, gently cut in the cheese. Pulse several times until the cheese is just combined with the rest of the ingredients.If not using a food processor, simply stir the cheese into the dough by hand using a wooden spoon.
 Once the cheese is combined with the rest of the ingredients, transfer the mixture to a large mixing bowl. Any type of mixing bowl is suitable, such as a plastic, stainless steel, enamel, or glass bowl.
 Crack the egg and place it in a large glass measuring cup. Whisk the egg. Pour buttermilk into the measuring cup until it reaches the 1 cup (240 mL) line. Whisk the buttermilk and egg together., Once you have whisked the buttermilk and egg together, you will add additional ingredients to the glass measuring cup. Add the green onions and chipotles to the egg mixture and stir.Omit the chipotle and green onions if you do not want them in your biscuits.
 Take your hands and make a fist-sized indentation in the middle of the dough mixture. Pour the egg and buttermilk mixture into the well. Use your hands to mix the ingredients together until the dough mixture is evenly moistened by the milk and egg.