 Young children don’t fully understand the concept of remarrying after their parent dies. They often fear that the new spouse will try to take the place of their late parent, or even them. Explain to them that you will always love their parent and you will also love them, too, no matter what.


Taking your child to see a therapist if they are upset about your remarrying may help them become more comfortable with the situation. The therapist may be able to offer different words than you that can help your child understand that they, and their parent, aren’t being replaced.Keep in mind that all children will respond differently. They may warm up to your new spouse right away or they may need time to adjust and work through their feelings.
 Your older children may be more vocal about not wanting you to remarry. They may not like the new spouse, or they also may feel that you haven’t grieved their parent long enough. However, it is important to not let their opinions prevent you from being happy. Although this may be difficult at first, it’s what you’ll need to do to keep your marriage healthy.


Tell your older children, “I understand you do not want me to remarry. However, I am in love and doing this will make me happy. You are entitled to your own opinion, but please do not disrespect me, my spouse, or our marriage.”
If they continue to act negatively towards your union, you may need to distance yourself from them until they are able to move on.This may only be a short-term behavior and they may come around if you hold your position.
 Your current or future spouse may also have children who might not feel comfortable about this marriage. To prevent this from affecting your marriage as little as possible, you’ll need to talk to them and your spouse about your relationship. Staying respectful and patient is the best way to help your relationship grow.


For instance, you can tell your new spouse, “I do not want to come between you and your children. However, I know that they are against our marriage. Please tell me what I can do to stop this from hurting our marriage and to make everyone comfortable.”
You must also tell your spouse that you expect them to defend you and not put up with any disrespectful behavior or words from their children.