 In order to engage with the Shamanic wisdom of your dreams, you must become “awake” (or “lucid”) while still dreaming. In other words, you must be aware that you are dreaming while you remain asleep. One simple way to induce lucid dreaming is to get into the practice of regularly asking yourself whether or not you are dreaming.


By routinely asking yourself whether or not you are dreaming while you are awake, you will naturally extend this practice while you are asleep.
When you ask yourself this question during a dream, it will be obvious that you are, in fact, dreaming, and your dream will become lucid.
Lucid dreaming is an essential step on path to Shamanic dreaming.
 There are some common signs that can indicate that you are dreaming. Several of these apply to most people, but in time, you will come to recognize those signals most relevant to you. These signals can encourage you to become lucid.


Clocks, phones, and other technological devices will often malfunction.
Your hands will often look bizarre.
Your reflection in a mirror may look strange and different.
Anytime you encounter one of these tip-offs, ask yourself, “Am I dreaming or awake?”

, Traditional Shamans would regularly use drumming to induce a trace, or dreamlike state. You can tap into this method by listening to binaural beats while you sleep.


Binaural beats are audio tracks, for use with headphones, that play different frequencies in each ear.
These beats induce an almost automatic meditative state, and have been shown to encourage lucid sleep., Once you become effective at “waking up” in your dreams, it is time to glean deeper messages. You have already been looking for and recognizing personal and archetypal symbols in your dreams. Now it is time to interpret them.


For example, if your grandfather was struck by lighting, lighting may be an important symbol to you. If your grandfather’s story inspires you, lighting may signify inspiration. If you are terrified of storms because of what happened, lighting may signify fear or caution.
Additionally, lighting can be an archetypal symbol. It is linked to Greek, Norse, and Hindu Gods. It can symbolize punishment from the Gods or loss of innocence.
How did you feel when you encountered lighting in the dream? This can guide your interpretation of the symbol.
Practice this interpretation after you wake from a dream. In time, you will be able to perform this analysis in the midst of the dream.
 Remember the “three levels”? When you become lucid in a dream, look around and determine which of the three levels you are functioning on.


If you are on the Middle Level, look for a door or passage way. Look for stairs. If you can find any kind of portal, go through it. It will likely lead to an Upper or Lower Level.
If you find yourself on an Upper Level, observe any messages about your connection to the divine, about your quest for knowledge, or about the after life. On this level, you will often be visited by ancestors.
If you find yourself on the Lower Level, observe messages about your primal being. This level can tell you about your deepest needs and desires. On this level, you may be spoken to by animals, or by your unborn children.

