 Vaccinations play an important role in any dog’s health, including your American Bulldog's. The standard immunizations for dogs include Rabies, which is administered at 12 weeks of age or older and then every 1 to 3 years depending on your local laws and your vet’s recommendations. Distemper, Parvovirus, Hepatitis, and Para influenza are usually administered together.


Puppies should receive a set of four injections every three weeks starting at six weeks of age and then annually, as adults, again based on your veterinarian's recommendations.
Your veterinarian will also make recommendations for items such as monthly heartworm preventive, flea & tick preventive, and deworming protocols based on the season and specific region you live in. Routine physical exams, which can include fecal exams, a heartworm test, and routine blood work will help detect any health issues that need to be addressed in order to maintain your American Bulldog's long-term health.;
, Spaying and neutering are procedures that prevent unwanted pregnancies and can help to eliminate many health and behavioral issues. Neutering can prevent testicular cancers, prostate problems, urinary marking, and some aggressive behaviors in males. Spayed females have a greatly reduced incidence of mammary tumors and no possibility of uterine infections or uterine cancer.


Ideally an American Bulldog puppy should have this done at around six months of age. Discuss this procedure with your veterinarian during your regular puppy visits or at the first visit after adopting an adult dog., Some of the more common ones include, but are not limited to, brachycephalic syndrome, laryngeal paralysis, hip dysplasia, deafness, hypothyroidism, entropion, and prolapse of the third eyelid. Most of these health concerns are treatable. Some may only require a simple medication while others may need to be corrected with a surgical procedure.Consult with your veterinarian if you have any health concerns regarding your American Bulldog. If you see the signs of any of these conditions, for instance if you suspect that your dog cannot hear you or your dog is in pain while walking (a sign of developing hip dysplasia), it is best to get your dog checked by its vet.
One way to avoid many of these problems is to get an American Bulldog puppy that has been well bred. Good, experienced breeders take the time to breed dogs so that there are less chance of these health conditions. Dogs that have been inbreed, on the other hand, have a higher chance of inheriting hereditary health problems.

