 Having all your course materials on hand will help save you time and energy. Be sure to have your textbooks, study notes, study guides, and your course notes readily available so you won’t waste time searching for them in the middle of solving an equation.Be sure to have a calculator, fresh pencils, and lots of paper handy, too.
 Be sure to collect notes and worksheets that have examples of the equations and formulas you are studying in class.The more examples you have, the more you will be able to understand the steps for solving the problem. In addition, you will be able to recognize patterns, identify incorrect information, or spot common mistakes.
 Make sure that the television is turned off or that your phone is put away before you begin studying. These distractions shift your focus from studying, and they make it more difficult to absorb the information quickly.


If you work better in a quiet environment, visit your local library or study hall at school to avoid interruptions and cram in peace., Studying with others can be an effective way to absorb material and learn new skills. Your friends or classmates may help you understand certain methods for solving math problems, or they may share some tips and tricks of their own for solving the equations.If you study well with others, consider asking some of your classmates to join you in a study session at the library or a nearby coffee shop.
 Cramming for an exam can be stressful, so make sure you are taking breaks and allowing yourself to relax by taking deep breaths. Take a slow, deep breath in through your nose and hold for ten counts. Exhale slowly through your mouth, and wait a few seconds before taking another deep breath.Practicing deep breathing can help increase optimism and help you control your emotions, which is helpful during a stressful cramming session., Cramming for an exam can cause stress and prevent you from adequately retaining the information.Make plans to study for your math tests over several weeks instead of waiting until a day or two before an exam. Having scheduled, regular study sessions will help you understand the material more thoroughly, and it will give you time to you to talk to your instructor if you don’t understand something fully.Create a math study schedule. If you make and follow a study schedule, it will become a part of your regular routine. Decide how many days per week you should study and find free time in your schedule. If you are a morning person, plan to review your notes during breakfast. If you work best in the evening, set aside time to practice sample problems after dinner.

