 Reflecting on your jealousy and working to make yourself a better person can go a long way in addressing your problem. Still, you have to understand that no matter what you do, you will never be perfect, and that there will always be things you want.


Realize that life isn't fair. You won't be able to have everything you want, no matter how hard you try, and there may be people who are truly more fortunate than you are. But once you accept this fact, you can let go and stop trying to have it all.
Enjoy being yourself. You may be a flawed individual like everyone else, but make time to enjoy your quirks and really learn to love being you. Make time for alone time, and really appreciate your own company.
Focus on your positive qualities. Though there still may be a few things you lack, focus on the parts of your life that you love, such as your relationships, or your amazing job. Emphasize the things you have and love instead of thinking about the things you want.
 Once you've worked as hard as you can to beat the jealousy that was taking over your life, you still need to make sure that it doesn't real its ugly head in the future. There are a few things you can do to make sure you don't see green in the future:


Never take anything for granted. Every morning, remind yourself of at least ten things you are grateful for. Making a routine of this will reinforce that you are a person who should not be jealous.
Avoid situations that may lead to jealousy. If you can't help being a little jealous as a girlfriend, don't date a guy who tends to hang out with a lot of females. If you have a friend who seems to have everything and who you can't stop being jealous of her, try to spend less time with her if it's making you feel bad about yourself.
Recognize your jealousy. As soon as you realize that you're getting jealous of someone again, go home and reflect in a notebook. Why are you jealous of this person? How can you work to stop the jealousy before it gets out of control?
Remember that it's healthy to be jealous once in a while. Don't beat yourself up if you can't stop being jealous about absolutely everything. If your friend just got a brand new car and you wish you could afford one, or if your friend just announced that she's getting married while you really wish you had a boyfriend, it's okay to feel jealous for a little while. When jealousy consumes your life and informs your every action, then you have a real problem.

