 Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C). Get out a 9x13-inch (23x33-cm) baking pan and spray it with baking spray. Cut a large sheet of parchment paper and place it in the greased pan. You may need to cut slits in the corners so the paper fits snugly. Set the pan aside while you make the matcha blondies.If you don't want to use cooking spray, you can spread butter inside the pan and sprinkle flour over it. Shake the pan so the flour lightly coats the pan and dump out the excess flour.;
, Get out a large microwave-safe bowl and put 1 cup (230 g) of unsalted butter in it. Microwave the butter for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes or until it melts. Add 8 ounces (226 g) of the finely chopped white chocolate to the bowl and shake it a little so the chocolate sinks under the melted butter. Let the mixture sit for 1 minute.Ensure that the white chocolate lists cocoa butter as one of its first ingredients.
 Whisk the butter and white chocolate slowly until the white chocolate melts. Sift 1/3 cup (85 g) of matcha tea powder over the mixture and whisk it until the ingredients are smooth.If you don't have a sifter, just whisk the matcha in a small bowl for about 30 seconds before you sprinkle it over the melted butter and white chocolate.
 Get out another large mixing bowl and quickly whisk together 1 cup (200 g) of packed light brown sugar, 1 cup (200 g) of granulated sugar, 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract, 1 teaspoon of kosher salt, and 4 large eggs. Whisk for about 30 seconds.The mixture should be completely blended. It will look light and foamy.
 Transfer the melted butter, chocolate and matcha mixture into the large mixing bowl and whisk it all together. Slowly sprinkle 1 cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour over the batter. Use a spatula to gently fold the flour into the batter until you can't see the flour.To fold, use your wrist to make a twisting motion so the flour is carefully mixed into the batter. This will keep the volume in the batter.
 Pour the batter into the prepared baking dish and spread the top so it's smooth. Bake the matcha blondies for 35 minutes. Test to see if they're cooked by inserting a toothpick or skewer into the blondies. If the blondies are done, the toothpick will come out clean. If not, continue cooking and checking the blondies for a few minutes at a time.The edges of the blondies should pull away a little from the sides of the pan once they're finished baking.
 Take the blondies out of the oven and evenly sprinkle the remaining 4 ounces (113 g) of finely chopped white chocolate over the top. Let it sit for one minute before you spread the melting chocolate over the top. Cool the blondies completely before you lift them out of the pan and cut them into 24 squares.You can use an offset spatula or the back of a spoon to spread the chocolate.
Put the blondies in an airtight container in a single layer for up to 5 days.

