 If you are looking to boost your intake of healthy fats, eating a diet heavy in certain fish is a good first step. Many species of fish are high in omega-3 fatty acids, a polyunsaturated fat that promotes brain and heart health.You should try to eat a serving of fish twice a week to get these heart healthy benefits.Salmon, mackerel, herring, sardines, albacore tuna and rainbow trout are all good sources of omega-3 fats.
Be sure to cook your fish with a healthy oil to ensure its health benefits.
The fish listed above also have low mercury levels and can be safely eaten by pregnant women.;
, Omega-3 fats can also be found in many soy products, including tofu. Consider using tofu as a meat or dairy substitute in your meals. This will help you get more healthy fats and avoid the unhealthy ones found in animal products.Sliced tofu can mimic the taste and texture of cheeses like mozzarella and provolone.Pureed silken tofu can have a similar texture to sour cream and be used in dips.
Cook your tofu with healthy oils to ensure its full benefits.
 Vegetables like kale, spinach, and Brussels sprouts are high in omega-3 fatty acids. You can eat them raw, roast them in the oven, or boil them in a pot.Be sure to cook your vegetables with healthy oils to receive its health benefits.
 This “super food” is high in both monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. You can add avocado slices to a sandwich or salad, or mash it into guacamole. If you are looking to improve your heart health, snack on avocados more often.Although avocados are a healthy source of fat, they are still high in fat. Eating a large number of avocados may help your cholesterol but, because of the high fat content, it will also lead to weight gain. If you are concerned about weight gain, eat avocados in moderation.
Add some zest to your meal with an avocado and mango salad., Nuts and seeds are a great source of monounsaturated fats. Toss them on top of a salad or mix them into a stir-fry. They can also be a heart healthy snack that you can eat on the go.Almonds, cashews, pecans, peanuts and pine nuts are all high in healthy fats.
You might also want to eat more pumpkin, sunflower, and sesame seeds.
If you need a healthy snack, try an almond trail mix.