 If you are recruiting for a 4-year college, for example, your target population will be high school students, individuals with a high school diploma and community college attendees.;
, For example, your program goal may be to diversify your student population by attracting students from various cultures or specific economic backgrounds.
 Your potential students may currently be enrolled in a community college, a trade school or a high school. More specifically, the schools may be located in a designated region of the city, country or the world.
 Contact schools or organizations. Reach out to school principals, athletic coaches, guidance counselors and/or community leaders to assist you in scheduling a recruitment session at their location.
 Choose a day and time that accommodates prospective students. Contact high school principals, academic counselors and other leaders well in advance to notify them of the event. Ask them to announce the event to prospective students and encourage attendance.
, Explain how the completion of your program will help a student achieve his academic, professional and/or personal goals.
 Include testimonials from current students, parents and alumni. Invite the school's teachers, coaches and administrators to speak.
 For example, if your goal is to recruit more service-oriented students, focus on the community outreach efforts of your educational institution.
 For example, if students will need financial aid or specific courses before attending your program, suggest next steps and possible solutions to any obstacles.
 Include a slide presentation, pictures and/or videos of professors and students in action.
, Deliver just enough information about the school, programs and student life to stimulate questions and interest.
 Invite recruitment event attendees to ask questions. Event attendees may also include friends, coaches, parents and extended relatives. Invite them to ask questions as well.
 Call or email students within one to two weeks after the event to encourage them to consider your program and to contact you if they need more information.
 Include the most attractive features of your program, along with the name, phone number and email address of a specific recruitment person for prospective students to contact directly.

