 Lemon juice contains citric acid, which can help to bleach age spots. Simply dab a little fresh lemon juice directly onto the sunspot and leave to sit for 30 minutes before rinsing off. Do this twice a day and you should start to see results in a month or two.


Lemon juice makes your skin more sensitive to sunlight (and could make the age spot worse) so never leave lemon juice on your skin if you're going outside.
If you have very sensitive skin, the lemon juice might be irritating on your skin, so try diluting it to half strength with water or rosewater before applying.
 Buttermilk contains lactic acid, which bleaches the skin in the same way as the citric acid in lemon juice. Apply a little buttermilk directly onto your age spots and leave for 15 minutes to half an hour before rinsing off. Do this twice a day.


If you tend to have very oily skin, it's a good idea to mix the buttermilk with a little lemon juice before applying, as this will prevent your skin from becoming greasy.
For added benefit, mix a little tomato juice in with the buttermilk, as tomato also contains bleaching properties which can help to reduce age spots.
 A combination of honey and yogurt is believed to be beneficial when it comes to reducing age spots.


Simply mix equal parts of honey and plain yogurt together and apply directly onto the age spots.
Leave for 15 to 20 minutes before rinsing off. Do this twice a day.
 Apple cider vinegar is an important ingredient in many home remedies, including one for age spots! Apply a little apple cider vinegar directly onto the age spots and leave for 30 minutes before rinsing off.


Only use this treatment once a day, as apple cider vinegar can be drying on the skin. You should start to see an improvement in the appearance of the age spots after about six weeks.
For added benefit, mix one part apple cider vinegar with one part onion juice (which you can extract by pushing chopped onion through a strainer) and apply this to the age spots instead., Aloe vera is commonly used to treat a number of skin ailments, including age spots. Simply rub a little fresh aloe vera gel (taken directly from the plant) onto the affected area and leave to soak in.


As aloe vera is very gentle, there is no need to rinse it off. However, you may want to rinse it off if it starts to feel sticky.
If you don't have access to the gel from an aloe vera plant, you can bu fresh aloe vera juice at the market or health food store. This works just as well.
 Castor oil is known for its skin healing properties and has proven effective in the treatment of age spots. Apply a little castor oil directly onto the age spots and massage into the skin for a minute or two until absorbed.


Do this once in the morning and once in the evening, and you should start to see an improvement in about a month.
If you suffer from dry skin, you can mix a little coconut oil, olive oil or almond oil in with the castor oil for added moisturization.
 Sandalwood is believed to contain effective anti-aging properties, and is often used to reduce the appearance of age spots.


Mix a pinch of sandalwood powder with a couple of drops each of rose water , glycerin and lemon juice. Apply this paste onto the age spots and leave to dry for 20 minutes before rinsing off with cold water.
Alternatively, you could massage a drop of pure sandalwood essential oil directly onto the age spots.

