 You want roughly 2.5 feet of wire to create your snare. While you can use any long, bendable string, usually a steel or aluminum wire works best.;
, Bend one end of the wire around your finger to create a small loop roughly 1 inch across. The end of the wire will bend back on itself so there are roughly 2–3 inches (5–8 cm) of extra wire at the bottom of the loop. This is your slip-knot loop.
 Wrap the excess wire from the loop around the wire at least 5-6 times to snugly secure them together. Imagine braiding two pieces of rope or hair snuggly together. This is the most important part of the trap, and the loop needs to be strongly attached. When done it will resemble a balloon on a string or the head of a needle.


Put a pencil into the loop and then try to pull it apart. It should hold firm under a fair amount of pressure.
You can use pliers to clamp the wires together for added stability., Feed the opposite end of your wire into the small loop you just made, like threading string through the top of a needle. Your wire will now resemble a large circle with the both ends of the wire close together.
 Keep pulling until the wire circle is roughly the size of your fist, around 6–7 inches (15–18 cm) across. Your wire will look like a yo-yo on the end of a string, with the wire on one end and your small noose on the other. The bottom wire should meet the noose at the slip-knot loop.
 This will keep your trap in place once a rabbit runs through it. The hole should be roughly 8–10 inches (20–25 cm) off of the ground once you secure the post in the ground.
 Feed 3-4 inches of wire through the hole in the post and then wrap it around so that it meets the rest of the wire. Braid the end of the wire to the rest of the wire, making a balloon shape like the one used to make the slip-knot loop.


You can also tie the wire to the post, or use a staple gun to secure it to the wood.
You want to have roughly a foot of wire between the post and your snare.
Tug on your wire to make sure it is attached to the post and does not come out easily.
 Find a small path where you’ve seen rabbits in the past and secure the post into the ground. Use a hammer to firmly stick the trap in place – it shouldn’t move or come out easily. You can also play your trap near fences or gardens, at the edge of high grass, or in the underbrush.


Make sure the post is driven into the ground firmly – if the rabbit can pull it out of the ground they will escape.
 Think of your noose as a target you want the rabbit to hit mid-jump. When the rabbit hops through the loop, it will pull the noose tightly shut, killing the rabbit.

