 Ordinary, non-graphing calculators don't usually allow you to type letters, but by typing certain combinations of numbers and then turning the calculator's display upside-down, you can mimic the look of certain words with the upside-down numbers. For example, to write "hello", type 0.7734 into the calculator, then look at the number upside-down.


The decimal point is important - without it, the zero won't show up.
This works best if your calculator's "4" has an open top, rather than a pointed top.;
, If you're sick and tired of your math class, flash this to friends to let them know what you think of the place. Fight the power with your calculator!

, This is one of the oldest calculator words in the book and the source of endless amusement for 13 year-olds across the English speaking world. Don't get caught showing this one to your friends or you may get in trouble!


If your calculator has the option to write a factorial sign ("!"), you can use this in place of the 1 to make a lower-case I.
 Are you sick and tired of the toothless, slack-jawed simpletons in your math class? Use this calculator trick to let them know the impression they're making on you.
 "Besos" is Spanish for "kisses". If you'd like to show that special someone in your math class that you're romantic and bilingual, use this calculator trick.


wikiHow is not responsible for any smooches or slaps resulting from the use of this trick.
 There are many, many different words you can make with an upside-down calculator. A simple online search can reveal hundreds of these words. So, for more ideas than can possibly be contained in this article, use a search engine (like Google) to find more exciting possibilities.


If you make the letters I, E, H, S, G, L, B, O, Z and D by using the numbers 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 0, 2 and 0, respectively, there are, in fact, at least 1,453 words you can make, though only a fraction of these are funny or interesting.
Here are just a few more ideas:


7734 for "hell"

316008 for "boogie"

530804 for "hobos"

0.70616 for "gigolo"

376006 for "google"



