 It's important to understand the basics of the backgammon board before you begin to put your checkers on it. Here is what you need to know before you begin to set up your board:The board has 24 narrow triangles called points.
The triangles alternate in color and are grouped into four quadrants of six triangles each.
The board’s four quadrants include player one’s home board, player one’s outer board, player two’s home board, and player two’s outer board.
Each player's home board is in the right quadrant closest to the player.
The home boards are opposite each other. The outer boards, located in the left quadrant, are also opposite each other.
The triangles are numbered from 1-24. The 24-point is the point that is further from each player, on the leftmost side of the player's opponent's home board, and the 1-point is the rightmost triangle on the player's home court.
Each player's points are numbered in an opposite way. One player's 24-point is the opponent's 1-point, one player's 23 point is another player's 2-point, and so on.;
, It's easier to set up a backgammon board if each player sets up his or her own checkers. Each player should have a set of checkers that is all one color. Checkers are usually white and brown or black and red, but it really doesn't matter as long as there are two different colors of checkers., Since the game is played in a horseshoe fashion, this point will be the "furthest" away from the home board. The 24-point is the closest point to one player on the left side of his board and on the right side for the other player. Keep in mind that as the players set up their checkers, the checkers should always create mirror images of one another., The 13-point will be on the same side of the board as the 24-point, the rightmost point on each player's opponent's side. If you want to be sure that you are putting them in the right spot, count backwards from where you placed the 2 checkers on the 24-point until you reach the 13-point., The 8-point will be on the same side of the board as each player's home board, just two spaces away from the central bar. But again, if you want to be sure that you are placing the checkers in the right place, count backwards from where you placed the checkers on the 13-point until you reach the 8-point. , The six point is right next to the bar for both players but on opposite sides of the board. Count back from the 8-point checkers to be sure that you are placing them in the right spot. These last five checkers will be the only ones that start out in your home board. You can use these checkers to create primes in your home board that may prevent the other player from reentering the board if you hit one of his blots., Remember that each player has his own numbering system, so none of the checkers you just placed should overlap. If one or more points has two different players’ checkers on it, then you have set up the board incorrectly and will need to start over.

