 If you are sharing a locker, discuss the kit and locker allocation with your companion. (See below for special instructions, if you are sharing a locker.);
, Some schools do not allow containers, unless the material is see-through.
 Most of these items have overlapping functions with other parts of the kit. Except for Batteries, you don't need to duplicate items with differing functions (like snacks). Each of these functions may be called a "kit".


A Small First-aid kit. (Not the kind you buy in stores)

This includes self-adhesive bandages, topical antiseptics, prescription drugs, analgesics (aspirin, Tylenol, or ibuprofen). Note: Many schools have regulations against students using these products! Never give them to friends! Your school may overlook your personal use, but will always harshly punish those who give them to friends! A note (from one of your parents) should state that you have permission to take the analgesic at your own discretion. A maximum of two doses of one type of analgesic should be in your container This is the best defense to suggestions that you gave any out.


An Air Conditioner/Heater Malfunction kit should be considered if your school is older or often has A/C or heater problems.

This kit may include (depending on climate): a small (3 inch max.) battery operated fan (with enough batteries to last the day), an empty water bottle ( “empty” to avoid leaks in your locker), an emergency blanket, mittens, etc.


An Extended Day kit should be considered if you live in an area where the weather might require school officials to hold you at school until it is safe to leave.

An extended day kit could include extra snacks, a travel pillow, a deck of cards or something else to keep you occupied, and an emergency blanket (if severe blizzards are a threat).


A Power Outage kit should be considered if you are attending school in a building with few (or no) windows.

A power outage kit should include two small LED flashlights (two because your teacher will probably want to borrow one),a book light, snacks(in case the cafeteria is unable to function).


A Female kit (Girls Only) will contain extra products for that time of the month.

A female kit may contain pads, tampons, and a change of clothing. Cosmetics and hairbrushes are optional items.


An Emergency School Supply kit should be the supplies you go to only after exhausting your everyday supply.

You may loan supplies (Pens, pencils, paper) from your everyday supplies, but never from your emergency school supplies. They are your "Last Resort".



This is not a "survival" kit. You only need to store one day's worth of items. For example, four or five adhesive bandages (various sizes) should suffice; a box of bandages would be too much. Remember, you locker space is limited.



A plastic or cardboard box that fits at the bottom of your locker is ideal. Your "Everyday" items could still fit on top of your kit.



Keep a small quantity of such items in your emergency container, so you won't run out. For example, you like eating snacks. You keep a quantity that is easy to reach. Put some in the emergency kit (which is often covered with books) so you will have them when the need arises.
,


If you are using a clear plastic box, tape it under the lid. If you are using a cardboard (or non-see-through plastic), tape the list to the top of the box; place a copy of the list inside the box.

