 Many photojournalist and reporters create their own press pass using Photoshop or other photo editing software. For several events, you are issued an official press pass. However, you sometimes need further information. This is why many in the journalism field create a photo ID indicating their role.These IDs do not guarantee you access to the Paul Simon show or an interview with Seth Curry. These are for further establishing your credibility in the field.
 The most common way to portray a press ID is with a lanyard ID holder. You can purchase lanyard ID holders from most office supplies stores. You’ll also need a high gloss paper to print your graphic onto. It is best to have access to a photo editing software like Photoshop on a decent computer.


If you don’t have a good photo of yourself, you’ll need someone to help you take a high quality photo.
 Open Photoshop or another photo editing software on your computer. Create the document to the size of 3-⅛” x 2,” which is the normal size of badges. Decide if you want to create your badge in the landscape or horizontal orientation. Insert your photo to the document and crop the picture so it is a clear image of your face only.Next, you should insert minimal text explaining you are “PRESS” and your affiliating organization. Make the “PRESS" or "MEDIA" in red or black text. You could also include if you’re a photographer or a journalist.
If your media organization has a logo, insert the logo onto the corner of the ID, or place the faded logo in the background.
Keep it simple to make it look as professional as you can.
 It is best to print onto thick, high gloss paper. Print off the ID and carefully cut out the badge. Make clean cuts when cutting out the outline of the ID. Print off multiple IDs on the same page, in case you mess one up.


Be sure your printer can handle color printing before beginning the process.
 Once you have your final cutout of your ID badge, you are ready to finish everything up. Insert the badge into the lanyard holder. You are now ready to hit the streets with your press badge. You could also include some references of your superiors on the back of the card.


Things you could include on the back are phone numbers, addresses, and other information someone might request from you.

