 Skip cards force the player after you to lose their turn and are great to stop those with UNO from playing. Play one if the person next to you has UNO, skipping their turn and allowing the next person to play. It will also give you one more turn to play. When this happens and play returns to you, try another strategy or make sure you get rid of the card in your hand that is worth the most points.


Make sure you don't hold on to too many skip cards. Holding one or two can work in your favor, but stock piling them will add up to a lot of points if you're caught with them. They are worth 20 points each.
If you are playing two player UNO, you can use your skips right away because it gives you another turn automatically. Just be careful to end on a skip that you can match. You don't want to have to draw cards because you can't match the color.
It is advise-able to use the odd number which you think is not with the opponent. So, he will withdraw a card and if he did not get the card, the next turn is yours. , Reverse cards change the direction of play. They can come in very handy when trying to manipulate game play, making it where the player with the least amount of cards doesn't have a chance to play. Use a reverse if the next player has fewer cards than you or has UNO. This takes away their turn and gives your fellow players a chance to make them draw cards.


If you are playing with two people, reverse cards act exactly like skip cards. In this instance, you can use the skip and reverse cards as early as you want. It's a great way to quickly reduce the number of cards you have in your hand.
Make sure you don't hold on to too many reverse cards either. They are useful, but they are also worth 20 points each if you get caught with them., Wild cards change the color of game play. These can be very useful if the player after you has been on a streak with one particular color and is running low on cards. Play it to change the color to one that you think they might not have. You can also use these to change the color of play to a color that you have a lot of. This will help you get rid of more cards and help you win the hand.


Don't stockpile these cards too much. They are worth 50 points each if you get stuck with them at the end of the round., Draw 2s are great cards to fill up the hands of those around you and ensure they can't win. If the player after you only has a few cards left, play a draw 2 in order to make them draw two cards. This will give you the advantage because they will have to draw cards and miss an opportunity to play a card as well. Wild draw 4s work in a similar way, but you can use them to your advantage by changing to a color that matches more of your cards. This way, you make the person after you draw more cards and you get the added bonus of playing more cards from your hand.


If you see the person that goes before you has only a few cards left, use a reverse and then a draw 2 or wild draw 4. Although they will be able to play one card, they will have to draw cards on their next turn, filling their hand back up and getting you closer to winning.
If you want to stockpile a few of these to use at opportune times, try keeping draw 2s instead of wild draw 4s. If you are caught with a wild draw 4, it is worth 50 points, but the draw 2 is only worth 20.