 Craft stores are loaded with cute ribbons and trim. For this project, it is best to choose a ribbon or trim that is thin, measuring 1” wide or less. Ideally it will be the same width as the elastic you use.


If you choose ribbons or trim with embellishments like beads and sequins, make sure that they are only on one side of the ribbon. This way, it won’t get caught in your hair.
When possible, choose trim and ribbon that contains a bit of elastic in the fabric to make wearing more comfortable. Tug on the ribbon or trim to see if it stretches. If it does, then it contains some elastic. You can also use elastic-free ribbon or trim with no issues though.;
, Most fabric and craft stores offer spools of elastic in different colors and widths. You will want to find elastic that is thinner than the ribbon or trim you have chosen, so make sure you know the measurements of your ribbon.









Elastic usually comes in black and white, but you may be able to find other colors as well. Keep in mind that the elastic will be on the bottom half of the headband, but it may still be visible when you wear it.
 Next, you will need to cut the ribbon and elastic so that the ribbon is long enough to wrap around most of your head and there is a few inches of elastic connecting the ends of the ribbon together. Measure them around your head first to determine how long you will need your ribbon to be.








Wrap the ribbon you’ve chosen all the way around your head from the top of your forehead to the nape of your neck, or where you would like your headband to sit. Place your finger on the end of the ribbon where the ribbon begins to overlap itself and mark it with a pen or a bit of chalk.
Measure five inches inward from this spot that you have marked, and then cut the fabric here.
Next, cut four inches of elastic band. This material will connect the two ends of your ribbon. It is important to leave an inch off the total measurement of elastic so that the headband will sit tight enough on your head to prevent it from sliding off. If you want an even tighter headband, you can always use a little less elastic.
 Use a needle and thread to create a small seam at the ends of the ribbon or trim. To do this, fold over the edge of the ribbon or trim and then sew to hold this seam in place. Next, use the needle and thread to sew the elastic to the underside of the seam you just created.If you are using a type of trim that would be difficult to fold over and add a seam or that does not look like it needs one, then you can skip the seam and just sew the elastic to the ends of the ribbon or trim.
Make sure to tie a knot in the thread ends to ensure that they stay put.
 After you finish sewing the elastic to the ribbon or trim, your headband is complete. You can choose to layer it underneath your hair or wear it in the popular bohemian style wrapped over your forehead.







