 It is normal for kids to struggle sometimes. However, if you have noticed that a student is consistently struggling in the classroom, then he or she may benefit from an assessment to see if an IEP is necessary. You might recommend a child for an assessment if he or she:requires constant guidance to complete tasks.
is getting poor grades in the class even though he or she is working hard.
is showing extreme frustration with school work.
cannot remember a process because he or she does not understand the logic behind the process.
cannot remember things that you explained in class or in writing.
cannot read, write, or do math even if the child has strong general knowledge.
cannot communicate or process language effectively.
 If you have identified one or more reasons why an IEP assessment seems warranted, then you will need to refer the child to your school psychologist or counselor for an assessment.The school counselor or psychologist will meet with the child and send a request to the child’s parents to conduct an assessment.


You may also need to meet with the parents to discuss your concerns and find out if they have noticed similar challenges at home. You might say something like, “I am concerned about the challenges that Billy has been having in the classroom. He is working hard, but I think that he might need some additional help.”

, As soon as the child’s parents consent to an assessment, you and other members of the IEP team will only have 60 days to complete the IEP.This is because not having an IEP plan in place will interfere with the child’s ability to function in the classroom. Therefore, it is important to prioritize this process.


If you are on the IEP team, then make sure that you do your part as soon as possible. This may include providing an evaluation of the child’s classroom performance and/or behavior, assessing the child’s ability to complete certain tasks, or holding a conference with the parents and child.
 After the guidelines have been approved by the IEP team, then you will need to implement these guidelines in your classroom.The IEP guidelines may only require minor adjustments to the way that you provide instruction to the child, or they may mean that the child will need assistance from someone throughout the day.


For example, the child may be allotted more time to complete tasks, so you might need to let him continue working for longer than other students. Or, a child might need someone with him or her throughout the day to provide assistance with tasks.
You will also be responsible for measuring the child’s progress and reporting to parents on the child’s improvements in the classroom.

