 Your passport will be required. Have it photocopied and take it along your original. It must bear a residence stamp. You must also secure a No-Objection Certificate from your employer. You must have eight (8) photos with you.;
, Some automobile companies in Dubai can provide you with a list of authorized driving schools if you inquire. One of the requirements is to be an adult citizen/resident of UAE who must have trained in an authorized driving school in Dubai. People aged 18-21 years old can be issued a probationary license upon application. Dubai has a list of countries they have approved whose citizens who have previously been issued driver’s license or has driving experience in their own countries don't need to undergo training. If you are not a citizen of said countries, the training is a must.
 You can have your eye-test done by an external optician or you can inquire from your driving school.
 This will be the one that will also process with Roads and Transport Authority (RTA). Sometimes the RTA has an employee in the authorized school to receive such paperwork.


You will then be issued a temporary driving license. You must have such license with you at all times whenever you are in your training car.



The driving school will apply for your signal test and road test. For the signal test, you will be scheduled on a particular day. On that date, take along your passport with you, your driving file and two (2) photos to the RTA License Section of your driving school. You will be asked to fill out an application form and to pay several fees. Your name will then be called out. Proceed to the computer booth and identify all the traffic signals. You can ask for a manual test if you have a hard time using computers. If you pass, a print-out of the results will be available and it will also bear your road test schedule. Get the print-out and submit it to your driving school. If you fail, you will be required to pay a fee and be rescheduled for a re-test.
 On your scheduled date for the road test, arrive promptly with your passport, driving file, and two (2) photos for your RTA License. After passing all tests and submitting all documents, you will then be issued your driver’s license.

