 The reason that a smoker's home has smells like smoke is because of the layer of tar that collects on all the surfaces over time. To get the smell out, scrub all your inside surfaces to get off the tar. Use a rag soaked with mild soapy water or vinegar and water to clean your walls, hardwood floors, cabinets, drawers, or any other hard surfaces in your home.Do not forget to clean your ceilings and high areas on your walls. Tar tends to collect in these areas as well as near doors and windows. This is because air flows in those areas. Make sure you pay special attention to these areas., Smoke smells get absorbed by the materials in your home. In order to pull these smells out, you need to disinfect the upholstery on furniture, mattresses, window treatments, or any other material that cannot be easily cleaned in a washing machine.


You can do this with ], deodorizing spray, or other products that remove smells.
Make sure you do not buy sprays that just cover up the smells. This will not help remove the smells from your home., Your carpet will also hold the smell of smoke well. Use carpet cleaning machines to completely wash and deodorize your carpet. Before you clean your carpet, you can try to pull some of the smell out by sprinkling baking soda on your carpet. Leave it overnight before you vacuum the carpet.Make sure you do this to carpet in all areas on your house, even closets and small rooms.
 White vinegar cuts through strong odors naturally. In order to pull the smell of smoke from a room, place bowls of white vinegar in each room. Leave these in the room for several days to help pull the scent out of the air and objects in the room.


If the smell of vinegar is too strong for you, try adding lavender oil or any other essential oil that you like the smell of.
You can also mix baking soda with water to help pull the scent out of the room., A good way to cover up any residual smoke smell in your house is to let fresh air in. On a nice day, open your windows and doors to let fresh air circulate through your house. Open windows or doors on multiple sides of your house so the air can make a circuit through your house.This also helps to reduce the smell of smoke if you need to do so quickly.
 When you smoke, the smell and the tar are sucked into your heating and air units every day. To remove the smell of the smoke from the air, have your units professionally cleaned to get rid of the residue. This will help your house smell better. Make sure you change the filters in the units as well.


You should also change your filters once a month so the smoke smell does not recycle through the house as your heat and air circulate., If you are trying to cover up smoke scents in your home on short notice, you can use scented candles to cover up the smell. You can also use scented wall plug-ins or deodorizing sprays such as Febreeze, which will help pull the smoke scent from the air and the fabrics for a short time.


You can buy a type of candle called a smokers candle that has enzymes to help remove the smoke smell and neutralize odors.Lavender, vanilla, and citrus scents are good for covering up odors.
 Charcoal is a cheap substance that helps attack the scent of smoke. Leave pieces of wrapped charcoal around your house or lay a few coals out to help pull the smell of smoke out of the air. You can even make little pouches to hold the coals.


You can make decorative covers for these so they don't mess up the decor of your house., Plants help reduce pollutants in the air by 80%. Putting them in rooms that smell like smoke will help improve the air quality in these rooms. There isn't one type of plant that is better than others, so just pick those you like.


Hanging plants are easy to take care of. You can often get these at grocery or home improvement stores.