 This page has had some editing done, but it's plain and forgettable.;
, Check out some other members of about.me and see what they have done with their pages. Note what you like and don't like.
 It should be 1680 X 1050 so that it fits correctly in the page, if you want a full page image. Choose something that expresses you. If you are a photographer, pick a favored shot.If you don't know how, there is bound to be someone that you know that can help you.


There are many free sites that can help you with that or you could use Paint.

Alternatively, you can use a default image for your background, but remember, so are a lot of other people.
 If not, maybe you should create one! Remember, it doesn't have to be perfect to start with. Like you, it is a work in progress. You don't want it too long or too short.
 While there is probably a lot of information out there about you (possibly good and bad), most people are inherently lazy and will see what's in front of them. Think about what you say. Some great ideas are:Talk about your journey to where you are now. You would be amazed at how many people are interested.
Tell your visitors what you can do for them. This is great because you aren't limited to 140 characters.
Make sure you have a way of being contacted. You are creating this page to get the word out about you. It stands to reason that others will want to 'talk' to you.

Write like you speak. Don't try to impress everyone with your 'prodigious' vocabulary. Chances are if you don't use those words a lot, neither do other people.
Remember that it isn't all about you. You are reaching out to others, so make sure that your biography reflects that.
 You are looking for a positive impact so make sure your colors 'work'.You are allowed to change the colors of Name, Headline, Bio Text, Links, Page Background, and your Bio Background. Just because you have six things that you can change doesn't mean you want six colors.


When you decide on your first color, the Edit Page app suggests colors. That is an easy way of making sure your colors work together.
Another thing that you can do is use the slider. Pick the part of the text that you want to build a color palette around. Choose a color using the slider. This changes as you move the slider so you can see exactly what your page will look like. Then use the suggested colors to make your palette work.
 As with the color, there is a slider bar that you can use to change your text on the fly to get just the look you want.
 Don't expect to get it right the first time.

