 Changing your lifestyle is difficult and takes a long time, so trying to lower your blood pressure can cause stress. However, stress also raises blood pressure, so it is important to reach out for support and help when needed. Having support from your family, friends, workplace, and living space can help you manage stress and your blood pressure.


Ask your friends and family for support. You need the help of others around you to succeed. Eating healthy and working out can become fun social activities and having someone supportive encourage you or do it with you can help reduce stress. It can also help strengthen your relationship with whoever you choose to share this lifestyle change with.
Join a support group. Many support groups put fellow blood pressure patients in contact with one another. Ask your doctor or nurse if there is a group around you.
Get professional help. Health, social, and lifestyle changes can be very difficult at times. Contact a psychologist or therapist near you if applicable.
 Expressions of gratitude can help lower levels of stress. Many believe that there is a relationship between focusing on what you are thankful for, and having less stress in life.


Think of 3 things you are grateful for every day. You can do this before going to sleep, at dinner, or halfway through the day. You can do this out loud and with others, or only in your head to yourself.
Say thank you to people. After someone has done something nice for you, telling them that you appreciated them can not only make others feel good but can make you feel good as well.
Tell your loved ones why you love them. Showing people that you care and are grateful for them can make you less stressed. In addition, your loved ones are more likely to respond positively, and your relationship will be less stressful.
 For many people, there are certain things that happen that cause stress. Some people find it helpful to recognize in advance what events, things, or people cause them stress (called a “stress trigger”) and remove themselves from the situation.


Create a list of times when you get stressed, or what stresses you out.
Identify repeating or important factors: “my mother-in-law” or “when it’s 10pm and I still have the dishes to do.”
Decide how you want to handle these situations to avoid getting stressed. Often, people find it helpful to think of a reason or way to excuse themselves or ways to communicate with others about their stress in a situation.
Try to recognize when stressful events will happen such as looking for warning signs. You want to get good enough that you can anticipate your stress, and take action to avoid getting stressed. For example, if you become stressed when you still have dishes to do late at night, you can avoid your stress trigger by choosing to do the dishes right when you get home. Alternatively, you can ask someone else living with you to do the dishes earlier.
 It is easy to try to do too many things and overwork yourself. If you do not take time explicitly just to relax, you might increase your stress level. Make sure you unwind during the day to handle your stress and blood pressure.


Do something calming that you enjoy. This might include reading, watching TV, yoga, window-shopping, walking, or doing a crossword.
Do nothing. Some people consider meditation and focused breathing to be incredibly relaxing. Some also say meditation helps with control over their emotions and thoughts.
 Your social life is incredibly important to your happiness and health. Spend time around people you enjoy to have a good time and destress. Regardless of the activity, spending time with friends can help you relax.


Being alone or stuck in one environment can close your perspective about many things. Opening yourself up to new activities and spending time outside of where you are normally can give you a new outlook on life and lower you stress.

