 When used correctly, condoms are 97% effective against most sexually transmitted infections. Use a condom any time you have vaginal or anal intercourse, and opt for protection such as a dental dam during oral sex. To properly put on a condom:Inspect the wrapper for any cuts, holes, or punctures, and look for the expiration date. Do not use an expired condom or one that appears to be damaged.
Carefully open the wrapper to ensure that the latex of the condom does not tear.
Remove the condom and pinch the tip before rolling down the shaft of the penis.
While still pinching the tip of the condom with one hand, line the condom up with the head of the penis and use your other other hand to roll the condom down the shaft of the penis to its base.
Dispose of a used condom by tying off the open end and placing in a waste receptacle.
 Vaccines that guard against certain high-risk strains of HPV are now readily available to women and boys. It is recommended that girls get the vaccine between ages 11 and 12, but it may be administered at any point between ages 9 and 26.Boys can get the vaccine at ages 11 or 12, or up to age 21.


The vaccine is ideally administered before a girl or woman becomes sexually active, but may still benefit sexually active young women.
HPV vaccines are generally given as a course of three shots over six months.
 Whenever you begin having sex with a new partner, have an open and honest discussion about your sexual history with your partner. Talk about what types of testing and screening you’ve had recently, and how many sexual encounters you have had since your last test or examination.Take the time to discuss your sexual history before you begin having sex with a new partner.
Do not be afraid to ask them specific questions such as, “Have you noticed any symptoms that may be related to HPV such as warts?” and, “How many sexual partners have you had?”
Do respect a person’s decision to not share information with you if they do not want to, but also understand that you are under no obligation to have sex with anyone and may choose to not engage in intercourse if you cannot get the information you need to feel comfortable consenting.

