 If you have air conditioning, keeping your cat indoors will ensure that he stays cool too. Many of the things you do to keep the house cool for yourself will also benefit your cat, such as keeping the blinds, drapes, and doors closed.Make sure that your cat can go into a warmer room if she feels too cold. (Sometimes air-conditioning and fans can make things too cold and this may be irritating for a cat, after a while.)
Even if your cat likes to spend time outside, it is recommended to keep your cat inside during the hottest part of summer days, which is between 10am and 4pm.;
, If you do not have air condition, fans and open windows are another good option to cool off your home and your cat. Place fans in front of open windows to move air through your home and cool it down. Make sure the fans you use are safe for your pet to be around by checking to see if the cover for the rotating blades is secure.


Place one fan or more at floor level in a corner of the room facing towards the center of the room. This way the cat can lay at a distance that is comfortable for her to get some air movement over her fur. This air movement helps to cool down your cat in a way that is similar to sweating., Cats need access to water in order to stay hydrated. In addition, when your cat’s blood temperature rises, sensors in the brain tell her to drink water in order to cool down and dilute the blood. Therefore, it is essential to make sure that your cat always has access to clean, fresh water.Provide multiple drinking bowls with a large surface area (such as dinner plates or dog bowls). Wider bowls encourage the cat to drink because cat do not like their whiskers to touch the sides of the bowl. Make sure that you replace the water at least once a day and keep it topped up at all times.
Never let your cat drink from water than contains algae as the latter is toxic and may cause diarrhea, vomiting, seizures, and sudden death.Consider getting a cat drinking fountain. Many cats prefer to drink running water and a cat drinking fountain is a great way to do this.
 Cats are smart about comfort at all times, including during the heat. Cats love to curl up in the bathtub or sink because porcelain stays cool even when it is hot outside. Because they are often cooler, cats sometimes prefer tiled areas of the house, such as the bathroom, laundry room, and kitchen. If your cat chooses a spot and seems comfortable, let her be.