 Being overweight puts strain on your back muscles that can cause pain. Speak with your doctor if you are not sure whether you are at a healthy weight.Always consult with a doctor before beginning a weight-loss regimen. Crash diets and other unsafe techniques can seriously endanger your health.
 Regular aerobic exercise will help you increase your strength and endurance. Go for exercises that will not hurt your back, such as swimming or even brisk walking. Avoid things like running or jogging, which could cause painful jolts.Consult with your doctor to find out what exercises are most effective and safe for you.
Although it may seem like a low-impact activity, golf is actually not good for people with back problems., Poor posture is a common cause of upper back pain. Standing or sitting in unhealthy positions can put strain on your neck, shoulders, and back muscles, causing pain.Back against a wall and stand comfortably with your heels 2-4” away from the wall. Your buttocks, shoulder blades and head should all touch the wall, but the “small” of your lower back should not.Remind yourself daily to walk with shoulder blades pulled slightly back, stomach tucked in and head upright.
Keep your head even when standing or sitting. Try to avoid letting your head slump forward, as this puts a lot of strain on your neck, shoulders, and upper back.Your spine has natural curves, so standing with good posture will not produce a perfectly straight back.
 Use ergonomically correct chairs at home and work, and make sure that your desk is at the proper height (or use a standing desk).


An ergonomic office chair is an especially important tool to prevent upper back pain, by lining up your head, shoulders, hips and knees. This posture prevents strain on your neck and spine while looking at a computer screen.
Keep your monitor just below eye level. Your elbows should be close to your body and supported., Sleeping on your stomach can cause neck and back pain.Place a small pillow under your knees if you sleep on your back. A rolled-up towel will also work.
Place a small pillow between your knees if you sleep on your side.
 Stress and anxiety lead to increased tension in shoulder and neck muscles, which may result in upper back pain.Try yoga or tai chi. Their emphasis on gentle movement, meditation, and deep breathing will help relax you and increase your flexibility.Meditation can also help you relieve stress.You can also try a hobby. Active hobbies, such as gardening or nature walking, will also help you stay fit., You can hurt your back if you lift or carry things improperly. Students often experience upper back pain thanks to overloaded, imbalanced backpacks.Always lift with your legs, never your back. Begin with your knees bent slightly, but not in a squat. Keep the weight close to your body as you lift it, and let your legs push you up rather than pulling up with your back.Keep the load balanced. Wear a backpack over both shoulders and try to keep the load as light and balanced as possible. When carrying heavy things such as grocery bags, try to carry about the same weight in each hand.