 If you can, go to Thailand - there's no better way to taste and learn authentic Thai cooking. Bangkok is the hub for Thai cooking schools, and you can find anything from long elaborate cooking courses to short, concise daily classes that will help you get started with the basics. If you are unable to take a class or travel to Thailand, you can also purchase some good videos and books that will help you to learn the basics.;
, Nothing beats the flavor and quality of fresh ingredients, and they are absolutely necessary for any good Thai dish. Especially when it comes to the flavoring, the dried and packed version is nothing compared to the sheer aroma of the fresh version, so whenever possible, use only high-quality, fresh ingredients. If you are not able to find fresh herbs such as galangal, pandan, or kaffir lime you can opt for the frozen version of these; the flavor is nearly as good.
 When it comes to Thai cooking, there are not a lot of utensils and tools required. However, whatever is required is absolutely vital. The wok is the most important piece of utensil in Thai cuisine. Get a good one and learn to use it well. Wooden spoons or shovels are used in the Wok to stir fry the ingredients. Thai ingredients also require a lot of pounding to make flavors readily available for incorporation, so get a good stone mortar and pestle. This will help you crush cardamom pods, cumin pods and coriander, and other spices, and it is also an excellent tool to soften and beautifully bring out the fragrance of lemon grass. Finally, with the predominance of rice in Thai dishes, the rice cooker is an invaluable appliance that makes preparing rice both quick and easy; however, a simple stainless steel lidded pot will work just as well.
 Learn and adopt certain techniques. For example, always thoroughly chop and otherwise prepare the ingredients before placing any into the wok. Next, spread a suitable type of frying oil thoroughly throughout the wok and substantially heat it up before adding in the ingredients. Stir fry in high heat for just a few minutes in order to retain the freshness and flavor of the foods.
 Each recipe has its own unique balance of salty, sour, spicy and sweet tastes. The balance also varies with the preference of each individual, making taste-testing a pivotal component of Thai cooking. Learn to use a few helpful tips in balancing the flavors in your cooking. If a dish is too spicy, add yoghurt, coconut milk, or even a little bit of sugar. If a dish is too salty, a little bit of lime juice, lemon juice, or tamarind juice does the trick. If salt is required, it is better to opt for fish sauce or soy sauce rather than directly adding salt. This way the dish enjoys more flavors in addition to the saltiness that it needs. Sweeten a dish by adding plain white sugar, and spice up a dish by adding fresh or dried chilies, chili powder, cayenne pepper, or Thai chili sauce.

