 If you have an idea for a business endeavour and are willing to work hard to achieve your vision, start a small business (either at home or elsewhere) where you can make your own hours. Make a business plan, save money or get a loan for startup costs (e.g. production materials and equipment, employees if necessary), plan a budget, and file paperwork to register your business. Visit domain sites like GoDaddy.com to start a website for your business, and buy advertising (e.g. in local newspapers)., If your grammar and spelling skills are strong, freelance writing is a great way to earn money from home while making your own hours. Opportunities are available writing, editing, and blogging for a range of companies, most transactions occurring completely online and on a contract basis. To see postings of available positions visit the Freelance Writing Jobs website at http://www.freelancewritinggigs.com/freelance-writing-job-ads/.
 Remote data entry positions are available online if you have good typing skills (35-40 words per minute, at least), are software savvy, and have a well-running computer. This can be seasonal employment or a year-round commitment, but flexible hours are always possible. To find online data entry work, visit websites like:


Upwork.com, a website that connects companies and freelance data entry specialists
Fiverr.com, a website for entrepreneurs to connect with a variety of freelance specialists

, Direct sales involve the selling of products outside of retail stores, for a paid commission on each product sold (usually 20-35%). Sales are typically made to friends, family, colleagues, or other acquaintances but can also branch into online sales, using networking to build a customer base.To find a sales project that’s right for you, visit the Direct Selling News website for a list of the top 100 direct sales companies today.As a direct sales consultant, you can also host get togethers at your home to present and sell products (e.g. a makeup party for Avon).
 A fun way to earn money from home on your own schedule is to make crafts to sell online. Sign up as a seller at Etsy.com, the largest and most well-known online craft forum, or visit smaller sites like madeitmyself.com. To stand out amongst a sea of craft vendors, go for unique ideas like:Bottle cap earrings
Wine bottle wind chimes
Piñatas
Seashell candles
Denim purses

