 Group support comes in several different types, and not all types are suitable for everyone. To choose the right type of group support for you, you may want to see a therapist first. Working with a therapist one-on-one is also a helpful way to recover from an eating disorder.;
, There are a few different types of support groups that you can attend. One option is a self-help group. In this type of group, fellow members of the group are the ones who run and organize the group. This means that people who have a history of eating disorders run the support group.These types of groups are helpful because the managers of the sessions know exactly what you are going through.
These may also be called fellowship groups, mutual help groups, or peer support groups.
 The other major type of eating disorder support group is the professionally operated group. These are led, managed, and controlled by mental health professionals who have been trained to work with patients with eating disorders.These may be run through institutions, such as hospitals or treatment centers.
Typical professionals that run these types of groups are licensed therapists, social workers, or psychologists.
 There are two different categories of membership that your support group may use. The type of group you attend depends on your comfort level with others or the types of people you want in your support group. The two types are:An open support group, where anyone can attend the group without meeting specific criteria.
A closed support group, where the group members must meet a specific criteria, such as type of disorder or level of activity in the group.
 The best way to get the most out of a support group is to make sure that you can attend the meetings frequently. This is easiest if you find a support group in your area as close to your home as possible. This means that you need to look in your city for a local support group.You can also ask around at your local hospital or treatment facility for an eating disorder support group.
There are some online locators that help your find the type of support group you want in your area., Before you attend a support group, you need to make sure you are ready for one. There is a specific point in your treatment that you should look to support groups for help. This will be different for every person, but you shouldn't force yourself into this type of treatment until you are ready.You can work with your therapist or doctor to determine when you're ready for this part of your treatment plan.