 You could walk in a mall, underground shopping center, or large office building. The best private buildings for walking have plenty of wide, open space and lots of room for you pass by others while on foot. They should also have stairs you can go up and down for a more intense workout. Think of large public buildings near you and identify which buildings might best facilitate walking indoors for exercise.If you’re walking for exercise with a baby, you can bring your stroller with you to malls and shopping centers. This will not only give you a great round of exercise, but also give your baby exposure to new, interesting sights and sounds.
Elderly people might also feel most comfortable walking in a shopping center.
Be sure to call ahead to find out what the shopping center’s hours are.
 This is the most convenient place to walk for exercise indoors. If you have a treadmill, you can use it to get a great workout. But even if you don’t you can walk up and down your stairs for an extended period to get your heart pumping. Best of all, when you’re done walking for exercise at home, you can jump right in the shower to clean up.If you’re really cramped for space at home, just march in place. It might seem silly, but it gives you the same range of motion that walking does. Stand in front of your TV and enjoy a movie or show while you march in place.
Treadmill machines cost about $500., If you’re looking for a flat, even surface to walk on, indoor tracks are the way to go. Plus, most tracks tell you exactly how far it is around the circuit, so you can easily measure the distance you’re walking if that’s something you want to do. Many colleges, universities, and high schools allow the public to use their indoor tracks.There may be a small fee for using the track.
Gyms might also have indoor tracks.
Walking around the track might get boring, so bring a portable music player or a friend to talk to.
 If you don’t have a treadmill at home and don’t want to invest in one, or just want an environment more conducive to walking for exercise, the gym is a good option; however, membership fees can be expensive. Shop around for a local gym that isn’t too costly, especially if the only thing you intend to do there is walk.


Once you’re done walking for exercise at the gym, try lifting some weights and taking advantage of the other exercise equipment the gym offers. That way, you’ll get a well-rounded exercise routine.
 A treadmill desk is a slow-moving treadmill with a computer station attached to the console at the front end. They are a great way to get some exercise in while you work. If you have a treadmill at home with enough space for your laptop, you might be able to create a makeshift treadmill desk for yourself. But specially-designed treadmill desks are available from office supply stores, and many workplaces are beginning to incorporate them into their offices too.Wear comfortable running/walking shoes at the treadmill desk, just as you would when walking at the gym.
Walking and working can both be tiring on their own. When combined, they can be particularly exhausting. You might want to work one hour at the treadmill desk, then take a break before going back to it.