 Your face is, of course, the first thing people will notice about you, and facial wrinkles are one of the primary signs of aging. Damaging UV light from the sun is a major cause of premature aging. The same rays that give you a tan also cause damage to your skin, which shows up as wrinkles, lost elasticity, changes in texture, and brown spots. Use a sunscreen or facial moisturizer with broad-spectrum UV coverage – SPF 30 or higher – on a daily basis.On particularly sunny days, wear a wide-brimmed hat if you’ll be outside for a while.
Never use a tanning booth, which blasts your skin with UV rays.Look for sunscreen containing zinc or titanium oxide.Self-tanning lotions are a safe alternative to baking in a tanning booth if you want a quick bronze.
In addition to aging your skin, unprotected sun exposure can also lead to cancer.;
, Before spending money on expensive products, which may irritate your skin, try easy to do natural remedies in the comfort of your home. Fruit and food items have been used for thousands of years as organic beauty products. Many common food products contain vitamins and antioxidants that protect and nourish skin.


Massage coconut oil or a teaspoon of olive oil into your skin nightly before bed. These are rich moisturizing oils that can lighten wrinkles and tighten loose skin.Make a natural face mask of one banana, a teaspoon of orange juice and a teaspoon of plain yogurt. Apply your mask for 15 to 20 minutes.Bananas hydrate your skin and yogurt contains vitamins that can lighten your skin and help cell growth and regeneration.Make a natural face mask with one egg white, a teaspoon of fresh lemon juice, and half a teaspoon of honey. Apply your mask for 15 to 20 minutes.Honey and lemon juice work as exfoliants while eggs hydrate your skin and shrink your pores.Do not use anything on your skin that you're allergic to, such as eggs. If you have sensitive skin, do a patch test by applying your homemade remedy to a dime-sized area of skin first to ensure you don't have a reaction.
 Our environment is fraught with pollutants like smoke, ozone, and gasoline fumes. These can age skin and cause premature wrinkles.Wash your face with a gentle soap each evening to remove the day’s pollutants.
 Dry skin can look flaky, dull, and can accentuate wrinkles. Incorporate a good facial moisturizer into your routine to keep skin hydrated.Apply after you wash your face in the evening, and in the morning before you start your day.


Remember, using a moisturizer with UV protection is an added bonus for your skin.
 There are many products out there that claim to decrease signs of aging, but look for those with ingredients that are more scientifically shown to do so. Alpha-hydroxy acids and retinoids are the most reliable ingredients to make skin look younger, so look for products with one of these as they primary ingredient.


Alpha-hydroxy acids like lactic, glycolic and citric acids exfoliate your skin, removing dead skin cells and speeding up the rate that your body makes new, healthier skin cells.Retinol is a form of vitamin A found in nature that helps increase the thickness of the skin and make it more elastic, which minimizes wrinkles and fine lines.Tretinoin (sometimes branded as Retin-A or the milder Renova) is a stronger form of retinol that is only available by prescription.Exfoliating with topical vitamin C in the morning may repair discoloration and lines caused by the sun’s damage. Applying vitamin C to the skin can sometimes cause dryness or flaking. If this happens be sure to moisturize well after application, or switch to taking an oral vitamin C supplement., Irritation and inflammation of the skin can make skin look less healthy and make signs of aging more apparent. Some facial products are rough on sensitive skin, and using too many products on your face can really irritate the skin. “Anti-aging” products are especially likely to cause irritation when combined. It’s okay to shop around and experiment, but settle on a beauty routine with minimal overlapping products and stick to it., The skin around the eyes is thin and sensitive, and is very prone to UV radiation.Sagging, baggy, or thinning skin around the eyes can make your face look older. When you’re going to be outside in the sun, wear sunglasses to protect this sensitive skin and keep it healthier and younger looking.
 If you regularly sleep on your stomach or on one side, you’re pressing the skin of your face into your pillow all night long. Those creased lines you get in the morning from your pillow, sleep lines, can turn into wrinkles.Sleep on your back to avoid this excess stress on your face’s skin.


If you simply can’t sleep on your back, invest in pillowcases made of satin or high thread counts to minimize sleep lines., If you have the desire and the funds, you can pursue medical procedures aimed at creating a more youthful appearance in your face. As with any medical procedures, there are certain risks. Speak with your doctor about whether these methods are right for you. In general, it’s safer to use natural remedies and healthy lifestyle than chemical procedures. Some aesthetic procedures include:Botox: Injections into the muscles underneath wrinkles in order to let the skin on top lie smoothly. It’s typically used on the top half of the face (lines on the forehead, between the eyes, crow’s feet, etc.).
Wrinkle fillers: Wrinkles are filled with a variety of substances, including collagen, hyaluronic acid, and others. It’s usually used on the lower half of the face (laugh lines, thin lips).
Chemical Peels: Chemicals are used to “burn” away the top layer of skin. Your body responds to this damage by creating more collagen.
Dermabrasion: A vacuum suction device and chemical crystals are used together to remove your top layer of skin, which evens out the skin’s texture.
Laser treatments: The energy produced by a light source removes the top layer of skin, which encourages collagen production., The best treatment for aged looking skin is prevention. Start a healthy skin routine in your younger years or when you first notice signs of aging for best results. Experts suggest the top 6 elements of a youthful skin routine are sunscreen, a gentle cleanser, a toner, a moisturizer, retinoids, and antioxidants to fight free radicals.