 Use a measuring stick to measure all three sides of the package. Round these measurements to the nearest 1 inch.


When measuring dimensional weight, it doesn't matter which side you label as the length, which you label as the width, and which you label as the height. You only need to make sure that all three sides are properly measured.
For each side, use a measuring stick to measure from one edge to the opposite edge. Write each measurement down separately and round each one to the nearest 1 inch.
Note that these dimensional weight calculations can only be used with imperial units of measurement. The calculations will not work for metric measurements. (To use the formulas below with the metric system, replace 166 with 5000.)

, Calculate the volume of the package by multiplying the length, width, and height together.


For example, if you want to ship a package with a length of 12 inches, width of 8 inches, and height of 4 inches, you would calculate the volume by multiplying all three measurements together:

Volume = 12 inches * 8 inches * 4 inches = 384 cubic inches



, For shipments within the United States or Puerto Rico, divide the volume of the package by 166. For international shipments, divide the volume by 139.For a package with a volume of 384 cubic inches

Domestic dimensional weight = 384 cubic inches / 166 = 2.31
International dimensional weight = 384 cubic inches / 139 = 2.76



, Use a postal scale to measure the true weight of the package in pounds.


If you do not own a postal scale, you will need to have the weight of the package measured at the shipping office.
 If the dimensional weight is greater than the actual weight, the shipping service may need to charge a greater amount than the base fee indicated for your package dimensions.


Dimensional weight is only an estimate, not a precise measurement.
When a package is light or moderately heavy based on its volume, the price of shipping will usually be based on dimensional weight, length, width, and volume. Abnormally heavy packages will need to be priced based on actual weight.

