 If you're feeling alone and unsure about your pregnancy, find a teacher at your school that you trust. Identify a teacher that knows about you, your work and your family if possible. A teacher who knows you well is more likely to understand your situation.;
, Consider asking your teacher to talk after school or during the lunch break. If the teacher is busy at the moment, ask them when a good time to talk would be later that day. Don't discuss your pregnancy in front of other students or school staff unless you want them to be present.


Making sure that you can talk privately will make you feel more comfortable.
Ask permission to speak privately about being pregnant.
 Consider that your teacher may be a friend as well as a concerned school employee. The teacher may ask you things like:Are you sure you're pregnant? Have you taken a pregnancy test? Have you seen a doctor? How long do you think you have been pregnant?
Did you talk with your parents about this?
Who did you have sex with? How old was the person?
Was there unwanted physical contact or abuse?

, When you're feeling unsure and overwhelmed, you may not know what you want to do or what decisions to make. Trust that your teacher will try his or her best to help you through this time. Talk openly with your teacher about how you became pregnant.


If you missed your period, but are not completely sure you're pregnant, consider saying, "I am hoping for some advice about what to do. I recently missed my period, and am concerned that I may be pregnant."
If you have verified with a healthcare provider that you are pregnant, consider saying, "I was hoping for some guidance. I recently got a positive result that I am pregnant, and I'm not sure what to do."
If you are looking for help about how to talk with your parents about your pregnancy, consider saying, "I was hoping for some help. I recently found out that I am pregnant, and have not yet told my parents."

, Your teacher is an adult who may have helpful advice about what to do. Your teacher may also a caring support system for you. Think about what your teacher says before jumping to conclusions. Your teacher may encourage you to:


See a healthcare provider to help determine if you are pregnant and/other concerns regarding your health.
Open up about what concerns you most.
Talk with school administration and/or local authorities. This may depend on if the sex was consensual and your age.
Understand how this affects your daily life.
Think about how to talk with your parents.
 Trust that your teacher and school will advocate for you when addressing this difficult situation. If you are a minor (under 18 years old), there may be specific laws or policies in your state or district about pregnancy among minors. The following circumstances will be taken into account for mandated reporting:If your school district or state is required by law to notify your parents.
If you are a minor and had sex with someone who is over 18 years old.
If the circumstances of your sexual contact were due to coercion, under the influence of drugs, sexual assault, and/or rape.
If the person you had sex with has been physically or sexually abusive.
 After talking with your teacher, you may be asked to talk with other school staff including the school nurse and/or your school counselor. Being open to talking with your school counselor and the nurse could help you in these ways:


Problem-solve about how to talk with your family about the pregnancy
Monitor your health for any issues related to your pregnancy or symptoms of pregnancy
Help to provide answers to your questions about sex, pregnancy, and family planning
Learn about your options as you make a decision about your pregnancy, and how (or if) to notify the potential father of your child
Safety planning if there are any concerns about abuse or harm to you

, While this time may be difficult for you, don't delay in telling someone you trust and trying to find out your options available. If you delay telling your teacher or someone you trust about your pregnancy, your options may be fewer.If you have had sex (whether unprotected or not), and you miss your period, talk with a healthcare provider or a school nurse to find out what you can do next. It's important to find out if you might be pregnant as soon as you can.
 There may be a friend that you can trust to help you through this time. See if a friend can be present with you when you talk with your teacher or school counselor, or if your friend can wait outside and show support after you talk with your teacher.


Avoid telling many friends, classmates, or other people you meet that you're pregnant until you have discussed it with your teacher or school staff and your family.
 Your teacher and the school counselor may be able to help you identify the best ways to talk with your parents. Be honest with them about how you think your parents may react.If you are afraid that your parents will be very mad, consider ways to tell them with other people like a school counselor present.
 Your teacher and your school counselor will look into your best interests about how to handle this difficult topic with your parents. This may not be the first time that your school counselor has heard about a student becoming pregnant. They can act as a buffer if you're worried about what your parents will say or do.


You're not alone, and they will advocate to keep you safe.
 If you end up telling your parents later, and your teacher still wants to be a support, keep your teacher informed of what is happening. You came to this teacher because of trust. This teacher may have helpful advice about how to handle things if it gets tough between you and your parents.


The situation may not be easy, but you don't have to feel alone and scared. Great teachers will make you feel valued and see that you succeed through this difficult time.

