 You can use a lidded container such as Tupperware or a pencil box to arrange the kit. Include sterile gauze, bandages in multiple sizes, tweezers, safety pins, non-latex disposable gloves, disposable instant cold packs, and various creams and wipes. If you are CPR certified, include a mouthpiece for administering CPR.Include elastic bandages with your bandage supply. You may also want to include bandages with color or cartoon characters.
Pack triple-antibiotic ointment, 1% hydrocortisone cream, and calamine lotion. Include alcohol wipes and antiseptic wipes.;
, You may want to pack headache medicine in a childproof bottle, and/or any prescription medication you take. Include feminine care products if they may be needed. If you have a cell phone, make sure to pack its wall charger.
 Include a couple of bottled waters. If you don’t have access to the family’s pantry or you forgot to ask permission, you’ll have your own drinks and snacks as a backup plan. Throw in some granola bars or other quick power snacks.
 In case something should happen to you, you want to have your own emergency contacts on hand in an easy-to-find place. Put your cell phone and the names and phone numbers of your emergency contacts in a quick, easy-to-locate spot like an outer compartment of your bag.You may want to remove these items from your bag and put them on a main table once you arrive at the house where you’re babysitting. Make it part of your ritual to do this as well as return them to your bag before you leave.
 This can come in handy in multiple scenarios. If a power outage occurs, you’ll still have a light source on hand. Also you may need to take a pet out to relieve itself after dark.
 Write down the parents’ names, address, home phone number and cell phone numbers. You should also ask for the nearest cross street or major intersection in case of an emergency. Ask where the parents will be and what time they will return., Find out where the phones are located in the home and make sure you have permission to use them.Ask if you should answer the phone if it rings, and if so, how you should answer.Find out the best way to get out of the house in case of fire. If it’s the first time you’re babysitting at that house, have the parents take you on a tour of the property. Find out where the children are allowed and not allowed to be.


For instance, is there a fire escape, or an exterior door that doesn’t open which you should know about? Also find out where the fire extinguishers are located.Try asking, “How should I lock the windows and doors while you’re gone? Is there a security system I should know about?”
Note where any potentially hazardous areas are, such as ponds or outside machinery.
 Write down the kids’ full names, ages, and dates of birth. Include their weight, height, eye and hair color. You may need this information if any of the kids get lost., Get the contact information for at least two neighbors or relatives in case there is an emergency and you can’t get ahold of the parents. Write down the phone numbers for emergency services and poison control.Ask if you should contact 911 and/or a family doctor or pediatrician if there is an emergency., If there are pets in the household, find out if you are supposed to feed them. If so, note the feeding time, as well as the type and amount of food you should give them. If the pets are dogs, ask if they will need to be let outside and how you should go about doing that.


For instance, is the yard fenced in? Does the dog need to be on a collar and leash, and if so where are those kept?
Make sure to write down who the parents would like you to call if there is an emergency involving a family pet. For instance, should you call the pet’s veterinarian or a specific emergency vet?

, Find out if the kids have any known food or drug allergies. If so, write them down. Get permission to use over-the-counter ointment or lotion in case of minor cuts or scrapes. If the child has been sick or has a chronic condition such as asthma or diabetes, get the schedule of any medication and dosages they need to take.


For medications, ask what time it was last given, what time the next dose should be given, and the amount you should give the child., Ask the parents before they leave what rules you should know about. Ask a couple of questions to get them thinking about what the kids might ask you for that they aren’t allowed to have.Try asking, “For example, are the kids not allowed to play certain electronic devices? Are there TV shows that are off-limits that they might be asking me about?”

, If your charges are younger than grade school age, they may have specific naptimes. If you’ll be staying into the night, write down those bedtimes also. Ask if there are any routines you should know about before bedtime, such as teeth brushing and putting on a nightlight.Try asking, “Do the kids normally read or chat in their rooms after bedtime, or should it be all quiet and lights out?”

, Ask what the kids should be given for food and drink. Find out if snacks and meals should occur at exact times, and if the children should be eating outside of those times if they say they’re hungry. Note any special instructions, such as if their vegetables should be finished before getting any dessert., Do the parents have any advice on what you should do if a child is crying or colicky? How would they like you to handle any misbehavior? Are there any other special instructions you should know?, You can get simple items at a dollar store, such as crayons, stickers, coloring books and colored paper. If you pack scissors for any crafts, make sure that they are kid-friendly pairs. You may want to get a couple of different crayon sizes.


For example, toddlers like play dough, playing with water, and drawing with large crayons.Preschoolers enjoy coloring, puzzles, and blowing bubbles.Grade school age children enjoy games, crafts, and many of the things younger kids like as well.
 This can be used as rewards for good behavior. Depending on the age of the kids you’re babysitting, you can include play money as "reward bucks." The kids can spend it to play with an item from the box.


Infants won’t understand the concept of rewarding good behavior, but you can still include items for them to play with. They like bright-colored toys they can hold and make noise with, and soft items to feel such as plush toys. They also like to be read to from books with colorful images., Many kids like movies, so it’s good to include a couple of kid-friendly flicks in your bag. Just make sure to get permission from the parents first before putting on the TV or popping a movie in., Hand puppets can be great entertainment for kids of all ages. Furthermore, since you will have a flashlight in your bag, you can put on a show with real and shadow puppets., Kids’ card games are ideal because they don’t take up much room in your bag, and they can be fun for many ages. You can also pack puzzles with large pieces. Make and bring a list of game ideas that can be played with little or no props, such as picture charades.

