 Constipation is common for people diagnosed with MS and as a result fiber is recommended. Fiber is relatively easy for your body to digest and helps the digestive tract function properly. Foods that are high in fiber such as fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lentils can help to ease bowel troubles. For example, raspberries, apples and pears (with skin) are an excellent source of fiber. Similarly, split peas, black beans, broccoli, artichokes, and oatmeal are all high in fiber.Women should consume 21 to 25 grams of fiber per day and men should consume between 30 and 38 grams a day.;
, It is a known fact that vitamin D helps with the development of strong bones. Recent research shows that vitamin D may also impact the immune system. If you have been diagnosed with MS, you should make sure that you are getting enough vitamin D in your diet and spend time in the sun everyday. If you eat a well balanced diet you should receive enough vitamin D, but if you have a vitamin D deficiency you may need to take supplements. Foods high in vitamin D include:Cod liver oil
Portabello mushrooms
Oily fish, such as trout
Fish Roe
Whole grain fortified cereals
Tofu
Dairy products are also high in vitamin D; alternative milks (soy or almond) are usually fortified with vitamin D

, One of the most prominent symptoms associated with MS is energy loss and fatigue. Eating lean proteins, found in fish, white meats, and nuts can help to combat fatigue. Fish is also high in omega 3 fatty acids. Some studies have shown that people who consume unsaturated fats experience a slower progression of the disease. Try eating more salmon, halibut, walnuts, flaxseed and flaxseed oil, vegetable oils, and leafy vegetables such as kale, spinach, broccoli, and cabbage.For instance, omega 3 fatty acids have been shown to protect against inflammation as well as a reduction of symptoms for people suffering from an autoimmune disease, like MS.
Some doctors recommend that people with MS eat three fish-based meals per week., Drinking a lot of water is a great way to avoid constipation, which is a common side effect of MS. It is important to stay hydrated by drinking lots of water, and stay away from highly caffeinated beverages, such as coffee and soda. Caffeinated drinks can actually cause dehydration which increases the likelihood of constipation.Try these tips to increase your water intake:Add flavour to your water: You can give water more taste by add fresh fruits, such as lemon or raspberries, and vegetables, such as cucumber or ginger.
Drink a glass of water after going to the washroom.
Track the amount of water you drink using an app: Try the free app Daily Water Free.
Dilute sugary drinks with water.
Eat foods high in water: Try watermelon, cucumber, zucchini, and grapefruit., If you have been diagnosed with MS, talk with your doctor or a Registered Dietitian about how to eat a well balanced diet. There is no diet that can cure MS, but many agree that a healthy diet can help to manage the symptoms allowing you to feel better. Your doctor can provide you with dietary guidelines and ensure that you are getting all of the necessary nutrients.Ask your doctor "What are some foods I should add to my diet?"; "What are some ways I can change my current diet in order to make sure I am getting all of the required nutrients?"; "Do you recommend any specific foods to help increase my energy levels?"

, People with MS often have low energy and fatigue, which can be exacerbated if you do not eat food regularly. It is important that people with MS eat a well balanced meal at least three times a day. Skipping a meal could lead to energy loss, making it difficult to remain productive throughout the workday.Try packing snacks if you know that you won't have time for a proper sit down meal.
Purchase granola bars that are high in fiber or a variety of nuts to snack on throughout the day.

