 This could be a sign that your chronic diarrhea may be a symptom of a more serious medical condition. You should seek medical treatment as soon as possible if you notice any blood or mucus in your stool, or your child’s stool.You should also see a doctor if your child has diarrhea and/or a fever that lasts longer than 24 hours. Bring your child to the doctor if she has these symptoms and is not drinking or urinating at all.
The doctor will do a physical examination and take a stool sample. The stool sample will allow your doctor to determine if the diarrhea is the result of a parasite infection.
 Chronic diarrhea can be caused by a parasite infection, or a chronic medical issue like Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, or Irritable Bowel Syndrome. Your diarrhea may also be due to an intolerance to certain food products.Ask your doctor to test for intolerances for gluten, high-fructose corn syrup, lactose, and casein.
Symptoms of IBS include: abdominal pain and cramping, mucus in the stool, bloating, the feeling that you haven't finished a bowl movement.Symptoms of Crohn's Disease include: abdominal pain and cramping, weight loss, fatigue, loss of appetite, fever, rash.You may also have a malabsorption syndrome, which includes Celiac disease, lactose intolerance, short bowel syndrome, Whipple's disease, and different genetic diseases and medicines. The symptoms for these are varied, so speak with your doctor in-depth about symptoms you are experiencing along with your diarrhea., If your diarrhea is due to dietary issues, your doctor may recommend that you avoid certain food products.Your doctor may prescribe medications such as antibiotics or anti-parasitic medications if the diarrhea is due to a parasite. She may also recommend you go on IV fluid replacement if you cannot drink enough fluids to stay hydrated.
Your doctor may recommend you take anti-diarrheal medications. Over-the-counter anti-diarrheal medications include Loperamide (Imodium) and Bismuth subsalicylate (Kaopectate, Pepto-Bismol). Prescription medications for chronic diarrhea include Lomotil, Lonox, Loperamide, Crofelemer, Rifaximin, and Opium tincture/Peregoric.

