 Deadheading is when you remove dead flower heads from a plant. This process stops seeds from growing once the flowers have faded. Producing seeds takes up a plants energy that could otherwise be put towards producing new growth.


Deadheading also help to tidy up your garden and get rid of withered, faded flower petals. Dead iris flowers tend to turn brown very quickly and aren’t very attractive.;
, To deadhead an Iris flower, you can pinch off the spent flower using your fingertips. Alternatively, use a sharp blade to remove the flower. You need to cut off not just the dead flower petals but also the slightly swollen fat bud-like sheath the petals grow from.


This bulb-like part of the plant is where the seeds will form.
 Don’t remove the entire stalk of the plant in case there are other buds that have yet to emerge and bloom.


Some Iris flowers will fade after a day, but deadheading them can help the plant to form new blooms more quickly, so try not to cut away the whole plant.
 Bearded Iris may bloom at the beginning and end of summer. Wait until this second round of flowering has occurred before cutting your flowers back. Once you know the flowering season is over, you can use a sharp pair of garden cutters to remove the tough stem. However, do not cut away any green foliage that is still on the plant.


Removing the stem will help to prevent the plant from rotting, and will also help to clean up the look of your garden.
Once you have cut away the stem, place it in your compost.
 You’ll notice that there are some varieties of Iris that have pretty seed heads. Many gardeners leave the flowers on varieties such as Stinking iris (Iris foetidissima) and Blackberry lily (Belamcanda) to enjoy the display of seed heads.


Just be aware that when you leave the seed heads on, the seeds may spread, causing other Irises to grow throughout your garden.
 Leaving the seed heads on will make it more likely that new Irises will grow in other parts of your garden. However, be aware that Irises grown from seeds may not look exactly like the original parent plant.


You could also collect the seeds and grow them yourself. To do this, soak the seeds in water for 48 hours. Plant the seeds once they have soaked.

