 The point-of-use surge protection devices are available as plug-in type power strips as well as those that can be installed in the same way as a regular electrical outlet. Each type offers unique features for protection.;
, This type of surge protector will require that you have surge protection devices for incoming electrical power as well as for your telephone and cable television lines for full protection.
 This type allows you to plug multiple electrical appliances into 1 surge protector power strip. Make sure that you are not purchasing an extension cord, which is somewhat similar in appearance, as they do not provide protection from power surges.


Realize that the point-of-use surge protection devices are also available to be individually installed as a regular electrical outlet for items such as microwave ovens, air conditioners and dryers, all of which consume a high amount of electricity when in use. This type of surge protector must be installed by a professional electrician.
 If you have expensive electrical equipment within your home or run a business out of your home and want the added protection then think about dual protection and acquiring both types of surge protection devices.


Know that the service entrance surge protection device will cover your home's complete electrical system and provide protection by reducing the power surge level before it reaches the point-of-use surge protection device that protects individual appliances and devices inside your home.
 Read the guarantees carefully before you select and purchase a surge protector regardless of the type of unit.
 Consider what electrical appliances will be hooked up to the surge protector. Surge protectors are available to provide varying levels of protection.
 Bring a detailed list of all the items that you want to connect to a surge protection strip or have covered by a service entrance surge protection system. The store representative will be able to suggest specific surge protectors based on the type of electrical devices that you want to protect.

