 Of course, the most important part of a flexi rod curl is the flexi rods. These can be found at most beauty supply and drug stores. You will also need a bristle brush, a spray bottle filled with water, hair clips, and a setting product if necessary.


Flexi rods come in a variety of sizes. Keep in mind that the wider the rod, the larger your curls will be. If you want to go for tight ringlets, use smaller rods.
 Flexi rods work best on stretched hair, like what you'd have from a braid out. Part your hair where you want your curls to fall.


If your hair is long, separating it into four sections with hairclips will make it easier to work with., Spritz your hair with the spray bottle so that the whole strand is a little moist. Do not make it soaking wet. Smooth your hair down with your bristle brush., Take the bottom end of your hair strand and place a flex roller on top of it. Use your finger to initially hold the end in place. Roll the rod up towards your scalp.
 Flexi rod sets don't need bobby pins like other rollers. Instead, their flexible ends act as built-in pins to hold hair in place. When your hair has been rolled properly tight up against your scalp, the flexi rod's arms should be enough to keep your curls secure while they dry.
 Work around your head, section by section. If you plan on finishing with large, chunky curls, try to keep each strand a consistent size. To do that, try to grab strands that are as equally thick as possible.This is not as important if you plan on separating the curls out into smaller ones.
 Make sure your hair is completely dry before removing your flexi rods. Many people choose to sleep with their rods in and remove them in the morning. Run your fingers through your curls if you want to separate out thick tight ringlets into smaller, more voluminous curls.


You may choose to use a hooded or blow dryer instead of air-drying.Just remember that heat has the potential to dry out and damage your hair.
If your hair doesn't hold curls well on its own, using a setting product like hairspray or gel will help your curls last longer.

