 Social media is a powerful and cost effective option when trying to reach potential customers. Social media can also help you inform existing customers about new crafts, specials and deals you want to offer. Try opening up some accounts with various social media platforms to help get your site seen by more people.


Facebook and Twitter are two of the major social media platforms used by craft vendors.
Have easy to find links to your store page posted on your social media profiles.
Many social media platforms allow you to promote your content for a reasonable fee, allowing your page to reach more people.
Any update to your social media account will automatically be visible to everyone that follows the account.
 Launching your store and opening social media accounts are good first steps. However, you'll still need to drive traffic to your sites. One way to bring more people to your site is to hold a giveaway promotional event. Try using some of these basic styles of giveaway events to promote your site and your crafts:You might have people comment, like or post on your Facebook page and select a winner at random.
You could host a photo competition in which the photo with the most likes will win the prize.
You can hold a quiz or pose a question to your followers. The first person to answer correctly would win the prize.
Make sure you follow the rules of whichever social media platform you are using for your giveaway.
 If you have created your own website to sell your crafts from, you'll want to optimize it for search engines. Optimizing your page will allow search engines and potential clients to more easily find your page. Keep some of these tips in mind when optimizing your page for search engines:You'll want to make sure your photos are tagged to help people find your site.
Try to include good keywords in your website. These should be simple words that directly identify the type of craft you make. For example, the tags “metal, smithy”, would be good for someone who has a blacksmith crafting shop.
Include keywords near the top of your home page. Many search engines will look at the first few words on a site and having defining keywords there can help make your site stand out.
 If you are running your own website, you'll want to check out your analytics. Analytic services will provide valuable information that can help you identify the people who are most likely to visit your shop. Use your web site's built in analytics or sign on with an third party service to learn who's visiting your site, when they visit and how you can better appeal to them.You can learn where most of your traffic is coming from using analytics.
You'll be able to learn what people are looking at on your site and for how long they did so.
You can discover which pages and products are the most viewed.
Analytics can help you customize your site to meet the unique interests of those who most often visit.
 Whenever you are promoting the site you sell your crafts, you'll want to consider the tone and image you use. Your promotions should convey important information, giving your customers a sense of who you are and what you're offering. Consider some of these key points when promoting your craft site:You should allow your own personality to show through in your promotions.
Make sure you highlight the crafts you are selling.
Always include an easy way for customers to access your site.
Make sure the tone of your promotion is in line with your shop's image.
For example, if you are selling crafts to kids or younger people, you might want to use a lighthearted and fun tone.
If you are selling something like handcrafted knives, you'll want to use a more serious tone that will likely appeal to your adult customers.

