 Depending on your Pokémon and type, they will live in different habitats, Bulbasaur for example, lives in a grassland, but Charmander lives in the mountains, and Pikachu just likes the forest, or a barn.You want your plush to feel at home, right? Regardless of habitat you will need a big box (cardboard, plastic, anything as long as it's a box that they will fit and there is at least 6 inches of room for furniture or décor). You can also design a cozy house, or just a bed. The bed has to have a mattress, blanket, and pillow.


For grassland you could use ribbon or green string as grass. Or for the mountains Styrofoam like snow, but other methods recommend are things like paint and model magic or other air-dry clay that you could spike or create designs in if you want them in a house instead of their natural habitat.;
, Where to keep them is pretty crucial too. Your Pokémon's type will tell, for fire types (like Fennekin, Typhlosion, and Tepig), keep them by a fireplace or a window where the sun shines through, keep a fan or air conditioning on them if they are ice types (like Vanillite), next to the sink filled with water, a bucket of water, or a pool if you have one for water types (like Froakie, Oshawott, or Poliwag).


The garage or a place with lots of steel for steel types (like Beldum), near an electric socket or a window in a thunderstorm with lightning for electric types (like Pikachu, Pachirisu, Emolga, Electrike, or Manectric) take them to the gym on occasions for fighting types (like Hariyama), bug types (like Caterpie or Parasect) and grass types (like Snivy or Chespin) will enjoy being kept near plants, and normal or fairy types depend.
Keep Munchlax in the kitchen, or Jigglypuff next to your karaoke system (because Jigglypuff is excellent at singing).
 Food is a large matter here, whether you choose real food or just play food for dolls and things it won't matter. For real food let them have dinner with you, only when no one is watching. You can also take things like brown Beados on a spoon and feed them Pokémon food.


They might enjoy some Poffins with you. Poffins can be sugar cookies, dinner rolls, etc. Rare candy can be bought at stores in the shape of gumballs or chocolate balls, or you can pretend that you found new rare candy that is a gummy bear or some Smarties.
PokePuffs (found as cake balls, cream puffs, or donut holes) and Pokeblocks (as Jolly Rancher candy) are great, too!

, Love all depends on how you treat them and what kind of trainer you want to be. You can be strict like A.J. in the episode of the anime The Path to the Pokémon League or you can choose to be like Ash, he is friends with his Pokémon but does have his requirements, or yet just completely soft, they don't battle, they are low levels except for friendship, and etc.
 But make sure what toys, board games, and video games they like!

, Discover your Pokémon's favorite shows.


Phione loves Dora the Explorer.
Joltik loves Zerby Derby.
Paras loves Blue's Clues.
Swinub loves the Fairly Odd Parents.
Treecko loves Go Diego Go.
Squirtle and Chinchou love Franklin (you mean the turtle?).
Weedle loves Little Bear.
Venonat enjoys Little Einsteins.
Aipom loves Ni-Hao, Kai-Lan.
Pikachu loves to watch the Pokémon series.
Pachirisu loves the Wonder Pets.
 Only take them to places where you have no doubt you won't have to put them down, they can go in the car but leave them in a shady spot in the car when you leave, only if you have to. If you bring them into a store make sure that they don't sell that plush there; otherwise someone might report you for stealing it from that store, and don't ever put them down for a second.


Try putting them in a backpack with their head poking out, or in a purse, but ALWAYS check that they are still there in case they fall out. Only bring it to school on show and tell, and only have it out of your backpack when your teacher says so, you don't want them taken away now do you?

, If they are dirty, a nice hand wash for experienced adults, or if the plush tag says its okay, then the washer might help, when its done wrap it in a towel and give a nice long HUG. Repeat when dirty, but if it has fuzz like Cyndaquil's fire then its not a good idea to machine wash.
 Make sure you have a big box for them to sleep in. Sing to them if they feel like it, or tell them a story. Or, if you have Teddy Ruxpin and a Teddy Ruxpin Lullabies 1 or 2 cassette, let him sing to them for you!

, Having fun is the most important step, without it your Pokémon will neglect you. Bring them to the store as long as you follow Step 7. Take them outside to play, use some rope to take them on a walk, have sleepovers every now and then if you prefer to keep your Pokémon in its habitat at night. Read a book, or my favorite, watch a Pokémon episode all about that Pokémon. If you get a new Pokémon or stuffed animal that you care more about, then still play with the old Pokémon plush now and then, and if you are done with them forever, give them to another loving family or to a friend to watch them from now on.

