 To ensure that the buns don’t stick to the slow cooker when they’re finished, it’s important to grease the insert. Spray the interior lightly with nonstick cooking spray.You substitute softened butter for the cooking spray if you prefer.;
, Add ½ cup (113 ½ g) of melted butter and ½ cup (100 g) of packed brown sugar to a medium size bowl. Stir the two ingredients together until the mixture is smooth.You can use either light or dark brown sugar for the sticky buns.
 Once the butter and brown sugar are fully mixed, use a spoon to transfer half of the mixture to the bottom of the slow cooker. Make sure to spread the mixture in an even layer.You can set the bowl with the remaining butter and brown sugar mixture aside. You won’t need it until after you’ve added the biscuits to the slow cooker.
 After you’ve spread some of the butter and brown sugar mixture over the bottom of the slow cooker, sprinkle ½ cup (63 ½ g) of pecan halves over it. Distribute the nuts as evenly as possible throughout the slow cooker.Pecans are traditionally used for sticky buns, but you can substitute walnuts if you prefer.
You can sprinkle ½ cup (75 g) of raisins into the slow cooker with the pecans if you like.
 Pour the remaining ½ cup (113 ½ g) of melted butter into a shallow dish. Add ½ cup (100 g) of cinnamon sugar to a separate shallow dish, and set it next to the dish with the butter.You can use store-bought cinnamon sugar or make you own. Combine ½ cup (100 g) granulated sugar with 2 tablespoons (16 g) of ground cinnamon.
 Open 1 16-ounce (454 g) can of refrigerated biscuit dough and separate the biscuits on a piece of wax paper or parchment paper. With clean fingers, dunk a biscuit into the melted butter to cover it completely.It’s best to work with one biscuit at a time, so dip one in the butter and move immediately onto the next step before repeating the process with the remaining biscuits.
If you want to dip all of the biscuits in the butter before moving onto the next step, set them down on the wax or parchment paper until you’re ready to coat them with the cinnamon sugar.
 After you’ve dipped the biscuit in the melted butter, place it in the dish with the cinnamon sugar. Toss it through the cinnamon sugar to ensure that it’s completely covered.After you’ve coated each biscuit with the cinnamon sugar, set them down on wax or parchment paper so you don’t make a mess.
 Once all of the biscuits are coated in cinnamon sugar, transfer them to the slow cooker. Place them side by side on top of the brown sugar, butter, and pecan mixture.Don’t worry if the biscuits are pressed together in the slow cooker. You’ll be able to separate them later.
 When the biscuits are in the slow cooker, drizzle the remaining butter and brown sugar mixture over them, making sure to coat all of the biscuits. Next, sprinkle the remaining ½ cup (63 ½ g) of pecan halves over them.If you added raisins earlier, you can also sprinkle another ½ cup (75 g) over the biscuits.
 Cover the slow cooker, and and set it to high. Allow the sticky buns to cook for 1 ½ to 2 hours or until the dough is completely cooked through., When the sticky buns are finished cooking, use potholders to carefully lift the insert out of the slow cooker. Set it down on a heat-safe surface, and allow it to cool for approximately 5 minutes.Don’t allow the buns to cool for too long. The syrup may begin to harden, so you’ll have a more difficult time removing the buns.
 Once the slow cooker insert has cooled slightly, use a butter knife to loosen the edges of the buns. Be sure to move the knife all around the sides of insert, so the buns don’t stick in any spots.Be sure to use a potholder to hold the insert as you run the butter knife around the edges. It may still be hot enough to burn you.
 After you’ve loosened the sticky buns, carefully invert the insert over a plate, serving platter, or wire cooling rack. If any of the buns are stuck together, use a knife to carefully cut them apart. Serve the sticky buns while they’re still warm.Place any leftover sticky buns in an airtight container and store at room temperature. They should keep for 3 to 4 days.

