 If you're considering opening a day care, you probably already know that you love working with kids. Take these other elements of running a day care into account before you make the decision to devote yourself to starting a new business:


Are you ready to handle the mishaps, behavioral issues and emergencies that arise when working with kids? Consider getting first aid and CPR training and potentially taking classes on childcare before assuming this responsibility.
The children's parents will have high expectations concerning their kids' activities and education while under your care. It helps to have a degree in education or experience teaching or working at a day care before opening your own.
A day care is a business, and as a business owner you'll be in charge of employee management, bookkeeping, marketing, and other responsibilities that come with running a small business in addition to providing childcare.;
, Factoring in your time capacity, financial restraints, and personal preference, choose from two types of day cares:


A home day care. Day cares operated from homes offer home-like environments for children. They are typically small, and usually open to kids from the neighborhood.
A day care center, or commercial day care. Day care centers are operated from commercial spaces. They can accommodate more children and bring in more revenue, which allows them to hire more employees.
 To legally operate a day care, it's necessary to obtain a license, which must be renewed each year.


Licensing requirements are different for home day cares and day care centers. Research the requirements in your area for the type of day care you wish to operate.
To obtain a license you will undergo a home or facility safety inspection and prove that your operation is following the laws of your state.
You must demonstrate that your operation has a certain ration of adult caretakers to children. The requirements vary with the age of the children.
You may have to complete an orientation or course on managing a day care.
You are required to file all the necessary paperwork and submit a fee to complete the licensing process.
 Before you settle on running a home day care, make sure you have enough space for children you wish to serve. Is the bathroom located close to the intended play area? Is there a fenced-in outdoor yard? A commercial space should also be large enough to accommodate the number of kids who will join your day care. It should have a large play area, an outside space, a convenient bathroom area, and a kitchen for preparing snacks.

