 Hair is one of the most important factors of the pastel goth look. If your parents say it is okay to dye your hair. go ahead ! Do not dye your own hair though, make sure a parent or a hairdresser does it.


Having wild hair (even black or pure white) can make it difficult to get jobs or get into universities. On that note, you will want to make your hair very simple, either just normal or with blunt-low cut bangs. To make your hair appear softer, try putting hair oil on the ends and conditioning often.
Common hair colors for pastel goth are: Any pastel, Pastel Purple, Black, or Natural.
You may also want to spend some extra time working out hair styles that work for you. Keeping your hair in a style is a lot classier and more fashionable than leaving it down or in a ponytail.;
, Clothing is basically what makes the pastel goth. If you don't get the clothing right, you will be regarded as a scene kid, a regular goth, a hipster or just plain normal. To make sure that doesn't happen, colors and pieces to avoid wearing are listed in the tips section.


Stock up on the following: oversized tops/sweaters/cardigans, button up formal shirts, one nice tuxedo shirt, striped clothing, plain pants, plain v-necks, plain dresses, Peter Pan collar shirts, any collared shirts, high waisted pants/skirts/shorts and floral pattern clothing.

You may want to avoid red clothing, as other people will pinpoint you as scene or hipster if you wear it. Try going for a violet or sky blue top instead.
Wear the right shoes. Shoes are a huge part of the pastel goth look. You may see lots of pictures of pastel goths wearing high heels, but this is not appropriate for middle school and could result in expulsion or suspension from school on your part.
Doc Martens has great shoes, which fit to your feet and come in many styles and colours. For example, you could try their boots.

Mary Janes, Combat Boots, Uniform Type Shoes, Short Doc Martens, Ballet Flats, Leather Shoes and many other shoes from shoe companies are great choices for footwear. Make sure that your footwear is comfortable and appropriate. You will want to avoid shoes with spikes and embellishments; they are more scene and goth than pastel.
 Accessories are important to finish off the pastel look. Many people overdo them, so remember to understate all accessories.


A rule of thumb is to never wear more than 4 accessories at once.
Good accessories are hair bands, flower crowns, bows, metal link bracelets, charm bracelets, small leather purse, and a nice necklace. Please be sure to make all jewelry appropriate, and never wear any large earrings.
, Pastel goths are supposed to be innocent and intelligent. Make sure to keep your grades up in school; if they go down, your parents might blame this on your pastel Gothicism.


Sarcasm is allowed, but only a very small amount, which is to be said very jokingly.


