 You need to make a nightly routine that signals to your body that it is time to sleep. What goes on in your routine should vary depending on your needs, but once you have a routine, stick to it. You can drink a cup of herbal tea, read a book or magazine, wash your face, put on your sleep clothes, or get your clothes and food ready for the next day.


Make sure the activity you choose isn't too exciting or energizing, such as exercise or reading a stressful book. You want to calm yourself down, not keep yourself awake longer., In order for you to sleep more each night, you need to make sure that your bed is comfortable. If you are uncomfortable, you are more likely to wake up during the night. Get sheets that feel good against your skin in a fabric that is breathable. You don't want to get a material that is irritating to you or for you to get too hot at night. Your comforter should also be light or heavy enough depending on the time of year and the temperature in your bedroom.


Also make sure the temperature in your room is at a comfortable level for you to sleep.What is comfortable may change at different parts of the year. Make sure you figure out what is best for you.
 When you go to sleep, you need to make sure that you are wearing clothes that are comfortable and won't cause you to wake up during the night. The type of clothes will depend on your personal preference. You may not be able to wear anything but underwear and a t-shirt or you may feel more comfortable in full pajamas. Pick what is best with you.


The material that you wear should also be taken into consideration. Cotton breathes better than most fabric, so look into that for movable, breathable sleep clothes. , There are certain things you can do to help yourself relax before bed. You can perform breathing exercises to help relax your mind and calm your body. You can try progressive muscle relaxation, during which you tense and then relax every muscle in your body. These will help you be more calm overall, which will make it easier to go to sleep.


If you find that your mind won't shut off, try positive visualization, which helps you focus on happier, calmer thoughts instead of your hectic life.These methods may help you get more sleep because they may help you go to sleep faster. This leads to more sleep each night.

