


Some nannies only take care of infants, while others also take care of the older children of the household.
You can contract a nanny to take on certain household duties along with childcare, making her a mother-helper.
In some cases, a nanny acts as a "governess" and provides some forms of light instruction to young children.;
,


You can have a full-time nanny, who takes care of your child during designated working hours that should amount to no more than a standard working week.
There are also nannies who only work part-time, filling in for the parents when they are at work or otherwise occupied.



Many nannies work at the family's home. Some, most notably au-pairs (foreign nannies, typically students doing an exchange for a year), live in the home.
Nannies can also live elsewhere and come to the house during working hours.
In some cases, nannies provide the location for the childcare, typically in a home nursery or other approved setting.



Find a trustworthy Internet site, like eNanny, that helps you find a qualified nanny in the vicinity of Atlanta. However, you will have to draw up your own employment contract once you have found a nanny, as this site doesn't provide them.
A very trustworthy method is to work with the International Nanny Agency. This is an international agency that provides everything from guidelines and education information to Nanny Placement Agencies and employers' with packages, rates and contracts.
Classifieds in local print or online publications that cater to Atlanta such as Atlanta.com and Accessatlanta.com are another option to find a nanny in your area.
Contact local nanny agencies, such as Nanny Poppinz or the Lindquist Group.
Quality Care for Children offers informational and educational and support services to nannies and parents in Georgia, and helps with placements.
You can also ask your friends and family to recommend a nanny.
Contact the Career Services center at universities and colleges in Atlanta. Students studying Early Education or related fields at Georgia State University, for example, may be interested in working as a nanny to gain experience with children while getting their degree.
 Organizations like Metro Atlanta Nannies provide support and educational opportunities for their members, which will benefit your children.
,,


If they say they have completed a degree at a certain educational institute, contact that institute to verify.
Contact all references to ask them for professional and character references.



Ask about motivation, availability, and problem solving skills.
If your child has any health or behavioral issues, ask the nanny how she would handle that.
Find out if she is willing to meet your requirements in terms of hours, location, and responsibilities.



Set aside between an hour and an afternoon for your child to meet the nanny. Let them meet in a relaxed setting, for example the toy corner at home or in the park.
Observe their interaction. See how your child reacts and whether she is comfortable around the nanny.



If the nanny is a good match for your family's needs, offer her an employment contract.

