 Pour the flour and the salt into a large bowl. Stir them together with a spoon until they are well-mixed.





;
, This is not completely necessary, but it will add a little extra sparkle to your finished piece. Start with a spoonful, then add more as desired. You can use extra-fine scrapbooking glitter, or chunky, crafting glitter.


Keep in mind that, if you paint the handprint later, the glitter will get covered up. If this concerns you, save some glitter so that you can mix it into the paint later.
 Pour a little bit of warm water into the bowl, and stir it together with a mixing spoon. Keep doing this until you have a dough-like consistency. You may or may not end up using all of the water.








Add a few drops of food coloring into the water if you want a pastel color.
Mix 1 part water, and 1 part acrylic or tempera paint if you want a bolder color., As you continue to knead the dough, it will become smoother and less sticky. If you added paint or food coloring to your dough, be careful; the color may stain your hands!







, It would be easiest to do this with a rolling pin, but if you don't have one, you can use a glass, bottle, or jar instead. You want it to be about ½ to ¾-inch (1.27 to 1.91-centimeter) thick.
 You can keep the fingers close together, or have them spread apart. Press your hand (or your child's hand) into the dough. You want to press firmly enough to make a print, but not so firmly that the dough becomes paper-thin.









Consider adding a name and date. This is a great idea to help you remember your little one's first Christmas, Thanksgiving, or other holiday.
 Here is where you can get really creative. You can cut the handprint out as a circle, square, or oval. You can also cut out a glove shape instead. If you are careful, you can even trace around the hand, leaving a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) border around the hand.
 You can make the hole using just about anything: a straw, toothpick, skewer, lollipop stick, or even a knitting needle.
 If you colored your salt dough earlier, be aware that the color may fade as it dries. You can still paint the salt dough after it dries, however. Place the handprint on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, then do one of the following:


Leave the handprint out in a warm place for a few days. If the handprint is very thick, you may want to turn it over every so often; this will help it dry faster.Bake the ornaments in the oven at 215°F (100°C) for 2 to 3 hours.If the handprint is very thin, check on it after 45 to 60 minutes., You do not have to paint the handprint, but it can help make it look more unique. Keep in mind that the paint will cover up any glitter you added into the dough. If this bothers you, mix a little bit of your glitter into the paint you are using.









Use some metallic or glitter paint for something extra special.
If you carved in a name and/or date, you could fill the letters in with paint and a thin paintbrush.
 There is no such thing as too much glitter! You can paint the entire handprint with a thin layer of white school glue, then shake some glitter on top of it. You can also draw designs using glitter glue pens instead.









If you can't find any glitter glue pens: draw some designs using white school glue, then shake some glitter onto the glue. Gently tap off the excess glitter when you are done.
If you don't want to add any more glitter, then you can skip this step.
 You can do this using a decoupage-type glue, such as Mod Podge. You can also seal it with a paint-on or spray-on acrylic sealer. This will help make your handprint last longer.








If you added glitter, make sure that you use a glossy finish, or you will dull the glitter's sparkle.
 You can glue these on using hot glue or white school glue. You might not want to cover up the handprint, but they'd look lovely glued around the border!

, You can use baker's twine, jute string, yarn, or even satin ribbon for this. Match your string to the style of the handprint. For example, if you made a rustic-looking handprint, yarn or jute string would look great. If your handprint is glittery and sparkly, with lots of gemstones, try gold or silver ribbon instead.
 Keep your fingers close together when making the handprint. Cut the "tree" out leaving a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) border, and poke a hole near the top for the ribbon. After the dough dries, paint the tree green, then add red and gold ornaments using your finger tips (or a Q-tip if you don't want to get messy). Don't forget to add the trunk! Once the paint and sealer dry, thread a red, green, or gold ribbon through the hole.For an extra special tree, dye the dough green and add some green glitter first. Use a darker shade of green when painting the tree.If you like sparkly things, glue on red and yellow gemstones for the ornaments instead of painting them.
 Make your dough and handprint first. Cut the handprint out so that it is shaped like a mitten. Next, use a star, heart, circle, or square-shaped cookie cutter to cut out a hole in the palm. Make a hole near the top of the handprint, then let it dry. Once the dough is dry, glue a photo to the back.Consider adding the person's name and the year which the ornament was made.
 Keep your fingers apart when making the handprint. Cut the "bird" out leaving a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) border. Make a hole just above the thumb for the string. Let the dough dry, then turn the handprint sideways so that the thumb (quill/crest) is at top and the fingers (tail feathers) are to the side. Here are some ways in which you can paint your bird:


For a cardinal: paint the palm area red, and the thumb and fingers a dark red. Add a black eye just below the thumb. Don't forget the orange beak and black feet!
Blue jay: paint the palm area white, and the thumb and fingers blue. Add a black eye just below the thumb. Don't forget the black beak and feet!
Robin: paint the palm area red, and the thumb and fingers a grey or tan. Add a black eye just below the thumb. Don't forget the yellow beak and black feet!

, Keep your fingers spread apart when making the handprint. Cut the "turkey" out with a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) border. Make a hole just above the fingers for the string. Let the dough dry. Keeping the hand upright, paint the handprint as follows:


Paint palm and thumb brown.
Paint the fingers red, orange, and yellow.
Add a beak and eyes to thumb.
Add feet to bottom of the palm.
 Keep your fingers apart when making the handprint. Cut the handprint out, either as an oval, or with a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) border. Make a hole just above the fingers, then let the handprint dry. Paint the handprint as follows:


Paint the palm brown.
Paint the fingers and thumb light brown or tan.
Paint some eyes near top of palm, or glue on a pair of googly eyes.
Paint a red or black nose near bottom of palm. If you'd like, you can add a smile too.

