 Your brain is wired to think negative thoughts at times, even when the situation doesn't warrant it. Meaning, your brain may be thinking that everyone in the office is against you because someone made a small comment. However, it's more likely that most people find you a likable person, even if one person made a negative comment about you. Think about all the things people have said in the past that have been positive to help balance it out.Confidence can drive a competitive person crazy. If the person is insecure, your confidence will throw the person off his or her game. If the person is simply narcissistic, the person will likely respect you more for your confidence., Self-affirmation is a technique that many people use to build confidence. One way you can employ this technique is to pick an affirmation statement and repeat it as you look yourself in the mirror every morning, such as "I'm a good person who is capable and strong." You can also use similar mantras to psych yourself up before big events, such as meetings., Set aside some time to make lists about yourself. Focus on your achievements and strengths. You can also make a list of what you like about yourself. Use these list to boost your confidence when you're feeling down.For instance, under achievements, you could write things like, "Got a degree," "Have an awesome job," and "Have an amazing family." Under strengths, you could write "pays attention to detail," "is good at communicating with others," and "does well on a team." Under things you like about yourself, you could write things such as "I am always willing to help out" or "I make time for my family."

, Half of being confident is acting confident. As you smile and hold your head up, you'll start to actually feel the confidence you're trying to fake. In other words, even if it feels weird, faking confidence builds confidence.That also means projecting your voice. Speaking soft or mumbling doesn't exude confidence., When you always do the same things every day, you may find that you start feeling just a bit too comfortable. Pushing yourself to do new things, even small ones, can boost your confidence. Talk to someone you've been meaning to introduce yourself to. Go to that new Ethiopian restaurant across town. Sing at a karaoke night. All these little instances add up to make you more confident., Dressing the part doesn't mean you need to dress like everyone else. Rather, it means that you need to find clothes that make you feel good about yourself. While you need to think about the clothing being appropriate for the situation, finding clothes that make you happy can boost your confidence., Whatever the situation, try to prepare ahead of time. Giving a presentation in a meeting? Do the research you need to do, and practice your speech. Going to a new building for work? Find it ahead of time so you know where you're going. Being prepared gives you confidence, since you know you've done what you can to face any bumps in the road.