 Remember that this type of vampire is not the kind that broods in a melodramatic fashion all day. You should be quiet and mysterious, but also relaxed and friendly. Act as normal as possible, in order to deflect awkward questions. Always act intelligent and polite but keep a darkness to yourself.;
, Stop to smell flowers, look at the tops of buildings, touch any stone decorations you like, and look at the sky once in a while. This is not exclusive to vampires-- in fact, it is a great way for anyone to reduce stress and enjoy their surroundings.
 They do not need to be for anything, but they help you play the part by being there. Things like a skeleton key, an interesting charm, a Swiss Army knife, an antique looking sketchbook (they sell nice ones at Barnes&Noble and Borders) and/or book to read. Basically whatever your imagination comes up with will do just fine. But keep it small, since you will probably be carrying it in a small pouch or in your pockets.Do remember a silvery key as a necklace or something. When someone asks what it is, say a family memento, passed down through generations.
 Most towns have something within walking distance that you can go to while "playing vampire." Going to a cemetery to relax, read, or write in your sketchbook is always good, but a park will do for this, and if you're good at climbing trees, then read, rest, or write up in the branches. Also, going to the library to read quietly, or going to a local coffee shop to calmly sip a warm drink are great activities. If there are any pretty old churches in your area, hanging around near them would work, too. Again, these activities are not exclusive to vampires, or to people who want to be vampires. They are quite relaxing, and commonly done.
 Try not to blink when someone is looking at you and it will look creepy, as if you had no eyelids.
 If you need to blink, either blink slowly or very quickly.
 From time to time just stare at someone intently, your face should look like the face of a homeless person staring at a sirloin steak.
 Act like a scent is bothering you (their blood). If someone asks you what is wrong, just say "nothing, I am fine." Then stutter a little and then leave. You can also tighten your fist.
 If that does not work for you, you can be a food eating vampire, though stay away from junk food and fast food. A home made meal of a simple lettuce/tomato/cheese salad will do. Sit alone and quietly munch away. If you really need to eat when sitting with somebody, take a casual bite from time to time, and look like it is the most terrible thing ever, so they assume you crave blood instead of regular food

