 In order to evolve Machoke, you'll need to trade it to someone. Your friend will need to have the same system and Generation of Pokémon game in order to trade. In Generation VI, you can trade online with other people. Just make sure that they know you want your Machamp back!


If you're using an emulator, it may be difficult to trade the Pokémon. If you're playing a Generation IV game, you can edit the ROM file to allow you to evolve Machoke through leveling up.;
, You can't trade with someone until you've accomplished a few things early on. This shouldn't affect most players, but you may be trying to trade too early.Generation I - You can trade after receiving the Pokedex from Professor Oak.
Generation II - You can trade after giving the Mystery Egg to Professor Elm.
Generation III - You can trade after getting the Pokedex from Professor Birch.
Generation IV - You can trade after getting the Pokedex from Professor Rowan.
Generation V - You can trade after you get the Trio Badge and receive the C-Gear.
Generation VI - You can trade as soon as you have two Pokémon.
Generation VII - You can trade as soon as you get to the first Pokémon Center in the game

, In the earlier Generations of Pokémon games, you'll need to have Machoke in your party in order to trade it to someone. In later games, you can trade any of the Pokémon you have stored.
 The method of connection depends on the systems you are connecting.


Game Boy, Game Boy Color, Game Boy Advance - Connect the two systems with a Game Link cable. You can't connect two different versions of Game Boy. Enter the Union Room on the second floor of the Pokémon Center to find the other player.
Nintendo DS - You can connect wirelessly with other systems in the vicinity. Generation V games have an IR feature built-in to the cartridge. This article has more information on connecting two DS systems.
Nintendo 3DS - Press the L and R buttons and select the Player Select System. This will allow you to find people in the vicinity or connect to the internet and trade online. When trading online, make sure your partner knows you want the evolved Machamp back.
 Your Machoke will evolve in Machamp immediately after being traded. Have your trading partner trade Machamp back top you once you've finished the trade.Make sure your Machoke isn't holding an Everstone, or it won't be able to evolve.

