 If you’re not alone in the hotel room, and especially if you’re there with children, a board game can be a lot of fun.


Even if you’re alone, you could play a game. If you have a deck of cards, try Solitaire! You could also play Solitaire online. There are many card games you can play if other people are in the room, like poker or gin rummy. You could also make up your own board game!
Some hotels even have board games you can borrow. Ask at the front desk! If not, make sure to bring some along! If you’ve forgotten a board game, you could just play Pictionary with paper and pencils or pens. The goal is to draw a picture that the other people have to guess.
Another fun game is the dictionary game. All you need is a dictionary. You choose a word, and all of the other players try to guess what it means. Then you read them one-by-one, including the real definition, and people guess whose definition is the right one. You get points if people guess your definition, even if it's fake, and you get points if you know the meaning of the word.;
, Let’s say you can’t find a board game. There are some games you can play without anything special, as long as there is another person in the room.


Try playing Charades. You write down movies, books, things and places on pieces of paper and the person who draws it, has to act out what is on the paper, for other people to guess.
Charades can work with large families if you divide everyone up into teams. You’re not allowed to speak words when playing Charades.
You could play I Spy. Choose an object. The other person must ask you a series of questions to try to guess what it is. Or you could sing 99 bottles of beer on the wall. "Take one down, pass it around, 98 bottles of beer on the wall." And so on, until you get to 0., Be careful that you don’t break something! But having a pillow fight can be a lot of fun. Jumping on the bed can be too. You could also build a blanket tent or fort.This will help children expend their energy and see the hotel room as a lot of fun because they get to do something they can’t do at home.
Even if you’re there with another adult, a playful pillow fight might be a great way to lighten up the mood and have fun with each other. You could also ball up socks and try to see who can throw most of them into the garbage can., Kids will have a lot of fun making towel animals. Sometimes the maids in hotels make these for you. How cool to come back to the room to see a swan on the bed.


You could leave the towel animal as a surprise for the maid. Mostly, though, children will have fun trying to make them. You can make birds, dogs, cats, and other common animals.
Once they are done, have everyone try to draw the animals or play a game guessing what the animals are. You could also make animal shadows on the wall with your hands.
 This can be fun for children. Secrete items throughout the room and perhaps throughout the hotel hallway.


Write out clues for each item that you give to the children to see if they can crack the riddles and find the items first.
Be careful about safety and hotel rules, though. Never allow children to run around a hotel unsupervised. Either do the scavenger hunt in your room or follow them around.

