 Sometimes, doing good for others can be hard to do in the spur of the moment. You can create a bucket of ideas to draw from whenever you and your children want to spread joy and positivity.


This bucket might include a range of options such as donating to specific charities, offering a cash gift to a church or hospital, offering free services to families in need such as housecleaning or babysitting, or reading a book to children at the local library.
 Go through your child’s old books and toys and take out any that they don’t use anymore. Donate these items to a local children’s hospital or a book or toy drive. Also, donate any pet supplies you don’t use anymore to a shelter, or put money into a Salvation Army bucket.


Have your child choose the items and drop them off with you. Having them involved can help them feel a sense of pride about what they are doing. They can also see where the items are going and how they can help, which may make parting with the donations easier, if they find it difficult., Those who live in retirement homes or communities are often lonely, especially around the holidays. Brighten up someone’s day by taking your child to visit with them. The simple act of having a conversation with a child is enough to elevate a senior’s mood and make the last years of their life more pleasant when it is done often.


Call the retirement home you plan to visit and ask if they accept visitors, as some have strict rules regarding who comes into their facilities. You may also be able to volunteer by reading a book, helping to deliver meals, or just stopping through and saying hi on a regular basis., Volunteering shows your kids that doing things for others, even when you aren’t getting paid for doing so, is extremely rewarding. Ask your child what they would be interested in, whether it’s helping to build homes, working at a soup kitchen, or helping to take care of pets at an animal shelter. Performing these acts of kindness that are related to something your child is interested in will make the experience that much more enjoyable.


Call the charity you are interested in about the age requirements for volunteers. Some non-profits have age restrictions on their volunteers, and some only seek the help of adults. Calling ahead of time can prevent your child from feeling disappointed if they are excited about volunteering and then learn they can’t.