 If you want to make puppy mills illegal, you should reach out to your local municipal, state, province, or council leaders. Let them know that you want new regulatory laws to be introduced to outlaw puppy mills.Calling or writing letters to your representatives will let them know that you are serious about this issue. You might even want to organize a campaign where you get others to all call about the same issue at the same time.
 Petitions are a good way of encouraging your local representatives to take action. Write up a petition for stricter regulations for breeders. You can stand out in front of grocery stores, universities, and shopping centers to encourage people to sign, or you can start an online petition that you share through email and social media.


Websites like Change.Org or The Petition Site are good places to start petitions.
If there is an existing petition with many signatures, you might sign that instead of making your own. Share it with your friends so that they can help it gain momentum.
 Animal shelters are often in dire need of volunteers to help walk, feed, clean, and socialize their dogs. By volunteering, you’re helping them reduce costs, and enabling more dogs to find homes.Many animal shelters will post forms on their websites for volunteers.
Volunteering is a great way for younger advocates to get involved in caring for animals.
 By raising money for animal shelters, you can help stray dogs find homes. This will reduce the business that puppy mills do, thus helping them close forever.


You can sell homemade cookies, cakes, lemonade, or jam. You can donate the money to a local shelter, or use the money to buy pet food and supplies for your local shelter.
You might set up a fundraising page on a crowdfunding website to encourage people to donate to your cause.
Research carefully to make sure that the shelter or rescue you are donating to will use the money on animals and not on their own administration costs. Ask them to show you where their money is going before making the donation.

