 You can obtain a watering can from Isabelle, the mayor’s secretary, by repeatedly asking her for “advice living here” and then completing the tasks she gives you. Asking Isabelle questions will be covered in the following steps.


Try to do this early on in the game so that you keep maintain your town and keep your citizens happy.
 Isabelle can be found in the town hall, which will be in a determined place depending on your map. The map of your city is displayed on the bottom screen of the DS. Look for the purple building icon on your map, which represents the town hall.
 In order to talk to Isabelle, you must approach the front counter that she is standing behind. There is a green mat that you can step on; once you’re there, press “a” to initiate the conversation.


Isabelle will then ask if there is anything she can help you with today. Respond by choosing “advice for living here”.
 Isabelle will give you advice in the form of tasks. For the first task, she will give you stationary (a consumable item that goes to your inventory) and suggest that you send someone a letter. Go ahead and use the stationary to send a letter to complete the task. It does not matter what you write or who you send it to.
 If you need to know more about sending letters, Isabelle will explain—all you have to do is ask her. Otherwise you can talk to her again and ask for new advice. This time, she’ll talk about seashells on the beach and subtly request that you bring her one. To do this, head to the beach and pick up a seashell. To pick up the seashell, stand next to one and press “b”.


Return to Isabelle with the seashell in your inventory; she’ll be delighted and hand you a basket of non-native fruits, which you can then plant. If you’re carrying a shovel, she will explain how to plant trees.
To plant any fruit, equip your character with the shovel and then find a spot of ground that you like. When you find a spot, press “a” to dig a hole with your shovel. Then, go into your inventory and find the fruit you want. Tap on the fruit and click the option “bury”. This will cause a sapling to appear and in a few days it will be a full tree that produces three of that fruit every day.
 If you do not have a shovel to plant the fruits discussed in the previous step, you can ask Isabelle for advice again and she will ask whether you’re interested in fishing or bug catching. The answer you give will determine your next task.


If you already have one tool and not the other (a fishing rod, but not a net, for example) you may want to pick the task you’re prepared for.
However, if you don’t have either or want the other one, you can talk to Isabelle again. Tell her you’re missing the fishing rod or bug net and she will sell you one for 500 bells, which is the standard price.
 If you picked fishing, Isabelle will ask you to catch three different kinds of fish. She will explain how to fish if you don’t know. If you picked bug catching, she will ask you to catch three different kinds of insects. Again, if you don’t know how, she will give you a brief explanation.


Once you’ve caught either three types of fish or bugs, you will have finished all of Isabelle’s tasks. She will reward you with the watering can and consider you suitably prepared to go forth.
Once you have the watering can, read Method 3 to find out how to water your plants.

