 This will save you time when you arrive at the park - you won't have to wait in any queues at the ticket offices!
, Try previewing each attraction or show on YouTube, or take a peak at the ride-through photos from others. Learn from what others see. This can help decide which rides and attractions will take priority during your visit.

Recognize that there are few other real theme park options near Winter Haven, FL (in or near Orlando, FL) with Universal Orlando and Sea World Orlando nearby, #* Recognize the sections of the park that exist here. When you first walk through the gates, you'll enter into several different areas called "The Beginning" and DUPLO Village, Fun Town, Pirates Cove, Land of Adventure, Imagination Zone, Lego City, Lego Technic, Lego Kingdoms, World of Chima and this all happens around one final great big land around a final pond in the center in an area many know called Miniland. There is also a separate area for the Water Park that is on site that LEGOLAND calls Water Park on their park map


, The address to this park is located at 1 LEGOLAND Way, Winter Haven, FL33884 The cost to park your car at Legoland will run you about $17 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle).
 The park contains a total of 12 lands each placed in a circular pattern following a short walk in from the entry area. Their lands here are called The Beginning, Heartlake City, Miniland, Lego Technic, Pirates Cove, Imagination Zone, Lego City, Land of Adventure, Lego Kingdoms, Duplo Valley and Fun Town along with 3 other special lands called World of Chima, Cypress Gardens and the LEGOLAND Water Park.
 This colorful section consists of mostly guest service locations (wheelchair rental, First Aid and the like), shopping and a few quick-service dining options and one ride., The ride doesn't take too long, but it will give you a general perspective of everything you can do in the park later on once you arrive at the entrance gate to the attraction.
 This area is known as Heartlake City. Heartlake City is LEGOLAND Florida's newest land that was unveiled in May-June 2015, Although it first premiered in June 2015, it seems like a pure winner for a little fun for the older aged crew. It seems to be a little wild for the younger crew, but everyone is strapped in tight onto these horse-themed seats.,,, It is this famous, thanks to the creations that are created here. These creations make them famous and help portray the LEGO image on their guests who play at the park.


Look at all the minute details of each LEGO block item that has been constructed. Each item has so much detail - and it was all made to be so...realistic.
,,, You'll see many of the famous sites of Washington DC shown in LEGO blocks including the White House (including the president and his pet dog, Bo) and Capitol, the Washington Monument, Jefferson Memorial as well as some of the Smithsonian National Mall all carved in Lego blocks.
 Look at the intricate detail of the New York skyline with it's Statue of Liberty and Empire State Building, Times Square and many other places in this section that are devoted to New York (City).
 This section houses such items as the Naboo, Genosis, Kashyyk & Mustafar, Tatooine, Hoth, an Endor village, and the Christophea (from the Clone Wars).
, Although still quite small, it'll pack a pretty punch and shows what the LEGO designers really can do when given time to create on and near water.
 This section contains such LEGO figures as Key West's Mallory Square section and some of the famous war mansions from the panhandle to Central Florida's Bok Tower.
, This attraction, though themed as being in the LEGO Technic style, is actually nothing like a LEGO Technic complexity and is full-blown metal on metal!, This power ski-like ride is positioned around a small moat as you dodge water blasts from water blasters positioned on the outside of the moat looking in. Be careful though- as on this ride, you'll be standing on the wave runner the entire time.
 Although Technicycle is much like the Dumbo rides in the Disney Parks, the LEGOLAND Technicycle ride is unique in that it looks like a Lego block with bicycle-like propulsion features that allow it's rider to move the vehicle up and down (at will) in the shaft.
 With the exception of the sides of some of the buildings here and the music sections playing overhead, there isn't much to see here. You can find a ski show in the Water Ski Show in the Pirates Cove Live Water Ski Show venue or pick a drier show in the Special Events Venue (when used) and watch that show instead. But this section is rather uninteresting to most people at this time.
 Although there is a minimum height requirement, this fun attraction can be ridden by many, and can be fun to teach your children what happens during a freefall event all while keeping the guest safe. The freefall towers are colorful and fun to look at. Many kids adore the ride towers and the colors tend to draw the kids eyes quite quickly as you reach into this area of the park.,, With several games inside (in the style of some new gaming systems), there's no way that no one can find something they don't like., For many, you'll need to make special reservations at the building inside the Imagination Zone area.However, careful; as this attraction isn't open long to suit school hours nearby. It is open from 10am till 2pm Eastern Time., Also, again, this attraction also tries to suit school hours nearby (10am til 2pm Eastern Time)., Even if you are an experienced boater and can deal with not having a propulsion system that isn't generated by the park at the entrance to the ride, this can really cut you a small break.
, Much like that of the Tommorrowland Speedway in Walt Disney World in Florida or Autopia in Disneyland in California, this will have you and your kids driving these LEGOLAND cars around like a pro.


If your kids aren't up to driving cars yet, walk up to the Ford Jr(Junior) Driving School instead. There, they don't even have to worry about driving, and can be left up to sit in the car and watch it move around a circular track by themselves, looking at all the other LEGO stuff nearby. Ford Jr Driving School is by far the first building you come to of the two Driving School items, but adults can watch their children ride.
, You'll feel like you really are flying in a hang-glider under more extreme g forces around some tight curves and corners. No helixes exist on this ride however,so don't worry about that.
 The Jeeps they ride in for this safari will have your kids laughing. They will see several cute bricked animals made completely of Lego/DUPLO blocks as they ride around a track for a few minutes.
 Although short, the ride operators will send it's guests around this out-and-back coaster track twice before returning to the station to debunk it's guests.
 This super-mild attraction will leave your kids jumpy for a few minutes and want to make them become more like the beetle that all kids think they are. This ride raises them about 15 feet in the air, then bounces them back to earth rather gently.
 Although not fast, most people find it rather interesting to see all the LEGO creations here. Each room tells it's own story, so explore each room as the ride unfurls.
 This area will keep your kids thrilled that they've enticed some pharaohs. The only LEGO creations you'll see are in the queue for the attraction on the outside, so don't worry if the kids think it will be scary when you mention about what a pharaoh is and what could happen (what could happen, won't happen); most kids come out happy and some even come out laughing, having learned a little about the pharaoh lifestyle in a "fun" way.,, This attraction can be amusing to the parents, but it is especially meant for the children.
, This part-roller coaster and part-LEGO looking attraction will leave you baffled before you even realize the roller coaster segment even started. Out of the starting gate, this attraction doesn't accelerate much, but does show you a few LEGO items that have been constructed and is indoors. But then things get wild - the ride then becomes the roller coaster everyone fears. It features several corkscrew turns at a moderate intensity level, it doesn't get much beyond that.
 Whether it's building with DUPLO blocks or sliding down a rather colorful slide or something the youngest children will adore, this area can keep these small kids active and yet enthused., With all the water games happening here, it'll be hard to steer your children away from all this fun watery areas.,, This super-slow moving train will bring your children on a ride that will make them think they've taken a real train ride through the countryside - only to find out that the residents of this countryside are DUPLO block residents who don't particularly move a whole lot - if at all!, This active play area will keep your kids amused and active for a little while.,, Fun Town doesn't have too many rides, but what rides it does have, it really tries to excel at., You will be able to see LEGO bricks being made in front of your eyes in action.
 Ride a larger LEGO-looking horse on a carousel wheel on this double-decker carousel. This Carousel is one of the few Carousels that exist inside a LEGOLAND park.
 With three movie types - from a Movie called LEGO Legends of Chima, to a Clutch Powers 4D Adventure to even a Spellbreaker 4D movie, these 12 minute shows will excite all who come to visit this building., You will be able to play in the water area called "Cragger's Swamp" or shoot water out of a small water cannon at a bird-looking ornament in "The Quest for CHI" or run a Speedorz Lego-action figure through an obstacle course. Having only been opened in 2014, this area might be small, but it will eventually grow to become a viable playing area - but for now, we'll just have to wait and see to what it becomes at a more smaller scale.
 Whether it's sailing down a lazy river in a raft (filled with water and several LEGO blocks) or it's playing in other water-areas onsite in this land, this area can meet most guests expectations. However, be prepared to bring some water clothes (bathing suit) underneath regular day clothes to play in this area of the park.
 It might be a far cry from what it was pre-LEGOLAND days, but with Legoland's thought of bringing back a park that was here after people's cries were heard by the management team, there is now a Cypress Gardens area of the park where you can sit back and relax or stroll around and calm down from the rest of the park's excitement.

