 In some countries, owning a ferret as a pet is illegal. Most states in the United States permit ferret ownership, but some states—California and Hawaii, for example—do not.Other states, such as Rhode Island, require you to acquire a permit for owning a ferret.Check with your local police department or other state animal control agencies to make sure you are following all laws when it comes to ferret ownership.;
, In order to ensure that you will be compatible with this type of pet, take some time to socialize with them before you make a purchase. Drop into a pet store that sells them, or contact known ferret owners or breeders and see if they’ll let you come by for visit.


Take a good whiff and make sure that you can tolerate their odor. Ferrets belong to the Mustelidae family, meaning that they secrete an odor when placed in hazardous situations. Most people agree that the ferret carries a unique scent even when it is not alarmed, so you should check your olfactory approval rating before committing to a ferret.Think about how well you respond to their playfulness and energy level. If you find the ferret’s busy antics overwhelming when you’re just dropping by for a visit, chances are you’ll find them overwhelming as a permanent pet.
 Because they are social animals, ferrets create special bonds with other members of their species and enjoy having a playmate at all times.


Some pet stores apply a discount for buying ferrets in pairs. Petco, for example, charges $75.00 for a single ferret, and $125.00 for a bonded pair., Make sure you can afford to buy a ferret by investigating breeder and provisions costs beforehand.


At the pet store, a ferret will generally cost about $100.00. Additionally, all of the supplies for housing a ferret can run between $150.00 and $300.00., Ferrets require yearly exams and vaccines, so be prepared to fork out regular costs for health care in addition to the initial cost of purchasing and providing for your ferret.


Like dogs, ferrets need yearly distemper and rabies vaccines. Anticipate between $150.00 and $200.00 for these expenditures.You should neuter or spay your ferret after you purchase it, and this procedure typically costs between $100.00 and $250.00.An animal savings account is highly recommended in case your ferret ever needs emergency surgery or contracts a serious condition like cancer.
 While common practice used to dictate that a ferret be treated similar to a cat in medical terms, modern veterinary research has shown that ferrets are unique and should be treated as such..


If there are no exotic-only vets in your area, contact the local veterinarian and see how much experience they have with ferrets.
 Before you bring your ferret home, make sure you set up his cage and toilet so that it will have a private place within which to acclimate.


Don’t forget to place a bed inside the cage. Ferrets sleep at least 14 hours a day, so a good bed is important! You can use a sleeping tube from the pet store, or just an old t-shirt or sweatshirt.
Avoid using cedar or other wood shavings as the bedding material for your ferret. While many pet stores use this material, it can create a dust build-up in the air which is not healthy for your ferret to be breathing.Expect to spend around $130.00 on these initial housing expenses., For those times when you need to transport your ferret or take your ferret for a walk, you’ll need to have special supplies.


The most important thing about your new carrier is that it be well-ventilated. It should also have a solid floor panel so that the ferret has a stable surface beneath it at all times. Many widely available cat carriers meet these criteria and won’t break the bank.You should be able to find a leash and collar at any pet store. A nylon kitten collar or leather puppy collar should work fine, just make sure that the fit is not too tight., Ferret food can be found online or at most pet supply shops, or, in a pinch, you can opt for a premium, high-protein brand of cat food.Use a food dish with a steep, high brim so that the ferret cannot dig its food out of the bowl.
Ferrets can drink water from water bottles or dishes, but they prefer to lap it from a dish., Crawl around on your hands and knees in order to look for any hidey-holes into which your ferret could burrow and get stuck.Look out in particular for holes under the refrigerator, between cabinets, or behind laundry machines.
Use wood or wire mesh to block holes. Avoid Styrofoam or other padded substances as your ferret can chew and destroy them.
 Your ferret will be both inquisitive and dexterous, so take the time to ferret-proof all the furniture and shelving that can be opened.


Latching your drawers will help you avoid the nuisance of a rummaging ferret, and, more importantly, it can be a life-saving measure for your pet. Ferrets have been known to ingest cleaning and other household solvents, so keep these dangerous toxins safely locked in ferret-proof cabinets., Ferrets can chew a hole in soft furniture in order to make themselves a secure burrow. In addition to the damage this causes your furniture, it can also be dangerous for the ferret, so make sure that any tempting mattresses or bedding are protected., Most ferrets cost about $100 from a store or private seller.


You can also check with local animal shelters, as they may have ferrets available to adopt

, Before handing over your money and taking your ferret home, check to make sure that you are buying a healthy ferret.


The ferret’s eyes should be clear and bright, the gums should be pink, and the teeth should be clean. Make sure the coat is clean and free of fleas, and also check the feces to verify that they are firm.Look for signs of problems like a runny nose or sluggishness., Whether you’re buying from a store or breeder, or adopting from a shelter, ask an employee to make copies of any records relating to your ferret.Find out if the ferret has already been neutered or spayed, and which, if any, vaccinations or medical treatments the it has received to date.
Also save documentation showing the ferret’s sex, weight, age, and whether or not it has been de-scented.
 Just to be safe and make sure you’re not bringing any parasites or diseases into your home, swing by your local exotic-only veterinarian clinic to have your ferret checked out.Refer to the records and certificates acquired from the adoption facility in order to determine if you need to have any vaccinations or additional procedures done.
 Moving your ferret from the pet store or shelter to your home can be a stressful time for your new pet, so try to make the transition as smooth as possible by keeping noise and distracting sights to a minimum.As soon as your ferret feels more secure in its new surroundings, you can slowly introduce it to the customary bustle of your household.
 For the first couple of days, keep your ferret in its cage so that it can start feeling at home.


Make sure its cage is well-stocked with food, fresh water, and clean bedding.
 On the first day of your ferret’s introduction, have each family member make friendly contact with the ferret.


Carry out introductions so that the ferret meets only one family member at a time. The ferret has a limited attention span, so keep each introduction brief and friendly., Ferrets are energetic creatures so they will need a fair amount of exercise outside of the cage.After a couple of days sequestered to its cage, have your ferret come out and explore the house for a while.


For this first exploration, you might want to limit the time to fifteen minutes or so. After that, though, let the ferret roam for as long as you can be available to supervise.

