 Toward the end of a pregnancy, many women have trouble getting comfortable enough for a good night of sleep. If this is the case, you should take naps during the day in order to be sure that your body is getting enough rest.


If necessary, you should arrange for a sitter or a family member to help when there are other children in the family so that you can get some sleep.
 Since you and your baby are getting nutrients from the food that you eat, it is important for you to eat often and focus on foods that are healthy instead of foods with low nutritional values. It is alright to satisfy a craving for something of little nutritional worth, but it should be done in moderation. Usually a few bites should satisfy the craving.It is also important to get enough liquids, especially water.
 Constipation is common in pregnant women because the intestine muscles relax and reduce their ability to push food through your system. Constipation can lead to stomach pains and a generally sense of sluggishness.Cope with constipation by eating fiber-rich foods. Fresh fruits and vegetables, nuts, and dried fruit all contain fiber.
Walk or do light exercise because physical activity can help to get your intestines working.
 Swelling is one of the accompanying symptoms of late pregnancy that occurs due to the pressure of the uterine vessels, water retention and a lack of protein intake.


Drink plenty of water so that you and your baby stay hydrated, especially if it is hot outside. Staying hydrated can help to keep your body from retaining water and making you swell up. #*Eat plenty of meat, eggs, dairy products, legumes, and cereals.
Do not eat too much spicy or salty food. These two food groups may make your body retain fluid that can lead to swelling in your arms and legs.
 Leg cramps and restless leg syndrome are common in the last week of pregnancy. The reasons could be lack of calcium, magnesium, or poor circulation.


Calcium is an electrolyte that helps in the transmission of signals through the body. Include dairy products in your diet like milk,yogurt or cheese, as these are all rich in calcium.
Magnesium affects the muscles and their contractions. Try to eat cereals, nuts, and soy that are all rich in magnesium.
A warm bath before bed help to control restless leg syndrome.
 This is a common discomfort during pregnancy. When your intestines do not work as efficiently as normal, food can remain in your large intestine for a long period of time, causing heartburn. On top of that, your baby is pressing on your stomach, so food and acid can get squished back up out of your stomach and cause heartburn. To deal with heartburn:


Eat smaller meals and avoid fatty and spicy foods.
Do not lie down immediately after eating. Wait two to three hours.
 During pregnancy, the organs in your body move and make space for your baby as he or she grows. These moving organs can affect your backbone, causing back pain. To ease your pain:


Try to avoid standing in the same position for a long period of time.
Elevate your legs when you sit down.
Wear flat shoes.
 A growing baby causes your uterus to expand, which in turn can put pressure on your diaphragm. This pressure can make you feel like you can’t catch your breath.Try to control this discomfort by sleeping in a half-seated position and by slowing down your physical activities.
 Due to the increased pressure of the uterus on the veins of your abdomen, your flow of blood can slow down in the area around your rectum This can cause hemorrhoids, which can be uncomfortable and, at times, painful.


To reduce your chances of developing hemorrhoids, try to avoid constipation (see Step 3 of this section for more information).

