 Because you’re making this soap from scratch, you’ll be using lye (aka sodium hydroxide), which you can purchase from most hardware stores. Here’s what you’ll need:6 oz distilled water
2.25 oz pure lye (aka sodium hydroxide)
10 oz olive oil
6 oz coconut oil
0.45 oz (1 tbsp) castor oil
Oats

, Note that lye will interact with non-stick, aluminum, cast iron, tin, and wood. Avoid using pots, pans, containers, or utensils in these materials. Here’s what you’ll need:Safety goggles
Thick, long rubber gloves
Face mask
Scale that can weigh items down to 0.25 oz
Digital food thermometer
2 Heat-proof 32 oz (4 cup) glass measuring cups
Plastic, ceramic, or glass bowl
Plastic or silicon stirring spoon
Container or mould for soap (lined cardboard box will do)
Plastic bag, cling wrap, or wax or parchment paper (for lining the mould)
Knife

, This recipe makes roughly 2 pounds of soap. How many bars that is will depend on the size of your mould. If you don’t have a mould, use a small cardboard box or plastic container.

Regardless of whether you’re using a proper mould, a plastic container, or a box, line it with some cling wrap, wax paper, or parchment paper to make the soap easier to remove once it’s cooled.
 Put on your protective goggles, rubber gloves, and face mask. You should also wear skin-covering clothes in addition to the protective gear, as lye will burn your skin. Do not take this advice lightly: lye burns can cause serious, permanent damage.If lye gets on your skin, brush off any solid material and flush with water or saline for 15 to 30 minutes, remembering to protect your eyes.If it gets in your eyes, flush them with lots of water for a minimum of 15 minutes.Inhaling lye can cause breathing difficulties. Many soap makers only use gloves and goggles, but really you should be wearing a mask, too., Use a plastic, ceramic, or glass bowl. As you pour the lye into the bowl, be careful that you do not inhale any of the powder, or that it does not get on your skin., You should be able to find distilled water at either your local grocery store, health food store, or drugstore.

You can also make your own distilled water by boiling tap water in an enclosed container that is connected to another container. The steam rises from one container and condenses into the other one, forming distilled water., Adding the lye to the water will generate heat and fumes, so be very careful while doing this. Once the lye is all in the water, stir it until it dissolves.

You should NEVER add water to lye. Adding water to lye will cause a strong reaction, with the solution erupting up out of the container, possibly causing injury to you.
If you want to reduce the cooling time of the water-lye solution (remember, it’ll generate heat!), you can start with cold distilled water.
 Add your coconut oil (6 oz), olive oil (10 oz), and castor oil (0.45 oz) to a heat-resistant glass measuring cup.

Place the cup in a saucer of simmering hot water, or microwave it in 30-second intervals until the oils have all melted together.
Only heat the oils to the point of melting. You want to avoid them being too hot, otherwise it’ll slow your process down as you want the oils and your lye water to be the same temperature when you mix them.
 The lye water and oils should be within 20 degrees Fahrenheit of one another when you mix them. They will likely be somewhere between 90 and 110 degrees at this point.Use the digital thermometer to ensure that this is the case before mixing them together.
Make sure that you mix the oils and lye water while they’re still warm, otherwise they won’t mix together as well. Closer to 110 degrees Fahrenheit is preferable.
 Do this slowly while continuing to stir. Measure the mixture’s temperature at this time to see where it’s at., You can do this with a stainless steel whisk or a hand mixer. A hand mixer will take much less time than a whisk, but both are okay. You’ll know the mixture is ready when it becomes thick and cloudy-looking.

You should be able to lift the hand mixer or whisk out of the mixture, and the drippings should appear on the surface of the mixture rather than disappearing right into it.
You can also check the mixture’s temperature to make sure it’s ready to go. If it has risen a couple of degrees Fahrenheit from when you last checked it (i.e. when you combined the oils and lye water), you’re doing well., Once the lye water and oils have been thoroughly combined, you can add additional things to the soap. In this case, you’ll be adding oats. You can add as little or as much as you like, depending on your own tastes.

For the best skin-soothing results, use colloidal oatmeal, which is simply oatmeal that has been ground into a fine powder.
You can make it yourself simply by grinding regular porridge oats into an even, fine powder using a coffee grinder.If you don’t have a coffee grinder, you can also grind the oats up manually using a mortar and pestle, or by crushing them with a rolling pin.
 Once it’s all in there, cover it up with plastic wrap and then store it in a cool, dry place for a couple of days., After 2 days, put on your gloves, goggles, and face mask, and check on your soap. It should look solid and fairly smooth. At this time you can take it out of the container and cut it up.

Be sure to wear your protective gear because the lye will not have completely neutralized at this point, and can still cause you harm.
If your soap looks crumbly, crusty, or has liquid or powder floating on top of it, you’ll need to throw it out and start again. If you’ve followed this recipe exactly, though, this shouldn’t be a problem.
 After cutting it up, let the soap sit and dry for at least 3 or 4 weeks. Some experts recommend curing your soap longer, up to 6 weeks.You’ll need to turn your soap bars once a day just to ensure that they dry evenly on each side.

Allowing the soap to “cure” will give it time to harden, dry out, and become more gentle as the pH of the soap lowers over time.
A bar of soap that hasn’t been properly cured will feel softer, slimier, and stronger than a well-cured one., Your soap is ready for use now. It’s best used within one year of making. If you live somewhere hot, you should probably use the soap even sooner, within 6 months of making it.