 Mindfulness involves being aware of your thoughts, feelings, and experiences in the present moment without judgment.Research has shown significant benefits to mindfulness, including the reduction of stress and anxiety problems.Mindfulness can even rewire your brain’s responses to stressors and help you feel more connected to others.Learning to be more aware of your thoughts and feelings, and learning to acknowledge them without judging them or yourself, can help you feel more peaceful, empathetic, and satisfied. You can practice mindfulness at home, through meditation, or by taking a course. Here is an exercise to get you started:Look at, name and touch 5 different objects, noticing each object’s color, texture, temperature, and weight.
Look at, taste and smell foods during dinner or pleasant floral scents during a walk, noticing their colours, texture, taste and aroma.
Close your eyes and listen for different sounds. Notice their tempo, strength, and volume.
Mindfulness meditation has also been shown to be very helpful. The Mindful Awareness Research Center at UCLA has several online guided meditations in MP3 form., If you're feeling empty every day, you're probably stuck in some type of rut. What routines and patterns might be getting you down? Find a way to inject some new energy into your life. Changing your routine or even finding 30 minutes per day to try something new can help fill the emptiness.For example, if getting up and going to school or work every day is what's getting you down, figure out a way to make the situation more interesting. Start a new extracurricular activity to help yourself get excited to go to school, or volunteer to work on a new project at work.
Try doing something slightly outside your comfort zone. Making improvements in a new area will give you something interesting to think about and help you build up your confidence.
Even small changes can end up making a big difference. Try out a dish from a cuisine that's new to you, bike to work instead of driving, or start doing yoga in the morning before school.
Changing your personal environment can also help. Replace drab curtains in your bedroom with something brighter, paint the walls a new color, get rid of clutter, and introduce some interesting artwork.
 In order to feel fulfilled, you should work towards goals and interests that matter to you. Don’t let others control the goals or interests that you choose to pursue. If you are not pursuing goals and interests that matter to you, you may need to readjust your pursuits to make sure you're on a track that you feel good about.If you're in school, consider whether you are studying what you want to study, or what your parents want you to study.
Other outside pressures can also have a negative effect on the decisions we make. Decide if you are doing what you really want to do, or if you are doing something that will look impressive to others.
If you determine that there are forces or people preventing your life from being self-directed, take steps to change your situation. Once you have more control over things, you might see the feeling of emptiness subside.
 When life feels like drudgery, it can help to take time to find beauty and meaning in small, everyday things. What makes you feel alive and joyful? When you find something that seems to give you a boost, make it a consistent part of your life. Here are a few ideas for making the mundane feel more meaningful:


Practice gratitude. Taking a few moments each day to think about what you are grateful for and why can help make your life feel more meaningful.You can speak or even write down your gratitude to reinforce it. For example, you might say or write, “I am so thankful the sun is out today; it’s beautiful!” or “I am so thankful for my caring family; they make me feel so special.”
Don't deny yourself your favorite foods. If you love chocolate, have some! You don't have to go overboard, but give yourself permission to enjoy a little every day.
Go outside and breathe fresh air. Research has shown that spending time outside makes people feel more alive and energetic.Spend some time outside every single day, rain or shine. Focus on breathing in fresh air and noticing the natural world in a deeper way.
Take time to make your world richer and more pleasant. Turn seemingly trivial tasks into positive rituals. Sit down and read the newspaper while you're drinking your morning coffee or tea instead of dashing out the door. Take a long, hot bath on the weekend instead of a shower.
Keep your home environment pleasant. Fold your laundry neatly before putting it away. Wash the dinner dishes before you go to bed. Make your bed in the morning. Air your home out by opening the windows and letting some light and wind inside. Don't neglect to do spring cleaning. Maybe you feel you don't have time for all this, or that it doesn't matter, but when your home feels fresh and clean, the mundane parts of life are easier to bear.
 Exercise, healthy food, rest, and relaxation are all important components of a meaningful life. By taking good care of yourself, you are sending your mind signals that you deserve to be taken care of and that your life has value. Make sure that you are devoting enough time to meeting your basic needs for exercise, food, sleep, and relaxation.Aim for 30 minutes of exercise per day.
Eat a balanced diet of healthy whole foods like fruit, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.
Get 8 hours of sleep per night.
Set aside at least 15 minutes per day to practice yoga, do deep breathing exercises, or meditate.

