 If you can live with the annoyance of unlisted numbers ringing you up all the time, one of your easiest options is to simply pay no attention to them. Put your phone on silent, or decline the call with the push of a button and continue going about your day as usual. This may be the most straightforward solution for those who are only the target of the occasional robocall violation.


Some people are rarely or never bugged by automated calls. It may be worth it for these lucky folks to just disregard the annoyance.
Get in the habit of ignoring all calls from numbers you don’t recognize.
 Unless you have to list your phone number on a certain form or application, don’t. By putting down your number willingly, you might be either expressly or implicitly agreeing to surrender it for sales purposes, and you never know where it will end up.Withhold your number any time you’re told that it will be used to inform you of “special offers,” or when you think it might be used for promotional reasons.
If you have the option, provide another piece of contact info, such as a personal email address, instead of your phone number. Emails are less intrusive and easier to deal with than repeated calls.
 Take a close look at the fine print of emails and documents and see what they say about your right to privacy. Oftentimes, people give out their phone numbers with no understanding of what they might be used for, and are then dismayed when they’re confronted with voice messages about low-interest credit card rates. Signing one of these documents gives the issuer written permission to route automated calls to your number.The reason you get so many robocall may be because you unwittingly agreed to them them at an earlier time.
Beware of providing your phone number to solicitors, shopping websites, or any time you schedule a particular service., The next time you get an automated call, listen until the end to see if there’s an extension you can call about having your number removed from whatever list you’re on. If not, call the company or individual back directly and demand that they stop calling you. In most cases, these calls won’t stop until the recipient takes action.Be firm when speaking to a representative. Don’t let them try to convince you that these calls are “routine,” or that they go out to everyone.
In the US, you have a legal right not to be accosted by commercial businesses over the phone.

