 You can use the “Device Unlock” app in your app drawer to unlock your MetroPCS-branded J7 if you meet the following requirements:The J7 must be a MetroPCS phone.
The phone has been on the MetroPCS network for a minimum of 90 consecutive days.
Your account must be in good standing.
If you are in the military, being deployed, and do not meet the minimum requirements, bring your deployment papers to a MetroPCS store. The agent will then be able to unlock your phone.
 Your J7 must be online for the unlock app to work. You can connect to either the mobile network or Wi-Fi., This app is pre-installed on your MetroPCS phone, so you’ll find it in the app drawer. When the app starts, tap “Continue” to connect to the server., You should see a message that says “Successful” in the notification area when the process is finished.If you see “Unlock Failed: This mobile wireless device is not eligible for unlock,” your account doesn’t meet the minimum requirements to use this method. Contact Metro PCS for other options (or try using an unlock code).
If you see the error “Unable to connect to the server at this time,” you may need to update the app in the Play Store.
 Hold down the power button on the side of your J7 and select “Power Off.” Once off, press the power button to turn it back on. This will clear the “Successful” message from the notification area., Unlocking your J7 with the Device Unlock app prepared your phone to be used with any compatible provider’s SIM card. When you are ready to use your phone on another network, all you’ll need to do is remove your T-Mobile SIM card and insert the one for your new network. To do this:Hold down the power button on your J7 and select “Power Off.”
Turn the phone over so you are looking at the back. Notice the small divot at the top left of the phone—it’s there to help you remove the back cover.
Insert your fingernail into the divot and pull the cover from the phone. You’ll see two card slots just above the battery—the SIM card is in the slot on the left side.
Remove the battery: Insert your fingernail into the divot at the bottom right corner of the battery, then pull it outward.
Gently slide the SIM card down until it’s completely out of the metal holder. Put it aside.
Slide the new SIM card into the slot, gold side facing down.
Replace the battery and back cover.
 As long as you’ve set up service with your new provider, you should be able to use your new SIM card immediately.