 The Kindle Fire is designed with simplicity in mind, and as a consequence, there are no grooves for you to remove the backing with just your hands; you’ll need some tools. To begin, flip the tablet over so the backing is facing you.;
, Grab a plastic pry tool and begin wedging the back cover off, starting from the sides of the USB charging and data port.
 Once you have a considerable gap between the backing and the front portion of the device, insert a guitar pick or any other thin plastic object you can use to hold the gap open.
 Work your way around the sides of the tablet with the wedge tool until the back plate eventually gives way.
 Once the back cover is off, you must remove the battery to be able to take everything else out. Use a plastic pry tool to unhinge the power connector. This is the white plastic part with multicolored wires attached to it.


The connector is located at the bottom of the motherboard and should be noticeable when you first see the internals of the device.
 Take the battery out by gently prying it out from the sides.
 Keep it in a safe, cool, and dry place.
 The touchscreen controller is located in the upper-right corner; it has a brown chip and a thin connector that attaches to the green motherboard. Gently flip the connector by prying open the thin black plastic hinge securing the connector to the motherboard.


Be very careful when doing this, as the hinge can damage easily.
 Unscrew the touchscreen controller with a small Philips head screwdriver, and remove the controller.


Set the touchscreen controller aside.
 Do this by removing the remaining six screws. The holes are ringed with copper so you can easily locate them. You can then take out the motherboard after removing these screws.
 Do this by unscrewing a single screw at the top of the internal assembly. It should be a small green circuit board with a copper ring surrounding the screw.
 This is located at the bottom of the device and is secured with two screws on either side.
 Take out the metallic plate that protects the screen assembly by unscrewing the screws located at all four corners of the metal plate.
 The screen is secured by four screws, easily visible from the small metallic portions, which help the screws secure the screen in place. Unscrew them, and the screen should pop right off


You have successfully taken apart your Kindle Fire.

