 Being on your own can be a wonderful thing. Learn how to take care of yourself properly, such as how to cook and clean for yourself, how to keep your home clean, how to wash laundry, and how to manage your time. All of these skills will be invaluable to you both as a singleton, and as someone in a relationship.This is not an easy task. You might have to start small, by making yourself breakfast each morning, or making a point to iron your work shirts.
Taking care of yourself properly means different things to different people. Find what works best for you.
 Take the free time you might otherwise be spending with your significant other and learn a new skill! Whether you sign up for one-on-one singing lessons with a professional, or you hop onto a site such as Skillshare to brush up on graphic design, learning a new skill will keep you busy and enrich your life.Being single is a great time to experiment. If you start learning something new and don’t like it, move on to something else.
Once you’ve found your new skill, indulge in it.
 Providing the basics for yourself is great, but self care is even more important. On top of making sure you are fed, groomed, and clean, you’ll need to make sure your “cup” is full. For some, that means taking time every morning to meditate and enjoy a slow cup of tea. For others, that might mean going to the gym four times per week to work on your physique.Self care will look different for everyone. When developing a self care routine, identify what it is that makes you feel complete and relaxed day-to-day. Make that a priority.
 Make goals as a single person, and budget your time to accomplish them. You can make small goals, such as eating at least three meals per week at home, or you can make large goals, such as having a promotion by this time next year.Make goals that matter to you, not anyone else. Doing so will get you further in life and will be far more important in motivating you to achieve your goals.
 Take the energy you may have spent on a relationship and pour it into your work. Even if you are not in a job that you hope to make a career of, you can improve your future career prospects by, perhaps, working your way up to manage your store, or building your body to fit the demands of a high-ranking labor position.