 There is a wide variety of different henna powders for sale. You want to get the most natural and fresh powder available to obtain the deepest stain.Henna only deposits a red dye on skin or hair. Powders that are advertised as “black henna” or “blonde henna” have other chemicals added to them. You’ll want to avoid these formulations.Fresh henna powder smells like recently cut hay or spinach. It ranges from green or khaki in color.A good rule of thumb is that the brighter the powder, the fresher it is.Powders that are less fresh will cause your henna to develop less intensely.These powders may appear brownish and have little or no scent.;
, Before you can make a henna paste for use at home, you’ll need to purchase henna powder. Buying from a reputable vendor either online or in a store is the best way to guarantee you get the most natural and fresh powder.You can purchase your henna powder online with reputable henna suppliers including Mehandi and Temptu Marketing.You can also purchase your henna powder in specialty stores. Again, you’ll want to choose a reputable henna supplier, such as a trusted importer or import store, or even someone who has a henna art business.Avoid purchasing henna in grocery stores or health food stores. They often have older powders that are not the purest form of henna., Once you’ve purchased a quality henna powder, you’ll need to gather a few additional supplies, including a bowl and an acidic liquid, to make a paste for use.You need the following supplies to start: a bowl, preferably in plastic so it doesn’t react with the henna; a mixing spoon or spatula; an acidic liquid like lemon juice or apple cider vinegar; sugar; and an essential oil like lavender or tea tree.Store your henna powder in a dry and airtight container in a location that isn’t very warm. Henna is light and heat sensitive, so this will assure that your henna powder stays as fresh as possible., To make henna paste for application to either body or hair, mix your henna powder and gathered supplies together.


It takes approximately one day for the henna paste to release its dye. Waiting this long will ensure you get the most vivid color., Put your dry henna powder into a small plastic or glass bowl.


Start with a small amount of henna powder, anywhere from 20grams to 100grams.Twenty grams of powder will produce about three ounces of paste.It’s best to use either a plastic or glass bowl. This is because other materials such as metal or wood could react with the henna., Mixing your henna powder with an acidic liquid, such as lemon juice or apple cider vinegar, until it is smooth assures that the henna powder releases its dye most effectively.If you are using more than 20g henna powder, adjust your acidic liquid accordingly. For example, you would mix 1 ¼ cups acidic liquid to 100grams henna powder.
You can use any kind of acidic liquid including lemon juice, lime juice, orange or grapefruit juice, or even apple cider vinegar. Lemon juice, however, is the preferred acidic liquid.Avoid using neutral liquids such as water, or other kinds of liquids including coffee or tea. These liquids will not render the most intense color from the henna.If you are using fresh juice, make sure to strain out any pulp so it doesn’t end up in your mixture.
Make sure your mixture is smooth. If you notice that it is lumpy or has bits of dry powder, add small amounts of your acidic liquid until you reach the consistency of a smooth yogurt., A small amount of sugar in your henna mixture will help it adhere to your skin better and retain moisture.If you began with more than 20g henna powder, you’ll want to adjust how many teaspoons sugar you are using in the mixture. For example, if you are using 100g henna powder, increase to 7.5tsp sugar.
Sugar will help your mixture be not only smooth, but also help it from drying out quickly since sugar draws in moisture., Using an essential oil in your mixture will not only help you get the most intense color, but the oil will also make it smell good.You can use many different kinds of essential oil for your mixture, including lavender, cajeput, or tea tree oil.Avoid using essential oils such as mustard or clove because they can harm you., Once you’ve added all of your ingredients, stir the entire mixture again to assure that it is as smooth as possible.


Cover with plastic wrap and let sit for 24 hours. When the henna mixture is smooth, covering it and allowing it to sit for about one day will assure that the henna renders the best color. Put the plastic wrap directly against the paste surface to make sure there are no air pockets. This will also keep it from drying out too quickly.Let the bowl sit in a warm, dry place. The temperature should be between 75 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit.If you’re using a clear bowl, you’ll notice that the henna mixture slowly begins to release its dye. This will appear as a dark band within the mixture., After about a day, your henna mixture has released its dye and is ready to use either on your hair or body.


If you want to use the henna paste for mehndi, or henna body painting, Rupal Pinto’s website http://www.rupalpinto.com/mehndi/four.html#powder is an excellent source.
If you want to use the henna paste to color your hair, the blog Tabouli Bowl https://thetaboulibowl.wordpress.com/2013/10/02/how-to-make-and-use-henna-hair-dye/ is an excellent source.

