 Your basic zombie, Infected, are fast-moving, easily killed generic zombies. Their power, however, comes from the fact that they attack in swarms. There are two types -- "Mobs," which spawn behind you and hunt you down, and "Wanderers," who stand around until you run into them. When in a group, they are called "the horde."

, Big, fat behemoths, Boomers call attention to the horde. If they puke on you, you lose vision and all the Infected immediately attack you. To defeat them, shoot from a distance, or shove them away and then shoot if they get too close. When they die, they explode, puking on everything around them, so only kill from afar.


They burp and gurgle, revealing them from a distance if you're listening.
 Lanky female zombies, Spitters shoot acid on the ground that hurts everything it touches. They also create a puddle of acid when they die. Dodge their acid and shoot from a distance.


They make wet, spitting sounds.
 They run in a straight line, pinning anyone in their path and knocking over objects in their way. If they get you against a wall, they deal massive damage. Put as many bullets in them as you can, and if they charge, move to the sides to dodge them.


They make loud grunting sounds like The Hulk might sound.
 Long range killers, they grab people with their tongue, drag them in, and beat them to death. If you get caught, a teammate can shoot the tongue, freeing you, or the smoker, killing them. You need to have teammates around to fight them. You can also use shove to free a teammate. When you get caught, you have 2 seconds to find the smoker and shoot them before you lose control of your character.


They cough and wheeze, but usually strike from a distance to hide. They are usually up high.
 Massive damage dealers, they pounce on you and start slashing. Your other teammates must shoot them off you before you can get up. They are fast, dark, and hard to hit. If you hear one, bunch up back to back and get ready to shoot.


Hunters make a menacing growl right before they get ready to attack.
 Little and fast, they jump on a character and control them, making you walk over ledges or behind walls, dealing damage the whole time. They are generally easy to kill, but if they get on your teammate, you need to be sure you shoot them, not the teammate.


Their signature cackling laugh makes them easy to hear in advance.
 There are two boss characters in L4D2 -- Witches and Tanks. They come at specific locations, and they can kill an entire team if you're not careful. When handling them, concentrated fire is always the answer. You need to focus on them before anything else, as they deal far more damage than any other Infected.



Witches: If you're lucky, you can avoid most of them. They sit, crying until you wake them with gunfire or a flashlight. If you see one, turn off the light and try and creep around them. If you can't, use your first few shots to kill them as they wake up, aiming for the head as a team. Rifles to the head are your best bet.

Tanks: You'll need fire to kill a tank. If you have a Molotov, hit them immediately - tanks on fire die in 30 seconds without any bullets. As you do, move around a lot to dodge them, surrounding the tank as a team and shooting continually.