,,


Middle: pray for government officials and those who stand tall, such as firefighters, police officers, and doctors

Ring Finger: this is your weakest finger so pray for the weak, the poor, and the needy

Pinky': the finger farthest from you, so pray for your own needs

,
Proclaim Christ as the head over all.

Side: Compassion and Wisdom
The wound in His side represents His heart of compassion and wisdom.
Ask God for His heart for the situation and for His wisdom on how to pray.

Left Hand: Provision
Let the wound on His left hand represent His provision.
Ask God for the blessing and provision to satisfy needs.

Right Hand: Resistance
Let the wound on His right hand represents His resistance to evil.
Ask God to judge and resist those things that hold back His blessings.

Feet: Victory
Let the wounds on His feet represent His victory over Satan.
Proclaim the victory of Christ and declare the works of the devil as crushed under the feet of Jesus.
 He spoke about the branch and the vine, describing the type of relationship you are meant to have with Him; a close, dependent connection. He promised that you could have whatever you asked in prayer if you were abiding in Him. This is where all effective prayer starts; close intimate fellowship with Jesus.



Strand 2: Believing

As a Christian, you are called to rise above the natural circumstances of life, and live by the promises of God. Just as Peter stepped out of the boat and walked on the water when Jesus called him (story in Matt. 14:25-33), you are to walk by faith and not by sight. As you allow the word of God to become your standard for living, you will find the courage you need to step beyond the natural, and do exploits for God.



Strand 3: Confronting

Only Christians have the authority to resist the spiritual forces of darkness. The Bible says, “The Son of God appeared for this purpose, that He might destroy the works of the devil.” (1 John 3:8). Confronting is standing against the enemies of God for the purpose of setting the captives free.



