 To make your own trading cards, you're going to need paper, a pencil, markers, and scissors. Other materials, such as stickers or photos, can be used if you want to use those as your artwork.


Choose a paper with a thick consistency. Index cards, construction paper, or thick card stock paper are all good options. You want your playing cards to be sturdy so that they last longer and appear to be more professional.
Choose bright colored markers to give your trading cards a vibrant look.
 Typical trading cards are 2.5 inches wide and 3.5 inches tall, but you don't have to make your cards that size. Whichever size you want your trading cards to be, cut your paper so that all of the cards are as even as possible.Use a ruler to draw guide lines on your paper. This will make cutting your cards much easier.
Trace a trading card you already have (Pokemon, baseball card, etc.) multiple times until you've filled up your paper with outlines, and carefully cut each card out. This will help your cards be uniform in size.
Using small index cards as your trading cards is a great option that requires no cutting. Although index cards are slightly larger than typical trading cards, choosing this option will require less work and give you completely even cards to play with.
 Your artwork will depend on whether you're making a trading card game, baseball cards, or personalized trading cards.


Create a unique character on each trading card if your making a Trading Card Game. Draw each character in pencil first so that you're able to fix any mistakes you may make. Once you're satisfied with your drawing, trace and color in your character with marker to give it a polished, colorful look. If you are uncomfortable with drawing, use stickers as the images for your characters. Find stickers that you like and simply stick them in the center of your trading cards where the artwork would typically go.
If you're making baseball cards, it's best to print out photos of the players you're putting on the cards. Then, tape or glue them to the card.
If you're making personalized trading cards, print out pictures of your friends and family to tape or glue to your cards. You can also use wallet sized class photos if you're making the cards for a group of friends at school.
Be sure to leave room on the top and bottom of your card to write in details about your person or character.
 Each person / character should have a name as well as details about them. The information you choose to include is entirely up to you.


Write your character / person's name at the top of each card using legible handwriting. Make the name bold with a marker so that it stands out.
List the details about the character / person under the image. This is where you'd add the character's powers, skill level, etc., the baseball players stats, team history, etc., of the person's favorite food and color. Use a thin marker or very dark pen so that these details are easy to read.
 This step is optional, but if you'd like to preserve your cards and make them last longer, consider laminating them. You can do this by getting a laminating machine, or taking your cards into a specialty shop to get them laminated.

