 If you plan to travel by foot in the winter, make sure you not only dress warmly, but that you dress for visibility. When you walk, you want to make sure drivers of vehicles can see you. Wear brightly colored coats, hats, pants, or boots.You may also consider reflective tape, especially at night.
If you are walking in low visibility or at night, consider placing a light on yourself to alert drivers where you are.
 Walking in the winter can be a healthy and fun activity. Whether you are walking to commute, get exercise, or just enjoy being outdoors, make sure you pay attention to your surroundings. Stay on sidewalks or out of roadways with cars, especially if they are slippery.Focus on walking and your surroundings. Looking at your phone or other electronic devices as you walk puts you at risk.
Take caution at red lights and stop signs. In icy or snowy conditions, cars may have trouble stopping. Make sure to be careful as you cross streets.
Watch for icy patches on sidewalks. Walk slowly and pay attention to where you are walking so you don’t slip and fall., If you rely on your bicycle for your transportation, you can still use it in the winter. Make sure to have the right gear, and you can rely on your bicycle all winter.Wear proper clothing since you will be exposed to the elements. This includes layers, a wind jacket, wind pants, thermal underwear, windproof mittens with liners, hat, and helmet cover with ear covers.
Make sure your bike has sturdy tires. If you’re cycling through ice, use studded bicycle tires.
Place a bright light on the front of your bicycle and a red light on the back.
Make sure to wear reflective clothing, and place reflective tape on your helmet and bicycle. Visibility is diminished during the winter, so you need to make sure drivers in vehicles can see you.
 During the winter, consider flying on nonstop flights. This can help prevent you from getting stuck at a connecting airport due to winter weather. This may be a little more expensive, but could save you a headache due to a sudden snowstorm in your layover city.If you have to fly with a connection, watch the weather in the layover city closely, too. If there looks like there might be a problem due to weather, contact your airline and ask if there is anything they can do to help you.
If you have to have a layover, consider making the layover in a city that rarely has winter weather, like southern cities. If you booked a layover in a city with the threat of winter weather, call the airline to see if you can reroute through another city., Try booking an early flight if possible. Early flights are at a lower chance to be affected by delays at other airports. This can help you avoid delays due to winter weather.Consider booking with an airline that has many flights to and from your destination. If you end up delayed because of a storm, this gives you more options for a later flight.

