 Adjust your diet so it is based on a healthy meal plan. Your meal plan should account for three meals a day and include the five food groups: fruits, vegetables, grains, lean meat or plant based proteins (such as tofu), and dairy.Work with your parents to create a weekly meal plan for the entire household, where you all focus on healthy eating every day. Creating the meal plans together will help you feel supported.
Even if your family is not able to work with you on creating a meal plan, take the time to become an expert in nutrition. Read about it, and you will be able to help yourself and those around you who want to learn as well, such as your friends.
 Offer to help your parents prepare the meals or cook a portion of the meal together. Getting involved in the process will allow you to know every ingredient that goes into the meal and be an active part of eating healthy at home.You can also cook enough food to take leftovers to school the next day. Packing your own lunch every day will help you to stay healthy and avoid vending machine food or processed high calorie school food.
You can also cook with your friends, form a group, learn about nutrition and cooking together, and make and eat your meal together.
 Develop healthier eating habits at school by packing healthy snacks, like a ziplock bag of nuts or fresh fruit, and bringing them to school. This way, if you get hungry between classes or after school on your way home, you can pull out the healthy snacks and satisfy your hunger with food that is good for you.If you have a locker at school, you can also keep healthy snacks in your locker to pull out between periods or when you have free time between classes. Make sure you only store non perishable snacks, like nuts, protein bars, or pretzels, in your locker so they do not go bad.
It’s a lot easier to eat healthy when you plan ahead. Plan out your snacks ahead of time rather than just getting a candy bar or bag of chips from the vending machine.
 Be more physically active by joining a sports team at your school like the track and field team or the swim team. Talk to the coach beforehand if you want. The coach will most likely be very supportive and can give you tips along the way. This will allow the coach to better understand your fitness level and support you as you play on the team., This means always trying to work your body in someway as you do daily activities, such as walking home from school, taking the stairs instead of the elevator, dancing around the house, doing household chores, and going for walks with family or friends. Integrating physical activity into your daily routine can help you get into the habit of doing something physical every day.Reach out to your parents and talk about ways to get the whole family to be more physically active together. This could mean making a daylight hours policy, where your whole family plays outside together after school and on weekends, rather than stay inside and do inactive things like watch TV.
 It can be hard to feel good about yourself when you see skinny models in magazines or slim men and women on television, who are considered beautiful or desirable. Remember that the purpose of these ads on TV or in magazines is purely to sell products; it’s not the real world. Your physical beauty will naturally become more apparent to you as you work on getting fit and staying healthy.

