 If you are labeling yourself as an underachiever, this means that you are accomplishing less than you expect. So it is possible this lies not within your work, but instead in your own expectations. In fact, you may not even be fully aware of the high expectations you have for yourself. Take some time to truly reflect on what you think you should be accomplishing.Begin by making a list of what you think you need to achieve in order to be successful.
This may be one larger goal (which you can break down into smaller ones), or a list of various achievements across different areas of your life.;
, When you are focused only on high-level goals, you may miss the mini-successes along the way. Ignoring or glossing over these can lead to feelings of underachievement. Reframe your focus to acknowledge your important victories.Look back to your list of expectations.
What steps have you made toward reaching these goals?
Make a second list of anything you have accomplished recently.
You can even include things that you almost completed, but fell just a bit short.
 Feelings of underachievement are most often attached to just one area of life, most often school or career. However, one’s academic and professional achievements are not the only elements of a happy life. Consider all the strengths you have, consider your blessings, and take a step back and look at the big picture. Anytime you sense feelings of underachievement creeping up, take a moment to reflect on your life as a whole, instead of focusing solely on success or failure.
 How you feel about yourself likely has a root in something that has happened to you. Feeling like you're an underachiever can also be caused by depression.Ask yourself a few questions to help you determine what is causing you to feel like an underachiever.

Were your parents overly critical of you? Were their expectations too high?
Did you have a teacher that questioned your abilities?
Is your boss demeaning?
Do you feel like your significant other questions you too much?

