 Place your hands correctly on a color guard rifle in preparation for any other movements you will do with it. Right and left flat are the two main positions you will use.


For a right flat, place your right hand underneath the neck of the rifle, which is the skinny part between the butt and barrel. Your palm should be facing up and holding the strap to the rifle, and your thumb should be pressed against the back side of the rifle, not wrapped around.
Place your left hand over the top of the tip of the barrel, with the palm facing down. Both of your hands should be holding the barrel parallel to the ground.
For a left flat, reverse the direction of the rifle. Place your right hand over the top of the butt, and your left hand under the middle of the barrel (halfway between the bolt and the screw)., Perform a drop spin with a color guard rifle on either the right or left side. This maneuver is very similar to a drop spin with a flag, but the weight and the shape of a rifle is quite different, of course.


Start in right flat by placing your right hand on the neck of the rifle (skinny part between butt and barrel), face up, and your left hand on the tip, face down.
First push the tip of the rifle down with your left hand to swing downwards. Then release with your right hand to let it swing in the air and make a full rotation before catching it again.
To do a spin on the other side, place your left hand on the middle of the barrel, face up, and your right hand on the butt, face down., Toss the rifle with a similar movement as you use for a drop spin. This is virtually the same movement as a J spin with a flag.


Start in right flat with your right hand under the neck and your left hand over the tip. Push the tip down with your left hand, so it drops toward the ground.
Then release with your right hand to allow the rifle to spin once and catch it when it is flat in the opposite direction than you started from.
The difference between this and a J toss with a flag is the timing. Instead of pushing with one hand and releasing with the other at the same time, as you would with a flag, you release just after you push with a rifle.