 This will determine the amount and type of things you can bring.


Know that you will also have your purse as a second bag to fit some of the smaller essentials.
If you are planning on bringing full size liquids or aerosols, a carry-on is out of the question. You will need to check your bag if your containers are more than 100ml. Things such as perfume, shampoo, body lotion, and sunblock must be under the size limit.;
, Whether you decide on a carry-on or a checked suit case, think about what size you will need.


If you chose to bring a carry-on, it must fit within the dimensions outlined by the airline you’re using. Most bags will need to be under 22”x14”x9” for domestic flights. However, check with your airline before packing to be sure your bag is the right size because the allowed size differs from airline to airline. Most of the time, you can check the allowed size on the airline's website.
Think about the amount of clothes you will need to fit in the bag. Clothes will take up the majority of the space in your bag. Think about how many days you’ll be gone for, and therefore how many outfits you’ll need.
Depending on the time of the year and where you’re travelling to, you may need a different sized bag. Winter clothes take up more space than summer clothes.
 If you pack too heavily, you may have difficulty picking up your bag.


Shoes add weight quickly to luggage. Be smart about how many pairs, and what kind, of shoes you’ll need for you trip.
The luggage itself weighs a certain amount. If it has wheels, you will be able to carry more items than if you have to carry the bag on your shoulder.
Along with dimension limitations, most airlines have weight limitations for carry-on and checked bags. Check with your airline for these limits.
 It costs quite a bit to pay for another bag. Using compression bags to shrink clothes and other essentials you have is a good idea, although then you need to worry about the weight of your bags.
 Check the 10-day weather forecast. If your trip is longer than the time available, you can check for the weather, bring a few of your favorite fashion items for the weather you are planning to encounter, and otherwise bring blacks and neutrals. This makes it simpler to mix and match with clothing and make lots of different outfits.
 It matters when choosing clothes. If you’re visiting someone you are close to, you may be able to use their clothes.


If you are the same size as the person you are visiting, you can borrow their clothes. This works more easily for heavy things like jackets and sweatshirts. Ask them before you travel if you can borrow their clothes.
Are you going to buy clothes while you’re there? If so, you’ll need to leave some room in your suitcase for the return flight.
 Don’t pack directly out of your closet. Lay your clothes out in outfits on your bed to see everything you’re bringing.


Pants are re-wearable. It is easy to get a couple wears out of jeans before they are considered dirty or stretched out. Keep this in mind when you’re choosing your outfits.
Know what kind of things you’ll be doing. If you need a fancy dress, some hiking clothes, or anything in between, it’s important that you pack the right clothes.
Bring one extra outfit in case of emergency.
 Once you’ve picked out your outfits, roll the softer, wrinkle-resistant garments like T-shirts, cotton pants, and jeans. Rolling clothes will save space. Keep in mind that it may wrinkle your clothes, so fold clothes that you can’t have be wrinkled, like cotton dresses.
You can put rolled clothes inside your shoes as another space saver.
 Jewelry should be wrapped separately. Using separate baggies for each piece of jewelry will keep it from tangling while you travel.


You can spread these separate baggies out among your suitcase.
Keep pairs of earrings together just in case a baggie gets lost. An empty plastic-pill box is a great way to store earrings for travel.
 Hair supplies take up a lot of room. If the person you’re visiting has them, don’t bring double.


Hair straighteners, curling irons, and hair dryers are basic appliances that most girls have at home.
Specific sized wands, hairbrushes, or hair ties are more likely to have to travel with you.
 Toiletries add weight quickly to your bag. Go through the list and think about what you need to bring versus what you can buy there.


Toothpaste and toothbrush
Face wash
Deodorant
Body wash
Shampoo/Conditioner
Shaving cream and razor
Hand sanitizer
Body spray
Body lotion
Make-up
Sunblock.
 You’ll be able to tell early in your packing if you need a different sized bag, or if you need to remove some clothes from what you planned on bringing.


Rolled clothes and shoes should go on the bottom.
Place the folded items on top of the rolled items.
Alternate hem-lines to avoid uneven packing.
 Socks, jewelry, and accessories are perfect items to fill spots between clothes.


Stuff the cups of your bra with rolled up socks to help them keep shape.
Belts can easily line the perimeter of your bag.
Stuff your shoes with small items to save space.
Stick your underwear and socks in the sneakers, then put the shoes in a plastic bag, so that the rest of the luggage doesn't get dirty.
Stick your pillow in a compression bag. Squeeze the air out of the compression bag, then pack that between the two ridges in the middle.
Pack your solid toiletries in the front pouch, then stuff your quart-size bag of liquids into the little remaining space in your bag.
It is good if you have a little extra space, it is good for souvenirs, and if you are bringing a pet, you can put their food in.
 Just in case anything happens to your suitcase, keep all your expensive and important things in your purse.
 Your purse is usually your personal bag. All airlines will allow you to have a personal bag along with your carry-on suitcase. Make sure to keep all of your important, personal items in this bag because it will stay with you at all times. (If a plane’s overhead storage gets too full, the airlines will ask you to check your suitcase.)


Laptop
Passport/picture ID
Travelers checks
Wallet
Expensive jewelry
Phone
Chargers

, Along with your important items, you should pack some things to keep you entertained during the flight. If you’re on a long flight, they might offer you a choice of movies. More often, you’ll be on your own for entertainment.


Headphones
Puzzle book
Cards
IPod
Books
Magazines

, Just because you have your phone and laptop, doesn’t mean you’ll be able to use them. Some of your games and music sources won’t be available to you while you’re in the air. Having other sources of entertainment will come in handy.


More and more airlines are beginning to equip their planes with Wi-Fi for you while you’re in flight. This is only available through purchase on a credit card and ranges from $5-$28 per flight.