 The first step to getting red lips is getting rid of dry, flaky skin that builds up and hides their natural color. Sloughing away the dead skin brightens your lips, brings out their inner red color and prepares them to take on a stain. Here's how to make and use your own scrub:Mix 1 teaspoon honey and 1 teaspoon brown sugar.
Scrub the mixture into your lips in a circular motion.
Rinse the mixture away with warm water.
Repeat as necessary.;
, Sometimes a basic lip scrub isn't enough to get rid of the dead skin. Using a soft-bristled toothbrush will do the trick. Choose a clean toothbrush, wet it with warm water, and gently scrub your lips in a circular motion. Rinse your lips. They should be left bright, plump and renewed.
 Increasing circulation to your lips makes them look plumper and redder. You can naturally make your lips a little plumper by using cinnamon or another spicy household item on your lips. Just rub a little on, wait a few minutes, then rinse your lips. You can use any of the following as a natural lip plumper:









1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper mixed with a few drops of water
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon mixed with a few drops of water
5 drops of peppermint essential oil or peppermint extract
A piece of fresh ginger rubbed over your lips

, Now that your lips have been exfoliated and plumped, it's time to make them soft and supple. This will help them keep their color longer and prevent them from drying out. Use any of the following ingredients as a lip serum; just rub it on your lips and wait a few minutes for it to absorb:









1/2 teaspoon coconut oil
1/2 teaspoon olive oil
1/2 teaspoon almond oil

, Choose any kind of bright red fruit, nick it with a knife, and rub it over your lips to coat them in color. After the first coat dries, you can add more layers to deepen the red color. Keep going until you like the way your lips look, then add a layer of clear lip balm to seal it in for a few hours. Here are a few fruits that will do the trick:









Cherries
Strawberries
Raspberries
Cranberries
Pomegranate seeds

, Little kids eat red, blue, green and orange popsicles without worrying how their mouths will look when they're finished, but now that you're older you want to choose a bright red. Look for a cherry or berry-flavored popsicle. Rub it over your lips to coat them. Apply more layers until you like the hue of your lips, then seal the stain with clear lip gloss.









For a more precise application, melt the popsicle into a bowl. Dip a cotton swab in the melted juice and use it to apply it to your lips, making sure to stay in the lines.
If you don't want your teeth and tongue to get stained red, avoid eating the popsicle.
 This trick was popular back in the fifties, and it has remained a great way to create a natural-looking lip stain ever since. Choose cherry or another red-colored Kool-Aid powder. Pour it into a bowl and stir in enough water to make a thick, spreadable paste. Apply it to your lips and let it sit for three minutes, then rinse it away.








For a brighter hue, repeat the process as many times as you'd like.
To create a custom color, try mixing red powder with orange or purple.
 This natural powder is made from dried beets, which have beautiful deep red hue. Mix beet root powder with enough water to make a thick paste. Spread it on your lips and let it sit for three minutes, then rinse away the excess paste with warm water. Repeat until your lips are as red as you'd like.
 Food coloring is concentrated and very bright red, so it's a good choice if you want to go bold with your look. Squirt some food coloring into a small dish. Use a cotton swab to apply it carefully to your lips, taking care to stay within your lip lines. Red food coloring stains easily, so try not to get it on the rest of your skin.
 Your lips are prone to getting dark spots from the sun, just like the rest of your skin. Protect them by using lip gloss with SPF of 15 or higher. That way your lips won't get sunburned and dark when you enjoy a day outside.
 Chapped lips tend to look dull and washed out. If you want bright, pretty red lips, take steps to prevent them from getting dry and flaky. Drink plenty of water to keep your body hydrated. Use coconut oil, almond oil, or a good healing lip balm to keep your lips moist throughout the day.
 Dry winter air can chap your lips much more quickly than normal, so you'll probably want to carry lip balm with you wherever you go to keep your lips healthy. You may also want to sleep with a humidifier to keep the air in your house from getting too dry. Your skin will thank you., Smoking can cause lip discoloration and wrinkling, which is the opposite of what you want if you're going for red lips. Avoid smoking cigarettes or other tobacco products.,