 Using the wrong brush could mean that you won’t reach all the way to the cat’s undercoat. Generally, the longer your cat’s hair, the larger the space on the comb’s bristles should be. Additionally, when a cat’s hair is very coarse, a brush with stiffer bristles is called for. Softer hair can be brushed with softer bristles.


Bristle brushes are good for most cats.
Cats with medium or long hair can be brushed effectively with wire-pin brushes.
If you’re trying to remove knots and tangles in your cat’s fur, try a slicker brush.
 When you brush your cat’s fur, you reduce the likelihood it will end up with hairballs in its stomach.Brushing also keeps fur from coating your furniture and floor as your cat sheds. If your cat is older or it may shed more often and need more frequent brushing.


Brush your cat in the direction of the coat. For instance, always brush from the back of the cat’s neck toward its tail.Place the brush on an area of the cat’s fur. Brush in short, slow strokes if your cat’s fur is very thick, and in slow, long strokes if your cat’s fur is shorter.
If your cat loses hair in large clumps, or its skin is irritated or rough, bring it to a vet.Long-haired cats might need to be brushed up to three times each day.
 There is a distinct possibility of accidentally hurting your cat through brushing too rapidly, especially when trying to remove a knot or tangle. While most cats enjoy being brushed, fussy cats require some bribery. Feed your cat a treat or meal after brushing so that they associate it with something positive., Many cat foods are recommended as hairball reducers. High-fiber cat foods will help your cat pass ingested fur through its digestive tract. Specialized cat foods can also reduce the amount of fur your cat sheds and can keep its coat healthy, minimizing the need for extensive grooming.Treat the specialized cat food as you would any other cat food. How much and how often you feed your cat depends on its particular age, weight, and general health. Scoop the cat food into a small dish or bowl where the cat can access it on the floor.
 Hairball laxatives are specialized medications which help your cat pass hairballs in its stool. Most laxatives are fed to your cat in its food or along with a treat. Always follow the directions when using a hairball laxative.


There are also several natural solutions to helping your cat pass its hairballs. Feeding your cat three tablespoons of a high-fiber cereal, one or two tablespoons of canned, unsweetened pumpkin, or a half teaspoon of Metamucil with water in addition to its normal portion of cat food can improve its ability to pass hairballs.
 Flea dirt (dried blood and poop left behind by fleas) looks like little specks of black pepper, or small black flakes. Take a paper towel, cotton balls, or paper towels and wet them. Gently rub the wet surface across your pet’s skin. It if turns reddish brown, it is flea dirt., When you see flea dirt, vacuum your entire home. Wash any clothes you think might have been exposed to the fleas. Obtain a flea spray for the house which prevents eggs and larvae from hatching out to stop fleas from growing to maturity.There are several effective ways of killing adult fleas on cats, of which the easiest is using a prescription spot-on deflea product.


Check with your vet before administering any flea spray or carpet treatment, as some might be disagreeable to your cat.

