 Be supportive as you encourage your child to enhance and to develop his skills and talents. To develop your child’s abilities, you must know where to focus. Learn more about your child’s strengths by checking how he is doing in school. Has he been joining spelling be? Thus, it means he is good in English. Is he been getting aces in his Math? Numbers might be your child’s interest.


Give activity workbook to support your child’s interest.
If your child likes music, you can also enroll him into a music school where he can learn singing, playing the piano or guitar.
Strengthen your child’s skills by letting your child figure out what his desires and the important things for him.
You can also manage your child’s weaknesses by helping him to learn a certain skill. For example, if your child appears to have difficulty in drawing, you can teach him the basic way on how to draw and illustrate.
 Show your child how you build your confidence in what he can do by guiding him towards his skills and talents. Keep in mind that in guiding him, you can give him variety of options to choose from, for example your child has got an eye for music, ask him about the areas he likes to develop, being a singer or playing a musical instrument.


Do not nag your child for him to achieve his goal. Instead, help your child discover his own motivations by setting his own goal and desire, for example. When this happens, your child is more likely to do and achieve many things because he simply wants to do them.
Help your child instead of doing things for him, which could lead to having an overdependent child.
 Implement the “when you” rule. One of life’s lessons is that we get the reward after we complete our work. You can try saying, ‘When you finish your work, we can play your favorite video game’, Or ‘When you complete your homework, you can go outside and play with your friends’. Enforce this rule and stick to it.
 Be your child’s inspiration. Somehow, some of you have grown looking up into other people’s success. Think about it, “Who inspires you to be in the place where you are now?” It might be your dad or your mom, your boss, or your colleague. Be someone to be your child’s inspiration. Focus more on showing your child your best characteristics and be an inspiring person. Your behavior and reputation will inspire your child.


Tell your child stories about the things you did and the things you want to do. You can motivate your child through this as you show him what you are really capable of doing.
Empower your child’s character by letting him be the best. Bring out the best in your child. Trusting what your child can do can motivate him.
 Help your child be able to stay in a certain task for a long period of time by offering him tasks as he learns how to do it consistently. Your persistence to let your child do a certain task will keep him get going. For example, you wanted your child to increase his communication skills, you can give him activities which can enhance his skills in this aspect, such as letting him read picture books and answer the comprehension activity. Make sure that the level of tasks that you are going to give your child are challenging rather than overwhelming.


An important characteristic to expect when your persistence is working on your child is when he appears to finish an activity without any interruption and without asking for assistance.

