 Stop by your local library or purchase books online or at a bookstore that are written by women. You can focus on nonfiction books that discuss women's history. You can also read fictional books written by female authors.You can read cultural criticism by authors like Bell Hooks. You can also look for anthologies that cover women's contribution to history, such as Notable Black American Women.
You can also read works of fiction by female authors. Check out works written by writers like Toni Morrison, Jane Austen, Alice Munro, and other acclaimed female authors.;
, Many museums host events for women's history month. Look up local museums online and see if there are any women's history month related events or exhibits. During a weekend or a free weekday, take a trip to a museum to learn more about famous women.If there aren't any special exhibits at local museums, you can always stop by a museum and look at work by women or exhibits about women. For example, go to a local art museum and view work by female artists.
If you live in a bigger city, there are more likely to be special exhibits. For example, if you live in New York City, see if places like the Museum of Modern Art are doing anything for Women's History Month.
 There are many websites that embrace women's history. For example, the Clinton Foundation has a campaign called Follow the Facts where they post new tidbits about women's history each day on Twitter.Try reading about women's history on websites like National Women’s History Museum website or nwhm.gov. You can find plenty of information there.
Following contemporary female authors, politicians, and artists on Twitter can help you learn more about women's history.
Use your tablet, smart phone, or laptop to read articles about women and women's history online. You can do this while you're waiting for the train or working out at the gym.
 Educating other women about women's history is a great way to celebrate the month. Use social media to your advantage and share interesting articles and information you find about women and women's history. You can also email friends and family members interesting information you find.