 You can limit your Facebook profile exposure by limiting who can see the photo albums you've posted. To do this, go to your profile and click on "Photos" in the top middle of the screen. Then click on "Albums" and scroll through your albums and click on one. Then press the "Edit" button on the top right of the screen and click on the image that looks like a person or globe on the top right of the next window.


Select whether you want the album to be visible to "Friends" or "Only Me" or if you want to customize who can see the photos.
 You can also control the settings for photos you were tagged in, even if you didn't take them. Go to your profile and click on "Photos" and then select "Photos of You." Click on any photo that you were tagged in and select the pencil on the top right of the screen.


Then, select the option on the very bottom: "Report/Remove Tag."
Select "I want to untag myself" in the window that pops up.
Press "Continue."

You can also just select "Hide from Timeline" so that less people will see that you were tagged in a photo.
 Facebook's handy facial recognition software makes it so that your friends can upload photos, have Facebook recognize your face, and have you be automatically tagged in the photo. This makes it easy for photos of you to come up often -- if you don't allow facial recognition to find you, you'll be less likely to get tagged. Here's how to do it:Click on the gear on the top right of your Facebook page.
Select "Privacy Settings."
Select "Timeline and Tagging" from the menu on the left of the screen.
Click on "Edit" to the right of the bottom option, "Who sees tag suggestions when photos that look like you are uploaded?"
Select "No one."

, This will help minimize your profile exposure. Just click on the lock button on the top right of your page and select, "Who can see my stuff?" Change the settings under "Who can see my future posts?" to "Friends Only," "Only Me," or a variety of other options.
 To do this, click on the gear on the top right of your Facebook page and select "Privacy Settings." Under the option, "Limit the audience for posts you've shared with friends of friends or Public?" select "Limit Past Posts." These posts will be removed from Facebook for the people you've blocked.
 Before you post something on Facebook, just click on the icon next to "Post" on the bottom right, below what you've written. It'll either be set to "Friends" or something else -- adjust the settings to fit whoever you'd like to see the post.
 Your friends may be using apps that can make some of your Facebook information more public. However, you can easily stop this from happening. All you have to do is click on the gear on the top right of your page, click on "Privacy Settings," and select "Apps" on the bottom left of the screen.Then, next to "Apps others use," select the "Edit" option and uncheck any information that you don't want these apps to provide about you. Save your changes when you're done.

