 Most vegetables are planted outside around the last spring frost and are harvested anywhere between mid-summer and late-fall. Consult the specific growing instructions for each type of vegetable that you grow. To enjoy a wide variety of vegetables for the entire growing season, plant vegetables that are ready for harvest at different times of the year. That way, you won't be without fresh vegetables for long.


You can also space out plantings of your vegetables. For example, to get a continuous harvest of lettuce, sow new lettuce seeds each week during the planting season.
 Often, new gardeners get over-excited about their new hobby and end up planting more than they can eat or care for. Be aware that some plants, like tomatoes, peppers, and squash produce throughout an entire growing season, and others like carrots, radishes, and corn, produce only once.For best results, plant a mixture of continual producing and single producing vegetables in your garden. Generally, you can plant less of the continual producing vegetables and more of the single producing vegetables in order to achieve a good balance in your garden.
Make sure you give each plant enough space to develop and thrive in your garden. You may have to thin plants out as they begin to grow in order to avoid crowding.
 Keep your family's favorite vegetables in mind when planting your vegetable garden. By growing the produce you buy the most of, you can greatly reduce your grocery store costs, as well as reduce waste when it comes time to harvest.
 Many grocery stores only carry the produce basics. Often grocery stores simply carry one variety of a tomato or a pepper, making it hard to find interesting heirloom or exotic varieties. If your climate permits, consider planting vegetables that are difficult to locate for purchase in your area. Not only will doing so allow you to cook with special vegetables, it also provides you with a great gift to give to your friends, family, and neighbors.
 Be aware of the different vegetables that your local fauna will love to devour. To protect your vegetables from birds or deer, you may have to put up some sort of fence covering around your vegetable garden to prevent it from getting attacked by veggie-seeking predators.
 Most vegetables can be grown from seeds or bought as seedlings and transferred directly into the ground or a planter box.


While some vegetables like carrots are very easy to grow from seed, others like tomatoes can be a bit more difficult. Research the process for planting each type of vegetable from seed before choosing a planting method.
You may also want to start seeds indoors in peat pots before transplanting seedlings in the garden. Consult a growing guide for each vegetable in order to figure out planting times and the temperature that most vegetables can withstand.
Look for plant sales in the spring. Many farmers markets and master gardener programs host annual plant sales. This will also give you a chance to get expert information from the person who started the plants.
 While some gardening guides suggest planting in rows, others suggest that planting each vegetable type in a triangular shape actually allows you to preserve space in the garden. The important thing, though, is that your plants are not planted too tightly together to prevent them having to compete with neighboring plants for space.Look at the seed packet or the label on the plant's pot to see the provided spacing recommendations.
 Each type of vegetable plant requires a slightly, if not drastically, different care routine. Do a bit of research to find out how much water your plants need, whether or not they require trimming or thinning, how often they need to be fertilized, and when they are ready for harvest.


Most plants benefit from a layer of mulch on top of the soil. This helps regulate temperature, retains moisture, and encourages beneficial earthworms.

