 The first step to the process of improving your feelings towards your stepparent, is to build the relationship. Sit down with your stepparent and learn a little about her, ask what she likes to eat, what she likes to do, etc. After listening well and learning, point out the things you have in common.


You can invite to to join you going somewhere.
If you have a sports match or a music performance, make the effort to say 'I was wondering if you'd like to come and watch me play at the weekend'.
 After you have learned about your stepparent, try to do something they said they liked. Sometimes it might require a big sacrifice on your behalf, such as trying something you're not really into, but the relationship will benefit from your caring effort greatly. They will also be looking for things that you like that they can do with you, so there is some give and take. You could both discover new hobbies.Trying something new shows how much you are trying to build a relationship, which will not go unnoticed.
 Making new routines and rituals can be an excellent way to form an identity as a new family unit. These don’t have to replace rituals you already have, but can add to them in a positive way. If you can do this it will give a new reference point, and be something that you build together with your new stepparent that reflects both of your characters.Some rituals you could develop include distinctive regular family meals, like steak Fridays.
Regular trips to a particular place you both like, such as the beach, or a sports match.
Or watching a TV show you both like together.
 After you have had some fun together, work on not calling her your stepparent. This does not mean you have to call her Mom at all! You could perhaps call them your Bonus Mom, or a first name or a kindly nickname. Even a slightly jokey nickname can be nice if you are comfortable teasing each other a little bit.


Getting into the habit of calling your stepparent something other than ‘stepparent’ will help you move beyond that step status and let you build a more natural relationship.
They will feel more welcome and close to you should you make this small effort.

