 If, as a result of your evaluation, a psychiatrist certifies you for continued inpatient treatment, California automatically schedules a certification review hearing. This hearing must take place within four days of the date you are certified.Keep this written notice along with the other written documents and notices you've received since you were admitted for your 72-hour hold.
Read the notice carefully and make sure you understand when the hearing will be held and what will take place.
Meet with your patient advocate or your attorney to discuss the hearing. If you need a translator, or if you want family members or others to be present at your hearing, let your patient advocate know.
 Your hearing will take place at the psychiatric facility where you have been admitted. Your attorney or patient advocate will meet with you before the hearing to go over your evidence and what you plan to say on your behalf.You have the right to wear your own clothes. You may want to have a friend or family member bring appropriate attire to you before the hearing so you can dress properly.
The hearing isn't formal, so you aren't expected to wear a business suit, but you should dress in clean, neat clothing that's relatively conservative. Consider what you would wear to a job interview or a church service.
Make sure you are given appropriate time and opportunity before the hearing to shower, dress, and groom yourself.
 You are your own greatest advocate at your certification review hearing. If you behave appropriately and present yourself in a calm, dignified manner, the hearing officer will be more open to your evidence.When you arrive at the hearing, sit up straight and pay attention when others are speaking. Don't interrupt anyone, and treat everyone present with respect.
The hearing officer may be a judge, but the hearing is not held in a courtroom and is not a trial. You don't have to call them "your honor," but you should show deference by calling them "sir" or "ma'am."
When you are asked a question, speak in a loud, clear voice so everyone can hear you. If you have difficulty speaking, you may want to have your patient advocate explain this at the beginning of the hearing.
 At the certification review hearing, the director of the facility where you were admitted for your 72-hour evaluation will present evidence supporting the decision to have you committed.To have you committed, the director must show probable cause that you are a continuing danger to yourself or others, or that you are so disabled that you cannot care for yourself.
The director likely will present information and reports produced as a result of your evaluation. You have the right to a written copy of all information presented at the hearing.
Mental health professionals responsible for your treatment or evaluation also may speak in favor of your commitment.
You have the right to question anyone who speaks in favor of your commitment. This isn't supposed to be as confrontational as cross-examination in a courtroom setting. Rather, the hearing officer will attempt to mediate a dialogue regarding your commitment.
 You have the right to be present at your certification review hearing and to testify on your own behalf against involuntary commitment. You also have the right to present evidence or witnesses to support your case.This is not a criminal hearing, and the rules of evidence and procedure that apply in courtroom trials do not apply at certification review hearings.
If you have family members who have attended your hearing and want to present evidence on your behalf, they typically must provide this information to your patient advocate or your attorney.
Your witnesses may be allowed to speak themselves in some circumstances. Talk to your attorney or patient advocate ahead of time if you have a preference.
If a family member has made an offer to provide you food, clothing, or shelter upon your release, this offer must be presented in writing.
 Once the judge has heard from both sides, they will make a decision whether to allow your release or have you committed for a longer period. If the hearing officer does not find probable cause that you are a danger to yourself or others, you will be released.The hearing officer will let you know their decision at the end of the hearing. However, it may be a day or two before you receive a written decision.
If the hearing officer finds probable cause that you still present a danger to yourself or others, you can be committed involuntarily for an additional 14 days.

