 Every disability is different, so of course, every disabled child will have different problems. Your child may have a physical disability and require some help getting through security, or they may have a developmental disability such as autism and be hypersensitive to noises and being touched. Make a list of the issues your child might have when getting through airport security. For example, if your child was distracted or overwhelmed, would they be the type to either wander or run away, or would they have a meltdown if put into an uncomfortable situation?


If your child is old enough to understand what's happening and is aware of what problems they already have, try asking them what they think would cause them trouble at the airport. A child with sensory issues, for example, may say that they'd become overwhelmed by all the new stimulus and end up having severe trouble getting through security on their own.
If you've traveled long distances with your child before, even if it wasn't by plane, consider any issues your child had in the past. For example, if you went on a long car trip with your child and stopped somewhere for a break, did they get upset by all the people there?;
, Some travelers with disabilities find it useful to notify the airport, so that they can arrange any assistance ahead of time. This step is optional, and can depend on the type of your child's disability. If you do contact the airport, though, try to contact them at least 72 hours beforehand., If they know what will happen, they are more likely to stay calm and be comfortable with the process. Library books, social stories, movies, and personal anecdotes can help describe the process.


Try to find child-friendly material that has photos or illustrations of airport security. That way, they can visualize what they will experience.
 Sometimes, people get randomly selected to go through additional security. Tell them how it works, so that if it happens, they know that it's normal and okay.
 Try placing them at the top of a backpack or bag, or in a separate pocket of a personal bag. Non-liquid snacks, such as pretzels or crackers, should also be easy to reach. Consider stim toys as well.


Any comfort objects will need to be scanned. They may need to let it go through the scanner, or the personnel may let them carry it with them, depending on the object. If it goes through the scanner with your bags, explain that the comfort object is having an adventure in the tunnel, and they'll come out the other side soon.
 Arriving early will help, so you may be waiting at the terminal for some time. Consider coloring books, phone games, picture books, chapter books, videos, and more. Make sure that the activity isn't something noisy that would disturb others, though; leave extremely loud toys at home if possible, and lower the volume on a child's electronic toys or give them headphones to plug into that toy.


Download several movies or videos onto a tablet on the day before. Start early, in case they download slowly.
Older children may be able to entertain themselves with laptops. There are also adult coloring books they can use.
Bring chargers for any devices. Some waiting areas have charging stations, so you might be able to charge electronics before your flight.
 Earplugs, sunglasses, headphones (noise-canceling or otherwise), hoodies, weighted lap pads, and stim toys can help with an overwhelming environment. Encourage your child to be proactive and stim a lot; it's better to be overly cautious than have a screaming meltdown or shutdown.


Encourage your child to avoid disruptive stims at the airport. Make sure they understand that things like flapping, rocking, and so forth are okay, but that it might be better to avoid louder or more movement-oriented stims such as echolalia, spinning, or pacing. Stimming in and of itself isn't bad for your child to do, but it's important to avoid disrupting other people or slowing down their process of getting through security when doing so.

