 Although you may find books less exciting than video games or TV at first, becoming immersed in a good book is incredibly enjoyable. Provided you choose the right book, the time can shoot past like nothing at all.


Lying down on your bed and reading is a relaxing way to go about this.
Young adult fiction usually comes in the form of series. This can be handy if you have a lot of downtime to work with.;
, Paint a picture. Write a story.Creative things can sometimes feel like work, but the truth is that they're incredibly enjoyable ways to pass the time. If you a given amount of time being grounded, you should think about doing something creative by the end of it. That way, you can turn something negative like a grounding into a beautiful thing.
 If you have any siblings, the company of family members besides your parents can be a great comfort. Depending on the sort of relationship you have with brothers or sisters, you can share a variety of activities together. In some cases, you might even be able to do things with them that you would otherwise be banned from, like video games and movies. In general however, it's recommended that you simply try to talk to them. Conversation can be very enjoyable on its own when it's with the right people.


Board games are an enjoyable, disconnected way to spend time. You will need other players to play however. If you have siblings, you should try to enlist them in a game or two.
 You probably don't think of your wardrobe as a potential source of fun. All the same, the down time you have available to you can be used as an opportunity to see what sets of clothing match best with others. This is easiest if you already have a body mirror in your bedroom. If you're usually the sort of person who throws a random outfit together, this can be your chance to get some skill in fashion.


If you're a girl, you can experiment with different hairstyles and makeup as well., Moving around furniture or redecorating your bulletin board can have a big effect on the atmosphere of your bedroom. Once you get started with organizing, it can be difficult to stop!

