 Figure out exactly how much you can afford to spend on travel. At the same time, determine what luxuries you can and can’t do without. With this info, whittle your list of preferred destinations down even further according to cost.Ask yourself if you are willing to stay at a campground or hostel in order to see the sights you want to see, or if you need comfier accommodations.
Make the same call regarding food: is dining out an integral part of your dream vacation, or are you willing to live on peanut butter sandwiches to reduce costs?

, First, come up with a list of items that you expect to purchase while travelling. Then, for each destination you have in mind, research the costs of those items to make sure they don’t exceed your budget. Remember that an American dollar, for example, doesn’t go as far in NYC as it might in Smalltown, USA.Factor in basic items (like, say, grilled cheese sandwiches if that’s what you’ll be living on) as well as items specific to your trip (such as theater tickets).
If you are considering other countries, also factor in the exchange rate between their currency and yours.
Also consider whether each destination has a tourist season, when costs may rise above their off-season norm., Now that you have a firm budget, figure out how long it has to last you. Determine how many days (including travel time) you will spend away from home. Use this number to better decide which activities you want to focus on and how much money you are willing to spend on them.A brief trip (like a week or two) may enable you to spend more on luxuries like fine dining and accommodations. Or, it may make a steady diet of PB&J seem more doable so you can spend your money on things like scuba gear rentals, Broadway tickets, or high-end shopping.A longer trip of a few weeks will allow you to visit multiple places, such as all of Holland instead of just Amsterdam. You may have to sacrifice some luxuries in order to stretch your budget, but with so much time at your disposal, you can also utilize more cost-cutting options, such as indirect flights.
 Look for all-inclusive or partially-inclusive travel deals that charge a flat fee for things like travel fare, accommodations, and food. Sign up for alerts from companies offering discounted travel or lodging. If you plan on traveling regularly, find companies that offer loyalty programs.