 Experiencing déjà vu can be an overwhelming or even frightening experience for some people. You can deal with déjà vu by taking a few (or several) deep, slow breaths to calm yourself down.


Deep breathing can slow your heart rate and decrease physical tension in your body.Slowly and deliberately breath in through your nose. Hold it for a few seconds and then release the breath through your mouth.
Take as many breaths as you need to calm yourself.;
, You can deal with déjà vu and any uncomfortable feelings associated with it if you focus your mind and senses on the present. Being mindful of how you are feeling and what you are doing can help decrease any feelings of anxiety or stress you might have because of your déjà vu.Notice how your body is feeling. You might ask yourself, “Do I feel tense anywhere? Do I feel nauseous? Do I feel calm?”
Pay attention to your breathing. Is it normal and steady? Shallow? Fast or uneven?
Focus on what thoughts and memories you are having at the moment. Don’t try to stop them, just acknowledge them and let them pass through your mind.
For example, you might think, “I’m thinking about how familiar this scene is. How I feel like I have done this exact thing before.”

, You can deal with your déjà vu experiences by documenting them when they happen. This way you can write down the details of the situation and the feelings that it evokes.


Buy a notebook small enough to carry with you everywhere. You never know where you might be when you experience déjà vu.
Write it down every time you get the feeling of déjà vu. Write how long it lasted, where you were, what you were doing, who else was there, and the date.
Write about how the experience made you feel. For example, did it startle you? Comfort you? Frighten you?

, Some studies indicate that about 65% of young adults experience déjà vu at least once on their lifetime.Talk to your friends and family about your experiences. It’s likely they have experienced something similar and may be able to help you deal with your déjà vu.


For instance, you could say to your friend, “I think I’m experiencing déjà vu and it feels really weird. Has this ever happened to you?”
Or, you might tell your sibling, “I had the strongest feeling of déjà vu just now. Can I tell you about it?”

