 Oftentimes, people discover a rabbit nest or a group of baby rabbits and mistakenly assume they are orphaned. As most baby rabbits taken in from the wild do not survive, it is important you not bring in baby rabbits unless you're certain they've been abandoned.Baby rabbits often appear alone as their mothers sometimes leave the nest at day and return at night. If you stumble upon a litter of baby rabbits huddling together, chances are they are not orphaned and their mother will return in the evening. You should leave the rabbits alone.In general, you should only assume litters are orphaned if you know the mom is dead. Your dog or cat may have disturbed the nest or killed the mother. You may also have found the mother dead nearby. In cases like this, you can assume the babies are orphaned and intervene.If you find a baby under 10 days old far away from the nest, chances are he was somehow separated from his mother. He may have ran away if frightened from something or a crow may have carried him and dropped him. Chances are, he is injured in some way and will probably not survive. You should take him to a vet or humane society as this is his best chance for survival., As soon as you find orphaned babies, immediately contact an animal rescue. Baby rabbits need care from experienced rescue workers to increase the chance of survival. Only 10% of orphaned rabbits survive their first week. Unless you have extensive experience in rescue and rehabilitation and supplies on hand, you should not attempt to rehabilitate baby rabbits on your own., If you cannot get baby rabbits to a rescue for a few days, you should begin feeding them on your own. This will increase the likelihood they will survive.


Feed the baby a combination of KMR kitten formula, which can be found in many pet stores, and goat's milk. Make sure it is regular goat's milk and not low fat. You should add a pinch of a probiotic known as acidophilus to the formula.Feed healthy babies about twice a day. Use a syringe and feed the bunnies upright, with the tip of the syringe pointing downward.Do not surprised if the rabbit only takes a few drops of formula at first. It may take him awhile to get used to the syringe., The amount of formula a baby rabbit needs depends on his age.


If the rabbits are only 1 to 2 weeks old, they'll need 5 to 7 cc/ml each feeding and should be fed twice daily.At 2 to 3 weeks, they'll need 7 to 13 cc/ml each feeding and should still be fed once a day.At 3 to 6 weeks, they should be fed 13 to 15 cc/ml twice a day. They can also be introduced to solid foods like oats and hay at this age.