 After an intense workout or sporting event, your child should get a snack of some carbs and protein within about 20 minutes. For instance, if your child’s game ends at 4:00, they should have some mixture of carbs and protein by 4:20 at the latest. Then, about two hours later, your child should eat a larger, proper meal. In other words, assuming again that your child’s game ended at 4:00, they should be ready to eat a meal around 6:00 or 7:00., A post-game meal or snack should consist of a 3:1 ratio of carbohydrates to protein. So if your child is hungry for about 400 calories, for instance, 300 of those calories should derive from carbs and 100 of those calories should derive from protein.If your child has a favorite protein or carbohydrate, encourage them to consume some following their workout.
Your child might enjoy a post-game smoothie. Blend one cup of milk or water, three ice cubes, one banana, three slices of canned pineapple, and a spoonful of chocolate or vanilla protein powder. This tasty treat will not only give your child much-needed carbs and protein, but will also rehydrate them.
You could also provide your child with half a sandwich — try baked sweet potato slices on two slices of whole grain bread slathered with peanut butter. Your child is sure to love this carb and protein combo.
Don’t let your child fill up immediately after the game. They should leave room for a meal later.
 About two hours after your child’s game ends, they should eat a regular, balanced meal. Even though your child athlete just consumed protein and carbs during their post-game snack, it’s okay if the meal include these elements, too. The meal should also include small amounts of healthy fats, as well as vitamins and protein.You don’t need to go out of your way to introduce healthy fats and oils to your child’s post-game meal. These dietary elements are present in nuts, dairy products, and meats.
Important vitamins and minerals for child athletes include calcium (which is present in dairy products, kale, and collard greens), iron (which is found in orange juice and leafy greens), and potassium (found in bananas, dates, beans, and oranges).Ask your child what their favorite food is and serve it to them as part of their post-game meal. Just ask your child, “What is your favorite food?”
If you want to increase the camaraderie on your child’s team, you could ask your child if they wish to invite their friends to dine with them.

