 Nowadays, online consignment services are a popular way to clean out your closet and make some cash. There are many different websites (such as Tradesy, Twice, Threadflip, Poshmark, Recycle Your Fashions, ThreadUp, The Real Real, and Snobswap), and they all offer slightly different services. Look for a service that will fit well with your product(s) and suit your needs., Most online consignment retailers are very specific about what brands, what quality, and what age items they accept. For example, a website like Twice only accepts middle to high-end brands (such as Vera Wang, YSL, or Top Shop) in very good condition, whereas Threadflip accepts most gently-used women’s clothes., Most consignment websites (e.g., Twice, ThredUp, The Real Real) offer two options: either print a simple shipping label (and use your own box), or request a shipping bag or box. Then, simply load up the qualifying items you wish to sell, and send them in.Alternatively, some websites, such as Recycle Your Fashions, simply asks that you submit a list of the items you’d like to sell. Then based on this list, they will tell you which items to send in.
Some services (like The Real Real) also offer item pick-ups in certain cities.
 Some consignment websites, such as ThredUp, will send back any items they don’t want to sell for a reasonable shipping fee ($12.99). If you don’t want any unsellable items returned, there is no need to pay the fee., As with real life consignment shops, many online consignment retails offer both upfront payments and traditional consignment arrangements. (Although some services may only offer one or the other.) If you have opted for an upfront payment, your cash (or store credit) should be made available as soon as your items are approved. If you’ve chosen the more traditional consignment route, simply wait for your items to sell, and then receive your payment.Different services offer payments on different schedules (individually, bi-weekly, monthly) and via different methods (check in the mail, PayPal, direct deposit).

