 In order to keep your feet feeling baby soft, you may want to give them extra special attention every now and again. You can do this by making your own foot soak and then relaxing. You can relax your feet in the various foot soaks described for 10-15 minutes. Once you’re done soaking, exfoliate your feet using a pumice stone or foot file and then apply some moisturizer.


All foot soaks described use 1-1.3 gallons (4-5 litres) of warm water, unless mentioned otherwise.
Baking soda soak — use 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of baking soda in the water and add 2-3 drops of lavender oil. The lavender oil is optional, but it will add a nice scent to the air while you relax.Lemon juice soak — use lemon juice instead of water in this foot soak. The acid in lemon juice is great at removing dead skin.Liquid soap soak — put 2-3 pumps/drops of mild liquid soap into the water and add 2-3 drops of your favourite essential oil. Again the essential oil is optional, but it smells so nice!Epsom salt soak — add ½ cup of epsom salt to the water and that’s it.Vinegar soak — add ¼ cup of white vinegar to the water. Like lemon juice, the acid in vinegar is a great exfoliant for your feet., Foot scrubs add an extra pampering step to a foot soak, and you can easily make them at home. You’ll want to use approximately 1 tablespoon of the foot scrub on each foot. You can use your hand to rub the foot scrub all over your feet, or you can use a cloth. Once you’re done scrubbing your feet, rinse them off in the foot soak water.


Wild Orange and Honey Foot Scrub — Mix 1 cup of epsom salts to 1 cup of sugar. Slowly stir in up to 1 cup of liquid coconut oil until smooth. Then mix in 2 tablespoons of honey and 8-10 drops of wild orange essential oil. Stir the mixture until all ingredients are nicely combined. You can store the mixture in a glass jar so you can use it again in the future.Salt Scrub — Mix the following ingredients together - ¾ cup of fine sea salt, ¼ cup of coarse sea salt, ¼ cup of olive oil, and ¼ cup of coconut oil. Feel free to add your favourite essential oil and/or vitamin E oil to the scrub if you want. The essential oil adds a relaxing scent to the scrub, while the vitamin E oil adds extra hydrating power. Once made you can store the scrub in a glass jar so you can use it in the future.Vanilla Chai Sugar Scrub — Start by adding the contents of 5 chai tea bags to ½ cup of brown sugar, ½ cup white sugar, and ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon. Mix all these ingredients together in a bowl. Then stir in 6 tablespoons of coconut oil (at room temperature), 1 teaspoon of honey, and 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract. The room temperature coconut oil won’t be liquid, so you may need to mash it up in order to combine it into the mixture. Once made you can store this scrub in a glass jar so you can use it again in the future., After you’ve soaked and/or scrubbed your feet, you should always moisturize your feet. Foot cream can be applied to your whole foot, including your ankles. Each of these foot creams can easily be made at home, and smell great.


Olive Oil and Lemon — Add a spoonful of olive oil and 2-3 drops of lemon or lavender oil to a small bottle. Shake the bottle until the liquid turns milky. This mixture can be in the bottle to be used again. Just shake the mixture before each use.Coconut Oil and Shea Butter Cream — Add ¾ cup of coconut oil and ½ cup of shea butter to a small pot and put it on low heat to melt. Once the mixture is melted, remove the pot from the stove and mix in 15 drops of lavender essential oil. Allow the cream to cool before you use it on your feet. Store any leftover cream in a glass jar so you can use it again in the future.Honey Heel Cream — Mix together 1 cup of warmed honey to 1–2 tablespoons (14.8–29.6 ml) of whole milk, then add the juice of 1 orange (about 2-3 tablespoons of orange juice). You can use this cream right away, or you can store it in a glass jar so you can use it in the future. Because of the ingredients, you’ll want to store this cream in the fridge., To keep your feet baby soft, you can use a foot mask on them while you sleep. Right before bed make sure you’ve moisturized your feet with your regular moisturizer. Then coat your feet with either coconut oil, vegetable oil, or a petroleum jelly/lemon mixture. Once your feet are fully coated in one of these items, wrap each foot in plastic wrap, then put on a pair of socks. Now the best part — go to sleep! When you wake up, remove your socks and the plastic wrap and wipe off anything that hasn’t soaked into your skin.The petroleum jelly and lemon mixture should include 1 tablespoon of petroleum jelly and the juice from 1 lemon — for each foot. If you don’t have a fresh lemon available, you can also use 1–2 tablespoons (14.8–29.6 ml) of bottled lemon juice.

