 You will need to have 14 ounces of firm tofu. One block will be enough because you typically will only need ¾ of the block. Use a kitchen knife to cut the block of tofu into ½ inch cubes. Then, set the cubes on a paper towel. The paper towel will absorb the excess moisture., Pour all of the ingredients for the sauce into a bowl. You won’t need it until the end of the cooking process, but it is good to have it prepared. You should pour 2 Tbsp (29.6 ml) of packed brown sugar, 2 Tbsp (29.6 ml) of Hoisin sauce, 2 Tbsp (29.6 ml) of balsamic vinegar, 2 Tbsp (29.6 ml) of soy sauce, 1 Tbsp (14.8 ml) of Szechuan pepper, 2 tsp (9.9 ml) of cornstarch, 2 tsp (9.9 ml) of sesame oil, and ¼ cup (25 g) of water into a bowl and mix it all together with a wooden spoon., You will need ½ cup (68 g) of flour and a tablespoon (4.93 ml) of salt. Mix them together in a small bowl. You will use them later to coat the tofu., Pour several inches of vegetable oil into a pot. Turn the temperature to 350°F (121°C). Allow the oil to heat up. You will use it to fry the tofu., Lightly coat the tofu cubes in the flour mixture and shake off the excess. Drop the coated tofu in the hot oil to fry for a few minutes until it turns a light golden brown. Then, remove the tofu and allow it to drain on a paper towel for a few minutes.Only put in small batches of tofu at a time. You don’t want to crowd the pan.
You should wait to coat the tofu until you’re ready to fry it.
 Coat the bottom of the wok lightly with vegetable oil. Turn the stove to medium high heat. Add the hot peppers, ginger, and garlic. Stir fry the ingredients for about a minute or until they are fragrant., Next, add the onions and and stir fry them until they begin to soften. Then, add the sweet peppers. Stir fry them for a few minutes, but don’t overcook them. The peppers should be bright and glossy when they are done., First, add the peanuts to the wok. Stir them around so that they mix into the ingredients. Then, add the tofu. Stir the tofu very gently. Make sure that it doesn’t break. Stir until the tofu is heated through., First, push all of the ingredients to the side of the wok. Pour in the sauce and bring it to a boil. It should thicken as it heats up. Once the sauce has heated and thickened, mix it with all of the ingredients and stir until all of the ingredients are heated through.You can add some water to the sauce if it gets too thick.
 Once, the ingredients are mixed and heated through, you can choose to eat it. Or, you can add rice or noodles to the mixture. You should make the rice or noodles separately and then mix it with the Kung Pao tofu., Transfer the meal to plates or a serving platter. Allow a couple of minutes for the Kung Pao tofu to cool, but you should still serve while it is still hot. If you don’t eat everything at once, you can store the leftovers in a container and put it in the refrigerator. Try to eat the leftovers as soon as possible.