 Instead of directly asking about the next date, you can try suggesting one. Offering a suggestion can be a gentle approach, allowing you to make your plans known without pushing it on the other person. Suggesting an activity can also also allow your date to have their input known, giving them an active role in planning the date.You might open by saying “What are your plans this weekend? I'm going bowling and wondered if you might want to go with me.”
Try to phrase the date as an idea or alternative to whatever they had originally planned.
 During a date, you'll want to judge how interested the other person seems to be. If you think they are having a great time and feel that there is a real connection between both of you, it's likely that another date is on the horizon. Take a look at some of these behavioral examples to learn if your date might be interested in seeing you again:The date should have felt relaxed after you overcame the initial nerves of meeting.
If the conversation felt forced or was absent, your date might not be interested in going out again.
You and your date should both be naturally curious about one another.
If there really isn't an effort to learn more about one another, it might not be a good idea to ask for another date.
 Although you may be nervous on your first or second date, being confident can be a big help. Displaying behaviors that let your date know that you are relaxed, comfortable and confident can all help make you more interesting and attractive. Try using some of these tips to help you look and feel confident on your date:You can act confident by maintaining straight body posture and maintaining eye contact with the person you are addressing. You can walk confidently by keeping your head level and facing straight ahead, rather than towards the ground. Smiling and acknowledging others around you can also project confidence.
Sitting in a somewhat expansive position can also convey confidence. Sitting with one ankle resting on the opposite knee or with one arm resting over an adjacent chair can open up your posture.
Watch some examples of people who appear confident and self-assured. Try to copy the way they walk and move to help make you feel more confident yourself.
Think of your accomplishments to remind yourself that you are a capable and unique individual. But don't be arrogant or overly self-confident. Try to relax and keep the focus on your date, rather than your own strengths.
 Going on a first date can be a stressful time; however, being stressed out on a date can actually make things more difficult. Relaxing and being yourself are always good ideas when going on your first date. The less stress you feel, the more fun you'll be able to have, making it more likely that a second date is in the future.You can have fun with your date by opting for a more activity oriented date like bowling, playing board games, or going for a romantic bike ride around the city. You should focus on how you can keep your date entertained and engaged on the date so it feels fun for both of you.

