 Calamine lotion is a great over the counter anti-itch cream that will help calm the skin of your poison oak rash. Apply the lotion directly to your rash, using enough to cover the whole area. You can reapply as needed., Use oatmeal in a bath to help reduce itching and sooth your skin. Pour two cups of uncooked oatmeal into a nylon stocking or sock. Tie the end of the sock to the tap of the tub to allow the water to run through it, which will disperse the soothing qualities of the oatmeal through the bath. Then soak your whole body, or just the affected area, in the tub for at least 30 minutes.


You can repeat as often as needed.You can also use oatmeal infused soap products to help. Aveeno has multiple washes and bubble baths that may help relieve irritation. , If your rash is small, slice some fresh cucumbers and place them over your rash. For more coverage, make a cucumbers paste by sending the cucumbers through a food processor. Spread this directly to your skin or spread it across a thin cotton towel and make it into a compress to help sooth your skin.


Cucumber also has anti-inflammatory agents to help with swelling and may also help hydrate your skin.Replace the cucumber every one to two hours.
 Apple cider vinegar can help reduce the pH of your skin, which can help reduce itching. To apply it to your skin, soak a brown paper bag in some apple cider vinegar, then use the soaked bag as a compress. Replace the bag as needed or when the apple cider vinegar has dried.
 Since the rash causes skin irritation, a cool compress will help relieve the pain. Soak a clean, soft cotton washcloth or towel in cool water. Wring out the water and lay it against your skin.


Reapply as often as needed or when the towel gets too warm, which is typically 15 to 30 minutes., Apply aloe vera gel to help reduce or stop your rash from itching.Aloe vera has been used for a long time to help heal in skin wounds and provide an anti-inflammatory agent for skin. Apply the gel directly to the rash to help reducing the itching. Once it dries, you can rinse off any residue with warm water.


Reapply aloe vera gel as often as needed., If your rash has blisters that have started oozing fluids, apply witch hazel. Soak a cotton ball it witch hazel and gently rub the liquid against your blisters. This will help relieve the itchiness as well as dry out the fluids from the blisters.


You can also use it to relieve itching even if you don't have blisters.
Repeat as often as needed., There are a few different kinds of over the counter creams that may be useful for your rash. Try a topical hydrocortisone cream or a corticosteroid cream to relieve the itching and calm the irritation.


You can also take an anti-histamine tablet, such as Benedryl, to help relieve the itching. These will also be helpful if you are having trouble sleeping. Make sure your follow the dosing instructions on the medication. Don’t use anti-histamine creams on the rash, however. This can make your rash worse.