 The most effective way to steal from somebody is to temporarily divert the person's attention away from his or her belongings. This method requires operating in a group of at least three people. Two of them will pretend to get into a physical fight near the victim while the third will grab the victim's wallet or purse.;
, One of the most common and effective methods of theft is to use a beautiful woman to distract the target while either she or her partner steals the target's money. In one scenario, the woman may bend down in a revealing outfit in front of the target while another pickpocket steals the wallet from his back pocket. Alternatively, she might do the stealing herself, and distract the target by grabbing him or kissing him, playing off her touches as affection and then secretly grabbing the man's wallet.
 This is perhaps the most ruthless tactic employed by pickpockets, because it preys upon the good nature of the target. Again, this tactic works best in pairs or groups. One person will pretend to be in danger, summoning the attention of the target, while the other steals the money.


This tactic is commonly used at the beach, where one thief will pretend to drown in the ocean. The target will run in to save him, while the other grabs the victim's wallet and clothes that were left on the beach.
This method is also commonly employed on the streets. One thief will pretend to accidentally drop his or her belongings onto the street and the target will bend down to help while the other thief grabs his wallet. In another scenario, one thief will stop to ask the target for directions and pull out a map to distract the target while he is robbed.
 This method is commonplace in large, crowded cities with high rates of tourism. The pickpocket will use a razor blade or a pocket knife to cut the victim's purse straps and then run away with the purse.
 This method works best when standing in a crowded bus or train where peoples' bodies are already pressed against one another. This way, the victim won't notice the slight pressure he feels against his back pocket as his wallet is being lifted out by the thief.
 The less you have with you, the less damage a successful pickpocket can do. When traveling, only carry what you need with you for the day and secure the rest of your money safely in your hotel room or hostel. When possible, carry cash only so that you don't have to deal with canceling stolen credit cards.
 Money that is stored in back pockets, backpacks, and long purses can be easily accessed by pickpockets without the knowledge of the target. When you are in a crowded area, wear your purse or backpack on the front of your body, gripping it tightly.


Avoid purses with long straps, as these can easily be cut with knives or razor blades. If you do wear a long strapped purse, wear it across your body so that it is more difficult for the thief to grab.
 Crowded tourist destinations are writhing with pickpockets, mostly because locals know that tourists carry a great deal of cash while traveling. Tourists traveling to foreign countries are also easy targets because they are unfamiliar with the local language and geographics. The following cities have among the highest occurrences of street theft:Madrid, Spain.
Barcelona, Spain.
Rome, Italy.
Paris, France.
Athens, Greece.
London, England.
 Extremely skilled pickpockets do not work on their own, and instead operate in groups of two or more. This makes it easier to distract the target while one of the thieves grabs the money. Keep your eyes peeled for pairs and groups of pickpockets, who usually start off by surrounding their target in crowded areas and then communicate with one another through eye contact, nods, and other signals.

