 Honey has both antibacterial and antiviral properties.Any organic honey will have these properties, but you can also try medicinal honey, such as Manuka honey from New Zealand. Gently warm up one cup of honey, and then add three to four tablespoons of freshly squeezed lemon juice to the warm honey. If you only have bottled lemon juice, use four to five tablespoons. When you need the cough medicine, take one to two tablespoons as needed.You can also cut a washed, whole lemon into thin slices (along with the skin and the seeds) and add to one cup of honey. Heat on a low flame for ten minutes with constant stirring, breaking up the lemon slices as you stir. Add ¼ to ⅓ cup water to the honey-lemon mixture and stir in while heating over the low flame. Refrigerate the mixture and take a tablespoon as needed.
Lemon is often added because lemon juice contains high levels of Vitamin C. The juice of one lemon contains 51% of the daily Vitamin C requirement. Lemon juice also has antibacterial, and antiviral properties.
You can also add garlic to the mixture. Garlic has antibacterial, antiviral, antiparasitic and antifungal properties, and stimulates the immune system.Peel two to three cloves of garlic and chop them as finely as possible. Or you can try ginger, which acts as an expectorant. Cut and peel about 1.5 inches of fresh ginger root and finely grate it. Add either to the honey-lemon mixture before you add water.
Do not give honey to any child under 12 months of age because there is a small risk of getting infant botulism., Turmeric milk is a traditional treatment for cough. It has antibacterial properties that can help with colds and coughs.Mix ½ teaspoon of turmeric in one glass of warm milk . If you don’t like cow’s milk, try soy or almond milk.
 Expectorant herbs are herbs that help increase the secretions and thin out them to make it easier to cough up the phlegm. Be aware that these are not necessarily meant to be consumed but diluted and applied to the skin or inhaled; some of these herbs may be toxic if ingested. These essential oils or dried herbs have antibacterial, antifungal, or antiseptic properties in addition to the expectorant properties, meaning they can kill bacteria and other microorganisms that can infect the sinuses and cause colds. Talk to your doctor before using any of these herbs, especially if you are taking other medications, are pregnant, or want to use them on a child. Readily available herbs that function as expectorants include:


EucalyptusElecampane (Inula)Slippery ElmFennel seed
Camphor
HyssopLobeliaMulleinThyme
Spearmint and Peppermint
Ginger

, Take one teaspoon of your choice of dried herb (or three teaspoons of fresh herb) and steep in one cup of boiled water. Let it steep for five to 10 minutes. Drink four to six cups a day, sipping the warm tea throughout the day.


You can add some honey and lemon to taste.
 The steam method allows the herbal remedies to get directly into the lungs and act quickly and effectively. Steam can also help open up the nasal passages and help thin out any mucus. You can use either the dried herbs or the essential oils of many of these herbs. Both can be effective and depend on your preferences and what you have available.


Add one to two drops of any of the expectorant essential oils or one to two teaspoons of dried herb. Start with one drop to one quart of water. Once you add the herbs, boil for another minute, turn off the heat, move the pot to a comfortable area, and begin steaming.
Cover your head with a large, clean cotton towel and place your head over the steaming pot. Close your eyes. Keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water. You want the heat to enter your nose, throat and lungs, but not burn yourself with heat.
Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth for five counts and then in and out through your mouth for two counts. Repeat for 10 minutes or as long as the water is still steaming.
Try to blow your nose and cough during and after the treatment.
You can do this every two hours or as often as your schedule permits.

