 The most important thing you'll need for this trick is a competitor who is a good sport. This can potentially be anyone in the bar, but a friend is probably the best choice. However, if you see strangers who look like they can take a joke, go for it.


Avoid bothering bikers, surly-looking regulars, or anyone else who looks like they won't react well to losing a bet. Use common sense here.;
, If the person you choose is up for a challenge, explain the game to them before you start. This part is important — if you don't explain the rules clearly, you'll probably get some angry complaints and a refusal to pay up. The bet works as follows:


You will order two beers and your opponent will order two shots. To win, you must drink both beers before your opponent can drink the shots. If anyone isn't drinking, feel free to substitute soda or water for alcohol.
Neither person can touch the other's drinks or glasses.
Both people must drink only one drink at a time — no touching the second drink until the first is finished.
Your opponent must give you a one beer head start. In other words, s/he must wait until you finish your first beer before s/he drinks the first shot.
 These are up to you, but small friendly bets tend to be the most fun. For example, you might try playing for a few dollars. Another good idea is to have the loser buy the winner a drink.


Large bets are certainly possible, but these can lead to hurt feelings for the loser.
 Set the two beers in front of you and the shots in front of your opponent. Sit across from each other at a small table so that you can easily reach each other. Get ready to drink!

, Finish your first glass of beer at a reasonable speed. Your opponent will probably have his or her hands on the first shot, ready to throw it back as soon as you finish. This is exactly what you want. Be ready to act fast as soon as you drink the last drop of beer.
 This is it! After you finish your first drink, your opponent will probably go straight for the first shot. Quickly flip your beer glass and put it upside down over the second shot glass.
 Since you aren't allowed to touch each others' glasses, your opponent can't get to the second shot. You win.


Be ready to defend yourself from accusations of cheating! Remind your opponent that you obeyed the rules of the game: you didn't touch anyone's glass except your own and you drank one beer at a time.

