 Check the forecast before purchasing or harvesting fresh vegetables. Wait for a two-day stretch with clear skies, low humidity, and temperatures near, at, or above 100 degrees Fahrenheit.If no such conditions are likely, use an alternate form of drying. Avoid ruining your vegetables with mold due to the presence of excess moisture., Just about any clean food tray (such as a cookie sheet, roasting pan, cutting board, or similar kitchen item) will suffice.But to further reduce the risk of spoilage, use a perforated surface (like a cooling rack or a plastic screen) to allow more air circulation from underneath.If using a plastic screen or a cooling rack without legs of its own, improvise a frame for it to rest on. Arrange pieces of wood, rocks, or any other solid objects of an even height to elevate the tray.
 First, line your tray with paper or cheesecloth to absorb moisture as it leeches out of your veggies. Then place your vegetables on the tray. Arrange each piece so that it does not touch any others, which will allow more air circulation and quicken the drying process., Set it where it will receive constant sunlight all day long. If no such area exists, reposition your tray over the course of the day to keep it out of the shade. To quicken the drying process, place your tray on a level surface that reflects heat (like concrete, asphalt, or even your roof). Heat your tray from underneath as well as from above., If you anticipate an insect problem, cover your tray with cheesecloth. Keep the cloth from making direct contact with your vegetables so that it doesn’t stick to them when you remove it later on.If the rims of your tray are too low, use an appropriately sized cardboard box to create a frame for your cover:


Choose a box large enough to fit your tray inside. Use a utility blade to slice off the top flaps. If necessary, trim the sides down until they will only be about an inch higher than the tray inside. Drape cheesecloth over the top. Staple one end to a side of the box, pull the cloth taut over the top, and staple the other end. Now slice off the bottom flaps so you can place your cover over the tray.
 Uncover the tray and turn each piece over every three hours. Ensure that each side dries evenly.If needed, replace the tray’s lining so your vegetables do not sit in excess moisture.


Some vegetables may dry thoroughly after six hours, so use the three-hour rule to ensure that both sides get equal time in the sun.
 When you flip your vegetables, check for signs of moisture by pushing your finger into the flesh. Or pick up a slice and gently try to bend it. If it bends without resistance, it still retains moisture. If it feels brittle enough to snap in two, it has dried out., If your veggies haven’t dried out in one day, keep them safe from dew and other moisture that might saturate them overnight. Relocate the tray to a warm, dry area indoors. As long as tomorrow’s weather promises to be warm, sunny, and dry, set the tray outside again in the morning.If a change in weather prevents you from finishing sun-drying your veggies, finish the process in your oven.

