 Your insulin will come with detailed directions on proper storage and handling. Make sure to familiarize yourself with these directions, and ask your vet if you have any questions.;
, Insulin will deteriorate and become ineffective if it is exposed to heat. It is best to store the insulin in the refrigerator door, where temperatures are the most stable.If the insulin appears cloudy, discolored, has been exposed to heat, or is expired, dispose of it and start with a new bottle.
 This will make the injection more comfortable for your cat. To do this, take the insulin vial out of the refrigerator and let it sit in a cool area, out of direct sunlight, for up to an hour. You can also warm the insulin by gently rolling the bottle between the palms of your hands., Roll the bottle 2 or 3 times so the contents are uniformly mixed. Never shake the insulin, as this can cause bubbles to form., Remove the needle guard from the end of your syringe. Turn the insulin bottle upside-down and slide the needle into the rubber stopper at the top of the bottle., Draw back the plunger to fill the syringe with the amount of insulin indicated by your vet as the correct dosage for your cat. Push the plunger back in to shoot the insulin back into the bottle, then draw the insulin back into the syringe a second time. This will help reduce the chances of air bubbles getting into the syringe, which can make it difficult to measure the dosage accurately.Double-check the syringe to make sure that you have the correct dosage. Your vet should provide you with clear instructions about how many units or milliliters to administer to your cat.
 Once you have double checked that you have the right dosage of insulin in the syringe, put away the insulin bottle in your refrigerator and place the syringe somewhere safe (e.g. on a clean kitchen counter, in your bathroom medicine cabinet, or in some other cool, stable place where it will be out of reach of pets and small children) until you are ready to administer the dosage to your cat.
 Your vet may instruct you to give your cat an injection once or twice a day. It is best to administer the injections at approximately the same time(s) every day. Insulin injections are most effective when administered immediately after the cat has eaten.It’s okay if you are not able to administer the injections at exactly the same time(s) each day. A variation of an hour or so will not harm your cat.
 It is best not to inject the insulin while the cat is eating, because this may cause your cat to feel nervous and unsafe during meal times. Allow the cat to finish eating undisturbed.Ask your vet what to do if your cat skips a meal or vomits immediately after eating. They may recommend giving the cat a reduced dosage in these situations.
 Pet or groom your cat a few times to ease anxiety, and speak to your cat in a quiet, reassuring voice. You can try offering a small, healthy treat, like a piece of cooked, unseasoned chicken, as you are preparing your cat for the injection.If your cat tends to struggle or panic during an injection, you may wish to ask someone else to help you hold or gently distract the cat while you administer the injection.
 If you are confident that your cat will remain calm during the injection, you might place the cat on your lap. However, there is less risk of injury to you and your cat if you place the cat on a flat, elevated surface, like a table top., Once you have the cat in position and ready to receive the injection, pick up the syringe that you filled with the correct dosage of insulin. Take the safety cap off the needle, and hold the syringe with your dominant hand (i.e. if you are right-handed, hold the syringe in your right hand)., Select a small fold of skin along the cat’s back, shoulders, side of the chest, or abdomen.Avoid injecting the insulin into the same site repeatedly, as this can result in scar tissue buildup or granulomas., Take care not to push the needle all the way through the fold of skin or into your thumb or finger where you are holding the cat’s skin. Keep your thumb on the plunger as you are inserting the needle., Push the plunger in with your thumb, and immediately pull the needle out when you are finished.You may wish to draw the plunger back slightly before you make the injection, to insure that you have not hit a blood vessel. If blood enters the syringe when you pull back the plunger, remove the needle and make the injection somewhere else.
Replace safety cap on the needle as soon as you have finished making the injection.
 Praise your cat in a gentle voice and gently pet the cat. You may also offer the cat a small treat, like a piece of cooked chicken.
 Place the capped needle in a puncture-proof container. You may be able to obtain a specialized “sharps” container from your vet’s office or your local pharmacy. Ask your vet or your local waste disposal service about proper disposal procedures in your area.