 Children between the ages of 8 and 18 spend an average of 7.5 hours a day using electronics and media such as TV, cell phones, computers, and video games.The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that kids and teens should use media such as this for "no more than one or two hours per day."You can limit tech consumption by establishing a "curfew" for media devices, such as requiring them to be shut off before bedtime. Setting up scheduled times when your children are allowed to use media and technology, such as a "video game hour," will help establish boundaries for proper use.Have a small box or shelf for your child to put his or her cell phone in before they go outside. This will encourage them to be more mindful about where and when they use it, and will make it easier for you to make sure they're actually getting the quality outdoor time they need.;
, You don't have to toss all your tech, but the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that parents create "screen-free" zones at home by taking actions such as turning off the TV at mealtimes and making sure that children's bedrooms don't have computers, TVs, or video games in them. If your children know there are other options for recreation than media consumption, they will be more likely to take advantage of them.
 If you have a backyard, you may need to spruce it up a little to make it fun for your kids to play in. Clear away overgrown brush and any poisonous plants and keep the yard mowed. Things such as swing-sets and sandboxes provide hours of fun.


If you live an urban area or don't have a yard, you still have options. find a safe, pleasant park or playground and make it a habit to take your kids there. You can even search the Internet for recommendations from people in your community. There are also online playground finders.
 Studies have show that adults who feel a sense of community with their neighbors are likely to spend more time outdoors for recreation and exercise, and this carries over to their children too. Parents who know their neighbors are also more likely to feel safe letting their children play outdoors.Getting to know your neighborhood can be particularly helpful if you don't have a suitable play area for your kids at your own home. In addition to the health benefits of outdoor play, allowing your kids to play at their friends' houses promotes social skills development, helps them learn teamwork, and relieves stress.

