 Start by gathering everything you’ll need to make the dip. This basic nacho dip recipe calls for 1 package of cream cheese, 1-2 cups of sour cream, 1 jar of salsa, 1 large tomato, onion, and green bell pepper (to suit tastes), and about a cup of freshly shredded cheese. Dice and mix the vegetables together, then set them aside so they’ll be ready to add in later.


To make the recipe big enough to fill up a crowd, simply double the amounts of the primary ingredients.;
, Allow the package of cream cheese to soften and come to room temperature. This will promote spreadability and allow it to mix with the thinner sour cream. Drain any separated liquid from the cream cheese container.


Most culinary guidelines will tell you to leave a package of cream cheese out overnight in order to soften in, but the process can be sped up considerably by first cutting the cream cheese into small cubes., Combine the whole package of cream cheese with 1 cup of sour cream in a large mixing bowl. Mix the two thoroughly using an electric beater or spatula. Continue mixing until the consistency is the same throughout. The cream cheese and sour cream together will provide the creamy base for the dip.Start with one cup of sour cream. If the mixture is still too thick to easily blend, increase the amount of sour cream up to one additional cup. Remember, the dip will thicken once it’s refrigerated.
If you’re mixing the cream cheese and sour cream by hand, use scooping circular motions with the spatula to “fold” the mixture in on itself.
 Take one small packet of taco seasoning and add it to the cream cheese/sour cream mixture. Mix again until the seasoning is blended in.As an alternative to packaged taco seasoning, you might use chili powder, garlic powder, cayenne pepper, and/or cumin., Open a jar of salsa and begin adding it gradually to the dip base. The salsa should be added to taste and stirred in until the mixture becomes a light pink color. Make sure not to add too much at once, as this can overpower the dairy elements and reduce the creaminess of the dip.Choose a thick salsa instead of thinner types like pico de gallo to avoid making the dip watery.
Just to be on the safe side, use mild salsa. If you want to spice the dip up later, you’ll have more control using fresh peppers and other seasonings.
 Sprinkle roughly a cup’s worth of shredded cheese over the top of the cream cheese/sour cream/salsa mixture. Cover the entire dish so that the cheese is distributed evenly throughout the dip. Add more cheese to taste.


The sharper notes of cheeses with distinct flavors, like cheddar and jack, will stand out nicely in your dip., Take the tomatoes, onions and green bell peppers you diced earlier and add them into the dip. Mix the entire entire concoction together so that each ingredient is spread through the dip—ideally, each bite will contain a little bit of everything.


Looking for other vegetables to build up your nacho dip? Try minced garlic, black beans or mild Anaheim or poblano peppers.
 Place the bowl containing the mixed ingredients in the refrigerator and allow it to sit for thirty minutes to an hour until the dip “sets up.” The cream cheese/sour cream mixture will thicken as it cools, and the flavors of the taco seasoning, cheese and vegetables will have time to come together. At the sixty minute mark, or whenever you’re ready to serve it, take the dip out, transfer it to the intended serving dish and arrange tortilla chips around the dip. You’re ready to eat!Leave the dip in the refrigerator until you’re ready to bring it out for your guests.
 For a heartier, more savory dip, pour a can or two of Hormel chili into the mixture right after you add the salsa. Chili will lend the nacho dip a thick and meaty flavor and make it more filling; you could even serve this variation of the dip as the main course!If canned chili still isn’t substantial enough for you, brown a few ounces of lean ground beef and use it to supplement your heavy-duty dip.
 If you want to kick things up a notch, incorporate fresh or pickled jalapeno slices into the dip, or make a second batch specifically for spice lovers. Jalapenos pair well with the rest of the ingredients used in the dip, and the piquancy of the peppers will be offset nicely by the cool creaminess of the cream cheese.Remove as many seeds as you can when cooking with fresh jalapenos—that’s where most of the spice comes from. You want the flavor, not just the heat.
 If you’re in a crunch for time or just want to make the cooking process as hands-free as possible, use a couple cans of Rotel instead of dealing with washing, prepping and cutting fresh vegetables. Rotel contains tomatoes and mild green chiles, making it perfect for Mexican and Southwest-inspired dishes and dips. You can even mix and match, if you prefer, using Rotel in place of the tomatoes and green bell pepper while adding fresh onion and whatever other veggies you desire.Drain the Rotel can of all excess liquid before adding it to your dip.
 While most cream cheese-based dips are made to be served at cool temperatures, you can also modify the cooking process to make a hot, delicious and extra creamy dip. This will require you to heat the cream cheese/sour cream mixture slowly, while gradually adding the other ingredients. Cut the cream cheese into small cubes before combining it with the other ingredients and bake the dip in a casserole dish at a low heat to prevent the cream cheese from scorching or clumping. When you’re ready to serve, sprinkle a little more shredded cheese over the top for a nice melted finished.Cream cheese is excellent for making rich, creamy sauces and dips, but it has to be heated correctly. Soften the cream cheese to room temperature first, then melt it over low heat gradually. Add a few ounces of milk if the cream cheese looks like it’s curdling or getting thick.Smooth, easily-melted cheeses and cheese products like Velveeta will work well for hot dips.
