 Crush aluminum foil into homemade "dryer balls" in order to reduce static cling when you tumble-dry your clothes. Compress the foil into two or three balls, each about two inches in diameter. Make sure that each ball is tight and smoothly-pressed so that it won't snag on the garments in the dryer. This can be a cheap and chemical-free alternative to commercial dryer sheets.You can continue to use the same dryer balls for months. When the balls start to come apart, replace them with freshly-crumpled foil.
Be aware that the aluminum dryer ball will not soften your clothing like a commercial dryer sheet. Furthermore, it might make your dryer a bit noisier. Consider whether these downsides are worth the cost-effectiveness.
 A standard ironing board is designed to absorb heat and moisture. Aluminum foil will trap heat and moisture around your clothing, which should speed up the ironing process. Be aware of the risks of trapping high heat and moisture: if you aren't careful, you will greatly increase the chance of burning yourself.Use this method to steam garments that aren't iron-safe. Lay the the clothing on the aluminum foil, and hold the iron 1-2 inches above the fabric. Continually press the "steam" button to quickly steam out the wrinkles.
 First, line the inside of a bowl with aluminum foil. Then, fill the foil with warm water; one tablespoon of salt; one tablespoon of baking soda; and one teaspoon of dish soap. Soak your tarnished metal items: jewelry, silverware, coins, etc. Let the mixture do its work for ten minutes. Then, remove the metal items and dry them off., Fold a piece of aluminum foil until it is five or six layers thick. Then, cut it repeatedly with a pair of dulled scissors. This should gently sharpen the blades and increase the lifespan of the tool., Before you move a piece of furniture, cut up pieces of aluminum foil. Slide the foil pieces beneath the legs with the dull side down. These foil patches should help the furniture slide smoothly across the floor.
 Use crumpled-up aluminum foil like you would use steel wool. Scrub hard with the foil ball, and it should pick up most caked-on and burnt material. It may not be as effective as an actual cleaning product, but it will suffice in a pinch. Use foil to clean any metal: grills, bicycle parts, etc.