 Anti-seizure medicines (anticonvulsants) are often the first treatment choice for some types of nerve pain. Ask your doctor about your options. Gabapentin (Gralise, Neurontin) and pregabalin (Lyrica) cause fewer side effects than older medicines, but can still cause dizziness and drowsiness.Anticonvulsants are most commonly used to treat neuropathy caused by diabetes, herpes, and injuries to your spinal cord.
 Carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Tegretol) is an anti-seizure medication commonly prescribed to treat some types of nerve pain.Talk to your doctor about whether this medication is safe and appropriate for you to take. It can cause side effects like headache, nausea, and liver damage.


Carbamazepine is especially useful in a nerve problem called trigeminal neuralgia. This causes searing nerve pain on one side of your face.
 Some antidepressant medications may improve nerve pain, so discuss your options with your doctor. Amitriptyline, nortriptyline, and doxepin may improve pain. They can cause side effects such as dry mouth, blurry vision, constipation, and a hard time urinating.For nerve pain in your hands and feet caused by diabetes, Cymbalta or Effexor XR may help.
 For mild nerve pain, over-the-counter pain medicine may help. Try a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) like ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen, or acetaminophen (Tylenol). Talk to your doctor or pharmacist first if you have any medical conditions that affect your kidneys, liver, or stomach. For severe pain that is not relieved by OTC medicine, ask your doctor for a referral to a Pain Management specialist. They may prescribe you stronger medication, like Tramadol or Hydrocodone.Opioid pain medications should only be used for a short time. They can become addictive., Depending on the location and cause of your nerve pain, an injection with a corticosteroid may help. This relieves inflammation and can calm pain. Ask your doctor about this if you have a pinched nerve.It isn’t helpful for nerve pain caused by medical conditions like diabetes.


You may also be able to take a steroid pill, but this causes far more side effects.
 Studies have proven that in many cases, neuropathy may be relieved by medical marijuana.If it’s legal in the state you live in and other treatment options haven’t worked for you, consider asking your doctor about taking medical marijuana to ease your nerve pain.