 FedEx has different numbers depending on what you need, though there is one main customer support number. You can find a full list of numbers on the FedEx website, including the one appropriate for your problem or need.The main customer support number for the U.S. and international calls for FedEx office is 1-800-Go-FedEx or 1-800-463-3339. You'll also use this number for problems with commercial printing accounts, as well as to find a local print shop or center. The main number is the same for the general customer support for US customers, but for international customers, the number is 1-800-247-4747. If you need TDD service (Telephone Device for the Deaf), call 1-800-238-4461If you want to contact FedEx's corporate offices, you can dial the 800 number or 1-469-980-3000.
If you need an in-country toll-free number, look up your country on this page: http://www.fedex.com/us/customersupport/call/. You'll need to click on your region to find your country's number.;
, When you dial the main number, you'll be given a number of automated options. To choose options, you'll need a touchtone phone. Luckily, most phones today are touchtone, so you probably don't need to worry.


However, if you don't have a touchtone phone, FedEx now has a voice-operated option, meaning you can simply say what you need and the automated system will direct you., The phone number will go through a list of options. For instance, pressing "1" will take you to "Schedule a Pickup," while option "2" will take you to "Track a Package. Option "3" will let you find a local store, while option "4" lets you order supplies and "5" takes you to the current rates for shipping.If you need claims, press "61," while "62" is billing and "63" is technical support.
If you want to see all options before you call, you can view them all here: http://www.fedex.com/us/customersupport/call/phonemenu.html.
 If you don't want to go through all the options, you can simply skip to talking to a representative, who will point you in the right direction. To get to a representative, press "0" as soon as the line picks up.