 Start in a shopping mall or at a large department store so that you can compare different styles. , Take into account the “waist” of the jean, at low (hip), medium (above hip) or high (near the belly button) rise levels. The waist is more important than the inseam, because the jeans can be shortened.


If you are very tall, look for a 36-inch (91-cm) inseam. Brands like Habitual and Rock n’Republic specialize in tall sizes. Petites can try Kasil, Banana Republic and Caslon brands.
 The following are common styles of jeans:


Flares. This type goes in and out of fashion quickly. They open wide between the knee and ankle. A flare can accentuate curves.
Bootcut. This is the most versatile jean style for women of different body types. It flares very slightly at the bottom, with just enough to fit over heels or boots.
Wide-legs are similar to flares. They are a trouser style that looks good with heels and boots. They are easy to dress up and fit both curvy or straight body types.
Straight-leg jeans follow the leg and don’t flare. They can make your legs look slim, but make sure they aren’t tight in the calves.
Skinny jeans. This denim is perfect to wear underneath tall boots. They should be close fitting from buttocks to ankles, but not uncomfortable. They can be the hardest styles to fit to your body, especially for women with curves.
Relaxed or boyfriend-fit. Just as the name suggests, these jeans are baggy throughout the leg. They are stylish when rolled up to the ankle, and they should not be baggy in the butt. They generally look better on tall figures, rather than petites. , Low-rise jeans have about 8 to 10 fewer inches (20 to 25 cm) in the hips and waist than low-rise. If you carry extra weight in your hips, buttocks or stomach, low-rise is likely to give you an unflattering “muffin top,” or fat that puffs out above the waistband.
 Avoid contrast stitching, pocket embellishments or whiskering. They can detract from a good fit, and they are more indicative of “fashion” jeans, not everyday styles.


Whiskering is the intentional distressing of jeans around the hips and buttocks. They usually look like horizontal lines around your hip joints.
Dark washes are more slimming than lighter blues or sanded washes. , A pair of jeans will stretch about 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) all around. However, if you can’t fit a finger between the area where your hipbone and waistband meet, they are too tight.


Always take 2 to 3 sizes of a pair of jeans into the room. All brands vary, so you could be a size larger or smaller than you assume.
 If you want your butt to appear larger, choose button pockets. If you want your hips to look curvier, you can try washes that accentuate hip seams.

