 Following a diet plan can help reduce the occurrence of the bacteria that cause yeast infections. Experts suggest avoiding alcohol, sugary foods and beverages including artificial sweeteners, refined carbohydrates, and foods with a high concentration of yeast.Certain dairy products, such as cheese and butter may also contribute to candidiasis, but further research is needed.
If you have low blood sugar or are unsure about which foods you should avoid, ask your doctor or dietitian to help you come up with a personalized diet plan.
 Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, is an important natural antioxidant that helps promote immune function. Vitamin C can be taken as a dietary supplement with a recommended dose of 500 to 1000 mg split into two or three times daily. You can also add vitamin C-rich foods to your daily diet. Consult your doctor before taking vitamin C supplements if you are taking immunosuppressant drugs or have a weakened immune system. However, natural sources of vitamin C have no side effects. Good natural sources of vitamin C are:sweet red or green peppers
citrus fruit such as oranges, pomelo, grapefruit, limes or non-concentrated citrus juices.
spinach, broccoli and Brussels sprouts
strawberries and raspberries
tomatoes
mango, papaya and cantaloupe

, Vitamin E is an antioxidant that boosts the immune system, and may be effective if your yeast infection is caused by a weakened immune system. The recommended dosage for adults is 15 mg per day.Vitamin E can be found in foods such as:vegetable oils
almonds
peanuts
hazelnuts
sunflower seeds
spinach
broccoli

, Essential fatty acids can help reduce inflammation and the burning sensation often experienced by people with yeast infections. A mix of omega-6, found in evening primrose extract, and omega-3, found in fish or flaxseed oil, is recommended. Take 2 tablespoons of oil per day or 1,000 to 1,500 mg in separate doses, twice a day.Foods that are rich in omega-3 include:


eggs
pinto beans, soybeans, and black-eyed peas
tofu
wild salmon and sardines
walnuts, almonds, chia seeds, and flaxseed
canola oil, fish oil, and flaxseed oil

, Probiotics are a friendly bacteria that are commonly found in the inner lining of your gut and intestine, which function as an antifungal to keep Candida bacteria in check while boosting your immune system. Some studies also suggest that yogurt with active probiotics cultures can help prevent yeast infections from occurring. Some ways to boost your probiotic intake include:Try taking probiotic supplements with a concentration of 1 to 10 billion bifidobacterium, up to twice a day.
Ask your doctor before taking probiotics if you take drugs to suppress your immune system or if you are taking antibiotics.
Eat 8 oz (250 ml) of plain, unsweetened yogurt daily to help reduce yeast infections.
You can also purchase a probiotic vaginal suppository to help restore balance to the bacteria in your vagina.

