 Brush your hair to remove any knots and tangles that may be present. To create a messy bun, you can choose to have a part in your hair present or to pull all your hair back from the front.;
, Without brushing your hair, grab it all starting at the front near your face and collecting all your hair into one hand. Hold the hair at the location where you want to have your bun.


To create a sophisticated mod look, pull your hair up very high near the top of your head. For a more professional look, your hair should be drawn to the center of the back of your head. To create an easy carefree messy bun, pull your hair to the nape of your neck.
You can choose to make your bun off-center for a more playful look if you would like.
Because you are going for a messy bun look, don’t brush your hair or run your hands through it too much as you draw it back. Simply pick your hair up, resisting the temptation to finger brush it.
Be sure to pick up any loose strands, and make sure that all of your hair has been included in your handful.
 Take an elastic and wrap it around your hair. It should take you about 3 wraps of the band total to get a tight fit. On the third wrap of the ponytail though, don’t pull your hair all the way through the band. Instead, leave ½-⅓ of your hair hanging out the bottom as a tail, while the remaining portion of your hair will create a loop in the upper part of the ponytail.
 You should now be left with your hair in a large loop, with a tail of hair sticking out below it. Take the tail and wrap it around the base of the ponytail, covering the band. Use 2-3 bobby pins to secure the tail around the base. Then, part the loop down the center and pull the two sides to your scalp, and pin.









You don’t need to create a direct part through the loop, you are only trying to pin the body of it to your head so that it doesn’t retain its ring-like shape.
Feel free to pull out little pieces of your hair to let hang loose or to pin in other directions to enhance the messy look.
 Spritz your hair with a bit of hairspray to keep your bun long lasting, and add any decorative hair accessories you might have. A cute headband or small pin near the base of the bun is a great way to add a bit of extra interest to your bun.

