 Constipation can cause hemorrhoids, which can be relieved with an increase in fiber. You should get at least 30 to 35 grams of fiber a day.You can accomplish eating more food with fiber. You should get at least 30 to 35 grams of fiber a day. Try to incorporate more fiber rich foods into your diet. Foods that are high in fiber are:Baked beans
Split peas
Lentils
Black beans
Broccoli
Sweet corn
Bran muffins
Bran flakes
Popcorn
Apples
Raspberries
Pears
Whole grains

, If you don’t get enough fiber from your diet, you can take fiber supplements to help as well. Psyllium, which is a fiber supplement found in Metamucil, is the typically recommended, but it can leave some people bloated. You can also try Benefiber, which is a less harsh option. Look at the fiber content in each fiber supplement and make sure you don’t get too much every day. This can lead to diarrhea.
 Another way to cut down on constipation is to stay hydrated. You should drink eight to 12 glasses of water per day. Try to space it out throughout the day so you don’t get overly full of water at one time.You can also drink juice and seltzer water if you don’t like plain water all the time.
 One of the best ways to relieve constipation is to exercise every day. The activity helps keep your digestion regular. In addition to digestion, it will also help you be healthier in general.


Try running, jogging, swimming, or walking every day for at least 30 minutes. You can also try yoga, pilates, or other exercise routine. Any activity that keeps you moving will help digestion., There are many different over the counter medications that you can take to help with constipation. You can take stool softeners such as Dulcolax or laxatives such as Ex Lax. They both can help relieve your constipation and help with discomfort.


Never take more than one laxative or stool softener at a time. This can cause serious health problems.
Always follow the instructions on each medication. Talk to your doctor if your constipation issues last longer than a few weeks, even with preventative methods., Constipation is a common side effect of many prescription and OTC medications.Speak with your doctor before stopping any medication you take regularly, but ask if she can recommend or prescribe a different drug that might not cause constipation.


Constipation is the most common side effect of taking opioids (morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone). These are not good options for treating pain from hemorrhoids, as they will only worsen your condition.

