 You don't have to use the included striker to light most matches — as long as you build up enough friction to heat up the match head, you can strike many matches almost anywhere that's dry. However, this is usually easiest if you use strike anywhere matches. As their name suggests, these matches are designed to light well on various surfaces.


Strike anywhere matches are usually wood matches identified as such on the packaging. They are not especially expensive: a 250-match box may cost as little as $2.Strike anywhere matches only work on dry surfaces.
 This trick is a must for campers, hikers, and anyone else who might want to improve their wilderness survival skills. For best results, you'll want to find a flat dry rock with a slightly "rough" or abrasive surface. The texture should be similar to sidewalk concrete. As noted above, the rock also must be dry. If you can't find a dry rock, find a suitable wet rock, wipe it on your clothing, and carry it in your pocket for a few hours or set it somewhere dry.


Hold the match between your middle finger and thumb and use your index finger to press the head into the rock. This is the same technique you'd use to light a paper match without folding the cover over. The rougher the rock's surface is, the lighter you'll want to press to hit the friction "sweet spot" for lighting a flame.
 If you're still in civilization but stuck without access to a match striker, you can usually use the materials around you in a pinch. Simply strike the match the same way you would if you were using a normal striker or a stone, using less pressure for rougher materials. For this to work, however, the material you use must be completely dry. Just a few possibilities for materials to use include:


Concrete
Grout (between tiles, etc.)
Brick
Ceramic
Keep in mind that striking matches can leave small marks on whatever material you're using, so you may not want to do it on other people's possessions.
 This trick is handy when you're caught without a matchbook in the garage or workshop. Very fine finishing sand papers work best for this — rougher Sandpaper can rub the match head off without lighting it. Simply lay a small patch of the sandpaper on a flat surface, then press the match head into it and drag it across just like you'd use a normal striker.


Never light matches around dry wood shavings (which are common in many places sandpaper can be found). This highly flammable material can easily start fires.
 This is great as a party trick, but it's something you'll want to attempt carefully to avoid hurting yourself or others. Open the front fold of your pants to expose the zipper. Use one hand to stretch the fabric of your pants so that the zipper is as straight and flat as possible. Hold the match in your other hand, press it into the top of your zipper, and strike downward with light pressure. This can be very tricky to get right, so don't be surprised if it takes many tries.



Always strike down towards the floor, not up towards your body. This way, if you lose control of the match, it will fall to the floor, rather than flying into your shirt.
Only attempt this if you are wearing pants made from a sturdy, thick material like denim that is unlikely to catch fire. Do not try this when you are wearing shorts or open-toed shoes.
 Believe it or not, even perfectly-smooth glass windows can light matches. You need to use a good amount of pressure for this method, so try putting your index finger right behind the match head so you can squeeze it into the surface of the glass with a little extra force. Press the match head into the glass, then draw it quickly downward in a single quick motion, keeping strong pressure behind it. Move your index finger away from the match head as soon as it lights to keep from burning yourself.


This can leave streaks on the window, so you may not want to do this on a window where people are likely to notice it. However, the streaks can usually be washed off without problems.
 This trick is sure to get the attention of people around you, but only attempt it if you're willing to protect yourself and others with plenty of common sense. First, get the fronts of your teeth as dry as possible with a clean rag or paper towel. Then, holding the tip of the match head against your teeth, whip it across them while applying firm pressure. Hold the match away from your mouth immediately, even if you don't think you've lit it successfully. Wash your mouth out with water when you're done.


Another variation on this trick involves holding the match behind your front two teeth and pulling it down and out.It should go without saying, but this trick requires lots of caution to pull off safely. It is very possible that you may burn your mouth and lips with this trick. Repeated attempts are not recommended, as the effects of the chemicals in match heads on the teeth are not well known.

