 While there are some situations where telling the whole truth as you see it might not be the most ethical choice,in most cases, honesty really is the best policy.


Perhaps the most important time to tell the truth is when you would benefit from a lie.If you can be truthful at your own expense, you show that your relationship with another person is important. You also show them that their well-being is more important than your own.For example, imagine your friend loans you a book and you spill coffee on it. You could say that you lost the book. Or, you could try to find another copy and pretend nothing happened. But it is important to tell your friend what really happened. A damaged book may not be a big deal, but the risk of the truth emerging (or the risk of your friend perceiving the lie) will fracture trust.
 Sometimes it feels unavoidable to lie. Sometimes it happens without even thinking. If you do lie to someone, it is best to confess to your lie as soon as possible. Then, explain your motives and be sincere about your remorse.If you get caught, don't deny it. That is simply another lie, and it will further erode trust.
 When you feel like lying to someone, either to spare their feelings or to spare yourself from their unfavorable response, find an anchor point to focus on. Choose something good about that person and emphasize this in your communication.


Speak to that anchor of goodness, rather than overplaying the bad news you need to convey.
Be sure to offer your willingness to listen. It can be helpful to offer phrases like “It seems to me,” or “I believe that,” emphasizing that this is your perception of the truth.This shows you're open to other points of view, and can help preserve trusting relationships.
Here's an example: If you need to tell a friend that she has made a mistake, explain what went wrong in neutral and non-judgmental language. Focus on her strengths, her value to you as a friend and, if possible, how she can redeem the situation. Then ask for her side of the story and listen intently. But, don't tell her everything is fine if actually is not.
The conversation might go like this: "Beryl, I believe you made a significant mistake on our report. I can see that you’ve been under a lot of stress with this new project. I know the mistake doesn’t reflect your talent or abilities. But, I think we should tell the client immediately and offer them a new report."

, People who only convey hard facts come across as cold and distant. This does not encourage trust.


You may think it's easier to just regurgitate the facts as they happened, according to you. But, without a layer of compassion and understanding, people may think you are relishing another person's distress.

