 Both of them will damage your teeth, health, happiness and overall body. Sometimes they can even cost you your life. They are never, ever the solution. If you want to lose weight, do it the healthy way - not over a toilet. See your doctor and come up with a healthy eating plan, or do three sets of cardio exercise (like dancing/jogging/cycling) and two weight training sessions per week. Yoga and Pilates are wonderful stress-relievers, and tone your body at the same time.;
, Smell beautiful, nobody likes B.O.! Use a nice scented body gel and matching lotion after your shower, if possible. For example, use citrus gel, citrus lotion, citrus deodorant/anti-perspiration and citrus perfume. Floral and musk are also delicious. Brush your teeth twice a day, mouthwash and floss once a day.
 When have you ever seen a model with bad hair? Make sure it's never greasy, dry or damaged. Apply an intensive conditioner weekly. Get your hair trimmed every three to six weeks to avoid split ends.
 Models always have a perfect, zit-free complexion. Get into the habit, it works wonders! Buy products to suit your skin type, and always purchase natural ones. Dry - creamy cleanser/moisturizing toner/rich moisturiser. Oily - wash off cleanser/toner/oil-free moisturiser. Combination - foaming cleanser/toner/ oil-free moisturizer for day and slightly richer moisturiser for night-time. Apply a face mask and pore strips (if you have blackheads) once a week. If you have spots, deal with them. Take a zinc supplement, drink lots of water and apply a topical spot treatment twice a week. If you have acne, go to your local doctors. They will be able to prescribe medication for it, such as Accutane.
 High-street makes great outfits if you know what cut and colour suits you. If you have a uniform, try personalizing with badges, patches, coats, bags etc IF ALLOWED. Things like hairbands or sparkly hair clips can also make you stand out.
 It's best to have matching sets of jewellery, (i.e. all silver or all gold). If you've gone for gold, go easy on the number of chains and rings you wear, as if you overload them it generally looks common. At school, if you aren't allowed to wear jewellery, a small pair of studs and a pretty watch work well.
 If allowed, be natural. A small amount of mascara, eyeliner, lip gloss, natural blush and concealer and/or tinted moisturiser (if needed) go a long way. Same with nails - if allowed, paint natural colours like clear, french polish, light pinks or light blues. Get a manicure once a month or do one yourself weekly. Pedicure your toes too, even if you think no one will see them!

, No one likes an insecure, bullying whiner. It doesn't win you any model points, either. Smiling is better than any amount of good-looks. Don't dump your life-long friends just because they aren't deemed 'cool' enough. You want to be popular, right? Be a good, kind, generous friend. Listen to other people's problems and give sincere compliments. Popularity isn't about being the most fashionable, mean, and gossiped-about person in school.
 Yeah well, all play and no work makes Jack fail all his finals, too. You may not be great at Maths or English, but TRY! Always do your homework, be punctual, polite and listen to what your teacher has to say. Your teachers will appreciate the effort! Find a healthy balance between school-work and socialising.

