 Your child is not born already knowing what to do so it’s up to you to train and mold her behavior. Therefore, it’s essential for you to identify what behaviors you want to see your child or teen exhibit and then reward those behaviors. Research shows that rewarding positive behavior is actually more effective than punishing negative behavior.Use praise to reward your child when she is behaving appropriately. Let her know that you are proud of her when she gets it right. In general, children and teens tend to respond well to praise.
Save larger rewards for bigger achievements and milestones. This way your child will associate good behavior with an internal sense of pride rather than an external reward.
 When giving your child instructions, be sure that you have her attention first. Sometimes parents accuse children of not listening when in fact they were so preoccupied with other external activities or internal emotions that they did not clearly hear the instruction.This is true for children and teenagers.


Get your child’s attention by calling her name. Wait until she is looking at you before you give the instruction. For example, you could say, “Sharon” and then wait until she looks at you. When she looks at you then say, “It is time to leave the store now” or "Please take off your head phones while at the kitchen table."
If possible, give your child the opportunity to finish doing what she is doing prior to transitioning to another activity. This is especially important for younger children but older children respond better to this approach, as well.
 Make sure that you and any co-parents in the home are in agreement with the rules so that children are unable to split or divide caretakers. You should also include your children and teenagers in the rule making process. It’s important that children feel like they are a part of family decisions. Calling a family meeting is a great way to develop the rules as a unit.


Be sure to establish “off limits” behavior.Examples of off-limits behavior might include things like saying “I hate you,” hitting others, name calling, cursing, cheating, walking out of a room during discussions, or playing derogatory music. You choose the off-limits behavior that are appropriate for your household.
Don’t be afraid to be firm about the important issues. For example, if your middle school aged child needs to be home by 8pm don’t allow her to argue her way into a 10pm curfew.
Use Do’s rather than Don’ts when developing rules. For example, it is better to say “Call me when you arrive to your friend’s house” instead of “Don’t forget to call me when you get to your friend's house.” Or you could say, "Be home by midnight" rather than saying, "Don't be late coming home tonight."

, It is important that you clearly explain what the rules are and how violations will be enforced before a violation actually occurs.Use clear concise language that is easily understood by your child and teen. This is vital so that behavioral expectations are clearly understood.


Try making a list of activities or privileges that your child enjoys and would miss if she lost. Withdrawal of these privileges could be appropriate consequences. This is especially helpful with teens.
Make sure that the rules are concrete and specific so that your child does not misinterpret what is expected. For example, it’s better to say, “Wear your white sneakers with the blue stripes to go outside and play” instead of “Wear old shoes to go outside and play.” Your idea of old shoes may be the sneakers she got at the beginning of the summer whereas her idea of old shoes may be the dress shoes that she wore last week to visit Grandma.
With a teen you could say "Make sure that all of your chores are complete and your homework is done before you go to Megan's house" instead of "Make sure that you do everything that you need to do before you leave for Megan's house."
All consequences should be things that can be easily implemented so that you avoid making empty threats. Empty threats will weaken your influence and your kids will learn to not take you or your rules as seriously.
 Under some circumstances, gentle reminders are the way to go.For example, if your preschooler is running in the house, then it’s okay to prompt her to stop running. Or if your preteen hasn't started her chores yet, you can remind her that the chores still need to be completed.


For egregious rule violations, a reminder is not necessary. For example, if your teenager is two hours late coming home from a party then no reminder is necessary. The consequence should be immediately applied.
An example of a gentle reminder is “Remember Giana, we walk in the house” or “We talk to each other respectfully, even when we disagree.” Avoid using judgmental or belittling language such as, “You don’t ever listen!”
Giving children a warning is also appropriate for less serious infractions. For example, if your children or teenagers are bickering at the table, you could say, “This is your warning about bickering at the table. If it continues then ____ will happen.” Only ONE warning should be given. If the behaviors continue, then the consequence should be applied.
 Children and teenagers will always try to test the rules so don’t take it personally when it happens. It’s developmentally appropriate as they try to experience a sense of autonomy. However, children benefit from consistency and stability. That is why it’s important to be consistent with enforcing rules as much as possible.If you only enforce rules sporadically then it can confuse your child or teenager and cause her to test limits even more.


When the rule infraction occurs, calmly remind your child or teenager of the consequence and follow through with it. For example, you could say “Please bring me the PlayStation” or “I’m sorry but you may not go to the party tonight.”
It is okay to explain why the consequence is being implemented, however children are pretty smart and probably already know what they did wrong. Be sure to avoid arguments with your child or teenager after you have already clearly articulated why the consequence is occurring. Instead, you can respond by simply saying “I understand,” “I know,” "That is the final decision," or “What did I say?”

