 Do not peel or cut the potatoes. Instead, scrub them clean first, then put them into a large pot. Fill the pot enough water until the water level is 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) above the potatoes.


Keeping the potatoes whole (not peeled or cut) will prevent them from absorbing too much water. It will also help preserve their flavor and texture.;
, Depending on the size of the potatoes, this can take as little as 30 minutes to as long as 45 to 50 minutes. The potatoes are done if you can easily pierce them with a sharp knife or fork.
 You can leave the skins on, if you wish, or you can peel them off. To do this, simple hold a potato in a potholder, then use a paring knife to pull the skin off; it should peel off easily., Heat the butter in one saucepan, and the milk in another. For extra flavor, add the remaining salt to the milk. You will be adding the butter first, then the milk. This will help improve the texture of the potatoes.
 You can do this using a potato masher directly in the pot you cooked them in. This will also help keep them warm and you won't have to clean as many dishes. If you find mashing them difficult, cut them into smaller pieces using a knife first.
 Keep stirring until the butter is mixed evenly throughout. Overtime, it will get absorbed into the potatoes. When that happens, you are ready for the milk.
 The potatoes will appear liquidy at first, but they will eventually soak in the milk. If you are concerned about this, however, you can pour in the milk a little bit at a time, and add more after the potatoes have finished absorbing it.
 At this point, you can add extra salt, pepper, and butter. For extra flavor, add 1 tablespoon of any of the following: chopped chives, fresh dill, garlic, paprika, fresh chopped parsley, fresh rosemary, or fresh thyme.If you choose to use dried dill, rosemary, or thyme, reduce the amount to 1 teaspoon; taste, and add more if needed.
 Transfer them into a serving dish, and serve them while they are still hot. If you have any leftovers, cover them, and store them in the fridge.

