 A part of your initial treatment for bipolar disorder should include some aspect of helping you cope with coming to terms with your diagnosis and breaking the news to others. If your therapist does not bring up the topic, however, you are welcome to request their help.You might say, “I’m really worried about telling my friends about my diagnosis. Can you give me some pointers?”
Ask your therapist if it might be helpful to bring in key people in your life for a session to discuss the news. You and your therapist can rehearse the language you want to use.;
, Telling people about your diagnosis should happen in stages. It can be overwhelming to sit everyone down who’s close to you and tell them all at once. Instead choose to start by confiding in one or two very close loved ones.

It might be tempting to only confide in one person, but that creates a very heavy burden for them to bear alone. Tell at least two people so that you have multiple sources of support and options for contact in case of a crisis.If you need some ideas about how to discuss your diagnosis, the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance has literature to help you navigate difficult conversations., After you have disclosed your diagnosis to a precious few, you might ask these individuals to offer their support as you tell others. Doing so offers you moral support. Plus, once those you initially confide in are educated about your condition, they can help you explain and answer questions, too., Never feel like you have to tell everyone you know about your bipolar disorder. The choice is yours. You might tell people with whom you interact with on a daily basis, or you might keep the news strictly between you, your family, and few close friends. When deciding who to tell, it can be helpful to think about how providing this information will serve you.


Some people tell everyone and some people tell hardly anyone. You might decide who to tell based on how you think they might react. For instance, if a person tends to be critical or unsupportive, you may not confide in them. You want to feel supported, not ostracized.