 You’ll need to create a user ID that will be used to obtain your National Provider Identifier, and this same log in information will be used to log into the Provider Enrollment, Chain, and Ownership Systems (PECOS) website where you will apply to become a Medicare provider. The process is simple, but once you’ve chosen a user ID, it cannot be changed. Carefully evaluate the information before finalizing., Once your user name is set up in the NPPES system, you’ll need to request this provider number. Depending on the type of medical care you provide, you will need to obtain an individual, organizational, or both types of NPI before you can apply as a Medicare provider.


Type 1 NPIs are required for individuals applying to accept Medicare coverage.
Type 2 NPIs are necessary for organizations, and these have to be obtained prior to any individual providers receiving approval as a member of the organization.
Both types of NPI are necessary if you are a sole proprietor of a medical facility., You must be a federally approved Medicare provider in order to receive approval to accept Medicare payment in the state of California. The process is set up as a clearly defined question and answer application. You can also find checklists for each type of Medicare provider and supplier provided by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). If you have questions throughout the application process, CMS representative can be reached to provide assistance via email or phone., Make sure you have included all the necessary documentation to ensure your application is processed promptly. The Medicare application process can take three months or longer, and each time you need to submit additional documents, the processing time resets. Luckily, the PECOS system will walk you through each step of the process and what forms and documents are needed for each.


Written confirmation from the Internal Revenue Service that provides your tax ID number and legal business name. For non-profits, a letter of determination from the IRS is required. If you’ve formed a Limited Liability Company (LLC) you’ll need an IRS letter confirming that the business entity is not considered separate from the individual for tax purposes.
Any final adverse action documentation from legal cases against you or the practice you work for.
Include banking information as necessary if you have an agreement with a bank to cover pending Medicare payments.
Copies of Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments and Federal Drug Administration certifications and approval documents for each location, provider, and supplier, including Drug Enforcement Administration numbers when necessary., If you do miss something, you will be contacted by CMS. Return additional information as quickly as possible to ensure your application process is completed in a reasonable time frame. You should receive emails directly, if additional information is needed, but you can also check the status of your application online through the PECOS system., Before exiting the PECOS system, you will need to pay an application fee. As of 2017, the cost was $560, but the fee is adjusted annually. Funds from the application fee are used by Medicare to finance ongoing improvement efforts to ensure the integrity of the Medicare system for beneficiaries., In accordance with the Administrative Simplification Compliance Act (ASCA), Medicare claims should almost always be filed electronically. Some providers have been given exceptions, but this happens very infrequently. EDI is the system through which Medicare providers are able to directly submit claims. Prior to being approved by the state of California Medicare Administrative Contractors, you will need to have completed the process of registering with EDI.