 The way you sit and the length of time you sit for can be a major source of pain. If you have neck, head, shoulder, torso, upper and/or lower back, leg or arm pain and you sit a great deal, consider whether that pain is either caused by or exacerbated by the sitting and lack of regular movement.Ensure that the ergonomics of your desk and chair have been professionally assessed and adjusted for your height and work style. Also make sure that your computer is at the right level for your height.
Take regular breaks when working on computers, machinery, reading and other tasks that have you seated and locked into a single position for long periods of time. The human body wasn't made for inactivity, and getting up and moving about regularly can give your body the break it needs.
If you perform any sort of repetitive activity, find ways to vary how you sit, stand or move. If you don't, pain will be fairly inevitable result and, in some cases, may prove to be permanent.
Some people find it helps to use a standing or a treadmill desk to ensure that they stay active while working with a computer or digital device.
 If you are overweight, the extra pounds increase the load you put on your joints and can lead to osteoarthritis pain as well as inflammation.Making changes to your diet and engaging in even light exercise (like walking in a pool or lifting two pound weights) helps reduce the strain on your body and can significantly reduce your pain.Though it may seem counterintuitive to exercise when your body is in pain, it can lead to serious pain reduction in the long-term. Start with small, easy exercises and slowly build up your strength. Talk to you doctor about getting started and which kinds of exercise would be appropriate for you.
Evaluate your diet and make sure you're eating a balanced, healthy range of nutrient-rich foods. Talk to your doctor or a nutritionist about getting on the right track.
 What stresses you? It is important to ask yourself that question and identify sources of stress in your life. Once you are clear on the triggers, you can start to find ways to either reduce or avoid these, which in turn, will help to remove sources of pain aggravation. Stressors that can amplify pain include unhealthy eating, smoking, lack of sleep, lack of exercise, inappropriate environment, procrastination and being around "toxic" people.Eat foods that give you the best nutritional returns. While chocolate, pastries, fries and the like are tempting when you feel bad, they provide little to no nutritional value and lessen the ability of your body to heal itself. Stick to foods that are nutritionally dense; you might even like to spend some time researching on foods that are thought to heal the body.
Get adequate rest. Being tired on top of feeling pain will always exacerbate the pain. Your body needs regular, adequate sleep rest to run its standard restoration processes. Admittedly, it can be a vicious cycle; pain prevents sleep, sleep lessens, pain increases. If this is happening to you, get advice from your doctor.
Get sufficient exercise. Exercise, including a good long and steady walk around your neighborhood, is an ideal way for relieving stress and ridding yourself of the pent-up anxiety that can hamper sleep.
Check your work or home environment. An environment can come with its own stressors, depending on your sensitivity. For example, a lot of noise, a lack of privacy and crowded space can be sources of stress if you are constantly facing them and find them hard to deal with. Consider how you can reduce your exposure to such forms of stress, such as wearing headphones, shifting to a quieter space or getting outside often.
Try to avoid procrastinating. By getting your tasks, chores, work, etc. done on time, you remove a source of stress.
Find ways to work around or remove other sources of stress in your life that amplify the pain. Hate peak hour traffic? Rearrange your travel time to be outside of peak hours. Does networking cause you break out into a sweat and induce a migraine? Pinpoint one person worth talking to, talk to that person, then allow yourself to go for a walk outside until the next part of the event. Do family gatherings drive you to the point of despair? Smile a lot and simply say, "No thank you," or, "Pleased to know that," instead of engaging in arguments and one-upmanship; save yourself the emotional exacerbation that can heighten pain.

