 In a large salad bowl, add 6 cups of baby arugula, 1/8 of a seedless watermelon with the rind removed, 12 ounces of feta cheese, and 1 cup of freshly chopped mint. Then, make a nice salad dressing with lemon and orange juice. Whisk 1/4 cup of orange juice, 1/4 cup of lemon juice, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1/4 cup of minced shallots, and a 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper. Finally, add 1/2 cup of olive oil. Add your dressing to the watermelon salad and enjoy., Add 1⁄2 US-pint (236.6 ml) of fresh blueberries, 1/2 pint of fresh raspberries, 1 pint of fresh strawberries, a bunch of seedless green grapes and a banana to a salad bowl. Then, make your dressing. Combine 2 cups of plain yogurt with 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of honey, the juice of half an orange, and 1/2 a teaspoon of pure vanilla extract. Mix your dressing and throw it onto your fruit salad for a refreshing dinner.
 Boil 1 cup of bowtie pasta until it is firm to the bite but also cooked through or ‘al dente.’Look on the package of dried pasta to determine the approximate cooking time and remember to check for ‘al dente.’ Let the pasta cool down for 15 minutes or cool it down with cold water. Then, add some freshly chopped cilantro, fresh cucumber, and 1 cup of strawberries. Pour a lemon and olive oil dressing on top for a refreshing salad.


Keep portions in mind when eating something like pasta. Pasta portions are small (1/3 cup) but can be expanded with the addition of fruits and vegetables, as in this recipe (up to 1 cup). Just make sure you're getting plenty of the healthy additions with your noodles!

, Make sure your dinner plate is small and contains a mix of fresh fruit, vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains. If your plate is an appropriate size and contains mostly colorful fruits, vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains, you are on the right track; however, if you have lots of fruits and vegetables but are still eating too much volume, you will not get anywhere with your weight loss plan. 