 Once you begin training your puppy, you need to understand that you are not going to train the dog overnight. It will take a lot of time and effort to get your puppy to where you want it to be. Caring for and training your puppy will take daily dedication.This is an important lesson to remember when you are house training your dog.
 While you are training your dog, you need to be consistent. For example, if you are trying to crate train your dog, they should only sleep in the crate. Do not allow them to sleep in your bed or anywhere else. The only way your dog will learn the correct behavior is through repetition and consistency. Being consistent will make training much easier and less stressful for you and the puppy., Because dogs are so sensitive to our tones, it is important that you try to stay upbeat and not get frustrated. An angry tone can erode your puppy’s confidence and make it timid and scared, which can cause training to be a chore. Although it can be difficult at times, practice mindfulness and try to keep an even tone with your puppy.This step is important to remember when you are disciplining your puppy.
 Whenever your dog does something good, be sure to recognize it. You should congratulate them in a positive tone or give them a treat. This will help reinforce good behaviors over the bad ones. This will make the training experience much easier and less frustrating for your and the puppy.Be sure to give positive reinforcement after any training sessions with your dog. Even if a session does not go as planned, always end it with a treat and some positive words.
 If you find that training your puppy is too difficult or time consuming, you may want to consider taking your dog to a trainer or obedience classes. A trainer or other dog obedience specialist will be able to help you rein in your dog’s bad behavior. They will also give you tips on how to manage your dog at home.


You can find local dog trainers through the Certified Council for Professional Dog Trainers.