 Physical activity packs a three-fold punch of benefits: you get out of your head by getting your body moving, you improve physical health, and you are rewarded with endorphins that elevate mood and produce relaxation. Since excessive worry overloads your body with adrenaline and a “fight or flight” response, exercise provides you with an outlet for the surplus energy., Visualization is a great tool to alleviate anxiety and worrying in the moment. It involves visualizing - with determination - yourself in an environment that brings you calm.The key is to think of a place, preferably one that you know, that naturally relaxes you.


Let’s say there was a meadow near your grandmother’s house where you used to play as a kid. There were beautiful flowers and soft mounds of grass and striking blue skies. If you notice yourself worrying about something, you might intentionally close your eyes and call up that safe place.
Go further than just how the place looks. Engage your other senses by thinking of how the birds sound, what the grass and flowers smell like, and what the ripe berries taste like on your tongue.
If you have difficulty calling up your own safe place, you can always visit YouTube for guided imagery videos that are effective at relaxing worrisome thoughts.
 When we are worrying all the time our bodies physically become just as tense as our thoughts. Conducting regular sessions of progressive muscle relaxation allow you to get an understanding of what both relaxation and tension feel like. Then, once you get the hang of it, you are better able to cope with tension in daily life. Here’s how to do it:Plan for about 15 minutes of quiet time. Locate a place where you can sit comfortably with minimal distractions. Start with one muscle group – your feet, for example. Contract the muscles in your toes and heels. Hold the tension for about 5 seconds. Notice what it feels like.
Then, release the tension and let all the tightness flow from your body. Notice what that relaxed state feels like. Stay in this relaxed state for about 15 seconds before moving on to a new muscle group, tensing and relaxing in turn. Move up through the body until you have worked with all the major muscles in your body. Perform this activity about twice a day for anxiety relief.
 When you can learn to focus on the present moment, you can kick worries to the curb. In mindfulness meditation, your focus is directed at acknowledging worries and letting them go.


Choose a place where you can sit quietly without distractions. You can close your eyes or focus on a single, non-stimulating spot in the room. Take several deep breaths, in through your nose and out through your mouth.
Observe your worries as if you were an impartial spectator of thoughts. DO not judge them or react at all, simply acknowledge each worry as it comes. Recognize that when you do not fight against worries, they eventually go away on their own. Only when you try to control them, do they become resistant.
Continue to breathe, slowly and deeply. Notice how your body feels, the sounds around you, and the steady ebb and flow of your breathing. Whenever a worry sticks around without passing, refocus on the present moment (i.e. physical sensations, breathing, etc.).

