 Your home measurements can give you a good indication of whether your child is too skinny or not. However, you may still be worried. The most accurate way to know if your child is too skinny is by seeing their pediatrician. The doctor will check your child’s measurements and calculate BMI while considering other factors such as underlying health concerns and genetics.Let the doctor know your concerns. You should also provide the doctor as much information as you can. This may include your home measurements or other notes you’ve taken about your child’s weight.
Answer any questions the doctor may ask you. You can also ask any questions you may have.
 If your doctor diagnoses your child with being too skinny, they will help formulate a treatment plan to help your child gain weight. This often includes putting the child on a high(er)-calorie diet and avoiding “empty” calories such as juices or candies. It’s important to follow any treatment plan your doctor develops to ensure your child grows and develops properly.Ask your doctor about what foods to feed your child to help them gain weight and get the most nutrients. These generally come from the five food groups and include fruits and vegetables, lean proteins, dairy, and grains.
Recognize that your child may require hospitalization to gain weight if they are too skinny and not able to gain weight.
Keep in mind that weight gain takes time, so treatment may last several months.
 Depending on why your child is too skinny or may not be eating enough, your doctor may suggest seeing a specialist or specialists. These people can not only help your child gain weight and grow properly, but may also deal with underlying issues. Your child’s doctor may refer you to any of the following professionals:Registered dietician, to figure out your child’s specific dietary needs
Occupational therapists, to develop successful eating behaviors
Social worker, if your family is having trouble getting enough food for your child
Psychiatrists or psychologists, to address behavioral issues
Gastroenterologists or cardiologists to treat underlying health conditions
Endocrinologist, if your child has been diagnosed with diabetes.

