 When you submit a visa application to the State Department's National Visa Center (NVC), you'll receive a notice confirming the receipt of your application. This confirmation notice contains a barcode that identifies your application in the NVC system.Directly under the barcode you'll see a 10-digit number. This is your unique Consular Electronic Application Center (CEAC) number.
Despite the fact that it's referred to as a "number," it typically will contain both numerals and letters.
You must have your CEAC number to check the status of your visa application on the CEAC website. You may need additional information depending on whether you applied for an immigrant or non-immigrant visa.
 When you have your confirmation notice handy, go to ceac.state.gov to check the status of your visa application. Select either immigrant or non-immigrant visa to produce blanks for your information.If you applied for an immigrant visa, you must enter your Immigrant Visa Case Number, which will begin with three letters. Do not include any dashes.
If you applied for a non-immigrant visa, you must select the location of the U.S. consulate where you will be interviewed, then enter your application ID or Case Number. The application ID is the same as the CEAC number on your confirmation notice.
Enter the Captcha code to confirm you are not a robot, then click the "Submit" button.
 Once you submit your information, a pop-up box will appear that provides the most recent status of your visa application. The type of status message you receive will differ depending on whether you applied for an immigrant or non-immigrant visa.If the message returned says "no status," this means that you probably recently submitted your application and it's not in the system yet.
If it's been a few weeks since you submitted your application, you likely will get an "administrative processing" status. This processing can take weeks, if not months. Any questions or concerns should be directed to the U.S. consulate where your visa interview is taking place.
Unlike the USCIS, this website does not give you the option of setting up an account. Accordingly, you will only get the application status that was most recently entered for your case.

