 One of the hallmarks of grunge is comfort, and there is nothing more comfortable than a pair of worn, baggy jeans. Buy a pair of jeans a size or two larger than you normally buy. Make sure you steer clear of the skinny jeans. They are made to fit more snugly than you want your pants. Try to find jeans with rips, holes, or patches made on them. They give them a worn, lived in look that goes great with the grunge look.You can save some money on jeans by buying a normal pair of jeans and ripping them up yourself. Non holey jeans are usually cheaper and you can add the holes wherever you want.
You can also try finding jeans at thrift or second hand stores. They will be more worn and comfortable than brand new jeans.
If it's warm weather, you can also go with a pair of cut off denim shorts. These look great with a crop top and a flannel shirt around your waist., If you don't want to go for the full dress, try an A-line printed skirt. Liv Tyler popularized this style both off screen and on, in music videos for Aerosmith and movies such as Empire Records. Try one in plaid or a floral design and earth tone color palette.


A-line skirts look great with an oversized band t-shirt and a flannel wrapped around your waist. Don't worry if your plaid shirt doesn't match the pattern on the skirt. It will make you seem even more grunge., Denim overalls were a huge trend in the 90s and the grunge scene worked them to their advantage. Buy a pair overalls and match them with a band tee or tank. You can wear the flannel as an over shirt or around your waist because both styles look great with the overalls.You can also try the one shoulder look as well. Instead of wearing both of the straps clasped, wear one unclasped, folding down the panels on both sides of the overalls. This variation looks great with the crop top and a flannel.
 If you aren't really in to wearing jeans all the time, try a pair of holey tights or hose to create the full grunge effect. Courtney Love would often pair her baby doll dresses with ripped tights. Buy a pair of neutral colored or printed tights. In the same fashion as the jeans, rip holes and runs in the fabric of the legs. Match these tights with the printed skirts or dresses. You can even wear them under your jeans.You can layer multiple layers of tights on top of one another, with holes at different places on each pair. This adds a little extra texture to your outfit, especially if the tights or hose are two different colors or patterns.

