 Athletes need to make sure they’re getting enough calories each day, and this amount will depend on the intensity of athletic training, age of the athlete, and the weight.


For example, college-aged athletes training 5-6 times per week for 30-60 minutes per session should typically consume 16-18 calories per pound of body weight. Athletes training 5-6 times per week for 60-90 minutes per session should consume 19-21 calories per pound of body weight, and those training 5-6 times per week for 90-120 minutes per session should consume 22-24 calories for each pound of body weight.Vegetarians can increase their calorie consumption by eating additional carbohydrates, vegetarian-friendly proteins, and lots of fruits and vegetables each day.;
, Fifty to 65% of the athlete’s total daily calories should come from carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are critical for athletes’ performance and health. The body turns energy from carbohydrates into glucose. Glucose is stored in muscles and the liver as glycogen, which is the most readily available source of energy.Fruits, vegetables, and whole grains are all good sources of carbohydrates for vegetarians.
Try serving a large serving of brown rice or whole wheat pasta with your meals.
Enjoy a slice of whole grain toast or a bowl of oatmeal at breakfast.
 Proteins should comprise between 10% and 30% of an athlete’s daily caloric intake. The building and repair of muscle tissue, skin, hair, and nails requires proper protein intake. This is especially important for vegetarians. Your body doesn’t use protein as a source of energy while exercising, but proteins help your body maintain a healthy blood sugar level.Tofu, tempeh, seitan, beans, lentils, and other legumes are all good sources of protein for vegetarians.
Try some tempeh bacon and scrambled eggs for breakfast.
Add a tofu salad sandwich or egg salad with crackers to your lunch repertoire.
If the athlete eats dairy, then you can include products like milk, yogurt, or cheese as well.
 Athletes should aim for a diet with between 20% and 30% of calories coming from fat. Fat is important for the absorption of fat soluble vitamins and minerals like vitamin D.Vegetarian-friendly sources of fat include whole milk, cheese, and nuts.
Try avocado toast for breakfast or for a quick snack.
Use olive oil for salad dressings or to sauté vegetables for lunch and dinner.
Grab a handful of walnuts, almonds, or cashews for a convenient snack.
 It’s key that athletes consume recovery foods that include a proper balance of macronutrients. Recovery foods should be eaten right after exercising and then again between one and two hours after exercise. They should include both protein and carbohydrates.Vegetarian-friendly recovery foods include grilled cheese, peanut butter and graham crackers, and fruit with yogurt.
 There are many online websites and apps that help you track how many calories and nutrients you consume each day. They can also record how many calories you are burning. These programs will help you understand your specific nutritional needs and whether you are reaching them.


My Fitness Pal and the USDA's Super Tracker are both good online food logs to use.

