 You may be familiar with plank exercises from other workouts. The same pose exists in yoga, with more focus on maintaining a deep breath to strengthen your abdominal muscles.For a full plank pose, support yourself over the floor on your hands and toes so that your body is a straight line more or less parallel with the floor. Make sure your wrists are directly under your shoulders, and cup your palms to place less stress on the joint.
For a side plank, drop to your elbows with your forearms on the floor. Lift your body up on one side so that your weight is supported by one forearm and the side of one foot. Stack your hips and rest your other foot on top. Release to a low plank, then repeat with the other side.
 Both boat and low boat require every muscle in your core and hips to be engaged. Get into boat pose by sitting on your mat with your knees bent so that your feet are flat on the floor in front of you.Extend your arms out in front of you, palms just to the side of either knee. Lean back so that your torso is at about a 45-degree angle from the floor, then lift your feet to straighten your legs. Try to angle your legs upward at the same angle as your torso.
To progress into low boat, simply lower your torso until your lower back is flat on the floor. Lower your legs at the same angle at the same time, keeping your core engaged. Don't forget to maintain your deep breath.
Hold these poses for 3 to 5 breath cycles.
 Come to a standing position with your arms loosely to your sides to get into chair pose. Slide your feet together so that your big toes are touching, heels slightly apart. Focus on your breath.As you inhale, extend your arms straight up toward the ceiling. You can keep them apart with palms facing each other, or bring your palms together above your head.
On an exhale, bend your knees and lower your hips to the floor. Try to keep your knees from projecting out over your toes. They will move forward a little, but keep your shins as perpendicular to the floor as possible.
Hold the pose for 5 to 10 breath cycles, breathing deeply. Make sure your shoulders are rolled back and not hunched. Squeeze a yoga block or a book between your knees to further build your thigh muscles.
 Moving through the three main warrior poses provides a whole body workout, particularly strengthening your legs, back, and shoulders. From standing, step one foot back into a high lunge position to start.The toes of your front foot should be pointed forward, with your knee at a right angle directly over your ankle. Point the toes of your back foot to the side, so that your front ankle bisects your back foot. Keep your hips facing forward. Raise your arms straight overhead into Warrior I.
From Warrior I, drop your arms down to shoulder level and extend them out parallel to the floor. Twist and open your shoulders into Warrior II with your arms directly over your legs.
From Warrior II, turn to face forward, bringing both arms out directly in front of you. Raise up onto your front leg, standing firmly on your foot. Slowly lift your back leg up behind you as you hinge forward from your hips. Firm up your standing leg to maintain your balance in Warrior III.
Make sure to repeat the entire sequence on the other side.
 Downward facing dog is a classic yoga pose that also provides strengthening benefits for your entire body. To get into downward facing dog, start on your hands and knees on the floor. Make sure your knees are directly under your hips, your wrists directly under your shoulders.On an exhale, straighten your legs, lifting your hips up towards the ceiling. Roll over your feet onto your toes, stretching your heels down towards the floor. Your arms should be extended straight towards the floor. Roll your shoulders back so that your shoulder blades run along the sides of your spine.
Stay in downward dog for 5 to 10 deep breaths, pulling down through your heels and up through your shoulders to maintain weight balance and distribution. Relax your neck and allow your head to lower.
 Child's pose is a common way to end any yoga routine, because it allows your body to relax and allows you to return your focus to your breath. Child's pose also provides strengthening and lengthening for your spine and back muscles.Lower onto all fours from downward dog, then continue to drive your hips back until you are resting on your heels. You can draw your knees together or keep them spread.
Hinge forward from the hips as you slide your hands forward, folding over your legs to the floor. Rest your forehead on the floor if it's comfortable.
You can stay in child's pose as long as you want, focusing on your breath.

