 Any attention you give a dog should be gentle and loving. But this is especially true with older dogs that require extra affection and may be easily stressed. Avoid squeezing or playing with your dog in a rough manner. Avoid raising your voice as much as possible. This not only shows your older dog affection, but helps it feel secure and stable.Combine enthusiastic praise and gentle petting anytime you are with your older dog. Say your dog’s name to reinforce your message. For example, “I love you so much, Sammy! Can you still shake my hand? Good girl, you’re so smart and sweet!”Avoid yelling or using loud tones with your older dog. This can stress your dog by making it fearful or anxious.;
, Your older dog may show you more affection than it did as a puppy. Let your dog know you love it by returning its affection. Your older dog may show affection by:Cuddling with you. Cuddling and/or petting back shows your dog you appreciate its affection and feel the same way.
Sleeping with you. Let your older dog lay with you in bed or on the sofa to reinforce your love.
Approaching you and wagging its tail when you return from somewhere. Petting or hugging your dog and saying “I love you, too, Cal,” reciprocates its affection.
Sitting or lying with you while you work around the house. Allowing your dog to participate in daily activities demonstrates your affection and can help it relax., Make yourself more accessible to your older dog. Sitting or lying with your dog on the floor, sofa, or in bed is a great way to show affection. It can also relax your older dog., As you give your dog attention, remember to praise and reward it. A small treat, such as a bit of kibble, provides extra attention while letting the dog know that you enjoy its company. Rewards can also strengthen the bond between you and your dog.Make sure to offer your dog praise as often as possible. A, “Thanks for sharing your toy, Beau!” with a gentle ear rub shows your dog just how much you love it.
Give your dog food treats especially formulated for older dogs. These often are lower calorie and nutrient-rich to promote your older dog’s health.
Use chew toys with caution. Since many older dogs have dental issues, chew toys may harm their teeth and gums.Instead, consider soft chew toys made out of rubber or plush toys without stuffing.