 This is one of the most popular and well known home remedies for removal of moles. ACV is an acid and can cause skin irritation and burning, resulting in the loss of your mole.ACV is available at both pharmacy and grocery stores. You can also make some at home using sour apples.


Because ACV is a strong chemical, test a small area of skin elsewhere before applying it to the mole. If you do not experience any burning or irritation, proceed.
Put a small amount of ACV on a cotton ball. Place the cotton ball on the mole and bandage it securely in place with a bandage, micropore tape, or duct tape.
Repeat this process twice a day with fresh cotton balls for at least 7 days or till the mole falls off. By the end of the week, the mole should have gone.
 Garlic is one of the best known natural remedies with many uses. Its acidic properties are thought to make it an effective mole remover. Peel two garlic cloves, and crush to make a paste. Add a pinch of rock salt to the paste; the salt absorbs moisture from the mole, decreasing its water content and thus makes it dry and shrivel faster.
Apply the paste to the mole thrice a day for 5 days. Be careful; it may sting the surrounding normal skin. Cover the area with a cloth, cotton or bandage whenever you have applied the paste. Wash well with a regular soap every few hours. If the mole persists, continue until it falls off.
 To make a baking soda paste, combine 1 tablespoon of baking soda with 4 tablespoons of water. Mix well until it becomes a paste; if you need to thicken it, add more baking soda. Apply to the affected area and leave it there for an hour, then wash it off with soap and water. Repeat the process twice a day for 4 days.Baking soda when mixed with water to make a paste gives off a very caustic solution. The combination releases free hydrogen ions which are thought to react when applied onto the skin and tissue of the mole and dehydrate it.
You can also mix one pinch baking soda in a teaspoon of vitamin E oil and apply it to the mole. Leave the mixture on the mole overnight. The mixture is thought to eventually fade the mole away. If you have sensitive skin you can use Vitamin E oil without baking soda as well.
 While iodine may not be available over the counter in a pharmacy in its concentrated form, it can be obtained in a diluted mixture in many stores.


Further dilute your store bought iodine with 5 parts of water. Using a cotton ball or a cotton swab, apply it gently on the mole. Keep it on for 3 to 4 minutes and then wash it off with warm water.
Be careful not to touch the surrounding region of healthy skin with the iodine. Keep the iodine off your clothing with gauze as needed, as iodine has strong staining properties.
 Aloe vera helps in making the mole soft and more mobile. Prolonged usage of aloe vera is thought to result in complete disappearance of the mole with no scars. Proponents of this method claim that aloe vera slowly does away with the old hardened tissue and replaces it with newer softer tissue and cells.


Using a fresh aloe vera plant, procure the thick leaves and then squeeze the juicy gummy, clear transparent jelly it stores. This juice is often consumed by people for other conditions as well, but for moles it is to be applied directly on the mole without any other adulteration or dilution.
The jelly/gum can be kept over the mole all day as it gets absorbed into the skin and you can wash it if you wish. Apply it at least 3 times a day for best results. Continue application till the mole falls off.
Although aloe vera has been used topically by various cultures for centuries, there is no scientific data about its long-term safety, so use at your own risk., Aspirin is a blood thinning agent and is thought to work by diluting the blood supply to the mole enough for it dry out and deaden. People who have missing blood coagulant factors or are hemophilic should not use this option.


Take 3 aspirin tablets and crush them in a bowl. Add two teaspoons of water and make a paste.
Using a cotton ball or swab, apply the paste gently to the mole. Leave it there with a bandage for a day. Monitor the progress every day in terms of the size, shape and color. Within 1-2 weeks, it should make the mole fall off by itself.
Those who use blood thinners or anti-coagulants should not use this method without consulting their doctor.