 Partnerships don't pay their own taxes; rather, they report income and certain deductions to the partners, who file them on their tax returns.


The K-1 is a reporting document, like a 1099 or a W-2. Partners who receive a K-1 don't have to file it with their returns., In Part I of each Schedule K-1, enter the name, address, and tax identification number of the partnership.


For Item C, you must indicate whether you are filing the partnership return electronically or by mail. If you are filing by mail, you must enter the name of the IRS service center where the instructions to Form 1065 indicated you should file the return., You must fill out a separate Schedule K-1 for each partner. In Part II, you must include the name, address, and tax identification or Social Security number for that partner.


The partner's tax identification or Social Security number can be truncated on the Schedule K-1 you send to the partner by replacing the first five digits with asterisks or Xs. However, you cannot truncate the partnership's tax identification number on any form.Check off whether the partner holds interest as a general partner or a limited partner, and identify the partner as either foreign or domestic. Then use the appropriate code to state the type of entity this partner is, such as whether the partner is an individual or a corporation., This amount is derived from the total you entered on Form 1065, calculated for each partner as a pro rata share depending on each partner's ownership percentage., Certain types of income must be listed separately because they retain their character and will be taxed accordingly when entered on each partner's individual tax return.


For example, if the partnership has interest income, this amount would be divided by ownership shares and entered on Line 5 of each K-1. So if the partnership had $6,000 in interest income, and there are three partners each with equal ownership shares, you would enter $2,000 on Line 5 of each partner's K-1., Starting on Line 12, you will list any deductions partners are eligible to take based on various partnership activities.


For example, you may enter amounts of any charitable contributions made by the partnership on Line 13a., If there is any other information not entered elsewhere, such as recaptures of credits, they are listed beginning on Line 20 with the appropriate code., Because the partners will need the information on the K-1 to complete their own tax returns, they must receive it before tax day., You must file the Form 1065 for your partnership by April 15 of each year.


You may file your return electronically, or you may mail your paper returns to the applicable IRS address listed in the IRS instructions for filling out the Form.