 The harder your schedule, the better your chances of getting into college. Don't take a class just to try it and if it's too hard you'll drop it; instead do your research beforehand. Talk to students currently taking the class and ask if you can see an assignment. You might even want to try doing the assignment if you have time to see what the class will be like.
 If you must drop a class, try to do it before school starts. Most schools have faculty members working year round, so if you call or email your guidance office, someone will probably be available to help you. If you drop during the summer, chances are it won't show up on your transcript.
 Once you know what type of school you want to go to, you can schedule accordingly. Check out a couple schools and see what courses you might want to take. College Board has a great search engine where you can compare what you are planning to take with colleges you are considering. You can also line up colleges side by side and compare them (This service is free, but if you want to save your searches, you need to make an account).
 If you don't need a study hall, don't take it. Take another class instead. Study halls won't give you credit, and you'll probably be bored a lot of the time. If you decide to take a study hall and you can choose the order of your classes, request a last period study hall. That way you'll have all of your homework assigned. If you have a morning study hall, you'll be more likely to put off homework until the morning, which has its risks. If you are only taking a study hall to get ahead in class rank, realize that colleges don't put as much stock in your class rank as they do your schedule. They'll be far more impressed if you have an extra AP class, but have a .001 lower GPA than you would have had you taken the study hall.
 Your advisors job is to keep you on track. He/she will be able to help you choose a schedule that's right for you. Even if you think your schedule is bullet-proof, take it to your advisor to look over and discuss. Your counselor probably knows more about the college admissions process than you do, and will have a different perspective to offer you.
 Nobody, your teachers included, wants to sit do AP Chemistry at two in the afternoon after already having dealt with the rest of the day.
 You might not end up in the same class as your friends anyway. Especially if the class is taught by multiple teachers at several different times. Undoubtedly you'll meet new people in your classes and if you don't, you'll have plenty of time to talk to your friends between classes.
 If you are able to choose which class period you have a class, try to give yourself an easy class between hard ones. You'll appreciate the break and be refreshed for the next class.
 Online classes can help you get ahead, but they can also put a strain on an already difficult schedule. If they are available to you, talk to your counselor to see if they might be right for you.

