 Ask for the "classifieds" advertising department and place a classified ad in the services advertising section of the newspaper. Depending on how much money you want to spend on your ad, you can have a large or a small ad; however, the key component to attracting customers is to make your ad short, concise, and catchy in order to grab the attention of potential customers.A good example of a successful ad would be, "Have a dog? Need your dog walked? Call xxx-xxxx for fast, reliable, low-cost dog walking services."
Run the ad for at least a few months. This is the length of time it usually takes to attract customers.
Depending on how large your newspaper ad is, the cost could get very expensive. However, if you choose a small ad size, you can probably spend less than $40 – depending on how widely distributed your newspaper is.Switch your ads every couple of weeks. Run varying ads to attract different customers. Check to see when there is a correlation between ads and customers.
Once you determine which ad is more successful at attracting customers, use the remaining time you have left for the newspaper ad to post this particular ad.
 Make a hand-bill or flyer as an ad that you will post, hand-out, and place around town. This is a great way to increase visibility and get new clients.Include your name, your phone number or email address, and a brief introduction. You could even include a picture of yourself walking a dog.
Make different sized ads. Use bright colored paper to catch the attention of onlookers.
You can also create simple tear-off flyers that include your advertisement at the top, with your phone number on little strips at the bottom that people can rip off to take home with them.
 You can create small flyers and hang ads on street-light poles facing traffic. You can also post these ads on the windshield wiper blades of cars in parking lots, though this is intrusive and not allowed everywhere. In order to reach your target customer base, it might be a good idea to visit pet store parking lots and veterinarian offices.Go inside these places of business and ask if they have a bulletin board for professional services. Place one of your ads on this bulletin board.
Keep in mind that not all places will allow you to post flyers. So be careful not to break any rules by checking ahead of time.
Try posting flyers near the mailboxes at apartment residences.

