 The first letter in a three-letter acronym (TLA) commonly describes either the (a) current relationship or (b) gender identity/sexual preference(s) of the writer. With this in mind, you can interpret the letter within one of those contexts:


Relationship

D: Divorced
M: Married
S: Single
W: Widow/Widower (WI, alternatively)


Gender Identity/Sexual Preference(s)

BI: Bisexual
F: Female
G: Gay
L: Lesbian
M: Male or Man
TG: Transgender (T, alternatively)
TS: Transsexual (T, alternatively)
TV: Transvestite (T, alternatively)
W: Woman

;
, The second letter in a TLA usually describes the ethnicity or race of the writer. Common letters found in the second position of a TLA are as follows:


A: Asian
B: Black
C: Christian
H: Hispanic
J: Jewish
I: Indian
L: Latino or Latina
NA: Native American
W: White

, The third letter in the TLA indicates what the writer wants. This letter can serve to identify a specific type of person or a relationship type:


C: Couple (CPL, alternatively)
F: Female
M: Male or Man
TG: Transgender (T, alternatively)
TS: Transsexual (T, alternatively)
TV: Transvestite (T, alternatively)
W: Woman

, The TLA structure can be modified to include the number four in place of the second letter. In this context, "4" means "for" as in "looking for" or "searching for." The first and third letters in the TLA maintain the same meanings and positioning.
 Reading a personal ad doesn't begin and end at the TLA. In fact, personal ads can include many acronyms that don't have anything to do with the three-letter acronym structure described in steps one through three.


AL: Animal lover.
ALA: All letters answered.
ALAWP: All letters answered with photo.
ASL: Age/sex/location. (A/S/L, alternatively)
AT: All that.
BB: Barebacking; bodybuilder.
BBC: Big Black c***.
BBW: Big beautiful woman; big breasted woman.
B&D: Bondage & discipline/domination. (B/D, alternatively)
BF: Boyfriend.
BHM: Big handsome man.
BMW: Big Mexican woman.
C: Cute.
CD: Crossdresser. (C/D, alternatively)
D/D: Drug/disease.
D/DF: Drug/disease free. (DDF, alternatively)
D/S: Dominance and submission. (D&S, alternatively)
DL: Down low.
DTE: Down to earth.
DTF: Down to f***.
FA: Fat admirer; fat acceptance.
Fet: Fetish.
FTA: Fun travel adventure.
FtM: Female-to-male transgendered. (FTM, alternatively)
FS: Financially secure; financially stable.
FWB: Friends with benefits.
GF: Girlfriend.
GG: Genetic girl.
GSOH: Good sense of humor.
Het: Heterosexual.
HWP: Height-weight proportionate.
IPT: Is partial to.
IRL: In real life.
ISO: In search of.
K: Kid(s).
LD: Light drinker.
LDR: Long-distance relationship.
LDS: Latter Day Saints.
LS: Light smoker; legally separated.
LTR: Long-term relationship; lifetime relationship.
MBA: Mutual business agreement; married but available.
MM: Marriage-minded.
MOTOS: Members of the opposite sex.
MOTSS: Members of the same sex.
MtF: Male-to-female transgendered. (MTF, alternatively)
NBM: Never been married.
ND: Non-drinker; no drugs.
NK: No kids. (N/K, alternatively)
NS: Non-smoker. (N/S, alternatively)
NSA: No strings attached.
NSc: Non-scene.
OHAC: Own house and car.
PnP: Party 'n' play.
P: Professional.
RTS: Real-time sex.
SAE: Self-addressed envelope.
SASE: Self-addressed, stamped envelope.
S&M: Sadomasochism. (S/M, SM, alternatively)
SD: Social drinker.
SI: Similar interests.
SOH: Sense of humor.
SSBBW: Super-sized big beautiful woman.
SSBHM: Super-sized big handsome man.
STD: Sexually transmitted disease.
STI: Sexually transmitted infection.
SWS: Sex without strings.
TDH: Tall, dark, and handsome.
TY: Thank you.
TYVM: Thank you very much.
VAS: Vasectomy.
VGL: Very good looking.
W/: With.
WAA: Will answer all.
WE: Well Endowed. (W/E, alternatively)
WLTM: Would like to meet.
W/O: Without.
W/S: Watersports. (WS, alternatively)
WTR: Willing to relocate.
X: Extreme.
Y: You; your.
##YO: ## years old. So, 32YO means "32 years old."

, While some acronyms are straightforward, others are...not so much. In a swingers personal ad, an "M" in "M4W" may stand for "married looking for a woman" as opposed to "man looking for a woman." Think about the context of the personal ads when reading acronyms.

