 Transdermal testosterone gels are common treatments. The gels are applied on the body and absorbed through the skin. After a shower, you can apply the gel to the shoulders, upper arms, chest, or belly. One type of testosterone gel is applied inside the nose.Testosterone gel can be expensive.
Wash your hands after handling the gel.
Make sure the skin is dry before you have contact with women, especially pregnant women, or children. You can transfer the testosterone gel if it hasn’t dried yet.;
, Transdermal testosterone patches are another topical treatment. The patches are applied to your back, thighs, stomach, or upper arms. The spot where the patch is placed should not be oily, hairy, or prone to sweating a lot. You should place the patch in a new spot each night, and wait a week before applying it in the same spot again.You should also not place the patch where you are going to put pressure on it from something like sitting or lying down, or place it on a bone.
The patch is applied each day at the same time, usually between the hours of 8 p.m. and midnight.
Patches should not be applied to the scrotum, or skin that is irritated or has open wounds.
When removing the patch, make sure no one else comes into contact with the testosterone. Throw away the patch immediately.
The cost of the transdermal patch can be high.
 Buccal testosterone is taken orally through a lozenge-like patch. The patch is placed against your gum. The patch will dissolve in your mouth. You won’t chew or swallow it. It is normally taken twice a day, in the morning and night. This approach is an efficient way to treat low testosterone in men.Wash your hands before and after handling the patch.
Your doctor will determine the dosage that is right for you. Generally, the patches are around 30 mg.
The patches may have a bitter taste and can cause mouth irritation.
 Intramuscular testosterone (IM) injections are available. The injections can be administered every two, three, or four weeks. The testosterone is usually injected into the thigh muscle. The injections are usually given in a doctor’s office; however, self injection is often possible, depending on your physician.This approach can be the least expensive. However, you have to get an injection every few weeks and some doctors will charge for an office visit in addition to the injection.
The dosage is usually more concentrated, and varies from 100 to 400 milligrams.
This method causes a roller coaster effect. Sometimes right after injection, your levels of testosterone may be higher than normal. Between injections, your levels of testosterone may be lower than normal.
 Another option for testosterone therapy is a pellet implant. These small pellets contain testosterone. They are surgically implanted into your skin two to four times each year.Pellets have been found to provide a more consistent level of testosterone throughout each day instead of giving a roller coaster effect of testosterone levels.