 Stand so that your left side faces the target. You'll want to straddle the shooting "line", an imaginary line from you to your target. So, if you shoot right handed, have your right foot (back foot) slightly in front of this line. Your toes should face forward in a way that feels comfortable; they don't have to point at the target.


If you're left-handed, your right foot will lead, and you'll face your right side at the target.;
, You want the grip in the center of your palm, evenly distributing the weight across your whole arm. Don't rely on wrist strength (bow too far back) or finger strength (too far forwards) to hold onto the bow.









Keep your grip calm and loose, not choking the bow to death. Gripping too tightly causes the bow to torque (twist when fired)., Pull the back of the arrow into the string until it clicks into place along the nocking point. The string will have a small area with an extra string looping on it, forming a small semi-circle (called the "D-loop). The arrow is locked into the straight part, and you use the curved line to pull the string back.
 If you prefer to pull and release the string with your fingers, skip this step. However, most compound hunters used the mechanical release. Attach the release to your wrist as instructed, then simply snap the jaws of the release around the D-loop.









Keep your index finger behind the trigger to prevent it from releasing accidentally.
 Strong posture is key to accurate shooting. So is staying still. Once you've planted your feet, found your target, and notched the boy, keep yourself in this angle and keep your eyes on the target -- the less you move, the less likely the arrow is to move off-target.
 The line of vertical dots on the sight seem intimidating at first, but they are there to help you determine shooting distance. The top dot is where you aim if the target is 20 yards away. This is true for every single compound bow. The rest of the dots are for other distances -- commonly 30, 40, and 50 yards -- but different bows will have different distances on each sight. Many of them are adjustable as well, so check out the manual for your compound bow if you're confused.







