 If you live in Illinois and you have a street address (not a P.O. box), you can update your address with the Secretary of State by completing a simple form online. This will change your address with the Illinois Secretary of State as required by law but it will not provide you with a corrected driver’s license. You are not legally required to obtain a corrected license but only to update your address within 10 days of the address change.


You can locate the change of address form at: https://www.ilsos.gov/addrchange/.
You can also use this form to update your address for CDL licenses.;
, You are required to provide identifying information in order to complete your change of address form. This allows the state to more quickly process your request. In order to complete your change of address, you must submit the following information via the online form:


Your Illinois driver’s license number.
The issue date on your license.
The last 4 digits of your social security number.
Your date of birth.
Your new address, including the county in which you now reside., If you are requesting an address change on your Illinois license to an out-of-state permanent address, or you live in Illinois but your post office is in a bordering state, or you live in an Illinois city with a population fewer than 3,500 and have only a P.O. box for legal address, you must use a different online form and provide the following information:


Your Illinois driver’s license number.
Your new address.
Your email address.
Your phone number.You can find the online change of address form at: http://www.ilsos.gov/ContactFormsWeb/addrform.jsp.
 Most likely, you will receive some type of confirmation that your address change request was submitted after you complete the online application. However, if you want to verify that your address change was received, you can contact Central Services via telephone at 217-785-1424 and ask the state employee to verify that your address change.


It may be best to wait a few days before calling to verify your address change, as it may take that long for the change to go into effect.

