 Lavender oil is one of the most popular essential oils, in part because of it’s especially high therapeutic value. Not only has the aroma of lavender oil proven to be relaxing, it can decrease your blood pressure and positively affect brain activity. Use this essential first when trying out aromatherapy to help fight stress, depression, and anxiety.Lavender essential oil has demonstrated similar effects to powerful anti-anxiety medications.When selecting a lavender oil in particular, make sure you choose a product that is high in esters and has little to no cineole.
 Another essential oil known for its ability to reduce anxiety is clary sage. Though evidence is limited, clary sage oil may be especially effective in diminishing depression-like symptoms following a stressful day. Clary sage’s anti-anxiety properties may be especially effective for females., The essential oil of this fragrant citrus fruit is said to improve mood and reduce stress-related symptoms. It has also been shown to facilitate rest, and relieve anxiety. From a less technical perspective, the aroma of bergamot is likely to simply calm your nerves and help you wind down.Bergamot, which is also a common ingredient in Earl Gray tea, may be equally as effective in reducing anxiety as are certain prescription medications.
While bergamot oil is especially effective, other citrus essential oils also help fight depression.Yet another example is the yuzu fruit. Essential oil derived from this plant is said to diminish negative emotional stress and positively affect nervous system function., Jasmine and angelica are other essential oils that are argued to have similar effectiveness in fighting anxiety as are potentially dangerous anti-anxiety medications.Sandalwood essential oil, as well as that of rose geranium and roman chamomile, may also help reduce anxiety., Feel free to mix several different essential oils together. In fact, certain blends have proven to be effective in reducing mental discomfort. For instance, try a mix of bergamot, frankincense, and lavender.Include ylang ylang in essential oil blends. Ylang ylang is another fruit that provides essential oil that can help reduce stress. It is less potent than most other essential oils, so it’s best in combination with others.For instance, blend ylang ylang with bergamot and lavender, or with clary sage.

