 The number one rule of free diving is to never dive alone. Make sure you are with someone who knows what you are doing and will be with you the entire time you are in the water. Many places have free diving clubs where you can meet others interested in training. Also check online forums if you don't have any friends who are interested in diving with you.

Learn and practice the "buddy system". When diving with a group, always pair up with a buddy. Your buddy is responsible only for you and you are responsible only for him. One is always on the surface while the other is under water.;
, Make sure you have a mask and snorkel before you start practicing in the water. Select a mask that fits well and feels comfortable; you two will be spending lots of time together. When you move onto open water dives, you'll want a wetsuit to provide some protection from the cold; again make sure it fits well. Too tight and it will restrict movement and breathing and can be rather painful; too loose and it won't keep any cold out. A pair of fins will help you make the most of your time underwater, allowing you to swim further with less effort. European-made long fins are ideal for free diving.
 Practice breathing through your mouth with the snorkel. Get used to the feeling of the mask, as it is a strange sensation to start off with.
 Walk into the pool up to your middle and try using your snorkel whilst standing in the water. This can take a long while to get used to, since putting your head under water breathing in is not a natural thing to do. Just take it at your own pace and allow yourself to get comfortable with the whole, strange situation.
 There are two positions free divers use: horizontal and inverted. The first one you'll need is the horizontal position. Hold onto the side of the pool and gently float yourself, face down, in the water. Keep breathing slowly and a little deeper to compensate for the snorkels dead air space.
 As you dive down your snorkel will fill up with water. When you come up to breath the last thing you want after an epic long dive is to come up and empty your snorkel into your lungs! So, while floating in the horizontal position, dip your head under water and let a little bit of water into the snorkel. Use a short sharp breath to clear purge the water and leave you free to breath. Keep practicing this until you are comfortable clearing a full snorkel. You can also remove the snorkel from your mouth before the dive and you will breathe without the snorkel after the dive.
 Now that you're comfortable with your snorkel and happily floating around, it's time to completely relax yourself in the water. While you float on the surface, simply curl up into the fetal position. Some divers will even come close to falling asleep in this position. This state of mind will be your mental base. Recall this feeling when you're diving to keep yourself calm and relaxed and help you dive longer and more comfortably.
 The flutter kick will be your standard way of moving, just like when doing front crawl kick with alternating feet. The frog kick relieves tired muscles after all that fluttering. For short bursts of speed (and pretending to be a mermaid), use the dolphin kick. Use short kicks, make sure the blade doesn't bend more than 30 degrees to decrease energy wastage. Take a cue from the fish—to pick up speed, use rapid small fin beats.
 This is one fluid movement where the diver takes a breath, bends at the waist, and dives vertically below the surface whilst clearing their ears. This technique is complex yet easy to master. Gain some momentum and take a deep breath out then inhale deeply, spreading you shoulders for maximum air intake. Bend at the waist and, keeping one arm at your side, seal the nose pocket of your mask with the other hand for ear clearing (see tips) and raise the opposite leg. Keep practicing until you can get a perfect, vertical descent.
 The key to longer breath hold-times is practice. If you have been practicing so far in a pool (which you better had!) when you first step into the ocean you'll be comfortable and confident, able to calmly purge your snorkel when water gets in, and gently slip beneath the surface to enjoy the incredible world below the waves.

