 Denture cleaners can contain one of several different active ingredients, but each cleanser has some type of active ingredient that is capable of stripping away stains from hard, white surfaces.


Dissolve a denture cleaner tablet in a dish of warm water according the the label instructions. Make sure that the tablet is completely dissolved so that you get the full benefit of the cleanser it contains.
Soak your hands in the diluted denture cleaner for five minutes. When done, rinse lightly in clean, warm water and pat dry.
Repeat this treatment a few times a week for continued improvement.;
, A soak made from hydrogen peroxide and baking soda can be a very effective stain remover.


Mix 1/2 cup (125 ml) hot water with 1 tsp (5 ml) 30% hydrogen peroxide and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) baking soda in a small plastic bowl. Stir with a spoon until the powder dissolves.
Dip your nails into the solution for 1 to 10 minutes, or until the stains disappear.
Wash your hands with soap and water when done. Apply lotion or moisturizing cream to your hands when done, as well, since peroxide can be harsh on your skin.
 The acidic properties of lemon juice can help dissolve away stain particles in your nails, and the soapy water can further assist in the removal of those particles from the surface of your nails.


Soap helps the process by binding with the particles of stain-causing debris after the lemon lifts those particles from the surface of the nail. This makes it easier to wash those particles away.
Mix 1/4 cup (60 ml) lemon juice with 1 cup (250 ml) warm water and 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) gentle liquid soap in a plastic or glass bowl.
Soak your nails in this mixture for 5 minutes.Rinse your nails with running water when done, and apply a lotion or moisturizing cream to prevent your skin from drying out too severely.
 Vinegar is another mild acid capable of stripping away stain particles from hard surfaces. Make sure that you use white vinegar, however, since an apple cider vinegar, balsamic vinegar, or other color vinegar could actually stain your nail in the process.


Pour 1 cup (250 ml) of warm water into a bowl and add 1 tsp to 1 Tbsp (5 to 15 ml) of distilled white vinegar.
Soak your nails in this mixture for 8 minutes.
When done, rinse your nails under lukewarm, running water and pat dry. Apply a lotion to your skin to prevent it from drying out.
 If your nails became stained after you used a dark nail polish, you might be able to get rid of some mild stains by reapplying more commercial nail polish remover.









Soak a cotton pad or cotton ball in nail polish remover. One containing acetone will probably be more effective since acetone is a fairly strong ingredient.
Scrub the stained areas of your nails with the soaked cotton. After 15 to 30 seconds, you should notice some difference. If not, then you may need to try another solution.
This remedy may not work if your nails are stained with anything other than nail polish.
 Baking soda is a powerful home cleaning agent that can assist in everything from odor absorption to stain removal. Mixing baking soda with a little hydrogen peroxide can create an effective scrub for your nails.









Combine 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of 3% hydrogen peroxide with 2 1/2 Tbsp (37.5 ml) baking soda in a small bowl or dish.Stir with a spoon or chopstick until the two ingredients are thoroughly combined into a paste.
Using a cotton swab, apply the paste over the top of each nail and under the tip of each nail. Cover all the nails on one hand.
Wait for three minutes before rinsing the paste off your nails with warm water. Repeat with your other hand.
You should notice some difference after the first application. For better results, though, repeat this remedy once every six to eight weeks.










Apply the toothpaste to each nail, using a pea-sized dollop or less for each.
Rub the toothpaste into your nails using a nail brush or an old toothbrush.
Let it sit for 5 minutes, then rinse with warm water.
Repeat this treatment a few times weekly for notably whiter nails.
 If you have sensitive, dry skin or damaged cuticles, a better option would be to rub the lemon directly on your nails.









If you have a leftover lemon half that has recently been squeezed and still feels moist along the inner flesh, rub the flesh of the lemon directly over your nails, working on each nail for about 30 to 60 seconds. The lemon half should still contain enough juice to be effective.
If using lemon juice, dip a cotton swab or cotton ball into the juice and thoroughly rub it over your nails. Let it sit on your nails for 10 to 30 minutes before rinsing your hands with warm water.
 Combining lemon juice with a bit of baking soda can form an even more powerful cleansing paste for your nails.









Mix 1 Tbsp (15 ml) lemon juice with 2 to 3 Tbsp (30 to 45 ml) baking soda. Stir together in a small plastic or glass dish until a paste forms.
Use a cotton swab to apply the paste over the tops of your nails and underneath the tip of each nail.
Let the paste sit on your nails for 10 to 15 minutes before washing it away with soap and water.
 Salt can act as a gentle buffer, so when you combine it with stain-fighting lemon juice, you can help buff away any stains while simultaneously polishing your nails naturally.









Combine equal parts lemon juice and salt in a small glass or plastic container. A grainy scrub should form.
Apply this scrub to your hands, focusing on your nails. Let it sit on your nails for about 5 minutes.
Rinse with lukewarm water when done.
 If you need an immediate fix, you can purchase a nail-whitening pencil from a convenience store and touch up your nails. These pencils do not fix the underlying stain, but they will help you mask those stains for the time being.


A nail whitening pencil looks similar to an eyeliner pencil. Make sure that the tip is as sharp as possible for an easier application.
Lightly moisten the tip of the pencil or moisten the tips of your nails with a little water.
Color evenly along the underside of your nail tips. Let it set, and reapply the pencil as needed each time you wash your hands.
 Regularly buffing your nails with a gentle nail buffer can gently scrap away any stains while giving your nails a healthy-looking shine.









Do not use a nail file to remove stains. Nail files, especially metal files, can get rid of stains but will greatly weaken your nails in the process.
Use an actual nail buffer to buff the nails. Rub the buffer over each nail for 20 to 30 seconds to give it a shine and help minimize stains.
If using a nail buffer with multiple steps, follow the label instructions to determine proper use.
Follow this procedure once a week or so.
 In the future, you can prevent additional stains by brushing a base coat over your nails before applying your nail polish.









Apply a base coat product to your nails immediately before applying nail polish. Once it dries, you can apply your polish as usual.
Base coat fills in the cracks and crevices in the nail surface, making it harder for color pigmentation to find its way into those crevices and settling in.
You can also use base coat without applying nail polish since it can also protect your nails against other potential stains.
 If your nails are chronically yellow, there could be an underlying medical condition at work. Talk to your doctor to determine if this might be the case.


Yellowed nails could be a sign of yellow nail syndrome, which is often a sign of respiratory disease or a swelling of the hands.Nail discoloration could be a sign of fungal infection, as well, and about half of patients who suffer with chronically discolored nails do so due to an infection.Nail discoloration can, at rare times, also indicate a problem with the liver, kidney, or heart.

