 The USPTO website offers endless amounts of information you can use to help you through the trademark application process. Before you start your application, USPTO recommends that you hire legal counsel. You need to do so because filing for trademark protection involves navigating through a series of legal proceedings. After you visit the USPTO website, look around to get an idea of what you are getting yourself into. Do your best to determine how much help you will need, and what type of help will work.The USPTO website has an entire page dedicated to helping you find legal counsel.;
, When you start looking for a lawyer, you need to make sure you are searching for one that specializes in intellectual property law. Intellectual property law is unique and can be difficult for more generalized lawyers to give you the help you need. Begin by asking family and friends for lawyer recommendations. If you are a business owner, chances are you know other business owners who have gone through the trademarking process before.


If you do not know anyone who can help you locate a lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service.After answering a few questions about the help you need, you will be put in contact with various lawyers in your area.
 Use the internet to find out about the lawyers who you are interested in. Start by looking over each lawyer's website, which should tell you about the lawyer's background, the size of their firm, and the type of work they do. If the information cannot be found, or is not clear, consider moving on to another lawyer candidate.


Next, use the USPTO website to research whether the lawyer has any history of discipline. By typing in the lawyer's name, you will be able to tell whether they have ever been in trouble before.Finally, look at online reviews from sites like Google and Yelp. These reviews can help you determine whether the lawyer is someone you would like to work with.
 Once you narrow your list and have about two or three lawyers you want to talk to, call them and set up a meeting to talk about your trademark application. Some lawyers will offer this meeting for free while others will charge you a small fee. During these meetings, ask each lawyer about their experience filing trademark applications. In particular, ask about their willingness and ability to accurately choose a trademark service class.


During your initial consultations, you also need to ask about the lawyer's fees. In general, try to understand whether the lawyer charges by the hour, a flat fee, or whether some other arrangement can be worked out. Additionally, ask how you will be billed and how you can pay.
 Once your meetings are complete, pick the lawyer you felt most comfortable with. Generally, this will be the lawyer that can help you choose a trademark service classification at a reasonable price. Call the lawyer you want to hire and set up a time to finalize the agreement. Make sure you get everything in writing.
 During your first meeting with your lawyer, you will discuss how the trademark application works, what you can expect, and what you need in order to be successful. Generally, before you can even fill out an application, you will need to select a mark, mark format, and trademark service classification. Your lawyer will then search through existing trademarks to make sure you are not infringing on anyone else's intellectual property.


Once all of this legwork is done, you and your lawyer can put together, and submit, a trademark application.
 While your lawyer should be able to quickly and accurately identify the correct trademark service classification, the USPTO website can help you through the process as well. The USPTO website has a video that explains how to identify the correct service classification.In general, the USPTO uses a specific list of trademark classes that your mark must fit within. There are 45 classes in all, and only 11 of those classes are for services. Using a specific set of information and tools, you will need to find the one class (out of the 11 possible classes) that best fits your trademark service.
If you fail to properly identify your trademark service class, your application may be delayed, or even denied., While you most likely already know that your mark applies to a service (as opposed to a good), the line is not always clear. To make sure you correctly identify the appropriate class, you need to make this distinction. A good is something physical that someone buys from you. A service, on the other hand, is an activity that you perform for other people.


For example, if you have sweatshirts and you sell them, you are providing a good. However, if people bring sweatshirts to you and you print things on them, you are providing a service. If you both print sweatshirts and sell them, you might have a good and a service., Trademarks can apply to many things within one business. In order to accurately classify your service, you need to know what you are applying your mark to. For example, if you run a carpet cleaning business, you might have a company logo that applies to your business as a whole, but you might also have a logo for a specific cleaning product you create and use. Each of these logos might have a different classification based on what the mark applies to., To get a better idea of the 11 service classes that are out there, you should read through each of the classifications, which can be found on the USPTO's website. These classes are numbered, and class numbers 035-045 are the classes associated with services. Within each class, the USPTO will define the class and explain what should be included within it. Also, each class will have a series of examples that will help you determine where your service fits.


For example, Class 038 is titled "telecommunications." This class applies to services that allow one person to talk to another through various means. This might include the diffusion of radio or television programs. However, this class does not include radio advertising services or telemarketing services., If you have read through all 11 service classifications and you are still having trouble determining where your service fits in, try using the USPTO's trademark identification manual, which can be found online.When you use this resource, you can type in the type of service you have and you will see all the possible classifications for that particular service.


For example, if you repair jewelry for others, you might type "jewelry" into the search queue. After looking through all of the possible classifications, you will notice that Class 037 includes your particular service.