 Different Mac computers will have different video ports available. The ports you have will determine what you need to connect to your TV. Most Mac computers will have one of the following ports:USB-C - This port can be found on the newest Mac computers. You'll need a USB C-to-HDMI adapter, but it will transfer sound and video.
HDMI - This port can be found on many newer MacBook computers. It looks like an elongated USB port with notches on each side, and may have "HDMI" printed above it. This is the most ideal port, as you won't need any special adapters and HDMI transfers both video and audio.
Thunderbolt - This port is a little smaller than a USB port and will have a lightning bolt icon. Thunderbolt supports both Thunderbolt and Mini DisplayPort adapters. A Thunderbolt-to-HDMI adapter can transfer audio.
Mini DisplayPort - This port looks the same as a Thunderbolt port, but the icon is a small rectangle with a vertical line on each side. It only supports Mini DisplayPort adapters.Micro-DVI - This port is slim, and slightly larger than a USB port. It has an icon with a box with two vertical lines, much like the Mini DisplayPort. It only supports Micro-DVI adapters.
 Once you've identified the port or ports on your Mac, you'll need to see what ports are available on your TV. Ideally, you'll want to connect to an open HDMI port, especially if you have an HDMI port on your Mac as well.


If you don't have an HDMI port, look for a DVI port. This will result in the next best image quality, but will require a separate audio cable.
 If you have a Thunderbolt, Mini DisplayPort, or Micro-DVI port, you'll need an adapter that will convert the port into an HDMI port. If your Mac has an HDMI port and your TV has an HDMI port, you won't need any adapters.


If your TV has a DVI port and no HDMI port, you'll need a DVI adapter instead.
 After plugging in the adapter (if necessary), connect your Mac to your TV using an HDMI or DVI cable.
 If you're using anything other than HDMI-to-HDMI, you'll need a separate cable to connect your Mac's Audio Out port with the TV input's Audio In port. A standard 3.5mm stereo cable should work in nearly all cases. Make sure you're plugging the audio into the correct Audio In port on your TV (it should match your video input).
 Turn your TV on and use the remote to switch to the input that your Mac is connected to. The input should be labeled on the TV itself so that you can easily switch to the correct one. If your TV has multiple inputs of the same type, such as three HDMI ports, make sure you select the correct one.Typically, you'll see your desktop extended automatically onto the TV screen.
 You'll find the Apple menu in the upper-right corner of your Mac's computer screen. You'll be using these menus to adjust the orientation of your TV, as well as to choose how you want to split the display.
 This will open the display settings.
 This will allow you to adjust how your second screen is being used.
 This will make transitioning your mouse between screens much more natural. For example, If your TV is mounted above your computer, place the virtual TV screen above your computer's in the Arrangements tab.


You can drag the little virtual menu bar between your two screens to set where the desktop menu bar appears.
 By default, your desktop will be extended to your TV. If you'd rather show the same thing on both your computer and your TV, check the "Mirror Displays" box.
 This will allow you to set where the sound from your computer is played.
 This will set your TV speakers to play sounds from your Mac computer.If you connected via the audio out port on your Mac because you aren't using an HDMI connection, select it instead.

