 If the plaintiff filed his or her lawsuit in a court that doesn't have jurisdiction over the claim, or over your business, you typically can get the lawsuit dismissed.


Generally, if the lawsuit alleges an FMLA violation it should be filed in federal court, since FMLA is a federal law. However, employees also have the right to file in a state court.Some states have similar leave laws. If the employee filed his or her lawsuit under one of these state laws – typically because the state law provides greater protection than FMLA – the lawsuit should be filed in state court.
If the plaintiff has sued you in a court far away from you, or located in a state or county where you've never been and have no place of business, that court may not have personal jurisdiction over you.Keep in mind that if you don't mention an objection to the court's personal jurisdiction in the first document you file with the court in the case (typically your answer to the plaintiff's complaint, but sometimes a motion to dismiss), it is considered waived and you lose the right to bring it up later.;
, Employees have a limited amount of time to file a lawsuit after they believe their rights under the FMLA have been denied.Generally, an employee must file his or her lawsuit within two years of the date of the last action he or she believes constitutes a violation of FMLA.
This statute of limitations is extended to three years if the employee alleges the FMLA violation was willful – meaning you showed reckless disregard for whether your conduct violated the law., Generally, the FMLA only applies to employers in industries related to interstate commerce that employ at least 50 people.You must have at least 50 employees on the payroll for at least 20 weeks of the current or preceding calendar year.
Employees working at a different site also are included in this total if they work for the same employer and the worksites are within 75 miles of each other.
For example, if you run a chain of small bakeries, and there are 20 employees at one location, 15 employees at a second location, and 18 employees at a third location, all of these employees would be covered under FMLA if the three locations were within 75 miles of each other – even though no single location has 50 employees.
 Employees are not eligible for FMLA leave unless they have worked at least 1250 hours for you over the course of a year.Employees who work 25 hours a week would be eligible for FMLA leave after 12 months of employment.
The employee must have worked for you for at least 12 months before FMLA kicks in, although those 12 months need not be consecutive.
Even if an employee has worked 1250 hours for you, he or she is not eligible for FMLA leave unless he or she has been on your payroll for at least 12 months.
 Especially since the employee likely has an attorney, you should work with a licensed attorney who has experience defending employers in FMLA violation lawsuits.Plaintiffs typically request a jury trial, because these cases often result in the jury favoring the employee over the employer.The complexity of trial procedure in a federal jury trial alone should indicate your need for experienced legal representation.
 Taking advantage of a mediation program can help you resolve the dispute efficiently without engaging in a protracted legal battle.Some benefits of mediation include that the discussions held are informal and confidential, and coming to a settlement doesn't imply any violation of the FMLA.
Mediation also may be less costly to you than continuing to a trial. The plaintiff has more than likely requested a jury trial, and jurors tend to favor employees over employers.
In some cases, particularly if the employee is suing you because he or she was terminated after an extended absence, you may be able to resolve the situation simply by reinstating him or her.
Although most mediation proceedings are non-binding, the resulting settlement agreement can be filed with the court and signed by the judge to make it a binding court order.
 Information regarding the employee's attendance, length of employment, and other requests for leave will be useful in your defense.Your attorney will want to review these materials well in advance of any request from the plaintiff's attorney. Assuming you don't reach a settlement through mediation or other means, you should expect discovery requests to include personnel and other employment records.
If you have a policy in place requiring employees to exhaust their accrued sick or vacation leave, paid or unpaid, that time still can count against the employee's FMLA allotment if the leave was taken for a reason covered by the FMLA.
If the employee had frequent attendance problems and seemed to find any excuse to avoid work, this can play out well in your defense., You should determine what was said to the employee and how his or her request for leave was handled.The FMLA requires employees to provide notice of their need to take leave at least 30 days in advance if the need for leave is foreseeable – say, if the employee is pregnant or needs to have a scheduled surgery.
In case of an emergency or unforeseeable need for leave, the employee still must let you know at least one or two business days after he or she learned of the need to take leave.
If you have a company policy in place, such as one that requires written notice of an employee's intent to take FMLA leave, the employee must follow your policy.
If the employee did not provide you with the proper notice, you can use this as a defense in the FMLA violation lawsuit. Without proper notice, the employee is not protected by the FMLA.
Pay special attention to the notice alleged by the employee. Simply calling in sick, for example, is not sufficient notice that the employee needs to take FMLA leave., One of the most active areas of litigation involves whether the employee's reasons qualify for leave under the law.You have a good chance at a successful defense if you can argue that the employee's reason for requesting leave either was not serious enough to rise to the level of FMLA coverage, or that the employee was outright lying about his or her reasons for needing leave.FMLA only covers leave for a serious health condition, which is defined as something that requires in-patient care or continuous treatment by a health care provider.Generally, a condition is covered if the employee or one of the employee's family members is incapacitated for at least three days or has to see a doctor or other health care provider at least twice a month. He or she must be unable to perform the functions of his or her position.
Keep in mind that a condition isn't serious enough to merit FMLA leave just because the employee is required to take over-the-counter medication every day, or because a doctor recommends bed rest.
The FMLA covers conditions suffered by the employee, as well as leave to care for parents, children, or a spouse. The definition of "spouse" may include same-sex marriages and depends on the relationships recognized in your state at the time the leave was requested.
You are allowed under the FMLA to request certification of an employee's stated reasons for requesting leave, or to require a second or third medical opinion to assess the employee's need for leave. If the employee doesn't provide this information, his or her absence is not covered by FMLA.
 Any written information you have can be used to justify the decision that was made regarding the employee's leave request.Many of the FMLA's requirements put the onus on the employee to indicate that he or she is eligible for FMLA protection. For example, if the employee failed to provide you sufficient information regarding his or her reason for requesting leave, you could be justified in denying it.
If you required the employee to provide additional proof of his or her reason for requesting leave, and he or she did not comply with that request within 15 days, the employee will not prevail in an FMLA violation lawsuit. That failure to comply means his or her absence is not covered by the FMLA – even if the reason originally would have been.
Any medical information the employee submitted to you, as well as your requests for medical certification or additional supporting information, can be used in your defense. If you requested medical information to support the leave – either in advance of the dates the employee requested for leave or while the employee was out on leave – and the employee did not provide that information, his or her absence is not covered by the FMLA.
 All employees should have an understanding of their rights under the FMLA and how FMLA leave works with your company's leave policies.Keep in mind that if your employees are covered under FMLA, the law requires you to post notices explaining the benefits to which they are entitled, as well as the procedures for how to request leave and how to file a complaint.
The FMLA also requires information about the law to be included in all employee handbooks. Even if you don't have a written handbook, you still must provide written information about FMLA to your employees.
 Employees should know who to notify when they want to request FMLA leave, and what sort of notice is required.Any policies you have should be applied uniformly and consistently to avoid the appearance of discrimination. For example, if you require medical certification or a second medical opinion of an employee's need for leave, you should require this for all employees, not just some of them.
 Anyone with authority to take an FMLA request should understand your policy and apply it consistently.


You may want to provide annual training sessions to refresh your managers on FMLA requirements as well as provide them with any updates or additional information. Given that FMLA leave requests may not happen frequently, managers can easily forget the required procedures.
If you are faced with an FMLA violation lawsuit, you may want to have your attorney review the policies and procedures you have in place to ensure they comply with the law.
 The FMLA allows you to require your employees to provide written notice, and having such a requirement can help you defend yourself in any future FMLA violation lawsuits..When an employee's FMLA leave request is received, you must provide a written notice to the employee within five days outlining his or her obligations under the FMLA, and the consequences for failure to meet those obligations.
Make sure all employees understand exactly what documentation needs to be presented for their leave to be approved, and when it must be provided.
If you require employees to exhaust any accrued paid or unpaid sick leave prior to using FMLA leave, this should be clearly stated.

