 When typing on a keyboard, always keep your hands in a relaxed position the entire time you're on the computer. The easier it is to bend your fingers, the less work your wrists hand to do.;
, When typing, it is easy to forget about proper hand placement for your hands and you end up bending your wrists in an awkward position. To prevent that, it is recommended that your hand should always be bent at a 90 degree angle.
 Your arms need to be in a position where is they do not have to move around much. Having your arms stable will take some of the stress off your wrists while keeping your hands relaxed.
 Shaking out your hands helps with blood flow switch in turn make your muscles stronger. The less blood flowing into your hands the weaker your wrists will be making it easier to damage your median nerve.
 While using a computer always maintain correct posture and hand placement. No slouching!

, Make sure to keep your wrists leveled at all times while on the computer and not to bend them while working.
 Doing the same hand movements over and over can cause a strain on your wrists. Getting away from repetitive work is the key to reduce your chances for carpal tunnel syndrome.
 Catching the symptoms early is very beneficial, doing simple stretches like bending your hand backwards can help alleviate some of the pain and will help reduce the symptoms.
 You should feel a tingling feeling in your thumb and first three fingers, this is the first sign of carpal tunnel. You stop doing what it is you are doing right away.
 Going untreated with minor carpal tunnel can spiral into major carpal tunnel syndrome very quickly. You can start to lose feeling and motor control in your hand.
 Major cases of carpal tunnel syndrome can no longer be alleviated with simple stretching or taking breaks from repetitive tasks. Surgery might be your only opinion and you run the risk of losing movement and feeling in your hands.
 It's all about doing your part during early symptoms of carpal tunnel. In the early stages it can be very cheap and easy to make it go away with simple stretching and knowing early signs of carpal tunnel. You can catch before it becomes a problem.

