 Before you can get a medical marijuana card, you will need to determine if you are legally allowed to do so in the state, province, or area where you live. You should look up the state or provincial laws in your home area to ensure you are able to purchase and use medical marijuana for your seizure disorder.


You can find out if your state allows medical marijuana by doing an online search for your state’s legislation around medical marijuana.
There are about 25 states in the United States that allow medical marijuana use.In Canada, medical marijuana is legal nationwide, in every province.;
, Once you have confirmed your home state or area allows medical marijuana use, you should speak to your doctor about getting a medical marijuana card. Many states and provinces list seizure disorders as a condition that is eligible for access to medical marijuana. Your doctor should be able to tell you if your seizure disorder qualifies you for medical marijuana under state or provincial law.


Your doctor will then need to sign several forms to qualify you for a medical marijuana card to treat your seizure disorder. If your doctor does not support the use of medical marijuana, you may need to find another doctor who will be willing to approve you for a card.
Depending on your state or province, it may cost money for you to get a medical marijuana card. You may need to pay the fee yourself or see if it is covered under your health care insurance.
 Your doctor may submit the necessary forms for you to your state or province’s Department of Health Services. If your doctor does not do this for you, you may need to do it yourself. It may take one to two weeks for your application to go through. You will then receive a medical marijuana card in the mail.You may receive information on state-licensed marijuana dispensaries in your state or province when you get the medical marijuana card.
You can also ask your doctor for more information on dispensaries in your area or look up dispensaries in your area online.
 When you are looking for medical marijuana that will help treat your seizure disorder, go for a strain that is low in THC and high in CBD. There are several known strains, such as Charlotte's Web, that are considered ideal for individuals with seizure disorders. You can also ask your doctor to recommend certain strains of marijuana that can help treat the symptoms of your disorder.THC is a compound that produces the psychoactive effects in marijuana. A lower amount of THC will make the marijuana’s side effects feel more mild.
CBD is a compound that has been shown to help reduce seizures for individuals suffering from certain forms of epilepsy. A strain high in CBD may be beneficial for managing the symptoms of your seizure disorder.
 Many medical marijuana users prefer taking marijuana in liquid form, such as cannabis oil. Using marijuana in the form of an oil means it can be added to food or taken orally on a daily basis.Your doctor can show you how to take marijuana in oil form. They may suggest consuming the oil directly on your tongue or putting the oil on food or in food.
 Your doctor will prescribe a dosage per day so you know how much you should take. Try to stick to the prescribed dosage so you are not at risk of taking too much or experiencing intense side effects.Your doctor may start you on a low dosage at first to allow your body to get used to the effects of medical marijuana. You may take several low doses throughout the day, rather than one big dosage at once.
Your doctor may monitor your reaction to the dosage over a period of several weeks. You can then adjust the dosage based on your reaction so you are comfortable using medical marijuana for your disorder on a daily basis.
 Though more research is necessary, there have been several studies done on the benefits of medical marijuana for those with seizure disorders. Your doctor may discuss these studies with you as well as their own personal experiences with other patients who have seizure disorders and use medical marijuana with success. You should stay informed and be sure you are clear on how medical marijuana can benefit you.The more clinical trials and studies that are done on medical marijuana for seizure disorders, the more it becomes clear that it may be a viable treatment option in some cases. In one study, done with a pharmaceutical that contains 99% CBD oil, seizures decreased by an average of 54% in 137 people who completed 12 weeks on the medical marijuana product. Your doctor may discuss these studies to let you know of the positive effects of medical marijuana.
 You should be aware of the possible side effects of using medical marijuana, especially if you have never used marijuana before. You may experience increase appetite and sleepiness as a result of the marijuana. You may also have memory issues. In general, the side effects of medical marijuana are mild and tend to fade away with time.You may experience several side effects of medical marijuana at first and then they may gradually become less frequent the more often you use the product.
Some individuals may struggle with the psychoactive effects of marijuana due to high THC levels. Your doctor may suggest switching to a strain with low THC levels to help you avoid the psychoactive effects of the drug.
 You should schedule check in appointments with your doctor to ensure you are doing well on medical marijuana. You may discuss any improvements or shifts in your seizure disorder due to the medical marijuana. Checking in with your doctor will also allow you to request a change in your dosage based on your comfort level and the effect of the medical marijuana on your disorder.You should also discuss any side effects you are experiencing due to the medical marijuana with your doctor during your check-ins. Be transparent and open with your doctor so you can find a dosage and strain of marijuana that is right for your medical needs.

