 If you decide to tackle your bee problem on your own, you’ll need to cover all exposed parts of your body to protect yourself from stings. Layer thick, long-sleeved clothing with work boots, gloves and eye and face protection to minimize your risk of being stung. Getting stung multiple times can prove fatal, so don’t put yourself at unnecessary risk.Killer bee venom is no stronger than that of common varieties of honey bee, but they tend to swarm in overwhelming numbers and are much more easily provoked.Avoid wearing strong fragrances or causing a commotion when preparing to raid a killer bee nest. Unusual stimuli may draw their attention and incite them to swarm.
 Combine one part liquid dish soap with four parts water and mix thoroughly. Fill a plastic spray bottle with the soap solution. Adding soap will cause a higher concentration of water to stick to the bees and infiltrate their orifices, effectively drowning them.Natural pesticide mixtures like soap and water provide a welcome alternative to using chemical agents that can harm other species and damage the environment.
 Spray the soapy solution liberally onto whatever bees you come across. The soap and water solution may take longer than a chemical pesticide to show signs that it’s working, but its effects should be similar. After you’ve found the nest, flood any openings in its surface with soapy water to drown out bees hiding within.


Using a liquid spraying system in place of a spray bottle might make it easier to reach nests that are built deep inside narrow openings.
 If you’ve managed to locate the nest, the nexus of your bee problem, you’re going to want to remove and destroy the comb. Most Africanized honey bees make their nests in ordinary enclosed spaces, but construct fibrous networks inside known as "combs," where they live, reproduce and manufacture honey. Once most of the bees around the nest have been dealt with, the comb itself can be thrown away, crushed or burnt.When handling a hive or comb, watch out for any bees that might remain inside.
Thoroughly rinse the area where the nest was found with a garden hose after it’s been disposed of to eliminate scents that might attract other bees.
 Even if you can’t afford to retain the services of a professional bee remover, or if the bees pose an immediate threat and time is of the essence, you might still be able to have the nest comb removed without cost after you’ve dealt with the worst of the infestation. Many beekeeping groups and some animal control services will dispatch people to collect hives and combs, for study or disposal. See if this option is available before attempting to remove a killer bee nest yourself.