 Self massage is very effective at reducing the pain from muscles that tighten when stressed. Massage your own shoulders, forearms, thighs, and even your hands. This is something you can do any time during the day -- even when you're sitting at your own desk.


If you like the self-massage, consider having a friend or a professional give you a massage. This can make your body feel very refreshed, especially if you spend all day sitting up and have a sore back.
 Though caffeine may give you the kick you need to wake up in the morning, it's not worth it to over-indulge in caffeine in the long run. After a few hours, coming down from caffeine will make you feel shaky, irritable, and can even give you a headache. Drinking too much caffeine will also make it more difficult for you to sleep at night.


If you're a heavy caffeine addict, try cutting down on just one cup of coffee per day or per week. You can also try switching from coffee to tea.
If you really need your caffeine, eliminate it after noon, and you will be able to sleep more easily. If you're used to the cup of coffee after dinner, switch to decaf.
 Getting just 30 minutes a day of healthy exercise will help relax your body by leaps and bounds. You don't have to do anything strenuous or out of your comfort zone to get your heart rate going and to let yourself blow off some steam. Try to factor in 30 minutes of exercise into your schedule at least three times a week. Here are some great exercises to try:


Power yoga. Not only will this give you a killer workout, but you'll be able to focus on clearing your mind and concentrating on your breathing as well.
Running. This is a great way to clear your mind while getting a great cardiovascular workout.
Hiking. You'll feel instantly more relaxed by being in touch with nature.
Find a gym buddy. If you go to the gym with a buddy just once or twice a week, you'll be able to get a great workout while laughing and sharing your thoughts.
Remember to always stretch. No matter what form of exercise you do, take at least 5-10 minutes to stretch before and after your workout. Stretching your limbs will not only prevent injury, but it will help you slow down and relax.
 Run yourself a hot bath with lots of scented oils and bubble bath. Relax in this bath for about 10 - 20 minutes. This will be just long enough to refresh and restore a small amount of energy to get back to your own head space.
 Eating well is the key to having a more relaxed body. Your body may be feeling out of sorts because you've been too stressed out to eat three healthy and balanced meals. Here are some eating tips that can help you relax your body:


Always eat breakfast. Breakfast really is the most important meal of the day, and if you skip it, your entire day will feel off-kilter. Eat a healthy breakfast with protein-filled items like eggs and lean turkey, as well as some fruits and vegetables or a healthy bowl of oatmeal.
Eat three balanced meals a day. Eat three meals a day around the same time each day and make sure to find a healthy balance between proteins, carbs, and fruits and vegetables.
Avoid foods that are heavy in fat or very greasy. They will give you indigestion and will make your body feel more sluggish.
Eat healthy snacks. Eat fruit, nuts, or a small amount of peanut butter with celery in between meals.
 Having a healthy sleep schedule can go a long way in making you feel less stressed. If you get enough sleep, you'll feel more control of your life during the day and will be more equipped to handle any responsibilities and challenges that come your way. Here's how to sleep well:


Go to bed and wake up around the same time every night. Falling into a sleep routine will make it much easier for you to wake up and go to bed at a certain time.
Find the amount of hours that work for you. The average person needs around 6 - 8 hours of sleep. Remember that oversleeping can make you feel just as groggy as not sleeping enough.
Before you fall asleep, visualize your wake-up success. Close your eyes and think about how good you'll feel when you hit your alarm once, stretch, and instantly get up and get started with your day.
Avoid caffeine, chocolate, or spicy foods in the evening, or it will be harder for you to go to fall asleep.

