 With practice, you can easily learn how to pad out existing ingredients or recipes, such as increasing a homemade pan of pasta sauce with an extra can of tomato puree, or bulking up with extra ingredients in the main dish. If you have extra fresh ingredients in your refrigerator, adding a simple salad or other vegetable side dishes can make a meal go much further. Don't be too wed to the exactness of a recipe that you're used to making––a good cook can usually work out how the addition of more ingredients can be balanced without overpowering or spoiling the dish.;
, If you have some leftover vegetables from last night, they simply need warming through and not cooking again from scratch. This makes them ideal candidates for quick and easy bulked up meals. Depending on their state, vegetables may be reheated and mixed with a little lemon juice, chopped herbs and melted butter (if available); mashed into bubble and squeak fritters; folded into a frittata or omelette; or chopped and added to a sauce or stew.


In very dire circumstances, clean vegetable peelings and trimmings (from onion, celery, carrot, etc.) can make a basic, tasty vegetable stock. When starchy vegetable peels (such as potato) or leftover vegetables are added, boiled, pureed and seasoned, the result can make a good vegetable soup. This soup can be served in small glasses, (such as shot glasses or small coffee cups) with cut triangles of toasted bread as a crouton for a trendy appetizer. Leftover meat such as chicken, or frozen vegetables such as peas and corn can also be added to this soup to stretch it even further.
Leftover vegetables can be chopped up, mixed with ricotta cheese (you can even make your own at home!), mix with a beaten egg, salt and pepper and a little nutmeg and use as a filler in cannelloni pasta, in puff pastry triangles (such as the classic cheese and spinach triangles), or mix with curry powder (to taste) and wrap in short crust pastry to bake or fry to make samosas.
 This can be simply some nuts, cut fruit and vegetables with a dipping sauce, bread or cracker biscuits with some cheese, or some pre-made or frozen appetizer that can be quickly prepared and served. An appetizer is not only good for digestion because it stimulates the appetite, it can help to reduce the amount of food you may eat. This is a common trick of cafes and restaurants that serve garlic bread as an entrée, or bread and olive oil for dipping, as you're more likely to enjoy your meal and less likely to leave the table hungry.


If you have a supply of eggs, an omelette is a quick and easy entrée. Or, the eggs can be boiled, sliced and served on bread with some mayonnaise or spicy sauce.
Frozen puff pastry sheets can be spread with cheese and mustard, cheese and black pepper or cream cheese based flavored dips (such as with Mexican spices), then either cut into small finger sized portions and baked, or rolled up, sliced and baked as "snails" as a quick and easy appetizer. Keep an eye on them as they cook within a few minutes in a hot oven.
Pickled olives, peppers, onions, gherkins and other preserved foods such as cheese can quickly be served to make an easy antipasto or tapas style entrée/first course.It's all about being creative with what you have!

, Breads, rice, pasta and noodles, canned beans, polenta and other farinaceous (flour/ground grain based) foods are good fillers. If you cannot stretch a stew or casserole with meat or vegetables, you can serve extra carbohydrates either as a side dish or within the sauce. Classic examples include beans to stretch a beef chili or a soup and pizza––one of the most famous ways to stretch minimal ingredients by spreading them onto bread dough.


Try dumplings. Soups and stews can be made heartier by adding dumplings, which are quick and easy to make and use ingredients from the pantry.
When making meat go further, potatoes and rice are your allies. Add them to meat curries or stews to bulk them out.
 If you're cooking rice and pasta (and most vegetables), you will need to cook a new batch separately if the guests are really unexpected, rather than add raw ingredients to a half cooked batch. Often when serving, use the first cooked batch and by the time you have plated up, the second batch is usually cooked. Keeping guests informed is usually the simplest way to allay the fears of anyone that they might go hungry!


For pasta and rice, you can keep the first batch warm and covered until the later batch is ready, by stirring just enough butter or oil through to prevent them from sticking (do not run pasta under cold water when you intend to leave it sitting––it will stick together and begin to break down, leaving a mush at serving time).
When cooking vegetables in batches, it's best to take the first batch off the heat and drain them when they are still crisp and just slightly under-cooked, as the residual time while they are kept warm will continue to cook them. Then, if you have balanced the time proportionately, the vegetables should be equally cooked.
 Often the most expensive part of a meal, meat and fish can be expanded without loss of enjoyment. Here are some great ways to do this:

Cut or slice meat portions. You can still serve meat attractively in sliced portions and few guests will notice. With meat like chops or cutlets, slicing them off the bone and serving the sliced meat is the only way to go to make sure there is enough to go around.






Chop away the meat portions. Originally you had a chicken drumstick for each diner or a steak for each person. Not anymore––resort to chopping the meat up into smaller portions and turn these pieces of meat into a dish. Either turn the pieces into a stir-fry, curry, stew or pot pie (simply add pastry over the top and a cheesy sauce as filler) or serve the pieces rather than the whole if this can pulled off without looking stingy. Neatly chopping the meat can give the impression that it is meant to be served that way, rather than whole. Add plenty of vegetables and perhaps a dollop of couscous or Aquino, which both cook quickly and supplement the protein. Another trick is to make a neat bed of rice or grain (shape it using a glass or other small container to make a tower), then layer the meat pieces carefully on top and add a few sprigs of herb or sprouts to complete the "artsy" food.






Fish fillets: When you only have four fillets to go around and six guests, change your approach. If raw, skin them and either make fish cakes/patties; cut them into strips or long wedge-shaped portions and then crumb them and fry them; make fish balls or turn them into a pate with lots of toast slices and make a quick soup to accompany. When cooked, the fillets may be lightly shredded and served cold mixed with mayonnaise or tartar sauce, or mixed with shredded ginger, chopped chili, lime juice, sugar to taste, chopped herbs and fish sauce for a Thai or Vietnamese style fish salad.
 If you haven't got enough vegetables to go around, there are plenty of ways to make it seem as if you have. This includes:


Break vegetables down even further. For example, if you have a cauliflower or broccoli, make the floret divisions even smaller than normal. By keeping them small and evenly sized, they look like a larger portion. Instead of slicing carrots, dice them. Chopping will always make it seem like there is more to go around than slicing.
Use extra parts of the vegetables. The stems of broccoli are delicious when cut into finger-like strips and cooked with the rest of the florets, they often take around the same cooking time. The leaves of cauliflower and broccoli can be stir fried or sauteed in a little butter and stock or bouillon until tender. Potato and starchy vegetable skins can be washed and fried or baked until crisp and seasoned to make a tasty appetizer or garnish.
Combine vegetables with eggs. Adding eggs to vegetables can make the most of the vegetables by turning them into omelettes, self-crusting quiches, egg-based pies, frittata, bubble and squeak, scrambled eggs, etc. The addition of vegetables dresses up these dishes considerably, which means that in some cases, they can also be used for a casual dinner party.
Supplement in-season vegetables with out-of-season frozen vegetables (and berry fruits for desserts) that are on sale. Supermarkets put frozen food on sale regularly and this is your opportunity to supplement the cheaper in-season fresh vegetables for little cost. By balancing the frozen food with fresh food, you're still assured of getting all your nutrients. And by sticking mostly to in-season vegetables, you save money and food miles.
Throw the vegetables you do have into a lasagna. You'll be amazed at what can go in a lasagna and still taste absolutely delicious. The tomato and cheese sauces cover the flavor and texture of any multitude of odd ingredients! Vegetables can be chopped or sliced for lasagna, either making their own layers (such as zucchini or mashed pumpkin etc) or chopped and folded into the tomato sauce (such as cabbage, celery, carrot, peas etc).
Make vegetable soup and add plenty of thickeners such as potato, rice and even flour. If the soup seems a bit light, add dumplings or beans, or use pasta such as macaroni or risoni pieces to help to bulk it out.
 Quite often all you can do is simply reduce the portion sizes of the main meals to go around which still may not be enough to make a satisfying meal. The option is to expand on dessert by incorporating more fresh fruit, any cake or sweet bread or use cream or ice cream (if available). Pancakes can be a quick and easy dessert recipe or dessert extender using common pantry and fridge ingredients. Otherwise tea, coffee, cheese and biscuits and other old fashioned fare can help to stretch out a meal to be more satisfying.


What to do when you've made individual desserts but not enough: In many cases, division of desserts will just look awful––imagine the mousse with a big chunk pulled out or the baked apple sliced in half. One answer is to offer a selection of desserts and woe betide the diner who is too slow to pick their choice first! As well as the original amount of individual desserts, throw in a few separate bowls of fruit salad, a container of whipped cream (flavored with liqueur or juice to improve its desirability) and perhaps a platter of cheese and crackers. Place it all on the table in the center or create a side buffet and ask guests to help themselves.
If the original dessert was reasonably fluid or sloppy, tip the individual portions back into one bowl and mix together. This is often a good quick fix for mousse/custard/gelled style dishes. Cover the top of the new dessert with whipped cream/custard/coulis/sifted icing sugar to hide the damage and provide a small serving spoon to discourage large helpings; again, some fruit salad (even if from a can) and additional whipped cream will help the new dessert stretch further.
 Whether you entertain often or rarely, purchase in bulk, portion, freeze or store and cook––this is a simple way to ensure that you have plenty of supplies. Buying frozen peas in large packs is a basic example that many people already do, but this can also work for various freezer safe foods and precooked meals, such as soups, sauces (including surplus tomato puree), vegetable dishes, pastries, desserts and other foods that freeze well. This way, whenever you have unexpected guests, it is easy to take out an extra portion and, being smaller in size, it will be quicker to defrost and cook.


It tends to be more economical to purchase in bulk the foods that you cook often, portion them up and freeze them in cling film or freezer-safe containers. Or, for pantry items, store them in airtight containers. Good storage methods reduce food spoilage and waste.

