 You can find activated charcoal in forms like liquid, tablets, pills, suspension, or powder forms.You can also take activated charcoal in forms like lemonade or smoothies.What you choose is up to you, based on how you want to use it. The tablet and pill forms tend to be more concentrated.


You can find activated charcoal online or at health supplement stores.
Always ask your doctor before taking a supplement. Your doctor can advice you on dosages for activated charcoal.;
, Some people have had good luck with using activated charcoal to detoxify their body. Activated charcoal binds to other substances, a process known as "adsorption," carrying what it binds to out of your body.When people talk about detoxifying, they are saying that it is removing toxins and chemicals from your body that you may ingest or absorb from your environment. However, as long as you're healthy, your body does a pretty good job of removing these things by itself through the kidneys and liver.However, keep in mind that activated charcoal is indiscriminate. It will bind to both good and bad things in your body, taking them out of your system., Some people use activated charcoal to help with gas and bloating. Try taking 500 milligrams of activated charcoal an hour and 30 minutes before a meal. You can take tablets or pills, but be sure you drink a full glass of water with it. You may find it helps reduce your gas pain.You can also drink an extra glass of water to help the charcoal get there more quickly.
However, using charcoal before a meal may decrease your absorption of important nutrients.
 Another way people use activated charcoal is when they are on a digestive cleanse. For instance, some people may eat only fruits, vegetables, and proteins that are easy on the body, along with activated charcoal for a week to help cleanse the system., Activated charcoal has traditionally been used when someone has been poisoned. However, it is only somewhat effective for this purpose, as it doesn't bind with things like alcohol, petroleum products, lithium, boric acids, iron, strong acids, and alkalis. Therefore, it should only be given under the direction of a doctor for this purpose.