 It helps to have already had some martial arts knowledge. But if you haven't, it's all the same. The only difference is practice.;
, You must develop a certain mindset. Don't think of the weapon as some God-like device that can't be taken away, or that it dramatically changes the situation. Meditate at home about all the weapons you could face before you hit the streets. What are their limitations? How could they hurt you? Once you figure this out, then you will be able to act quickly during an actual fight.
 Before you are attacked that no matter how you act, you will still get cut, stabbed, banged up, and/or shot. Do not let this deter you from staying alive. Never quit fighting until the fight is over.
 Close range weapon, very sharp, but limited to wrist movement and with only two ways of holding it. To block any swinging attack, clash your forearm with theirs hitting closer to their wrist. NEVER try to grab straight on, you could miss and still be cut. After stopping the swing, immediately slide your hand to their wrist and gain control. The closer you are to the weapon, the less strength they can use to maintain control. Hold their hand with the knife away from you so as to stay cut-free, but not so far away you lose advantage of strength. After isolating the knife, remember they may still try to hit you with their other limbs. Continue to block and hit with your free hand and legs until the knife is dropped. Kick the knife away. Never pick it up to use, you may lose it and end up at Point 1. Also, never go to the ground with a knife. You don't want to get too close because you can't tell where they will stab you.
 Same as a knife, only not sharp. Bat's have more power than sticks but are slower to swing. Sticks are fast and can be lethal, but usually only create bad bruising. With a stick, you want to get in close where their power fails. If they are swinging widely, just pick a moment where they are winding back up and move in. This will only be about a quarter of a second's time, so do it fast. Instead of blocking their arm like you would a knife, block on the actual stick, right above their hand. This area stops the whole stick with the least amount of damage to you. Again, after stopping the stick, grab it, or the attacker's hand, and move in. Proceed pummeling them. To take the stick away, leave your hand where you blocked and grabbed, move your other hand under the first and put it at the other end of the stick so both your hands are crossed, then twist the stick downward (in the direction of your other hand). Remember to throw it away once you take it. If you're up against a bat, move in close between swings and block, hitting their wrists. If you can, tuck their arms under your arm and hold them as tight as you can while you attack their face and throat. They will soon drop the bat.
 Seemingly the scariest, but it doesn't have to be. Shooting is a skill, and the way punks like to hold the gun sideways, that skill is dying fast. Also, the gun only has one dangerous point, at the very tip. Stay out of this line, and there's nothing to worry about. The hardest part is determining distance. If you are within five feet, proceed to restrain and attack just like the previous weapons, if you are farther away, run in a zig-zag fashion. If you are not so close and you have something in your hand, throw it at their face to make them hesitate shooting and move in fast or run away.
 Simultaneously, attack their face with your other hand.

