 To have girl swag, you have to own your body and make everyone see that you're proud of how you look. Walk with your shoulders up, your chest out a bit, and your head high. Avoid slouching at all costs and stand tall and proud. Smile at people and make eye contact, and don't be afraid to give a person a gentle touch when you're talking.


When you walk into a room, don't hesitate. Look like you know where you're going even if you have no idea.

Avoid fidgeting with your jewelry, zippers, or hands, or you'll look insecure.
 As long as you look good, you can wear any shirt that looks cool to you. Whether you're going for a tight-fitted or baggy look, all you have to do is own it, whether you're wearing tanks, belly-shirts, shirts with graphics or fun logos, or halter tops. Try wearing some of these tops to kick up your level of swag:



Hoodies. Wear a hoodie with your favorite sports team's logo on it. For a retro look, wear a hoodie with your elementary or middle school's logo on it. That will be so dorky that it'll be cool all over again.

T-shirts. A baggy t-shirt, tight t-shirt, or a graphic tee or shirt with a logo will all look cool. You can even wear a t-shirt that falls just above your belly button with a baggy pair of pants. The shirt can also have a well-known logo like Adidas or Under Armour on it.

Tank tops. Go for a halter, spaghetti strap, or even a tube top if you're feeling bold. Tiny tanks look great under big, flashy jackets.
Rock a gold or silver jacket. The more pockets and zippers, the better.
A letterman jacket, even if it's ten years old, is definitely cool.
Rock a jersey. Put on a jersey with your favorite current basketball player's last name on the back, or a Shaq or Jordan jersey for a more old school look. Pair it with a pair of leggings.
 Any pair of pants can help step up your wardrobe as long as you wear them with the right attitude. Anything from basketball shorts to cargo pants can make you look good as long as you rock them with pride. If you wear tight pants, try to pair them with a loose shirt, and if your pants are looser, they'll tend to look better with a tighter top. Try on these types of pants or shorts:



Booty shorts, baggy basketball shorts, or Chachi pants

Baggy sweats, baggy workout pants, or drop-crotch pants

Skinny jeans, leggings, or jeggings
Anything with animal print or anything loud or bright

, If you want to have girl swag, you can go for a trendy and sporty look or you can go more girly with the right pair of heels. You can decide whether you want your shoes to be the centerpiece of your outfit, or if they should just subtly tie your whole look together. Here are some pairs of kicks to wear if you want to rock out:


Sneakers such as Jordans, Vans, Supra, Nikes, and Adidas
Black and white Converse
Chunky gold, silver, or black heels
Simple Rainbows or other sandals
Ballet flats
Birkenstocks

, You can decide if you want to go over-the-top with your accessories, or if you just like to wear one pair of earrings or the perfect hat to tie your look together. Whatever you want, there are a number of accessories that can help tie your outfit together. Try some of these:


Bangles, spiky bracelets, or snap-on bracelets
Gold or silver hoop earrings or hanging necklaces
Chains
Toe-rings
Chunky Grandma rings
Diamond studs in your ear or nose
Teamsport beanies or fitted caps
Bandanas
Oversized frameless glasses

, To truly have swag, you don't have to put on five layers of makeup or mimic Rihanna's latest hairdo. You just have to do your own thing and bring more attention to your appearance. Here are a few things you can do:



Wear the amount of makeup you're comfortable with. If you love wearing makeup, rock it, but if it's not for you, that's cool too.
Put on a light lipstick or lip gloss.
Use dark eyeliner and shadow to create smoky eyes.
Switch up your hairstyle from time to time. Dye it a loud color like purple or green once in a while, and go for short spiky Miley Cyrus type hair, or let your locks fall long past your shoulder.

