 Feet often end up calloused or rough with time. If you want to improve your feet, you can smooth out your skin using an electronic callous remover, a foot file, or a pumice stone.


An electronic callous remover is a motorized device that you move over callouses and rough spots on the feet. It removes dead skin cells and shaves down the rough, outer layer of skin and leaves your feet smooth. A callous remover is fairly efficient, but can be somewhat expensive in comparison to other options.A foot file is a metal device that you use, much a like a nail file, to wear down callouses and rough skin on feet. Foot files are relatively inexpensive and can be purchased online or at most beauty stores.Pumice stones are spongy devices that you can rub over to remove callouses and rough skin. They are probably the cheapest option for treating callouses but are less effective than other options. They can be purchases online, or at drug stores and beauty stores.Look into getting callous-removal gel and use it alongside one of the above methods. It can help increase the efficiency of an electronic callous remover, a foot file, or a pumice stone.;
, Toenails frequently get stained by dirt and debris. If you're worried about discolored toenails, you can use household supplies to remove stains.


Toothpaste, whitening strips, and hydrogen peroxide can all be applied to toenails to remove stains.Dap a cotton ball with hydrogen peroxide and gently swab your toenails. Let the liquid sit for five minutes and then wash it off. Your toenails should look clearer and cleaner.You can also use toothpaste or whitening strips in a similar fashion. However, such substances may need to be left on for a bit longer than 5 minutes., If you have blisters, you should not try to remove them. Instead, treat them in a way that promotes healing.


Keep the blisters clean and protected. Wash them every few hours and then cover with a fresh bandaid.Use antiseptic soap. When at home, take off your shoes and socks and remove any bandages. This will allow the blisters space to breath which can promote healing.