 You should use elastic that is 2 inches (5 cm) or wider so that it does not dig into your belly.
 Wrap the elastic around your waist, at top edge of your pants, where they meet your pelvic bones. Mark a length on the band that is comfortable and not too tight.


Remember that you want the elastic to be tight enough to keep the pants on, but also allow a little room for growth.
 Cut off excess any excess elastic. Sew the ends of the elastic band together.
 You may want to choose black, blue or another color to match your pants or a patterned fabric that will create some attractive contrast.


You will need at least 1/4 of a yard for the fabric waistband. A Lycra/cotton blend will work well.
If you buy a length of knit fabric, ensure that it is fairly elastic, so that it does not stretch too far. If you choose a t-shirt, find 1 that fits snugly over your belly. You can cut a horizontal section of the shirt to use as your waist band.
 Subtract 2 inches (5 cm) from that measurement. This is your width measurement for your fabric waist band.
 Cut it so that it is between 14 and 17 inches (35.6 to 43.2 cm) tall. If you have a short torso, choose a 14 inch (35.6 cm) measurement, and use a longer measurement if you have a long torso.
 Sew the side together on your sewing machine.
 The new seam should be folded in half and you should have both rough edges at the bottom and the fold at the top.
 Depending upon the width of your elastic band, you will need to measure the width plus 5/8 inches (1.6 cm). For example, if you have a 2 inch (5 cm) elastic band, then measure 2 and 5/8 inches (6.6 cm) up from the rough edge.
 Mark the measurement around the entire fabric loop.
 This will allow you to stretch the fabric when you pull your pants on and off. You want to sew between 2 layers of folded fabric, but be sure not to sew through both sides of the loop.
 It should stop at the line you have just sewn.
 Use a zig zag stitch again. This will close your casing for the elastic band.

