 Use a serrated kitchen knife to cut the squash into halves, slices, or cubes. The best option will depend on the size of the squash.


Usually, a larger squash, like butternut squash, is easier to cook when cut into slices or cubes. If the squash is small enough, though, like most acorn squash are, you can likely get away with cutting it into halves or quarters.
 You can cook the squash in the microwave, in the oven, or on the stove. The choice is entirely up to you. Regardless, you need to cook the squash until the flesh is soft enough to pierce with a fork.


Microwave the squash.To do this, place the squash pieces in a microwave-safe glass container with 2 inches (5 cm) of water. Cook it for 15 minutes on high. Check the squash, and continue cooking in 5 minute intervals until the flesh is soft enough to scoop out.
Roast the squash. Place the squash in a glass casserole dish with 1/4 inch (0.625 cm) of water. Cover with aluminum foil and bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) for 45 to 60 minutes, or until soft enough to peel the flesh away from the skin.
Boil the squash. Boil 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water in a saucepan. Add the squash and cook, covered, for 10 to 15 minutes, or until tender.
Steam the squash. Fill a pan of water with 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of water and rest a steam basket on top of it. Place the squash in the steamer basket, cover, and heat the water to a boil. Reduce the heat to low, then cook the squash 7 to 15 minutes., Use your fingers to peel the skin off the flesh of the squash or use a metal spoon to dig the softened flesh out of the skin.


Place the softened flesh in a large bowl and discard the hollowed out skin when done.
 Mash the squash with a potato masher or metal fork until there are very few chunks remaining.


Alternatively, you can puree the squash using a handheld blender for an even smoother option. Both mashed and pureed squash freeze well.
 Wait for the squash to cool. Once it does, spoon it into freezer-safe plastic containers or plastic bags. Leave 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace at the top of the container.


The headspace is important because it gives the squash room to expand as it freezes. Without this empty space, the squash could end up cracking or bursting the container it is in due to the pressure that will be created as it expands.
Alternatively, you can also freeze the squash in ice cube trays or muffin tins. Scoop the mashed squash into these containers and freeze until solid. Then, transfer these individually frozen proportions to a larger freezer bag or container for long-term storage.
 Place the containers of squash in your freezer and save until ready to use.


Frozen squash can usually last for about 10 to 12 months without losing its flavor.

