 Now you warmed up, you are ready to progress into Standing Splits. Start by getting back into Mountain Pose. Stand up straight and hold your hands in front of your chest in a prayer position. Then let your arms fall down to your sides and just concentrate on breathing with a steady rhythm.
 Inhale and raise both your arms up over your head. Pause and then exhale. As you breathe out, bend at your hips and reach your hands down towards the floor to bring you into Standing Forward Fold. Straighten your legs but do not lock your knees.


Bring your hands down so that they are flat on the ground.If you cannot place your hands comfortably on the floor, you can place a yoga block beneath each one.You should feel a stretch, but not be in pain.
 Once you are in the Standing Forward Fold you are almost ready to move into Standing Splits. Next, shift your weight onto you right foot and evenly across both of your hands. Once you feel secure and your weight is supported you can slowly raise your left leg up behind.


Life your leg up as high as you can behind you.
You should be aiming for a smooth controlled movement.
Remember to keep breathing with a calm, steady rhythm., You can deepen the stretch even further once you have elevated one leg up behind you. Carefully walk back your hands towards the heel of your right foot, and bring your torso in close to your standing leg. You can also tuck in your chin.


Breathe deeply as you do this, and try to relax your shoulders., As you raised your let leg up behind you, your left thigh will probably have externally rotated a little. Try to counter this by gently internally rotating it and squaring your hips. You will need to try to roll your left hip down and towards the floor to try and square it with the right hip.It is very difficult to fully square your hips in this position, so don’t push it. Only go as far as you are comfortable with.Lowering your left leg a little might help you to square your hips.
As you do this, be sure to keep your right foot and knee facing straight forwards., Once you have gone as deep into the stretch as you are comfortable with, hold it for five slow, controlled and rhythmic breaths. Then slowly and carefully lower your left leg to the floor and move back into Standing Forward Fold.


Repeat all these steps on the other side, raising your right leg behind you.
Hold the pose for the same amount of time, and try to be symmetrical in your movements.