 The outside color of a fruit (or of its peel) can give you a good indication of the nutrients that particular fruit provides. When trying to consume a variety of fruits, try to buy those with different colored peels or rinds to maximize the benefits.Red fruits, such as tomatoes and cherries, are high in vitamins A and C.
Orange fruits, such as oranges and peaches, provide you with a healthy boost of vitamin A, potassium, iron, and zinc.
Yellow fruits, such as bananas and pineapples, are good sources of folic acid. Bananas also are an excellent source of potassium.
Blue or purple fruits, such as blueberries and eggplant, provide antioxidants as well as Vitamin C.
 Generally, you get the most nutritional value from fruit by eating the whole thing rather than just drinking the juice. Additionally, commercial fruit juices often come with added sugar or other preservatives.Juice can be a good source of many vitamins as well, but you shouldn't use it as a substitute for eating whole fruits. Drink no more than 4 ounces per day.
If you do buy commercial juices in the grocery store, check the labels carefully to make sure there is no added sugar or other chemicals. Organic juices typically are good choices.
 For all fruits except berries, heat and light degrade their nutritional content. Store your fruit in a cool, dry place, or at room temperature out in the open. However, make sure they're away from direct sunlight.The exception to the direct sunlight rule is if you are trying to ripen the fruit. For example, putting tomatoes in the windowsill will make them turn red if they were picked too soon.
If you cut your fruit ahead of time, store it in an airtight container with a squeeze of lemon juice to keep it from going bad.
Avoid putting any fruit, including tomatoes, in the refrigerator. They may not be as flavorful and won't fully ripen.
 The most nutritious fruits typically are those bought during their harvesting season — fresh off the tree or vine. While your local grocery store may have all kinds of fruit available year-round, these are grown on industrial farms out of season, and aren't as nutritious as those grown seasonally.Your local farmer's market is a good source of fresh fruits in season. You also might try specialty grocery stores such as organic grocery stores.
While it isn't necessary that all the fruit you eat be grown locally (and in some areas this may be impossible), locally grown fruit typically is more nutritious because it wasn't picked early and shipped long distances. Once fruit is picked, it is separated from its nutrient source and can't gain any more nutrients.
 While canned and frozen fruit can be just as nutritious as fresh fruit, there may be added chemicals, preservatives, or sugar that negates any health benefits from eating them.For example, if you buy fruit cups, buy the ones that are packed in water or in their own juice — not those packed in syrup.
Make sure there aren't other ingredients that add fat and calories, such as creamy sauces.

