 You’ll need a container that is large enough to provide space for the grass to grow. But, also one that is a manageable size to keep and maintain indoors. Most people find that a small flower planter or a 6 inch (15.2 cm) by 6 inch wooden square container is sufficient. After all, you will be continually trimming and replanting, so a large container isn’t necessary for the health of the grass.You’ll also want a container that your cat will feel comfortable approaching and eating from. For example, if shiny objects frighten your cat, you may want to stay away from a silver planter or one that will catch the light.
 After you purchase your grass seeds and prepare your planter, take the seeds out of their package. Place them in a glass and fill it with water. Let the seeds soak up the water for 6-8 hours. Then, remove the seeds and place them immediately into the planter surrounded by fresh soil., At the bottom of the planter, add at least 2 inches (5.1 cm) of soil. Place the seeds on top of this soil and cover them with a light sprinkling of soil. Don’t bury the seeds deeply, just make sure that you can no longer see them. If you want to accelerate the growing process, cover the soil with a layer of plastic wrap, which will trap any moisture. Give the seeds 3-4 days to grow and then remove the wrap., Fill a small spray bottle with water and mist the soil at least once each day. You want the soil to be damp to help the seeds to take hold, but not saturated or they will fall too deeply into the soil and will not sprout out. In the initial period, you can peel back the plastic wrap in order to mist the soil.In order to keep the moisture from escaping, you may want to line your grass container with plastic or place it on top of something that can catch the run off.
 Most of the various brands of cat grass can grow quite high if left unchecked. However, cats may not feel as comfortable eating from containers with very high grass. So, use scissors to trim your cat grass down to a manageable height of 2 inches (5.1 cm). Your cat will also help to keep the grass trimmed by chewing on it, but it won’t be uniform., After about two weeks of trimming, your cat grass will reach full maturity and will need to be replaced. It is a good idea to plant a handful of plots, staggering them by a week at a time, so that you will always have fresh grass ready for your cat. Try not to keep the plot beyond this fresh period or the taste may change and your cat may reject grass entirely.