 You have the option of reaching an agreement with the other parent on your own.However, before talking to them about child custody, you should first figure out what you want. Think through the following:


How much parenting time do you want. Many states have moved away from concepts like “sole custody” or “primary custody.” Instead, states recognize that both parents should be involved in their children’s lives (unless one parent has a history of abuse). You should decide when you want your children: all week? on the weekends? 50% of the time?
Who should have the power to make legal decisions for the children. As your children grow, many decisions must be made about medical care, schooling, and religious upbringing. This legal power to make decisions is called “legal custody” and can be shared by the parents.Alternately, you might want the power all to yourself.
Whether you want child support. If you have most of the parenting time, then you could get money from the other parent. You should estimate an amount.;
, You might be very emotional that your relationship has ended. Nevertheless, you need to set aside some time to hammer out child custody issues. You should call up the other parent and ask if they can meet.


Say something like, “Now that we’ve agreed to separate, we should discuss child custody. I know we both want to be involved in our daughters’ lives, but we need to work through the details. When is a good time to talk?”
Realize you probably can’t resolve all issues in an hour. Nevertheless, it is important to schedule the first meeting. Once you get the ball rolling, you can then schedule other meetings to continue hashing out details.
 You should try to reach agreement on where the children will live and when.There are many different custody arrangements that work for parents, but you should come up with an agreement that you both are confident you can follow.


You might decide to split custody 50-50. This might mean that one parent has custody Monday through Thursday morning and the other parent has custody from Thursday afternoon to Monday morning.
Alternately, you might decide that one parent can have the children on the weekends because they are away for work during the week or because they live far away.
 You need to work through many other issues to develop a workable parenting plan. The more detailed your plan is, the better. For example, you should discuss the following and come to an agreement:Holidays and vacations. Who will the child spend each holiday or vacation with?
Drop-off and pick up. Where will you pick up the child when it is your turn to watch them? Where will you drop them off? Often, it’s easiest to drop off and pick up at school.
Child support. If one parent makes a lot more money than the other, then they could help the other parent by paying child support.
Health insurance and childcare costs. Children have many costs and someone needs to pay for them. You can allocate these expenses.
Legal custody. Who can make decisions regarding schools/daycare, medical and dental care, religion, and emergency care?
Process for changing the plan. Even the best parenting plan must be revised as the children grow. You can agree that you will try to reach an agreement on changes first but then seek the help of a mediator if you can’t agree.
 Once you reach an agreement, you should write up a parenting plan.Your court might have a sample plan you can use. Check the court’s website or stop in and ask the court clerk.


If there is no plan available, then you can find sample plans online.
Also see Create a Parenting Plan for more information.
Make sure you both sign the plan, since this will serve as a contract between the two of you.
 In mediation, you and the other parent meet with a neutral third person who is the mediator. The mediator is trained to help identify areas of dispute and to get people talking and listening. The purpose of mediation is for both sides to reach an agreement they both can live with.In many courts, the judge will send you off to mediation before hearing the case. However, you can also seek mediation without the judge referring you to it.
You can find mediators by stopping into your courthouse and asking if they have a roster of family law mediators. You can also get a referral by contacting your local or state bar association., Before signing away your rights, you should show the parenting plan to a qualified family law attorney. They can review the plan and see if you have left out anything. They can also analyze whether the plan is fair to you.


See Choose a Family Law Attorney for more information.
 Once you have come up with a parenting plan, you need the judge’s approval. The judge will analyze whether the plan is in the child’s best interests. So long as your plan is fair to both parents, the judge should probably approve it. Go to the courthouse in the county where the child lives and file your parenting plan. There may be some forms you need to fill out.You may have to attend a hearing. The purpose of the hearing will be to feel out whether both parents agree to the plan.
 The judge should sign off on the plan. You should return to the court and get a copy of the order. Each parent should keep a copy along with their copy of the parenting plan.
 Child custody disputes are both emotionally and legally complicated. If you can’t reach an agreement with the other parent, then you will need to resolve the dispute in court. You will benefit by discussing your case with a lawyer.A qualified family law attorney can analyze your situation and help you build the strongest case possible.


You should also think about hiring the lawyer to represent you. If the other parent has a lawyer, then you will be at a disadvantage if you don’t. Ask how much it would cost to represent you in a custody battle.
You might also qualify for low-cost (or free) legal help if you have a low income. Legal aid organizations exist to help low-income people with their legal needs. If your income is less than 125% of the federal poverty level (around $20,000 for two people in 2016), then you might qualify for legal aid.Visit http://www.lsc.gov/ and click on “Find Legal Aid.”

, Legal separation is like a divorce—except you and your spouse remain married. A judge will divide your property, award alimony, determine child custody, and award child support.To start the process, you should file a petition and other required forms with the court. In some courts, there will be “fill in the blank” forms you can use.


If no forms are available, then you may need to work with a lawyer to draft the petition properly.
Not every state recognizes “legal separation.” In that situation, you can still file for child custody because you are living apart from the other parent. The court should have forms for you to fill out to request child custody.
 After you complete your paperwork, you must send a copy to the other parent. You also probably have to send a “summons,” which you can get from the court clerk. Each court has different rules for serving notice of the lawsuit. Generally, however, you can have the papers served in the following ways:Pay the county sheriff or constable a small fee to make hand delivery.
Hire a process server to make hand delivery for a fee. Look in your phone book or online to find process servers.
Ask someone 18 or older to make hand delivery. You can’t do this yourself.
In some courts, you can mail the forms using certified mail, return receipt requested.
 Whoever makes service will probably have to fill out a “proof of service” or “affidavit of service” form. You can get this from the clerk. After the server makes service, they should return the proof of service to you. You should then file it with the court.Make a copy for your records.
 After receiving your petition, the other parent might file a response with the court.If so, you should be sent a copy. Your lawyer will receive the copy if you hired a lawyer to represent you.


In the response, the other parent should identify why they should receive custody. Read this response closely.
 It is vital that you continue to see the children as much as possible as you wait for the court case to be resolved. Ideally, you won’t leave the home although that is not always possible.


If you absolutely must leave the home, then visit regularly or at the least call regularly and talk to the children. The last thing you want is for the judge to think you’ve blown off your children and are only seeking custody to harass the other parent.
 Find witnesses who can testify that you can provide for the child. For example, a child care worker or neighbor who has seen you with the child would make a great witness.As the court date approaches, you should send your witnesses a “subpoena,” which is a legal command to show up at court on a certain date to testify.You can typically get subpoenas from the court clerk.
 If you didn’t hire a lawyer to represent you, then you will need to prepare. You are probably nervous. You can prepare by sitting in on a contested hearing, if it is open to the public.


Pay attention to how the parties talk to the judge and to each other.
Also pay attention to how they question witnesses—their tone of voice as well as the questions they ask.
 The judge always makes custody determinations based on the best interests of the child. Each state has its own list of factors that a judge considers. Generally, however, most courts will consider the following:The mental and physical health of the parents, including any substance abuse. If the other parent has a drug addiction or is very sick, then you should point this out to the judge.
The child’s wishes. In some courts, the judge will consider what the child wants if they are old enough.
The need for a stable home environment and continuity in schooling. This is one reason why you don’t leave the home when you separate.
Whether there is a history of domestic violence or excessive discipline. It will be hard for a parent with a history of violence to get custody.
Your ability to provide for the child’s special needs (if they have special needs).
 On the day of your hearing, you will need to present your witnesses and probably testify on your own behalf as well. Your lawyer can handle all questioning. If you don’t have a lawyer, then you should have prepared by writing out a list of questions you want to ask your witnesses.See Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for helpful tips.
 The other parent can also have witnesses testify and can introduce documents into evidence. You shouldn’t interrupt.You will have a chance to respond to their arguments.


When they finish, ask the judge if you can question the witness.
 After listening to all of the evidence, the judge will make a decision on custody and visitation. You should remain calm, even if you disagree with the judge’s decision.You may see the judge in the future, and you don’t want to burn any bridges.


You or the other parent might have to draft the order. Ask the court clerk if this is necessary.
 You might be unhappy with the result. If so, you can possibly bring an appeal to a higher court. You don’t present new evidence to the appellate court.Instead, the appellate court reviews the transcripts and look for serious errors made by the trial judge.


Talk with a lawyer about whether you should appeal. Appeals are usually expensive. For example, you will have to pay to have transcripts made, which could cost thousands of dollars.
If you want to appeal, you shouldn’t delay. You typically get only 30 days (or less) to file your Notice of Appeal with the trial court. Ask the court clerk for the form.

