 You will need cardboard, glue, acrylic paint, and foam to use as stuffing for the bedding and mattress. You may find these items at a dollar store or your local arts and craft store.There are many types of foam but you want to go with something that isn’t very rigid as you may not be able to stuff it into the bedding and mattress. Polyurethane foam is low quality and, as such, the cheapest choice; however, it is used for regular bedding and packing filler, and will be easy to place inside your bedding and mattress. You do not want to spend a lot on your foam because it will be covered and you will only be using a small amount., Find a bed frame pattern online and measure to your preference. Your headboard and footboard should roughly be the same size or the headboard may be slightly larger. Once you're satisfied with the size, cut these two pieces from your cardboard. Measure and cut the base of the bed. This will be slightly larger than your mattress.The base of the bed will be comprised of 2 side pieces that will be long and skinny rectangles. These will connect to both the headboard and footboard to create your bed frame.
You should have 5 total pieces made from your cardboard: headboard, footboard, base, and 2 side pieces.
Glue all 5 pieces together to create the bed frame by gluing the headboard and footboard with the base and adding the side boards at the end. The side boards will be placed along the exposed edges of the bed.
 Cut and stuck some cardboard so that they fit snuggly in the bed frame without obstructing your headboard or warping the frame. Glue the pieces together and use wrapping foam around the cardboard once dry. Stitch the foam around the cardboard., Paint your bed frame with acrylic paint. Use a fine tipped brush that may be purchased at a dollar store or an arts and craft store. You may need up to 3 coats to depending on how dark and rich you want your color to be.You may add a design or stickers once the paint has dried.
Once painted, place the mattress into the bed frame and glue it into place.
 Hold a piece of foam against the mattress to measure the width of your blanket so that the edges come slightly past the bed. Cut 2 rectangle pieces of foam for your pillows. You may cut them to your prefered size or cut extras for throw pillows., Cut cloth for your pillows and blanket making sure that you leave enough excess fabric that it covers the foam and can be stitched closed. It is easiest to cut two pieces of fabric to cover each pillow and your blanket. Leave the detailed fabric, or part of the fabric with a design, facing inside as you stitch the pieces together.Leave a small opening before closing and turn the fabric right side out. Cover the foam and stitch the cover closed by folding the opening in and stitching the side.
You may also add embroidery or design if you have the time.

