 Velcro is an adaptable method, which allows you to change the locations of the tapestries from time to time. Velcro is also particularly useful when hanging tapestries on curved walls because it conforms to the wall on which it is mounted.









This method is preferred by many museum curators for tapestries. , Get a piece of Velcro that is the slightly shorter than the width of your tapestry. You will need both sides of the Velcro so they can attach together. The width of the Velcro will depend on the width and weight of the tapestry you are using.









Velcro comes in widths between ½ inch (1.25 cm) and 4 inches (10 cm). The longer and heavier your tapestry is, the wider Velcro you should use to support it. , Use heavy cotton button-hole thread to sew the fuzzy side of the Velcro to the back top edge of the tapestry. Make sure you sew over at least two warp threads with each stitch so that it is strong enough for hanging.









Make sure the thread is the same color as one of the dominant colors in your tapestry so that it blends in.
You can also machine stitch the Velcro to a canvas strip first and then hand stitch the strip to the tapestry in the same way. This provides extra stiffness and support for the tapestry to hang straight. , The strip should be slightly shorter than the width of the tapestry. Drill a hole in each end of the piece of wood. The holes should be equidistant from the ends and centered. 







, Use wood staples to staple the piece of Velcro along the wooden board at one inch (2.5 cm) spacing. Make sure the Velcro does not cover the holes in the board.









If you are attaching the tapestry to a curved wall you will either need to use a bendable board or simply attach the Velcro directly to the wall. , Hang up the baseboard on the wall, making sure it is level, and mark the locations of the two holes on the wall. Remove the board and drill two holes into the wall.









Insert wall anchors into the wall if you are drilling directly into drywall or masonry walls. , Screw the screws through the pre-drilled holes in the board and into the wall anchors to secure the board. Make sure the board is level before proceeding. 







, Simply press the Velcro on the tapestry against the Velcro attached to the board to secure. Make sure there are no bumps and that the tapestry is hung straight. 







