 The case must be clear as you will be putting the glitter on the inside. If you use an opaque or colored case, the glitter won't show up!, You can use extra-fine glitter, chunky glitter, or even extra-chunky glitter. For a more unique look, try metallic confetti. You can also gather some tinsel or metallic streamers, then cut them at angles into tiny parallelograms., Flip the case over and set it down onto a sheet of wax paper or parchment paper. Use a paintbrush or a foam brush to apply a thin coat of decoupage glue (ie: Mod Podge).Make sure that your decoupage glue has a glossy finish.
 You can always sprinkle all of the glitter onto the case for the ultimate blingy look, but there looks you can try too. Here are some ideas:Sprinkle the glitter sparsely over the case for a starry-night effect.
Create an ombre effect by using more glitter towards one end, and less towards the other.
Focus the glitter on just one section of the case, such as a corner or the center.
 How long the glue takes to dry depends on the brand you used. Most brands will dry in about 20 to 60 minutes, however. Once the glue dries, turn the case on its side, and tap it against the table. Next, turn the case upside down, and shake out any excess glitter., If you went with an ombre or sparse effect, you likely got the coverage you needed the first time around. If you coated your entire case with glitter, a single layer was probably not enough. In this case, brush on another layer of your glue, and add more glitter.Remember to let the glue dry, then shake out any excess glitter.
 Use a brush or foam brush to apply the paint right over the glitter. This will create a background to help the glitter really stand out. Black or white are great options.If you covered your entire case with glitter, choose a color that matches the glitter instead.
 Once the paint has dried (about 20 minutes), apply a final coat of your decoupage glue on top. This will seal the inside of your case completely and protect it against scratches.You can also use a good-quality varnish or sealer for this step, if you prefer.
 How long this takes depends on the type of decoupage glue or sealer you used. Read the label carefully. Just because something feels dry to the touch does not mean that it is ready to use. Most sealers will have a curing time, and will be ready in about 24 to 72 hours.

Putting the case on before it dries can cause the glue to stick to your phone.

