 The icon for PSX emulators generally have PSX themes, such as the iconic PlayStation buttons or the original PlayStation in top view. Tap the icon for your chosen emulator to launch the application.


If you don’t have an emulator yet, you can download one from Google Play. There are several to choose from, like ePSXe, FPSe, ClassicBoy, to name a few.
 After launching the app, a pop-up may appear that notifies you that it must download the plugins first. Tap the “Okay” button at the lower right corner of the pop-up to download. The download should finish when the progress bar reaches 100/100.
 Emulators vary in format and user interface. Generally, the app will let you select the folder where it will scan for ISO files. Some emulators, like ePSXe, feature a Refresh button at the top right corner that will automatically scan the storage to find the games.


Once the list is populated, choose the ISO file of the game you downloaded by tapping on it.
 Look behind your HDTV to find an HDMI port. Insert the Chromecast into the HDMI port, and note the port number (as most TVs include two HDMI ports).
 Grab the supplied USB power cord of your Chromecast, and insert the USB mini end into the rear of the Chromecast then insert the wider USB2.0 end into the USB port behind your TV.


If your TV does not come with a USB port, you can use the supplied Chromecast power adapter to plug the USB power cord into, and then plug the adapter into a wall outlet.
 Power the TV on, and look for the “Source” button on the remote control and press it. Use the arrow button on the remote to navigate to the HDMI port in which your Chromecast is plugged. The TV should then display the Chromecast output.
 Open that Chromecast app by tapping the Chromecast icon in the app drawer or home screen; it looks like a blue outline of a TV screen with a Wi-Fi icon in the lower left corner.
 Swipe inward from the left edge and tap the “Cast Screen” option in the left panel that will appear. This will open the screencast menu, where you will be able to search for the Chromecast.
 A pop-up will come out that has the header “Connect to device.” Your Chromecast should appear, granted that it is on the same wireless network as your device, and then tap it. Your device’s screen should appear on the TV.
 The icon for PSX emulators generally have PSX themes, such as the iconic PlayStation buttons or the original PlayStation in top view. Tap the icon for your chosen emulator to launch the application.


You shouldn’t have to cancel casting the screen on your TV with the Chromecast. The video feed from your device to the TV is live, but it should not interfere with any app launching process.
 After launching the app, a pop-up may appear that notifies you that it must download the plugins first. Tap the “Okay” button somewhere at the lower right corner of the pop-up to download. The download should finish when the progress bar reaches 100/100.
 Emulators vary in format and user interface. Generally, the app will let you select the folder where it will scan for ISO files. Some emulators, like ePSXe, feature a Refresh button at the top right corner that will automatically scan the storage to find the games.


Once the list is populated, choose the ISO file of the game you downloaded by tapping on it. With the Chromecast and the Android device connected, you can enjoy an immersive experience while playing your favorite PSX titles.
 Tap on the icon that looks like the right portion of the PS3 controller, complete with the controller buttons of the iconic console.


If you don’t have this app yet, you can get it from Google Play. It’s a paid app that makes your device compatible with a PS3 controller. Note that a rooted device is needed. To check if your device is compatible, download its free compatibility checker.
 The app will then notify you that you have to enable it as an input app by tapping the “Enable” button in the pop-up that will appear. You will be taken to the Language & Input settings menu of your device, where you can tap the toggle button opposite Sixaxis Controller in the list. Tap “OK” in the notification pop-up that will appear, and then press the Back button to get back to the Sixaxis app.
 Head to Dancing Pixel Studios (developer of Sixaxis), and click the download link in the page that corresponds to the operating system of the computer you are using. Install the software after you finish downloading the installer, and launch the SixaxisPairTool by clicking on its icon in the desktop.


The pair tool is free to download and install.
 The values after “Current Master:” in the application window will display a series of characters that look like this: xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx, where the “x’s” can be any letter or number. This represents the bluetooth address of the device paired with the controller.
 Once you know the address of the controller’s master, you can use the SixaxisPairTool to change the master of the controller. Look at the bottom left corner of the screen in the Sixaxis Controller app on your device. Type the values listed after “Local Bluetooth Address:” into the text field in the middle of the SixaxisPairTool on your PC, and then click “Update” in SixaxisPairTool. This will change the address in “Current Master” in the SixaxisPairTool window. That means that the controller is now paired to your Android device.
 The controller’s lights should stop blinking, and a single light should remain on. Tap the “Change IME” button on the Android app, and select “Sixaxis Controller.” You should now be able to use the controller as an input method in playing your PSX emulator.
 The icon for PSX emulators generally have PSX themes, such as the iconic PlayStation buttons or the original PlayStation in top view. Tap the icon for your chosen emulator to launch the application.


If you don’t have an emulator yet, you can download one from Google Play. There are several to choose from, like ePSXe, FPSe, ClassicBoy, to name a few.
 After launching the app, a pop-up may appear that notifies you that it must download the plugins first. Tap the “Okay” button at the lower right corner of the pop-up to download. The download should finish when the progress bar reaches 100/100.
 Emulators vary in format and user interface. Generally, the app will let you select the folder where it will scan for ISO files. Some emulators, like ePSXe, features a Refresh button at the top right corner that will automatically scan the storage to find the games.


Once the list is populated, choose the ISO file of the game you downloaded by tapping on it. The emulator should automatically map the buttons in the controller to match the game, so you will be able to play the game using the controller right out.

