 Jog on the spot, with your arms moving by your side. Visualize light, turn around and think, "I go the positive way." What is the positive way for you today?;
, Straddle your legs apart, bow forward, turn like a windmill into the spinal column and think:



"My goals are ...". What goals do you want to achieve in your life? Count up three goals.
 Bring your feet together. Bow your upper body forward. Move your butt down and the head (upper body) up. And vice versa. Practice the frog several times and think:


"I have strength and endurance."

, Lie down on your stomach. Raise your left arm and right leg. Bring both back to the earth and lift the right arm and the left leg. Do this several times. Think,



"I take things the way they are." What will you take today?

, Lie in the prone position, with your hands on the floor and repeatedly press the upper body up and down. The head goes to the neck and forward. While breathing in and out, think,



"I let go of my false desires." What do you want to let go of today?

, In the prone position, turn your pelvis to the right and then to the left. Your head must lie on your hands. Think,



"I am sad because ...". What grieves you today?

, The head lies relaxed on your hands. Think,



"I forgive... (my partner / parents / the cosmos / God), that he/she... I forgive me, that I ...". Whom do you want to forgive today? Think these words until a feeling of sadness arises in you, of letting go and forgiveness.
 Turn on your back, lift your head and move your arms and legs. Think,



"I move in the direction of the positive. My positive thought today is....". What makes your mind positive? Think of the beauty in life. What is good in your life?

, Stretch your legs to the sky. Your hands support you at the back. Visualize the sky, move your feet and think many times the mantra "Heaven", until you feel the energy.
 Roll from the candle into your meditation seat (cross-legged or heel seat). Put your hands in your lap. The back is straight and the stomach is relaxed. Move one hand and wrap them and think, "I send light to ... May all beings be happy. May the world be happy." Stop all your thoughts for a minute. Relax. Go your way optimistically.

