 Find the address, email, and phone number to use to send correspondence to the politician you want to discuss an issue with.


Check the website for your local, state, or federal government to find the contact information for elected officials.
In the United States, you can check the USA.gov website to search all types of government for contact information.Note that if you are unsure about who to discuss your issue with, or the matter is affected by multiple individuals and levels of government, it’s worth gathering several points of contact to send correspondence to.;
, Call 1-202-224-3121 to reach a U.S. Senator or Representative.Ask for any Member by name once on the call in order to be connected to the office of that person.
Note that by dialing this number, and when calling any other elected official by phone, you will not reach the politician but rather a staffer in their office. These staffers are very knowledgeable about where the individual stands on any given policy or issue, and will make note of your call and opinion.
 Reach out with a written opinion via email or letter. A physical letter demonstrates that you are passionate enough about an issue to put in the time and effort it takes to compose and mail one. Write any letter (or email) in four parts:


Part 1: Express your appreciation for the work that the politician is doing or has already done.
Part 2: Clearly and succinctly state the issue at hand, making sure to strongly word opposition against tactics rather than individual people.
Part 3: Provide the politician an exit in the form of a decision, policy, or reform he or she can make or influence.
Part 4: Provide the politician a reason to use you as a “nurturing agent,” i.e. how you can help or how you provide the solution to the issue.
Mail an original, handwritten letter to the district office of the official and a copy to their Washington, D.C. office. Try to write a letter every month for a greater chance of it being seen., When possible, attend an event held by the politician you wish to reach and ask questions if provided a period for feedback.


Keep in-person questions very short and to the point. Don’t use this particular opportunity to argue with a politician if you find his or her response to your question inadequate.
For example, stick to questions like “Will you vote for S. 1219?" or "Will you make a public pledge to support this campaign reform effort?"