 An audition piece is meant to give the director a taste of your abilities. Two to three minutes is plenty long for an audition. If your piece is shorter, you can spend more time memorizing each part.


Usually, auditions will have a time limit. Research what the limit is beforehand and practice to keep well within it. You will feel less anxious if you don't feel rushed.;
, Practice your piece until you can go through it without a script. You will appear much more confident to the casting director if you come without notes. This will let you focus less on the words and more on the emotions you want to convey.Don't want until the week or night before to memorize your piece. Practice a little every day to avoid stage fright or forgetting your part.
If the audition involves a cold reading (where the crew gives you a piece that you've never read before), practice cold readings at home. You will appear confident if you know how to work with lines on the spot., If you have run through your audition piece inside and out, you will feel much more confident in your abilities. Treat each practice run like the real audition. Don't start over if you mess up. Instead, take a moment to compose yourself, and keep going.


When you practice your piece, run through it in front of other people. Practicing alone and in front of others will feel different.Work on them with a coach, close friend, or a fellow performer. Accustom yourself to the feeling of being watched.
 Tell them you want their honest opinion, and solicit them for constructive criticism if they offer praise. If you're aware of weak places, you can improve them before the audition.


If you struggle with anxiety before auditions, let your coach or acting friend know. They can tell you what works for them and give advice based on your personality.
 Breathing slowly and deeply will help keep your stress levels down. Shallow breathing lowers oxygen levels in your blood and makes you more prone to anxiety. Instead of breathing from your chest, breathe in from your stomach. This allows you to breathe from your diaphragm and draw in more air.Deep breaths will lower your blood pressure, relax your muscles, and calm your mind.If you ever feel anxious while practicing or auditioning, take a deep breath in from your stomach.
If you're especially nervous, try square breathing. Breathe in for four counts, hold it for four counts, breathe out for four counts, and pause for for counts. Repeat this in a cycle until your heart rate lowers., Dehydration can cause you to feel dizzy and make your heart race. If you feel lightheaded, you'll feel nervous and less confident.Drink plenty of water throughout the day before and of your audition. Keep a water bottle by your side until the moment of your audition.
 Avoid drinking caffeine the night before your big day, and go to sleep at a reasonable time. When you're well-rested, you're more likely to feel and perform at your best.Tired performers are more likely to forget their piece, which could cause your confidence to plummet.


Avoid drinking caffeine the day of, too. Caffeine will make you jumpy and irritable. You will want calm nerves and a clear mind.
 Eating something will keep your mind clear and ready to work. Avoid chocolate or dairy products if you're singing, as these can dry out your voice., Arrive at least thirty minutes before your audition so you have time to calm yourself. If you feel uptight, chat with fellow auditioners before you walk in. You'll be able to see the other auditioners as human and feel less intimidated.


If you're introverted and have social anxiety, don't push yourself! Only talk to others if you have the energy. You can practice breathing exercises instead if you need to relax.
 Performers often build a warm-up routine to get them in audition mode and rid themselves of nerves. Rituals are part of the auditioning experience. Decide what works for you and helps you feel comfortable when warming up.


Warm-up rituals are different for everyone, and it depends on what you're auditioning for. Some musicians like to practice scales before they go in. Some actors like meditating. Some dancers have a certain stretching routine. Do something that helps you focus and prepares you to perform.
 Plan what you will wear before, and make sure it's something you feel good moving around in. Don't wear something too tight or constricting. You will feel most confident in an outfit you're familiar with and you know you love., Shake the directors' hands, if offered. Introduce yourself and let them know what piece you are doing. Look each of them in the eyes while you are talking to them. Keep your back straight and try not to fidget. Pretend like you're meeting new coworkers: act friendly, but professional.


Remember to smile, even if you don't feel like it. Smiling will make you feel more approachable., Project your voice so that your directors can hear it across the room. Clear your throat if you need to.


Practice projecting your voice before the audition so you sound confident. Even if you feel nervous, a loud voice will make you seem self-assured.
 Some performers overwhelm themselves by considering what this audition will mean for their future career. Don't worry yourself with this during the audition. Instead, focus on what you must do to finish this audition.


Take every audition one step at a time. Don't worry about getting the part or impressing the casting director. Make the focus on doing your best and improving yourself.
 Don't be afraid to pause for a moment if you're nervous. Clear your mind, and breathe in from your abdomen. When you're ready, begin just as you did in your mock audition.
 Smile, take another breath, and keep going. Your casting director will understand if you make a mistake. They expect even the best performers to make a mistake sometimes. When/if you do, they will pay more attention to your behavior and appreciate performers who can pick themselves up and keep going.Remember to practice this behavior during your mock auditions. If you know what to do beforehand, you'll continue without freezing during the actual audition.
 Tell the casting director and anyone else watching that you appreciate their time and look forward to hearing back. Smile, shake their hands if offered, and walk out with your head held high. Last impressions are just as important as first impressions for projecting a confident atmosphere.
 Auditioning takes a great deal of courage and self-confidence. Pat yourself on the back for putting yourself out there, and take pride in doing your best.


Rejection can weigh you down. If you're not careful, it can even decrease your confidence in future auditions. Feeling disappointed is normal, but remember that you can't read the casting director's mind. You don't know how they came upon their decisions.
 Auditioning is more than finding the best performers: it's also choosing people who fit the part. They may not have been looking for someone who looks like you or acts like you.You might not be a good fit for this production, but you have other opportunities.


For example, Tom Hiddleston makes an excellent Loki, but he initially tried out for the role of Thor.His audition was rejected because he just didn't have what the directors were looking for. You might not be the right fit for this piece, but you could fit perfectly somewhere else.
 If you have a bad audition, write down all of your thoughts afterwards. What did you do right? What could have gone better? Make your weaknesses strengths so that you'll be ready for your next audition.


If you think you need professional help, hire an performance coach or attend local workshops. With experience comes improvement. You can't help but improve when you train.

