 For a basic indoor compost bin, you don’t need anything fancy--any sturdy, closeable container will do. You can use a plastic bin, garbage can, bucket, or even a specialty composting box. Composting bins can be any size, but for indoors, smaller is better--you don’t want it to have a strong smell., The number of holes depends on the size of your composter, but you should have enough for the compost to drain evenly--about one hole every two to three inches (6-9 cm)., You’ll need a tray under your composter to catch any liquid draining from the container--you don’t want that on your floor! The tray should be watertight and large enough to hold about a cup (235 mL) of liquid., You can put your composter anywhere, but it’s best to keep it somewhere out of the way to prevent accidental turnovers. This is especially important if you have kids or pets! A cabinet or closet is a good solution., The thickness of the layer depends on how big your composter is--a good rule of thumb is to use a layer of soil about one quarter as thick as the depth of your container., Shredded paper helps absorb excess liquid and helps speed up the composting process. Add enough newspaper to cover the layer of soil, and cover your composter., Use a sealable container like a coffee can to save your food scraps for composting. You can also compost coffee grounds, coffee filters, tea bags, and napkins.Don’t use meat, fish, or dairy scraps in your composter!
Cut the food into smaller pieces to make the process go faster.
 When your scrap container is nearly full, mix in a few handfuls of shredded newspaper to absorb extra liquid., Spread the food and paper mixture evenly across the top of your compost pile. You can add a thin layer of soil to the top to prevent fruit flies, but this is optional., Every week, use a trowel or scoop to mix the layers of compost. When you’re done mixing, add a new layer of soil about one inch (3 cm) thick., Once your composter is filled up, let it sit sealed up for at least a week to make sure all the food has been composted. When you’re ready to use it, mix it one more time with your trowel., Spread the compost over your garden or houseplants. If you are worried about animals or children disturbing the compost, you can add a layer of soil to the top, but this is optional. If you want to start new seeds, make sure the seeds are in the soil, not the compost.