 There are two purposes behind this. First is that you will trust the opinions of your friends more than the opinions of strangers on the internet. The second is that if you are going to play D&D you will want to play with at least one current friend. Contrary to popular belief D&D is a social game and people who play it are social people. The people you play this game with shape the experience so it's best if you play with people you like and get along with.;
, Again, D&D is a social game. It is played in a group and if people in that group don't show up to play then it can hurt the game. D&D works best when all people involved can be counted on to play. Does this mean you need to set aside hours out of every day? No, but you do need to be willing to commit to playing when your group plays. If you cannot come to most sessions, you should not play with that group. D&D also requires a small amount of time on the part of each player outside of the group sessions. You may need to do things such as decide how your character will spend his money or level up your character.
 Do you enjoy other RPGs? Do you like fantasy or science fiction novels? Do you play World of Warcraft or Final Fantasy? People who answer yes to any of these questions might like D&D. D&D can also be fun for a creative person because it provides a way to practice developing fictional characters. Writers and actors often enjoy D&D.
 D&D can be played for free or very near to it. However, you will find it is easier and a little more fun if you invest a small amount of money into the game. A set of dice for D&D (about $3) and a used copy of the Player's Handbook ($10-$30 depending on source and condition) will make playing easier and more fun. You can spend a lot more if you want but it is not needed to have a good time.
 If you know some people who play D&D you should try to go to one of their games to see a session. You should ask the person who runs the game (the Dungeon Master) and the person hosting the game. These two are not always the same person, i.e Bob is the Dungeon Master but the group plays in Tom's house.
 For people in junior high school and high school it can cause problems for your social life if people find out that you play D&D. There is a lot of prejudice surrounding people who play D&D and it can result in bullying. If being popular is very important to you, or if you cannot tolerate your peers teasing you then you may want to stay away from D&D. Truthfully though, learning to deal with narrow mindedness is an important lesson that D&D teaches many people who play.

