 Read through the interactive Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone on the Pottermore website. Once you finish Chapter 9, The Midnight Duel, you'll be able to duel.;
, Click Duelling Club on the Pottermore map, or on the lower bar on any screen. Before you start duelling for points, try practicing:Practice Your Spells.


"Practice your spells" lets you cast spells without an opponent, just for practice.
"Practice against your house" duels with another member of your house. No one wins or loses points for this., The more difficult spells to cast will give you a higher score if you do a good job. To start with, you'll only know three spells. Fire-Making Spell is the most difficult and powerful, while Curse of Bogies is the easiest and weakest.Due to recent updates, the max score for each spell is unknown. According to the official instructions, there are now only two types of spell., When the duel starts, you'll see several circles with letters in them. To cast a spell, you'll need to activate these circles in a certain order, and with good timing. There are two ways to activate a circle:


Click it with the mouse cursor, or

Press the letter on your keyboard displayed inside the circle.
 Look at the spell name at the bottom of the screen. The glowing letters in the name tell you which order you'll need to click the letters. For example, if the first glowing letter is a P, look for the circle with a P inside. That's where you'll start.


The circles will be in the same place each time, but the letters will be different.You'll always go through the circles in the same order.
Once you begin, a white line will guide you to the next circle. You'll make fewer mistakes if you find the order before this starts, though.
 Start your spellcasting by activating the first circle. A ring will appear and expand outward. Activate the same circle a second time. The larger the ring is when you do this, the more points you get. But be careful — the ring disappears in a second or less.
 A white line will appear and move toward the next circle you need to press. Activate that circle as soon as the line reaches its center. The better your timing, the more powerful your spell. As before, a ring will appear. Activate the circle again before the ring disappears.


For the best score, don't click the line as soon as it reaches the edge of the circle. Give it time to reach the center.
 The white line will continue on to the next circles in order. Click each circle when the line touches it (or press the right key). Click again when the ring reaches its largest point.


If you mess up your timing too badly, the spell will end early and be much less powerful.
 Return to the Duelling Club screen. Challenge your friends in other houses using the links under their names, or click on a house crest to duel a random opponent in that house. The winner earns 5 points for her house, but there is no penalty for losing.


Once you've challenged someone, their name will appear on the recently played list. Challenge them to a Rematch if you think you can beat them.
 You can learn more difficult, powerful spells by finding more spellbooks. There are currently two of these that teach Duelling spells, besides the required starting books:Buy The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 2) from Flourish and Blott's. Its most powerful spell is Disarming Charm (max score 163).
Pick up the spellbook on the bench in Book 1, Chapter 12. Its most powerful spell is Jelly Legs Curse (max score 163).
It can be better to choose a weaker spell, if you can consistently get a higher score with it.
 Once you're pretty good at a song, hum a song as you click. Choose a song that follows the rhythm of your mouse clicks or keyboard presses. You can try a metronome instead, but it might take several tries to get it set to the right timing., Each spell requires a different timing. You'll get the best score if you practice a single spell many times. Switching between them is only useful early on, when you're trying to find out which is easiest for you.
 You can sometimes get a second chance at a spell, if you're quick. As soon as you mess up, click your browser's Refresh button. The page will reload, and, if you're lucky, you'll get a second chance at the spell.


The Pottermore developers haven't said anything publicly about this tactic, but it's possible it could be considered cheating. Cheating can result in your house points being taken away.

