 You can make your own herbal acne medicine if you want to know for sure exactly what’s going into your acne treatment. Astringent herbs tighten or tone the skin while the antibacterial herbs help kill off bacteria. Essential oils are the easiest form of the herbs to work with, but the powdered herbs will work just as well. For this homemade medicine, you will need:


5 tablespoons of honey. Medicinal honey (Manuka honey) is preferable, but any pure honey will work due to its antibacterial and astringent properties.2 egg whites. In addition to the astringent properties, the egg whites will also help to thicken the medicine.
1 tablespoon lemon juice. In addition to working as an astringent, the lemon juice is also a whitening agent to help reduce the appearance of blackheads.
1 teaspoon peppermint
1 teaspoon spearmint
1 teaspoon lavender
1 teaspoon thyme
1 teaspoon calendula

, You don’t have to worry about mixing the ingredients in a particular order; however, starting with the pure liquids will make it easier to mix in the other ingredients more easily.
 You may need help from a parent, partner, or someone else you’re comfortably asking to spread the mixture over your back. You can also use a Q-tip or clean fingers to apply the mixture as a spot treatment.
 You need to give the herbs time to dry and work on the acne. Wait approximately fifteen minutes before rinsing the mixture off completely with lukewarm water.


Make sure you remember to pat the area dry rather than scrubbing the area dry.
 Non-comedogenic simply means that the moisturizer won’t clog pores. The product label will specifically say non-comedogenic. Common examples include products from Neutrogena, Cetaphil, and Olay or their store-brand equivalents.


You can also find organic non-comedogenic moisturizers if you’d like a natural option for that as well.
If you prefer to make your own moisturizer at home, then consider using these non-comedogenic oils: hemp seed oil, mineral oil, petrolatum, safflower oil, or castor oil., You can use this treatment method daily. Refrigerate any leftover mixture you have each day, but allow it to warm to room temperature before using it again.

