 You can use any type of vinegar to clean your stainless steel. This includes white and apple cider vinegar. You can also opt for specially-formulated cleaning vinegar. This is a bit stronger than white or apple cider vinegar, but may work better on tough stains., Pour one part vinegar and one part distilled water in a clean spray bottle. Use undiluted vinegar for heavy staining or marks. This can ensure you evenly coat your stainless steel for cleaning without oversaturating it.Tap water can leave stains on your stainless steel.
 Spray the mixture or undiluted vinegar on your stainless steel. Use a gentle mist to start so you clear away most stains. After wiping, you can spray on more vinegar for stubborn stains.Pour 2-3 tablespoons of vinegar onto a microfiber cloth if you don’t want to spray your stainless steel., Let vinegar sit for 10 seconds or longer for tough stains before wiping it off. Use a clean, dry cloth to wipe off excess the vinegar. Make sure to wipe with the grain of the stainless steel to prevent streaking.You can use paper towels, microfiber cloths, and even an old piece of clothing to wipe off vinegar. Make sure they are clean and lint-free to prevent streaking.
 If your first round of cleaning with vinegar didn’t clear away every stain, repeat the procedure. Train the spray on tough stains, allowing the vinegar to sit for a minute. Rub gently until the stain comes out.
 Some stainless steel items may require special cleaning procedures. Read the owner’s manual to find out if you can use vinegar on the stainless steel. You can also call the manufacturer to ask if vinegar is safe to clean stainless steel., Clean your stainless steel with clean, lint-free cloths. Use a separate cloth each for the vinegar and oil. This can clean your stainless steel without scratching it or rubbing around any grimes.The following types of cloth are lint-free and can work on your stainless steel:


Paper towels
Microfiber cloths

, Stainless steel is delicate and can scratch easily. If you have stubborn stains, use a nylon scrubbing sponge or old toothbrush to remove them. Rub with gentle pressure to prevent scratching of your stainless steel., Despite its name, stainless steel can stain. Steer clear of the following things when cleaning your stainless steel to prevent further staining or scratching:Hard water, which can leave brown stains
Steel wool
Steel brushes

, Every stainless steel product has a grain running through it. The grain runs either horizontally or vertically. Examine your stainless steel to find the way the product grain runs. Each time you clean with vinegar or wipe with oil, make sure you’re following the stainless steel’s individual grain.