 The most surefire way of keeping track of your surroundings is to use a map, but this can be resource-intensive. Craft a map by placing a compass in the center of a crafting table, with paper surrounding it. Use the map while you are at your house, and it will begin to fill out the surrounding area with your house at the exact center.


On console versions of Minecraft, one map may be able to cover the entire world. On PC versions, the world is infinite, and long expeditions may require keeping many maps in your inventory and keeping track of which one is which.;
, To create a larger scale map, place your map at the center of a crafting table and surround it with paper. This will result in a larger-scale map centered on your current location., On short expeditions to gather materials, carry around a stack of dirt or other mostly useless material. Every few steps, drop a block of dirt. On your way back, follow the line of objects back to your base.


You can also mark your tracks with torches so when you go back you can follow the torches with ease.
 On longer expeditions, build high towers that are easily visible from each other. One of the fastest ways to do this is to look straight down at the ground beneath you, jump, and place a block under your feet. Repeat quickly until you are at the top of a tall tower. Use torches, glowstones, or beacons to make your landmarks visible at night.


Make sure that each tower is visible from the last one.
Be careful coming down from your tower. If you do not want to build a large number of ladders, you may need to step off the tower and stop your fall several times with blocks of dirt on the way down. This can be dangerous if you "misclick".
 On your way back, you might want to destroy your landmarks so you don't get confused on a later expedition. Alternatively, make an arrow shape with any material next to your landmarks, pointing in the direction of your house.
 The sun always rises in the same direction and sets in the opposite direction. When setting out on an above-ground expedition, note which way you are walking in relation to sunrise or sunset.


If you can't see the sun, plant sunflowers, which always face the sun's current position.
 While you're underground, put torches on one side of the wall only. For instance, if the torches are all on the right side going in, you'll know you're returning home when the torches are on your left side.


You can also use wooden signposts with more detailed information, or use dyed wool as a code. For example, red wool could mean "lava this way" and blue wool could mean "toward the exit."
If you are completely lost, you can dig straight up to the surface and look for landmarks. This is risky, since gravel or lava above you could kill your character.
 If you often journey between two locations, build a path to follow out of torches, walkways, fences, or another obvious marker. As you develop your world more, you might want to build powered railways with mine carts for traveling long distances, or create a series of outposts along the road to rest in at night.


For quick travel between extremely long distances, you can build a road through the Nether. If you built a Nether portal near your house, build a portal where you are, then search for your old portal in the Nether.

