 The most effective anti-plaque antiseptic is chlorhexidine. Generally, to use a rinse, you squirt a small amount inside each of the dog's cheeks. To use a gel, you typically rub a small amount on the teeth.Chlorhexidine binds to teeth and other oral tissues and is released gradually. This allows it to act for a longer period of time than other suitable antiseptics.This helps keep your dog's mouth clean and breath fresh longer than other products.Chlorhexidine is generally safe for dogs. However, it tastes bitter unless it mixed with flavorings, so you should buy a product designed for dogs. These products are available from pet pharmacies, pet stores and veterinary practices.
Make sure to follow the directions on the packaging of the product you select.
 A variety of additives with anti-plaque activity are available from veterinarians and pet pharmacies.They contain low levels of anti-plaque ingredients that contact the teeth as the dog drinks. This can help keep plaque levels down.


The effectiveness of many of these products is debatable. Some, however, are helpful and have earned Veterinary Oral Health Council (VOHC) approval. This means tests have found that they have anti-plaque properties.Many of these products are safe for both dogs and cats. Carefully read the label of any product before giving it to your pets. Never let a cat drink anything labeled for dogs unless the instructions state it is safe for cats.
It is important to talk to your veterinarian before using one of these products to make sure it is right for your pet.
These products are not substitutes for brushing or professional dental care.
 Sometimes, dogs develop foul breath from eating garbage, feces or other stinky substances.Do your best to prevent your pet from eating inappropriate foods and non-food items.


Make sure to clean out your dog's mouth by brushing its teeth and/ or using a rinse if it eats something unpleasant. Be sure to watch your pet for any signs of illness if your dog has eaten something it shouldn't have. If it appears sick, lethargic or behaves strangely, take your dog to a veterinarian right away.
Some commercial diets are designed to help prevent dental disease.A few have earned VOHC approval. In some cases, the kibble size and hardness are designed to shear plaque from the teeth with chewing. Others contain anti-plaque ingredients.Dental diets are not a substitute for brushing or regular dental care. However, they can help keep plaque levels down. Talk to your veterinarian about the advisability of using one of these diets.
 Dental chews and treats encourage a dog to chew. This action mechanically removes plaque and debris from the teeth. Choose a toy your dog will chew often.


Consider smearing peanut butter or some other tasty substance on chew toys. This will encourage your dog to play with them.To maximize oral health benefits, choose chews, toys and treats suggested by your veterinarian or approved by the VOHC.These products meet specific standards for plaque and tartar prevention in small animals.Always keep an eye on your dog when it is playing with a chew toy. Take away broken toys and small pieces. Like children, dogs can choke on toys or swallow them. This can lead to gastrointestinal obstructions.
 Some things that dogs like to chew on are not healthy or safe for dogs. In particular:


Avoid cow hooves, dried natural bones and hard nylon products. These products are too hard to mimic the action of tearing meat off a carcass. Using them increases the risk of your dog damaging its teeth or gums.
Limit use of rawhide chews, especially in small dogs. Do not allow dogs to consume large pieces. They are a choking hazard and may interfere with digestion. Never allow dogs to chew rawhide products unsupervised. Replace the chews as soon as they become worn.Never give your dog cooked or cut bones. Consider avoiding bones altogether. Both the American Veterinary Medical Association and the FDA advise against giving bones to dogs. There is a risk of oral injuries from splintered bones. They can also cause choking, gastrointestinal obstruction, and internal damage from swallowed pieces. Bacterial infection is also a possible risk.