 While the traditional method may take some extra effort, it is both fun and easy. If you use salt or vinegar in your dye bath, you will not have to let the dye sit for as long.
 Because clothing dyes are translucent, you will get the brightest and most vibrant colors if you use white-colored clothes. You can use other light colors, such as pastels, yellow, light tan, and light grey, but keep in mind that the original color will blend with the dye color. This means that if you try to tie-dye a yellow shirt blue, you will get green instead.


Clothes made from cotton, linen, rayon, and wool work the best.
Avoid, acrylic, metallic, polyester, and spandex fabrics, as they will not take dye as easily if at all.You can tie-dye almost anything, from T-shirts to pants and skirts to even baseball caps.
 Fabric dye may not only dye the white shirt you will be using, but it may also dye your clothes if you are not careful. It can also irritate your skin, or stain it for a few days. To protect both your clothes and skin, you will need to take some extra precautions. Here are some tips:


Wear old clothes that you do not mind getting stained or dirty. Dark-colored clothes will hide dye stains better than light-colored clothes.
If you do not have any old clothes to spare, then wear shorts, a sleeveless top, and an apron.
Consider wearing some plastic gloves, such as the type you might use to wash dishes or dye your hair. You can also find plastic tie-dyeing clothes in the T-shirt and tie-dye section of an arts and crafts store.
 Tie-dyeing can get messy, and while it is possible to clean up the worst of the stains using some rubbing alcohol, it is best to work outside. If you must work indoors, spread several layers of newspaper over your work area to protect it.
 Most tie-dye shirts look best with two to three colors, and use either the primary colors (red, yellow, and blue) or the secondary colors (orange, green, and purple).How many colors you decide to use will determine how many buckets you will need. Each color will need its own bucket.
 You can do this by willing a bucket with hot water, pouring in the dye, and stirring. The water will have to be at least 140°F (60°C). Most dyes will need to be diluted with hot water, and how much water will usually depend on the brand. In general, ½ cup (112.50 milliliters) of liquid dye requires 2 to 3 gallons (7.57 to 11.35 liters) of hot water. Most powder dyes need to be dissolved in 1 cup (225 milliliters) of hot water first, and then added to the 2 to 3 gallon dye bath., While adding salt or vinegar to your dye bath may sound strange, adding one of these items will not only help the colors appear brighter and more vibrant, but it will also help "seal" them in and make them last longer. Once you have added the salt or vinegar, give your dye bath another stir to make sure everything is combined. Here is how you can use salt and vinegar in your dye bath:If your clothing is made out of cotton, linen, rayon, or ramie, add 1 cup (280 grams) salt for every 3 gallons (11.35 liters) of water.
If your clothing is made out of nylon, silk, or wool, add 1 cup (225 milliliters) white vinegar for every 3 gallons (11.35 liters) of water.
 You can create different designs by wrapping rubber bands around your shirt in different ways. Here are some ideas:


To get a striped pattern, fold your shirt up like a fan or accordion. You can fold it width-wise, length-wise, or diagonally. Wrap a rubber band around one end of your shirt, then wrap another rubber band two to three inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) away from the first one. Keep doing this until you reach the other end of the shirt. You are creating something that looks like a rope.
The sunburst is a circular, radiating design, with each ray being a different color. Pinch the middle of your shirt and pull it towards you. Wrap a rubber band around the end. Tie a second rubber band a little further down your. You are creating something that look like a rope.
To make a spiral, start by placing your shirt down on a flat surface. Pinch the middle of your shirt and twist it. Keep twisting until you have created something like looks like a cinnamon roll. Wrap a rubber band around the "bun." Then, wrap another rubber band, but this time in the opposite direction, making a cross shape. You can wrap more rubber bands around your bun, sectioning it like a pizza or cake.
 Take your shirt and dip part of it into the dye bath. If you are using multiple colors, dip it into the lightest color first. Leave the shirt in dye bath for 4 to 10 minutes before taking it out. For a more intense color, leave the shirt in the bath for 30 minutes.If you are using multiple colors, rinse the freshly-dyed part of the shirt under cool water first to remove any excess dye. Squeeze the extra water out from the shirt, and dip it into the next color.
The longer the shirt sits in the dye bath, the darker the color will become.
If the water is too hot for you to handle, try wearing some dish washing gloves to protect your hands. You can also use a pair of chopsticks or tongs to move the shirt around instead.
 Once you have dyed your shirt to your linking, you can snip the rubber bands off with a pair of scissors and rinse the shirt with cool water to get rid of any extra dye. Keep rinsing until the water starts to run clear. Squeeze the extra water out from the shirt.
 Wash the shirt using warm water and a gentle detergent. Rinse it out again using cool water, and hang it to dry. You can also toss the shirt into the drier.

