, On your SD Card, if you have it in, will how you what data is on that too., It should already be preset to ON but make sure it is., 5 is the brightness, but your battery will run down faster on 5, while 1 is the lowest, but will keep your battery running for up to 15 hours! On 4, it will last about 9 hours., User Name, Message, Color, and Birthday.

User Name: You can choose your user name that will appear on the main DSi screen, during PictoChat, Wireless Communications, and the mini profile when you are on System Settings.
Message: You can choose the message that appears on the profile in System Settings and during PictoChat.
Color: You can choose between 16 different colors.
Birthday: You can choose what your birthday is. Don't worry, you don't have to put the year on it though.
, NOTE: The time is set on military time. 13:00 would be on 1:00 pm and 01:00 would be 1:00 am.
 Just set it here. This really isn't necessary to set up the actual DSi. It doesn't affect anything else., When it asks you to Use Parental Controls? hit Yes. Then, hit Next. Finally, hit OK. Now, hit OK. Ok, now you can create a 4-digit PIN number. Make it something that your child won't know. Then, enter it again for confirmation. It will now ask your to select a secret question in case you forget your PIN number. You can choose from 6 different questions. The answer to the question has to be at least 6 characters in your answer. After that, you can choose what games your child can play based on rating. The options are from Allow all Content to Early Childhood. Which ever one you choose, like for instance, I choose Teen. I can only play, Everyone 10+, Everyone, and Early Childhood games. Now, you have to choose Yes or No to 6 questions. Hit Yes to Save Parental Controls settings., You should do this when you first get it to get rid of any bugs., You are just right if the mic picture is orange. You are too loud if the picture turns red., There are three options: Connection Settings, Options, and User Agreement.