 One reason some people fear success is because they feel that they may lose the important things in their life.For example, you may fear you’ll have less time to spend with your family or that you won’t have time to participate in hobbies. But you can ease some of these fears if you take the time to determine what’s important to you and how to keep those things in your life.Prioritizing can help stop a fear of success by showing that you don’t have to sacrifice the things that are important to you.


Make a list of things that are important to you. For example, you might write, “sailing, my family, kickboxing, the dogs, my career, and volunteering.”
For each thing that you write, rank how important it is to you. For instance, family might come first, followed by the dogs, career, and so forth.
Brainstorm a few ways that you can maintain your priorities. For example, you might write, “If I’m successful I can take more vacation time with my family.” Create a calendar to ensure that time is devoted to each of these priorities. Be flexible and adjust it over time, as you discover what works best for you. Time management is extremely important.
 Instead of thinking of responsibilities and obligations as large tasks, think of them as smaller chunks. Breaking things down into their smaller parts can help you overcome a fear of success by helping you to feel less overwhelmed by the things you have to do. Achieving success at your smaller tasks may seem less daunting than thinking about succeeding at the whole task.


By breaking things down, you are achieving success bit by bit without realizing it.
For example, instead of thinking that you have to complete an in-depth report, think to yourself, “First I just need to draft an outline of what will go into the report.”
Or, for example, you might think “Being promoted doesn’t mean I’m responsible for the success or failure or the company. It means I need to make sure my department is productive as possible.”

, In some cases, the reasons you fear success come from your childhood, trauma, or deeper issues you need to work through. Professional therapists and counselors have experience, strategies, and techniques that can help you address these issues. Attending therapy also help you identify and address any self-destructive behaviors you have that are limiting your success.Talk to your human resources representative, school counselor, or physician about where you can receive therapy. You might say, “I’d like some information on counselors and therapists in my area.”
When you begin therapy you can share your notes about success with them. It might be helpful in showing them what you’ve already thought about, as well as major concerns in your life.
 One of the common ways people block their own success is by putting off doing important tasks until it’s too late. Procrastination is one behavior you’ll need to eliminate as you work to overcome your fear of success. Get organized and put procedures in place to help you stay on task and working towards your goals. Use an accountability partner if you struggle with self-discipline. Meet someone for a few hours of work and encourage this person to prompt you when you get off task.


Use an agenda, calendar, or planner to keep track of your responsibilities and obligations. If possible, use something that you can keep with you, like a planner app on your electronic device.
Set reminders and deadlines for important tasks and meetings. You may want to set several reminders for each task if you know you’re prone to procrastinate.
Organize your physical space and materials so that you don’t have to waste time looking for the things you need.
 This means being aware and accepting how you feel. It also means being aware and present in each moment.Being mindful can help you accept your fear of success and actively overcome it each time it tries to hold you back.


Try to focus on only doing one thing at time. It will be much easier to be mindful of how you’re feeling if you aren’t multitasking.
When you start feeling uncomfortable, take the time to work through it instead of ignoring it or trying to make it stop. Ask yourself what about the situation is making you feel fearful.
For example, if you’re working on a project, don’t watch TV while you’re doing it. That way you’ll notice if you start feeling anxious. And when you notice you can try to figure out why you feel anxious.

