 Your kids must have a designated work space they can safely reach that is free of knives, hot burners, and other potentially dangerous items.


Clear a counter space for your kids, and allow them to stand on a stool to safely reach the counter. You could also give your kids tasks to perform at the kitchen table.;
, If you have more than one kid, you can designate certain tasks to each child, then rotate tasks so each child can share the experience equally. For example, allow one kid to put groceries away and the other to retrieve ingredients for lunch, then switch their roles the next time you come home from shopping.
 Most refrigerators and pantries are located within your kids' reach, so they can help you stock groceries and gather the ingredients for meals.
 Since rinsing fruits and vegetables consists of cleaning them under running water, this task is usually considered safe for children of all ages.
 Mixing ingredients together in a bowl is a task children of most ages can perform. For example, give your child small bowls of ingredients they can pour into a larger bowl, then mix together using a large spoon.
 Some recipes call for food items that must be broken apart or unwrapped before cooking; such as bananas, lettuce, hard-boiled eggs, oranges, and slices of cheese.
 Instructing your children to set and clear the table is a way you can allow them to help without necessarily having them in the kitchen. For example, have your kids count out the appropriate number of forks, spoons, napkins, and placemats for all family members, then have them place each item on the table.


Make sure your children are old enough to safely handle certain items such as sharp knives, or glassware before instructing them to set or clear the table. Knives and glass plates or cups may cause severe injury if dropped, or handled inappropriately and unsafely.
 You can instruct your kids to throw trash away as soon as it is available to avoid cluttering the kitchen with garbage.


Verify that certain trash items are safe to handle before giving them to your kids to throw away. For example, make sure can lids are safely stuffed into the bottom of cans to avoid major cuts and other injuries while handling.
 Examples of meals that don't require the use of a stove or oven are peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, and vegetable or fruit salads.

