 There are four main options: PS4, XBOX, Wii U, or PC (computer). There are several pros and cons to each console; research all the information you can before you decide which to choose.

Consoles are a little expensive, so it's important to pick one that you can get the most enjoyment from.



 

;
, There are several types of game genres, including first or third person shooters, RPGs (role playing games), TBG (turn based games) puzzle, fighting, action/adventure, racing, sports, etc. This is a small list. Again, spend some time researching the different genres to decide what you like. If you like a lot of fast paced action that will keep you on your toes, try shooters or action games. If you'd rather sit back, relax, and let a long story unfold, try RPGs. A lot of people are already familiar with the puzzle genre; Bejeweled and Zuma are just two of the many puzzle games.

You may also find you like more than just one genre.
 You should buy two or three when getting the console. Of course, you can just buy one, but it's nice to have a few different games to switch out, in case you get bored, stuck, or mad at one game. If you buy used games, you can get two or three more games than the price of a brand new game. Also, try picking out games of different genres.
 People who have been gaming for a while can skip this step if they want. However, if you're new to gaming, it's best to read the instruction manual fully. A lot of things will be thrown at you very quickly, but you'll pick up the basics in no time.
 If the game has several difficulty settings, start at the lowest. You can always ratchet up the difficulty later if you think it's too easy.
 The more you play video games, the more you will instinctively know in other games. For fighting games or any multiplayer games, you should practice a lot by yourself. Get used to the controls before playing against someone else.
 Very often you will get stuck playing the same level or the same scenario. You'll lose over and over again. You'll convince yourself it's impossible. There might be profanity. Walk away, take a break, and come back to the game later.
 Don't curse, use profanity, or insult other players. In addition to being disliked by your friends, you could be banned from playing online or have negative marks on your profile.
 It can be more enjoyable than just playing alone. If they are a gamer, they also can teach you techniques.

