 Your annotated outline should begin with an Introduction section, titled Introduction. Underneath the section heading, you should include one point each for:An attention grabbing hook to open your paper
A preview of the main points of the paper
Your thesis statement;
, The section headings should be labeled and ordered so they support your thesis statement. However, the headings can be as general or as specific as you’d like. The important thing is that your section headings relate directly to your thesis.For example, you may be writing a research paper about climate change on Mt.Hood in Portland, Oregon. Your thesis may focus on how the climate systems on Mt.Hood have been affected by climate change, specifically global warming and the effects of these changes. You may then create section headings like: The Geological Profile of Mt.Hood, The Climate Systems on Mt.Hood, The Recent Climate Changes on Mt.Hood via Global Warming, The Effect of Climate Change on the Local Economy, and The Effect of Climate Change on the Biology and Wildlife.
Do not go overboard on section headings, as the annotated outline should be concise and to the point. Most annotated outlines are no longer than two to two and a half pages long, with double spaces between each section.
 Each section heading should then contain at least two paragraph headings that support the points made in the section. You can have more than two paragraph headings in each section heading, as long as the information is relevant to your thesis statement.For example, under one section heading, The Geological Profile of Mt.Hood, you may include two paragraph headings: The Glaciers of Mt.Hood and The Forests of Mt.Hood.
 Each paragraph should have a topic sentence that reflects your thesis and supports the arguments made in the paragraph.For example, under one paragraph heading, The Glaciers of Mt.Hood, you may have this paragraph topic sentence: “The disappearing glaciers on Mt.Hood are clear examples of the effect of global warming on Oregon’s highest mountain.”

, You should have at least two supporting examples in each paragraph and a content summary that explains how the paragraph connects back to your thesis. Your supporting examples should be quotations and paraphrases from your research that support the paragraph’s topic sentence.For example, under the paragraph heading, The Glaciers of Mt.Hood, you may use one supporting example from a recent geological survey of the largest glacier on the mountain, Eliot Glacier, showing how the glacier is receding. You may then also use a recent geological survey of Palmer snowfields, which was downgraded from a glacier to a snowfield due to significant receding of the glacier.
Your content summary can be one to two lines that explain how the supporting evidence connects back to your thesis. For example: “The drastic receding of Palmer Glacier and the continued receding of Eliot Glacier both show how the rises in the Earth’s temperature have caused substantial glacial melting and the loss of at least one key glacial body on the mountain.”
You should then include a closing sentence that transitions from one paragraph to the next paragraph. This will help you ensure your paper flows well and moves effectively from paragraph to paragraph and section to section.
 Your annotated outline should then end with a final section titled Conclusion. Underneath the section heading, you should include one point for:A rephrasing of your thesis statement
Concluding details
A final line or clincher which reinforces your thesis

