 If you create a safety plan you may be more prepared if you experience abuse. Know the best ways to exit your home, the best places to go that are safe, and who to call once you get there.


Have emergency contacts handy. Keep a list of contacts on you at all times.You can create a safety plan from an online document here. It will include where to go, who to talk to, how to keep yourself safe, and what additional coping resources you can use.
If you believe abuse is about to occur, use this safety plan.
 Knowing your way around your home can help you get away if you need to. Having a plan can also help you feel safe.


Identify ways to leave your home, such as through certain windows, doors, fire escapes, elevators, stairs, etc. If you live in an apartment complex, there should be a fire escape posting and map of the premises; study it in order to develop the fastest and safest way out of the situation.
If there are locked windows and doors inside the home make sure you obtain keys or know how to unlock them ahead of time.
Move objects out of the way if they block useful windows or doors.
 Identify safe places you can go in the future, such as certain friend’s or family member’s house, a school, hospital, etc.


Find the fastest route to your identified safe place.
Figure out how you might get there the fastest. For example, you can run, skateboard, or drive (if you have a license).
Make sure you have plenty of places you can go and several back-up plans if people are not home. If necessary, you can go to a public place such as a mall or store to get phone access.
Tell the people you plan to go to that they are part of your safety plan. Know typical times that they are home.
 If the abuse re-occurs, you should know who you can talk to about it. It could possibly evolve into something more, and if it does, you want someone else to know. Ask for help.Helpful people to talk to include: your mother, grandparent, a teacher, school guidance counselor, therapist, friend’s parent, or another adult who you trust.
Find a mentor or a school counselor you can talk to when you feel overwhelmed by the hurt.
Make sure the person you choose to speak with is someone you trust, and feel safe around.
 Sometimes people who endure abuse end up engaging in risky, unsafe, or uncomfortable situations.Work on preventing future abuse. It's not your fault that the abuse occurred, but you can work toward reducing the likelihood of future or repeated abuse. Try to make sure someone is with you when you are around your father. Avoid being in a room alone with your father if you can. This may increase your risk of abuse. Try to have friends over, spend time with your siblings, or ask another family member over. If you can’t avoid being alone with him, make sure you have an exit or way of protecting yourself if you need to.
Using drugs or alcohol to cope with abuse can have serious and devastating consequences (illegal activity, lowered judgment, overdose). Avoid using substances to cope. Try exercise, writing/journaling, or therapy instead.

