 There are many safe and effective birth control options available for women. Birth control pills are widely available and can be inexpensive, making them an attractive option;however, depending on your needs, health, and pre-existing medical conditions, certain choices may be better for you, so it’s important to discuss your birth control needs with your healthcare provider.


There are two main kinds of birth control pills. Combination pills use the hormones estrogen and progestin. Another type, the minipill, uses only progestin.Combination pills also come in two types. Monophasi' birth control pills all contain the same amount of estrogen and progestin. Multiphasic pills vary the amount of hormones in certain phases.
Combination pills also come as “low-dose” pills. These pills contain less than 20 micrograms of ethinyl estradiol (normal birth control pills contain 50 micrograms or less). Women who are sensitive to hormones, especially estrogen, may benefit from the low-dose pill; however, the low-dose pill may also cause more bleeding between periods.;
, Combination pills are commonly prescribed, but they are not always appropriate. Your doctor and you will make the final decision. If any of the following apply to you, your doctor may recommend that you do not use combination pills:You are breast-feeding
You are older than age 35 and a smoker
You have high blood pressure
You have a history of pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis or you have a inherited condition that increases your risk of clots
You have a history of breast cancer
You have a history or heart disease or stroke
You have medical complications related to diabetes
You have liver or kidney disease
You have unexplained uterine or vaginal bleeding
You have a history of blood clots
You have lupus
You have migraine with aura
You will be having major surgery that immobilizes you for a prolonged period of time
You take St. John’s wort, anticonvulsants, or anti-tuberculous medications
Your doctor may recommend that you do not use the minipill if you have breast cancer, unexplained uterine or vaginal bleeding, or take anticonvulsant or anti-tuberculous medications.
 Combination pills offer a variety of benefits that make them an attractive choice for many women; however, they also carry some risks. When considering which type of pill is right for you, you may want to take both of these into account. Benefits of the combination pill include:Highly effective prevention of pregnancy when used correctly (99%)

About eight in 100 women will become pregnant during the first year of using this pill due to incorrect usage


Reduces menstrual cramping
May protect against pelvic inflammatory disease
Decreases your risk of ovarian and endometrial cancers
Can reduce the frequency and heaviness of menstrual cycles
Improves acne
May help improve bone mineral density
Reduces androgen production caused by polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
Protects against ectopic pregnancy
Reduces the risk of iron deficiency anemia due to heavy menstrual flow
Protects against breast and ovarian cysts

, While combination pills offer many benefits, there are also risks that you should discuss with your doctor. Most of these risks are rare, but can be serious. Many of these risks increase if you have certain medical conditions or if you smoke.Risks of using combination birth control pills include:No protection against sexually transmitted infections or HIV (you must use condoms to protect against these)
Increased risk of heart attack and stroke
Increased risk of blood clots
Increased risk of developing high blood pressure
Increased risk of developing liver tumors, gallstones, or jaundice
Increased breast tenderness
Nausea or vomiting
Weight gain
Headache
Depression
Irregular bleeding

, Minipills, or progestin-only pills, have fewer benefits than combination pills; however, they also tend to have fewer risks. You should talk to your doctor to determine whether the minipill is a good choice for you. Benefits of the minipill include:May be able to be taken even if you have certain health problems, such as blood clots, high blood pressure, migraines, or risk of heart disease
Can be used during breastfeeding
Reduces menstrual cramping
May make periods lighter
May help protect against pelvic inflammatory disease

, While the risks of the minipill are fewer than for combination pills, it is still possible to experience rare but severe side effects from using it. Speak with your doctor to consider whether the benefits outweigh the risks for you. Risks of using the minipill include:No protection against sexually transmitted infections or HIV (you must use condoms to protect against these)
Potentially less effective than combination pills
Backup birth control is required if you forget to take the pill within three hours of the same time every day
Bleeding between periods (more common with the minipill than with combination pills)
Increased breast tenderness
Nausea and vomiting
Increased risk of ovarian cysts
Slightly increased risk of ectopic pregnancy vs. combination pills
Possible increase in acne
Weight gain
Depression
Unusual hair growth
Headache

, If you are healthy enough for birth control pills, you have a few options. If you choose combination birth control pills — which many women do — you can choose to reduce the frequency of your menstrual cycles if you wish.Continuous-dose pills, also called extended-cycle pills, reduce the number of menstrual cycles you have each year. Women may have as few as four periods a year. Some women may stop having a period altogether.Conventional pills do not reduce the number of menstrual cycles. You’ll still have a period every month., Your doctor can help you determine whether you are taking any medications or supplements that will interfere with your birth control’s effectiveness. Medications that are known to interfere with the effectiveness of hormonal birth control include:Several antibiotics, including penicillin and tetracycline
Certain seizure medications
Certain drugs used to treat HIV
Anti-tuberculosis drugs
St. John’s wort

, Before you decide on a birth control pill, tell your doctor about any medications and supplements that you’re currently taking. Some medications interfere with the effectiveness of birth control pills, and many others may cause negative interactions and side effects. Make sure to mention if you take any of the following:Thyroid hormone drugs
Benzodiazepines (such as diazepam)
Prednisone drugs
Tricyclic antidepressants
Beta-blockers
Anti-coagulants (“blood thinners” like warfarin)
Insulin

, You should always follow the directions given to you by your physician. Different pills have different requirements. Some need to be started at a special time and some need to be taken at specific times. Start by reading the instructions and then follow the next steps.If you do not take the birth control pills as directed, they may not be effective and you may become pregnant.
 Smoking makes taking the pill extremely dangerous to your health. Together they put you at a very high risk for blood clots, which can easily kill you. Women who are older than age 35 and smoke should not use any type of combination birth control pill.


If you're smoking, stop. Even occasional, social smoking can be dangerous. If you're not smoking, don't start.
 Depending on the type of birth control pill you have been prescribed, you may need to start taking your pill at a certain time. Always ask your prescribing doctor how you should start your pill. In general, you have a few options:You can start combination pills on the first day of your period.
You can also start combination pills on the Sunday after your menstrual period starts.
If you have just given birth vaginally, you must wait three weeks to start the combination pill.
You should wait at least six weeks after giving birth before starting the combination pill if you have an increased risk of blood clots or you are nursing.
You can start taking the combination pill right away if you have had an abortion or miscarriage.
Always start your new pack of combination pills on the same day of the week as you started the first pack.
You can start the minipill (progestin-only) pill at any time. If you plan to have vaginal intercourse during the first 48 hours of using the minipill, use a backup form of contraception.

You must take the minipill at the same time each day. Choose a time when you will remember to take your pill, such as when you get up or right before you go to bed.
You can start the minipill right away if you have had an abortion or miscarriage.
 If you start taking your birth control pills on the first day of your period, it is effective at protecting against pregnancy immediately.If you started your pill on a different day, there is a chance that you could become pregnant if you have unprotected sexual intercourse.As such, it is recommended you use backup birth control for the duration of your first pill pack.
If you begin your regimen at any other time it can take up to a full month for the pill to become fully effective.
To avoid pregnancy, if you did not start your pill within 5 days of the start of your period, you should use an alternate form of contraception for a full month, or one full cycle of pills., You can take it at morning or at night, but most women find that they remember them better at night because their nightly routine for going to bed doesn't vary as much as their morning routines. If you fail to take your pill at the same time every day, you may experience spotting and you will not be as well protected.


If you use the minipill, you must take each pill within three hours of the same time every day. If you do not, you must use a backup form of contraception for the next 48 hours. For example, if you usually take your pill at 8 PM but you forgot until midnight, you should take the pill but also use a backup form of contraception, such as condoms, for the next 48 hours.Setting an alarm on your cellphone to take your pills or putting them next to your toothbrush can help you remember if you tend to be forgetful.
There are even mobile apps that will remind you to take your pill, such as myPill and Lady Pill Reminder.
Take the pill about half an hour after eating to help you avoid nausea., Combination pills come in several different “phases.” For some of them, the level of hormones in the pills changes throughout the month. If you are taking any pill other than a monophasic pill, you may have extra instructions on what to do if you miss a pill that are specific to the pill you’re taking.


Monophasic pills contain the same level of estrogen and progestin in all of the pills. If you forget to take one of these pills, take it as soon as you remember. Take the next day’s pill at your regular time. Examples include Ortho-cyclen, Seasonale, and Yaz.
Biphasic pills change the level of estrogen and progestin once during the month. Examples include Kariva and Mircette Ortho-Novum 10/11.
Triphasic pills change the level of estrogen and progestin every seven days during the first three weeks of pills. Examples include Ortho Tri-Cyclen, Enpresse, and Cyclessa.
Quadriphasic pills change the level of estrogen and progestin four times during the cycle. Natazia is the only quadriphasic pill prescribed in the US.
 Combination pills can be conventional or continuous-dosage (or extended-dosage). Depending on what type of combination pill you’ve chosen, you may take different pills at different times of the month. Refer to your instructions.


For 21-day combination pills, you will take one pill at the same time every day for 21 days. For seven days, you will not take pills. You will generally have your period at this time. After seven days you start a new pack of pills.
For 28-day combination pills, you will take one pill at the same time every day for 28 days. Some of these pills do not contain hormones, or may only contain estrogen. You will experience bleeding for four to seven days while you are taking these pills.
For three-month combination pills, you will take one pill at the same time every day for 84 days. Then you will take one pill at the same time every day for seven days that does not contain hormones, or only contains estrogen. You will experience bleeding for these seven days every three months.
For 1one-year combination pills, you will take one pill at the same time every day for the full year. You may have fewer periods, or may even stop menstruating altogether.
 Remember that you may experience symptoms of pregnancy during the first month as your body adjusts to hormones (swelling breasts, sensitive nipples, spotting, nausea).Certain types of birth control pills may also cause you to stop having periods, so make sure you and your doctor are clear about which one you're on so you know what to look for.


If you’re concerned that you may be pregnant, you can use a home pregnancy test. They are accurate even while you are taking birth control pills., Watch for spotting or breakthrough bleeding (bleeding in between periods) if you are taking pills that are designed to prevent you from having periods every month. Even pills that allow you to have periods can still sometimes lead to spotting. This is normal. It takes a while for your body to adjust to the new schedule and the spotting typically goes away within three months but may take as long as six months.Spotting or “breakthrough bleeding” is more common with low-dose combination pills.
Bleeding is also more common if you miss a day or if you do not take the pills at the same time every day.
 You don’t want to run out of pills, so make sure to schedule an appointment with your doctor before you need a refill. You should generally schedule an appointment when you have two packs of pills left on your prescription., Don't be afraid to try different brands or different birth control methods. Talk to your doctor about taking a different brand of pill if you are bothered by symptoms of premenstrual syndrome or side effects of the particular pill you're on. There are many birth control methods other than the pill, many of which are easier to deal with.Other hormonal forms of birth control include combined estrogen and progestin patches and the vaginal ring.Other long-lasting, highly effective birth control methods include intrauterine devices (IUDs), contraceptive implants, and contraceptive injections., Stop taking the pills if you experience jaundice, abdominal pain, chest pain, leg pain, severe headaches or eye problems. Be especially alert for problems if you smoke. It's probably best if you quit smoking while taking birth control pills. Doing both significantly increases the chances of health complications, like blood clots.
 Birth control pills do present some risks. If you encounter any of the following, contact your doctor as soon as possible:Severe, consistent headaches
Change or loss of vision
Aura (seeing bright, flashy lines)
Numbness
Severe chest pain
Trouble breathing
Coughing up blood
Dizziness or fainting
Severe pain in the calf or thigh
Yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice)

, When you forget a pill, take the pill as soon as you remember and take the next pill at the regular time.Certain combination pills, especially multiphasic pills, may have additional instructions that you should follow.


For most pills, if you don’t remember until the next day you should take two pills on that day.If you forget your pill for two days, take two pills on the first day you remember and two pills on the next day.If you forget a pill at any time during your cycle, you should use a backup form of contraception such as condoms until you finish the pill pack.
If you forgot a pill during the first week of a pack, you may need to use emergency contraception to prevent pregnancy.
If you take progestin-only pills (instead of the more common combination pill), it is extremely important to take it at the same time every day. Even a few hours off can allow you to become pregnant. , If you are not sure what to do if you have missed a pill, or if you want to know whether you need to consider emergency contraception, contact your doctor. Tell them exactly what happened (how many pills you forgot, for how many days, etc.).


How you treat missing or forgetting a pill varies depending on the pill you’re taking, so contacting your doctor is always a good idea.
 Use another method of birth control if you are sick and experiencing vomiting or diarrhea because the pill may not stay in your digestive tract long enough to be effective.


If you vomit or have diarrhea within four hours of taking a pill, it is likely to be ineffective at protecting from pregnancy. Use a backup form of birth control just as you would for a missed pill.If you suffer from an eating disorder and use vomiting or laxatives, an oral contraceptive is unlikely to be effective. Use a backup form of contraception.Consult with your doctor or a mental health professional for help.

