 Drinking water – especially cold water – can lower your body temperature and keep you cool during hot weather walks. Fill a water bottle with ice cubes and pour water over it. Take it with you on your hot weather walk and sip from it regularly.In hot weather, drink water even when you’re not thirsty to prevent dehydration. Take a sip (five ounces, or 150 milliliters) at least once every 10 to 15 minutes.Drink at least 16 ounces (500 milliliters) of water one or two hours prior to your hot weather walk. Drink the same volume 15 minutes before heading out.If you’re planning on a particularly vigorous hot weather walk, bring a sports drink along, too. Sports drinks like Gatorade can help you replenish sodium, potassium, magnesium, and calcium. that you lose through sweating.
Do not drink juices or soda, as they contain high levels of sugar that won’t be readily absorbed during your hot weather walk.
 If you’re at a public park or on a walking course, water fountains might be located at regular intervals along the path. If this is the case, stop and sip from them as you walk. This will help you preserve the water in your bottle, which you might use quickly depending on the temperature outside and the length of your hot weather walk., When taking a hot weather walk, wear loose-fitting, light-colored clothing.Avoid dark colors, as they absorb more heat. Wear a wide-brimmed hat if possible.When looking for hats, look for lightweight, mesh fabric around the scalp with a brim that covers the forehead and back of neck. The hat should also be made from breathable material that allows perspiration to quickly escape.
Select clothes made from synthetic moisture-wicking fabrics instead of cotton, which retains sweat and can cause discomfort.
 If you have layered clothing on, remove excess layers. Place them in your bag or just carry them by hand. For example, if you’re on a hot weather walk and you’re wearing a sweater, remove it and roll it up. Carry it by hand or throw it over your shoulder., There are several options for fanning your face during your hot weather walk. You could use a folding fan to blow air over your face. Just unfold the fan and move it back and forth using rapid wrist motions (either up-and-down or side-to-side) rapidly to increase the air flow near your face. Alternately, you could bring a handheld electric fan. These are usually powered by a battery and can fit easily in a bag or fanny pack.
 Bring a water bottle with you on your hot weather walk. Use it to squirt, pour, or sprinkle a bit of water on your face, head, and the back of your neck. Allow the water to trickle down your back. As it evaporates, it will cool you., Cold packs , bags of ice, or even wet towels are great for staying cool on hot weather walks. Cold packs can be frozen before your hot weather walk begins, then kept in a bag or fanny pack until you’re ready to use it. Some cold packs don’t need to be frozen ahead of time, but instead become cold when you’re ready to use them through an endothermic (cold-creating) chemical reaction.Always use your cold packs  as directed.
If you don’t want to invest in a special cold pack , you can just throw a handful of ice cubes in a resealable plastic bag or wet a small hand towel with cold water. Wrapping a wet towel around your neck is a great way to stay cool. Or, you can also wet a bandanna and refrigerate or freeze it and then wrap it around the back of your head and neck to stay cool.
Remember, as you continue your hot weather walk, the cold pack  or ice bag will become warmer.

