 Before you start any stretching of your legs, feet, and ankles, spend five to ten minutes warming up the muscles to prevent possible injury or undue stress to the muscles, which can exacerbate your heel pain.You can warm up your feet and ankles from a seated position. Simply hold your legs straight out in front of you and flex and extend both of your feet. Drop your heels to the floor and wiggle your toes.
Further loosen your ankles by drawing circles with your feet, first clockwise then counterclockwise.
 Downward-facing dog is a whole-body stretch that can significantly reduce stress. It also is a particularly good yoga pose for reducing and helping to eliminate heel pain.Start the position on all fours with your wrists directly under your shoulders and your knees under your hips. Turn your toes under so that you can roll over your feet.
On an exhale, lift your hips and straighten your knees, raising your sitting bones to the ceiling.
Hold this pose for 30 seconds to a minute, and with each exhale try to press your heels down towards the floor, stretching your heels and your ankles.
You can add a dynamic element by pedaling your feet while in this position to further loosen your leg, ankle, and foot muscles., The four-limbed staff pose is a variation of the plank and is a powerful stretch for your toe flexors. Stretching your toes pulls the soles of your feet and also can help heel pain.From plank, lower your body slowly, your elbows close to your sides. Keep your elbows directly over your wrists and avoid allowing your shoulders to drop below your elbows. Ideally, your upper arms should be parallel to the floor.
Reach back through your heels, creating a straight line of energy from the crown of your head to your heels. Press down into your toes to create resistance, rocking forward slightly.
Keep in mind that this is an intense stretch for your feet and toes. If you feel any pain at all, ease off.
 Taken seriously, a little stretching exercise known as "prancing feet" can stretch the arch of your foot as well as increasing the flexibility of your toes and feet.Start this exercise from a standing position. If you have problems maintaining balance, you may want to have a table or the back of a chair nearby to hold onto.
Lift your right heel off the ground and roll onto your toes. Then roll back over to your heel and repeat the movement with the left foot.
You also can do both feet at the same time, rolling onto your toes on one foot as you roll onto your heel with the other.
 You've probably watched a baby stretch and wiggle their toes, but this is not something adults do frequently. Elongating and curling your toes individually can stretch and strengthen all the muscles in your feet.Stretching your foot and wiggling your toes also can improve circulation in your foot, which can do a lot to improve a lot of foot problems including heel pain.
 This exercise also isn't particularly related to yoga, but it is used in many yoga classes designed to treat or prevent plantar fasciitis. Using your toes to pick up small objects pulls the muscles in the soles of your feet to gently strengthen them.Get a dozen small objects, such as pebbles or marbles, and a coffee mug or small bowl. Place the mug or bowl a few inches in front of your feet, then scatter the objects within reach around your feet.
Pick up each pebble or marble with your toes and move it to the mug or bowl. You can split your objects between your feet, or repeat the exercise with each foot. You should do both feet, even if you only have heel pain in one of them.
 The hero pose also strengthens the arches of your feet and stretches your thighs, knees and ankles to help relieve heel pain. This is a fairly gentle yoga pose that you should be able to do even without extensive experience practicing yoga.To enter hero pose, kneel on the floor touching your inner knees together and your feet spread slightly wider than hip-width apart. Breathe deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.
On an exhale, sit back, leaning slightly forward. Your goal is to sit between your feet. If you can't do this comfortably, you may want to place a rolled towel or blanket behind your knees for cushioning and support.
Widen your collarbones and lift your sternum, your shoulder blades tucked in alongside your spine and your shoulders rolled back. You can place your hands on your thighs, palm down, or together in your lap with your palms pointed toward the sky.
Stay in this pose for 30 seconds to a minute, breathing deeply.
You can further the stretch by lowering all the way onto your back in reclining hero pose. Keep in mind that this is a more advanced pose, so don't be discouraged if you can't do it immediately.