 It is important to remind yourself of how great you are as often as possible if this helps you.No person can be perfect, so instead of trying to attain perfection be really happy about the wonderful person that you are. Every day, you should:Love yourself for who you are.
Respect yourself for what you have achieved so far in life.
Remind yourself of what your goals are and what you are capable of achieving in the future. Perhaps make a list of your goals for 1 month, 6 months, and 1 year from now. Look at these goals each day and make sure you are working toward them.
 Consider your strengths, talents, achievements, contributions, and accomplishments. These are things that should define you—not your body type or image. You can also think about the things in life that you are grateful for, be it a loving best friend, a great job, or the amazing family that supports you.Make a list of all of your strengths and accomplishments and put it somewhere where you can see it every day.
Make a list of the things you are grateful for. These things can help to remind you of how good your life really is.
Participate in activities relating to your strengths. For example, if you are a good writer, you can cultivate this strength by continuing to practice writing articles, stories, or even in a journal.
 It can really help to write your emotions and thoughts down, especially when you are trying to overcome the purging cycle. Write down all of the things that make you want to purge, as well as all of the reasons why you want to stop purging. Along with these things you should write down:


Your thoughts about the anxieties or feelings of guilt that make you want to purge.
Moments of strength when you overcame the desire to purge. You can reread these moments of success to give you strength in times of relapse.
Your goals. When you lose sight of them, you can revisit your journal entries and remind yourself of what you are working towards.
 Working to overcome this condition by yourself can be lonesome and frustrating. Because of this, it’s important to create a support system for yourself. Lack of social support is also a significant risk factor in developing issues with eating such as purging. Therefore, it is crucial to make sure you have a strong sense that you are socially supported. The best way to do this is by talking to family members or friends about what you are going through and asking them to help you. They can help you stick to your eating schedule and will help distract you after meals.
 Aside from your family and friends, it can also help to go to community support groups where you can meet and talk to people going through the same thing as you. Support groups can: give you an opportunity to listen to stories about what people like you are going through, help you find motivation through other people’s successes, and offer an opportunity to get valuable directions, insights, guidance, and advice from people who know what it is like and will not judge you for it.


Your therapist can help point you in the direction of a local support group, or you can do your own research online to find a group near you.
Consider trying a 12 step program for eating disorders and see if you like it.There are even Eating Disorders Anonymous (EDA) websites and groups., Reading about others people’s success with overcoming the desire to purge can help motivate you to break your own cycle. Learn how they stopped purging and try some of their techniques. Understand that everyone is different, so you will have to adopt the techniques that work best for you, but the way to do that is to try things that other people have found helpful.


Go to a bookstore and purchase a book on success stories about overcoming the binge-purge cycle.
Look up interviews with people who have overcome bulimia online.

