 Sew right along the edge where you want the zipper to be eventually. Remember to sew so that your seam allowances stay the same as the rest of the garment.









This may seem counterintuitive but remember that a basting stitch is only temporary. It is used here simply to keep your seam in place. You will remove it after you have attached your zipper.;
, Be sure to get the seam allowance pieces as open and flat as possible, as the folds on either side of the basting stitch will need to be nice and crisp.
 Install the zipper in its closed position. Position the top of the zipper so the pull is just above the top line of the garment.









Any excess zipper that is laying below the end of the seam is not a problem. You want a little bit extending down, perhaps an inch or so, but any length in excess of that can be removed. Just cut off the excess zipper before you pin the zipper on and whip stitch the end to make a zipper stop.
 Once again, the basting stitch will be removed later, it is just used here to keep the zipper in place. These basting stitches are necessary because they will keep the teeth of the zipper centered on the seam when you can't actually see the zipper as you sew over the right side of the project.
 You should only see the top of the zipper sticking out the top of your project. The rest of the zipper should be hidden away.










You will need to finish the sewing by putting a line of stitches across the bottom of the seam. This will give your zipper an end point which the pull cannot go below.
 Begin by taking out the basting stitches that kept the zipper in place. Once those are removed, take out the basting stitches that go down the middle of the seam. This should expose the teeth of your zipper underneath.









When taking out your basting stitches, be careful not to snag thread in your fabric or any of your permanent top stitches. A seam ripper is a great tool but it can easily cut threads that you don't want it to, so be careful.
 It should open and close smoothly and be centered nicely in your seam.
 Zippers come in a wide variety of colors, styles, and sizes. Pick the one that works best for your project.


If you can't find a zipper that is the perfect length, purchase a zipper that is slightly longer than the seam opening you want to put it in.This will give you some leeway in positioning the zipper and will help you avoid hitting the end stop of the zipper with your sewing needle, which would break it.
 This is only necessary if your zipper is made of natural materials. Simply follow package recommendations, as most zippers are made from man-made materials but some are made from natural fibers such as cotton.
 Use a gentle heat to prevent melting the zipper if the teeth are made of plastic.









Zippers with metal teeth can stand up to more heat from an iron.
 This is only necessary if you are using a lightweight fabric that is not very strong or stiff. The interfacing will be used to make it stronger and stiffer, better able to handle the repetitive pressure that is caused by a zipper being opened and closed.
 In most cases you will simply place the thin strips of interfacing on the wrong side of your fabric right next to the seam. You will then iron over the fabric and interfacing, which will attach the interfacing to the fabric.








