 Go online to the Russian website and print off the Visa application forms. Forms must be filled out accurately and completely for your application to be considered if a form is considered it is not necessarily approved as approvals are not guaranteed. Your Visa may take several weeks to arrive; be sure to adhere to the specific arrival and departure dates and times.
 Travel with a friend where possible or better still join a tour if you are not a seasoned traveler. Tour guides know the ropes and will be able to assist you where necessary. Remember that most Russians do not speak English, and their alphabet is Cyrillic, not at all like ours. Do not expect help from the airport staff, as most are not prepared to provide assistance with your travel plans and some do not speak English. Expect to stand in line at the security checkpoint for half an hour to an hour. You will be closely scrutinized. Make eye contact and do not speak unless you are spoken to., These trains run from Domodedovo and Sheremetyevo every 30 minutes, and cost about 10$. You can also take registered taxi in to the city-centre of Moscow. This is still the only decent means of travel and will cost you from Seventy-five to ninety dollars, possibly more and can take an hour or even two. Stay away from gypsy cabs which are locals with a beat-up Lada and book a reputable hotel, down-town in the vicinity of Red Square. Most of what you will want to see will then be within walking distance. The hotel staff usually speak English, however,do not expect the average Russian to. If you need to ask for directions, it is best to try asking a younger person or someone dressed in 'business attire'. Be sure to speak slowly and concisely., You do not have to register your Russian visa yourself, your accommodating party – hotel, friends or relatives – should do it on your behalf., Do not be afraid to explore the city, but memorize (or write down) the name of your street and the closest metro stop to you in Cyrillic. The public metro in Moscow is cheap (roughly 1$ a trip) and can take you to anywhere in the city. All of the signs and branches in the metro are color coded, so that should help you figure your way around. For the first couple days, stick to the busy streets such as Novie Arbat,Starry Arbat,& Red Square. Be aware of pick pockets in busy and touristy areas., Find out who's performing at the Concert Hall on site. Walk to the Bolshoi Theatre which is just 10 minutes from Red Square. Take the underground Metro and get off here & there,to explore these amazing underground caverns with their ornate décor and some of it is absolutely stunningly beautiful and each has a story to tell. Visit the Seven sisters. the huge wedding cake shaped buildings created by Stalin to impress and intimidate the world, one of which is the Ukraine Hotel. Stroll the grounds of Nova Dvichy, an ancient monastery,with it's breathtaking onion-domed cathedrals,and burial sites of famous Russian poets. Be sure to visit "De-etski Mir",the huge 5 storey children's department store; a true throw-back to the Communist years, where you will discover wonderful surprises. It is also located a 10 minute walk from Red Square. Ask your concierge for more ideas., It takes about half a day,and the Dining Car is a hoot. Book a private suite which is tiny but adequate and keep all valuables with you when dining. Expect to get a bit sick; our stomachs are not used to the Russian flora and fauna but you'll survive. Have the concierge book you into a reputable hotel and once ensconced book a tour of the Hermitage along with the palaces of Peter the Great and Catherine, just to name a few. Check out the Russian hats, trimmed with fox and purchase a piece or two of the gorgeous Russian blue & white porcelain and perhaps a reproduction Russian Fabergé egg., If venturing outside of the city, it is best to go with a guide or a local who can take you around, as few people will speak English outside of major cities.