 As you help someone with compulsive gambling, you should meet with others who are also help recovering gambling addicts. This can help you find support you need as you deal with the person’s addiction and any negative feelings.Talk to a therapist who specializes in compulsive gambling. You can also join a support group for the family or friends of recovering gamblers. These support groups may help you learn how to process your own feelings while learning how to support and help the person.
 Depending on your relationship to the compulsive gambler, you may have many negative emotions to work through. You may feel betrayed, angry, frustrated, ashamed, or sad. You may have lost trust in a person you care about, and the relationship may have changed for the worse. These emotions are common when dealing with an addict. Allow yourself to process and work through the emotions. Don’t try to suppress them.Talk to someone about it, whether it’s a friend, therapist, or family member. You may even want to talk to the person about how they made you feel. For example, you can say, “I feel very hurt by your gambling. I am ashamed that we have debt and I am angry that you stole money from me.”
Consider writing your thoughts and emotions down. You can write in a journal, or you may consider writing a letter to the person.
 Part of moving on and recovering is accepting what has happened. Dwelling on the past will do nothing for you or the compulsive gambler. Instead, acknowledge what happened, accept that it is a fact and happened, but move on. This may mean that you forgive the person, help them get treatment, or distance yourself from the person temporarily.Don’t obsess about gambling losses or the way things could have been. That is unhealthy thought patterns. Instead, focus on the future and what can be done to make things better.
 Helping someone who is a compulsive gambler can be emotionally taxing. You should take care of yourself first. If you can, get someone to help you with the person. You should also have people around you who can give you support as you help the person.Your support network may be friends, family, or a therapist.

