 Before you get started making ginger juice, it can be helpful to gather your ingredients and tools. Getting everything you need in one place can make it easier to make the ginger juice and will let you know if you're missing anything. Gather these ingredients and tools together before you start making your ginger juice:1 ginger root
A blender
Water
Sugar
Lemon or lime juice
A strainer
A spoon
A pitcher to hold the juice

, You won't need to peel the ginger root before you add it to the blender. However, you will need to cut the ginger root into smaller slices. This will help your blender process the root more easily and allow the flavor to be more pronounced.You will need to wash the ginger root before cutting it up. Make sure you completely scrub the ginger root to remove any dirt or pesticides before using it.
You will need to cut up one whole ginger root.
 Some people recommend adding other fruits or vegetables to the juice. Adding other fruits and vegetables can make for some healthy and great tasting juices, so take some time and think about some of your favorite flavors. Once you've picked a few additional fruits or vegetables out, peel and chop them up to prepare them for the blender.Always wash your fruits and vegetables.
Apples, pears and carrots are recommended additions to your ginger juice.
 Once you've prepared your ginger root, you can add it to the blender. You'll also need to add water to the blender before you turn it on. You can add as much water as you like, but it should at least cover all the ginger in the blender. Once both the ginger and the water are in the blender, blend both until they have fully mixed.Using the pulse setting on your blender can help finely chop the ginger root up.
Make sure the ginger root is blended as much as it can be.
You can also mix in your additional fruits or vegetables at this point.
 After you've blended the ginger and water, you will need to strain the mixture into your juice container. Straining the mix will remove the solid ginger mash from the water, leaving you with only the ginger juice.You can press the mash into the strainer with a spoon to get even more juice out of it.
Don't throw the ginger mash out just yet.
Make sure you've gotten all the juice out of the ginger that you can.
 Once you've blended and strained the ginger root, you can repeat the process a few more times to fill up your juice container. Add the ginger mash to the blender again, add water, blend, strain and press until you've filled up your juice container with ginger juice.You can save the ginger mash and make ginger tea with it.
The leftover ginger mash can now be composted or disposed of.
 You can add any other flavors you might enjoy to your ginger juice. Some people enjoy sweetening the juice with either honey or sugar. Adding in some lemon or lime juice can balance out the flavor of the ginger. Have fun and experiment with flavors that you enjoy.