 It’s important to choose a plant that will thrive where you place it. You may not have a location that’s right for a shrub you want, but you can evaluate the available space to choose a plant that’s perfect for that spot. Before you buy your plant, take time to evaluate what type of shrub will thrive in the location you choose. Make notes of sun exposure, temperature fluctuations, soil moisture, root growth area, and soil composition and acidity. Ask someone at the nursery or garden center to help you choose the right plant.


Is the shrub being planted near your house, garage, or taller plants that will block out sunlight at certain times each day? Every plant needs a specific amount of sun and shade, so it’s important to note how much sunlight the shrub will receive.
Set up a thermometer and mark down the temperature at different times to determine how much the temperature fluctuates.
Measure the distance from the location you intend to plant to the closest objects on all sides. Roots spread laterally, so the amount of space around the planted location will determine how much room the plant has to grow. Keep in mind that other plants nearby may compete for water and nutrients in the soil.You can purchase kits to test pH at your local nursery. For optimal growing conditions, you should maintain a pH between 5.8 and 6.5.;
, Shrubs are decorative plants, so you want to take advantage of their cosmetic appeal. Use your shrub to conceal unsightly objects on your lawn like air conditioning units. Create privacy by planting a row of tall hedges, or improve the curb appeal of your home with an attractive shrub near the door., New plants come in three varieties, balled and burlapped or B&B shrubs, bare roots shrubs, and containerized shrubs. You’ll need to measure the height of the roots from the ground to the “root flare,” part of the shrub at the base of the trunk where roots begin to spread out. This process is simplest for those shrubs that are bulbed and burlapped or containerized because the roots are tightly confined. Bare roots shrubs take a little more time and effort, but it’s important to measure properly to ensure adequate space for healthy root production.For bulbed and burlapped and containerized shrubs, place the handle of a shovel across the top of the rootball. The distance from the shovel handle to the ground is how deep the hole should be. The hole should be three to five times wider than the rootball at its widest point.
For a containerized plant still in its pot, you can simply measure the height of the pot and subtract any space between the top of the pot and the dirt.For bare roots shrubs, find the darker line around the main trunk of the plant. This is where the plant was previously at ground level, and this line should be replaced at or slightly above ground level. Measure from this line to the bottom of the root system. Spread the roots over the ground gently. Try not to break or bend the roots unnaturally. It may be easiest to create a small mound of dirt, and spread the roots over the sides with the highest point of the mound below the trunk. Measure across the widest point of the root spread. The hole should be three to five times wider than the spread., Once you’ve measured the rootball you want to offer the newly planted roots soft soil that does not prevent or hinder growth. Dig out the soil, and place it on a tarp. Then, thoroughly break up the soil until it is has a granular appearance. Don’t till the earth deeper than is necessary. You’ll want the bottom to be solid to prevent shifting. Make sure the sides of your hole slope out from the middle and do not have a “glazed” appearance. Shoveling compacts the dirt, and the smooth looking soil may block out water or make it difficult for roots to grow., Once you have a hole of the right size, fill it with water. If the water completely drains away within 24 hours, you have good drainage and can place your shrub. If not, wait for the water to completely drain, and attempt the test again. If there is still standing water after 24 hours, consider planting in a different location.