 Dull razors can cause nicks or cuts while shaving, due to the extra pressure you’ll have to put on them to be effective. They can drag harder against skin and become irritating. Use a sharp, fresh, high-quality razor. Disposables with one blade might not be the best option. Instead, try a razor with at least 3 blades.There are online services that will send you blade cartridge refills for much cheaper than normal drugstore prices. These services are great options for those who want to use a sharp, fresh blade each week.;
, You will want to lubricate the razor as it moves over your skin to prevent it from causing nicks or cuts, so using a layer of shaving cream or soap can help with this. Because the soap or cream will gather on the razor, you’ll want to rinse the razor after each pass to keep it from clogging and becoming less effective.


You can also try using a little bit of hair conditioner instead of shaving cream or soap. This works just as well.
The less hair you have on your underarms already, the more cream, soap, or conditioner you’ll want to apply to protect your skin. Generally, though, an even, thin layer will do well enough.
 Unlike shaving other parts of the body, shaving the underarms can require shaving in all directions instead of just one. Shave up, down, and side to side to remove all unwanted hair. Your shaving cream or soap will help you see better where you’ve already shaved and help you avoid missing any areas.Be careful not to press too hard when shaving. Keep your touch gentle to avoid nicks and cuts.
 Some antiperspirants and deodorants contain moisturizers that can help soothe the skin after shaving, so you can try one of those. Alternatively, you can apply a thin layer of a gentle moisturizing cream or lotion. Try something made specifically for sensitive skin, as this might be better for your underarms.You may have to try a few different after-shave routines until you find the one that best suits you. For example, if deodorant or antiperspirants alone aren’t soothing enough, try applying moisturizer. Or, if moisturizer becomes too irritating, try sticking with your antiperspirant or deodorant.
 Some people shave their underarms at the sink rather than in the shower, while others shave in the shower. It comes down to personal preference and convenience. However, shaving in the shower has its advantages. Letting the hair under your arms soak in the warm shower water for a few minutes before soaking can help soften the hair and make it easier to shave without irritation.If you want to shave at the sink instead of in the shower, try wetting the hair under your arms with warm water a few moments prior to applying the shaving cream or soap, rather than wetting it right before.

