 Talk over your symptoms and expectations so that your doctor can help you form a realistic idea about your treatment. Some types of major depression may respond to the particular drug prescribed to you, but others may not. Also, you may have symptoms that aren't treatable with antidepressants.Many antidepressant treatments seem to be most effective for moderate to severe depression. If you are experiencing mild depression, some other form of treatment may give better results.Don't expect your medication to change your mood over night.;
, You may need more sleep or find you have insomnia, for example. These behavioral changes can have a big impact on your daily activities.Try to begin your treatment when you can make adjustments to your schedule and activities., For many people, finding the most effective antidepressant drug and the best dosage of that drug takes time. You might have an allergic reaction to a drug, or find the side effects too difficult to handle, in which case you will need a different medication. Even when you find the right drug, getting the dosage right will take some time., You might need to take your medication at specific times, under specific conditions, or with or without food. You should always follow these kind of dosing directions in order to make your medication most effective., Especially as you begin your prescription regimen, it is important that you take your medication in the amount prescribed by your doctor. Your doctor will monitor how you are responding based on the prescribed dosage in order to increase or decrease the amount. If you are starting at a very low dosage level, it is likely that the drug has no effect in smaller amounts, so taking less than what is recommended will interfere with your progress.
 This is important both for getting in a routine so that you don’t forget to take your prescription, and to keep a steady level of medication in your system. If you do forget a dose, follow instructions about whether or not to skip a dose or to take it as soon as you remember., Most antidepressants need several months to a year or more to effectively treat major depression. You may feel huge improvement after a few months, but you should continue taking your medication for the amount of time recommended by your doctor.
 As with many drugs, reactions range from mild to life threatening. In addition, different types of antidepressants have different reactions and risks associated with taking them. Familiarize yourself with the reaction symptoms that indicate the need for immediate medical care or supervision., Common reactions to antidepressants are mild and often dissipate over time.Nausea and vomiting
Dizziness
Sexual problems
Sleepiness

, While uncommon for most patients, these reactions can be life-threatening so quick response is imperative.Seizures
Suicidal thoughts
Liver failure

, This can be difficult to deal with especially if your symptoms are severe, or if you are having difficulty finding the right medication and dosage. Antidepressant medications can be a tremendous help for alleviating serious depression, but they need time to work.Give the medication time to take effect. While some people feel better after a few weeks, for most people it will take 6-8 weeks for your medication to have full effect.
Some people may feel worse at first; in addition to side effects, your depression symptoms can be more pronounced initially. Let your doctor know if your condition worsens.
Don’t expect to wake up one day and feel completely different. Typically, people report a gradual change in their depression symptoms over time. Gauge your progress over several weeks or even months.

