 Staying quiet only enables the bully to continue harassing you. Pretending that an incident with a bully did not happen is denying yourself as a human being and only empowers him. The next time he comes to you, look at him square in the eye and firmly, but calmly, say, "I want you to stop right now." If he gets in your face, bring your arm across your chest to use it as a barrier between you and the bully.
If he continues to invade your space, hold your ground and continue to repeat, "Stop. I want you to stop right now. Stop" or loudly say, "Stop! Leave me alone!" Don't say or do anything else but continue to repeat these phrases.
If he still doesn't stop, then this is when you might consider telling someone.
 Tell them exactly what happened, who the bully is, where and when the bullying took place, how long it's been happening and how it makes you feel. When you tell them, ask what they are going to do to help you stop the bullying. It is their job to keep you safe. Speaking up is imperative, especially if you are afraid for your safety or have been threatened with harm. There have been many instances where teens have died due to unreported stalking, threats, or attacks. Remember, it's the only way you can win.If you choose to disclose to a school social worker or guidance counselor and are feeling nervous, you might consider taking a friend with you so that you feel comfortable. Remember, most teachers and counselors want to help.
Another suggestion is to write down what's been happening first, to facilitate the process. This way you don't forget any important details.
If the person you talked to doesn’t help, seek help from another authority figure. As difficult as this may sound, keep doing this until you get the help you need or the bullying behavior is resolved.
 This can be difficult, especially if you believe they'll overreact. Let them know that you just want their support, ideas and guidance, but you'd like to first try and resolve it on your own. If you fill them in about what's happening and ask for help, they'll be more likely to trust you.
 Confiding in a friend can give you much needed support and advice in dealing with your situation. Sharing your experience may lead others to also open up about experiences they’ve had with bullies. If you don't have much or any friends because of bullying, try to make friends with someone you think is nice or with people in other classes or grades/years. It may not be easy, but try to get at least one person on your side and it will make a big difference. There must be at least one nice person in your school, right?


If there is a rumor about you, set the record straight by letting your friends know what's true and untrue. Hearing them say, “I understand and don’t believe the rumors,” let’s you know that most people see gossip as it is, petty and immature.

