 If you want to create a drastic change for the new year, you could consider going to a salon and getting a haircut and a new colour for your hair. If going to a salon is not an option either because you don't want such a drastic change or for financial reasons, then you could always just change your hairstyle. There are a lot of websites you can refer to for good looking hairstyles. For nice shiny looking hair you need to take good care of it. Add an oil to the hair, such as coconut oil, almond oil or even olive oil which is probably the cheapest alternative to go.;
, This is an important part to looking your best and all groomed. Wax unwanted hair from your upper lip. And pluck your eyebrows, but make sure to be careful about not over-plucking!

, Use a scrub either once or twice a week on your face. An easy one to make at home, is using sugar and either olive oil or baby oil and just mix these two together and apply to face and even lips. On a daily basis, make sure to wash your face twice a day, and moisturize to prevent drying, especially in the winter season.
 If you use make-up, make sure to apply only the make-up that suits you and your skin colour. Do not over apply; usually what looks nice is foundation and powder on skin and a little bit of blush. Mascara and eyeliner to the eyes and a good smelling lip gloss to the lips...Its that simple!

, Hair can be pretty annoying, especially to those whose hair grow faster than usual. Make sure to shave or wax your legs, your armpits and wax any other unwanted hair!

, If you don't already, make sure for this new year you start doing some sort of physical activity; it will not only make you looking better, but also feeling better and you will definitely be healthier and it'll show. Go running, even just walking, join a gym, it can be as simple as just putting YouTube videos and dancing in your room!

, With the same scrub mentioned above, you should once or twice a week scrub your whole body while in the shower, and make sure to moisturize after you shower.
 Scrub them and moisturize them. Let your nails grow a bit and to make them look nice––you can paint them with a nice one colour nail polish, or you can do a nice french manicure.
 However, if you are a bit tight on money, not to worry, you can always look in your closet––chances are you have so many cool things that never crossed your mind were cool because you didn't match them with other articles of clothing. Check out pictures of celebrities; you can get some good ideas that you might have never thought on your own!

, Even after your make-over, you are still you and there's nobody better at being you than you. So embrace your new look and look forward to this great new year!

