 With a performance bond, a surety (who issues the bond) promises to arrange for the completion of the subcontract if the subcontractor fails to complete the job.As the prime contractor, you benefit because the surety will take on the risk of the subcontractor not completing the job.;
, You might also want the subcontractor to get a payment bond. With this bond, the surety guarantees that the subcontractor will pay for labor and materials that the subcontractor uses. This bond is primarily for the benefit of those who contract with the subcontractor.However, as the prime contractor, you also indirectly benefit because you know the surety will cover any unpaid labor or materials. Lower-tier subcontractors will not look to sue you.
 Your own surety might require that your subcontractors be bonded.You should call them and ask. Also ask about any requirements they have for subcontractor bonds.


Subcontractors often have to be bonded on large or complex projects.
 If you put out a solicitation for bids on a project, then remember to include that you are requiring subcontractors to be bonded. Including this information in your solicitation can save you time.


You should state that you will need a commitment letter from a surety promising to bond a subcontract before the bid date., If the subcontractor has never gotten performance or payment bonds before, then you can refer them to a surety companies. Over 112 surety companies provide bonds for qualified subcontractors. You can point them to the National Association of Surety Bond Producers., Before agreeing to bond a subcontractor, the surety needs to analyze the subcontractor. As part of its analysis, the surety will examine the following to make sure the subcontractor is an acceptable risk:the subcontractor’s experience
a subcontractor’s financial strength
each subcontractor’s exposure on other contracts, as well as their progress on those contracts
a subcontractor’s ability to perform the subcontracted work

, You should read the commitment letter closely, because some contain language allowing the surety to withdraw the commitment.If the letter contains this language, then it isn’t really a promise to provide a bond.


You might also want to confirm the ability to bond on bid day. Your surety can often take the lead and call the subcontractor’s surety to confirm.
 Not all sureties are equivalent. You should carefully research the surety, especially if you are not familiar with it. You want the subcontractor to have a surety that can make good on its guarantee. Check the quality of a surety in a few ways:


Check to see if it is listed on the U.S. Department of Treasury’s list of sureties qualified to write bonds for federal projects. If it is, then you can be sure it is a quality surety. Check Department Circular 570.Also check how Standard and Poors, Moody’s, and A.M. Best have rated the surety., You should have clauses in your subcontract requiring the subcontractor to provide you with bonds. You can ask the attorney who drafts your contracts to insert appropriate language into the contract.


A clause for a performance bond might read: “Subcontractor shall furnish to Contractor within 10 days after this Agreement is executed a Payment Bond, guaranteeing faithful performance of the contract. The penal sum of the bond shall be the contract price plus the value of any change order issued. Subcontractor shall pay the Performance Bond premiums. The Performance Bond shall be in effect 10 days after this Agreement is signed, and shall expire on completion of Work under this Agreement, including the warranty period.”, It is not realistic for sureties to send representatives out to every job site to confirm that progress is being made. Instead, the subcontractor’s surety may send you a job status inquiry to fill out. You should honestly report back the subcontractor’s progress.You might be afraid to notify the sub’s surety of a problem because you fear that the surety credit will be pared back. However, sureties often can help subcontractor’s figure out problems and get back on track.
If necessary, sureties will bring in a replacement subcontractor to finish the job or help finance completion of the project.
 These bonds have several negatives, and you should consider each thoughtfully before requiring that subcontractors get bonded. For example, the following are negatives:Subcontractor bonds are becoming harder to obtain. This might limit who can submit a bid on your project.
These bonds are also expensive. They could increase the amount you need to pay the subcontractor which, in turn, could increase the cost of your bid.
 You also need to consider the advantages before requiring subcontractors to get bonded. Think over the following, and weigh them against the negatives:The surety will pre-qualify any subcontractors. This is a great way to find quality subcontractors, especially if you haven’t used them before.
The subcontractor will probably have to indemnify the surety for any loss. Accordingly, the subcontractor will be more motivated to complete bonded jobs than non-bonded jobs.
 If you don’t want bonds, then you can request other alternatives which can also provide you with protection in case the subcontractor fails to finish a project. For example, you might request the following:Have the subcontractor post a letter of credit.
Ask a shareholder or parent company of the subcontractor to guarantee performance.
You could also withhold a certain amount of retainage from the monthly progress payments.
You could also purchase subcontractor default insurance.However, you will not benefit from the surety’s prequalification analysis if you buy insurance.
 If you still don’t know how you feel about whether you should require subcontractor bonds, then you should talk to other prime contractors. They might not be willing to share their opinion. You’re competitors, after all. However, one or more might be willing to discuss their experience with subcontractor bonds.

