 Your Birman cat will be a great addition to your home and your family. To make sure your beloved pet doesn’t get lost, you should purchase a collar with an identification tag.


For the collar, be sure you purchase one with a safety stretch or break-away option so that your cat doesn’t choke itself and can get out of the collar if it gets stuck on something.
On the ID tag, include your pet’s name and your phone number. You can also include your home address if you wish.
Because a collar can become lost or removed, consider having your cat microchipped by your veterinarian.
Some veterinarian clinics can may also offer to have your cat's i.d number tattooed on to them.
You may also want to consider keeping your Birman cat as an indoor-only pet, as this will protect it from being stolen, from getting hurt by other animals, and from catching various diseases.;
, Your Birman cat will need access to food and water, so you should buy some food and water bowels for the cat. You can purchase small dishes that you refill often, or larger ones that hold more and allow your cat to self-feed.If you use a self-feeder and your Birman cat becomes overweight, you may need to switch to a smaller food dish that allows you to control how much your cat eats.
You can purchase either ceramic or metal food dishes for your Birman cat. Just be sure to clean both regularly (once every few days).
 Your Birman cat will be affectionate and will want to be near you throughout most of the day. Consider purchasing a cat bed that you can put nearby where you often sit, work, or sleep so that your cat can stay close in a comfortable bed of its own.Of course, your Birman may choose to sit on your lap instead! But it’s always nice for your cat to have a bed of its own.
Your Birman cat will probably prefer a softer, more plush cat bed – so try to find one made out of a velvety or suede material.
 Your Birman cat will be a very playful kitty, so you should purchase some cat toys to use while playing with the cat. This will be a great way to encourage your cat to exercise, while also strengthening the bond between cat and owner.Try some string toys, an oversized feather on a stick, and some toy mice for your Birman cat to chase and play fetch with.
You could also purchase a collapsible tunnel toy for your Birman cat to play in. Because of their adventurous spirit, Birmans typically love to run through tunnels, especially when their owners play with them.
Laser pointers are a good option for your cats that like to chase, but the Birman’s fun and playful nature will benefit from something concrete to satisfy their sense of play and adventure.
 Birman cats are medium-sized cats who are quite active and playful. They need a high-quality food with as a good source of energy. Look for foods that contain a meat source as the first main ingredient listed.Avoid foods that contain meat products, meat byproducts, or anything with the word “meal” (like cornmeal) as one of the first ingredients. These are lower quality products and won’t give your cat as much energy and nutrients.
Wet food is typically considered the better option for Birman cats because you can monitor their intake/weight (since you have to feed them several times each day) and it also helps your Birman cat stay more hydrated.
However, if you have a busy schedule, dry food can be a better option since Birmans are usually pretty good at self-feeding if you leave dry food out for them.
 All cats, Birmans included, need regular access to drinking water. This should be made available to your cat so that it can drink whenever it wants. Not providing a consistent source of water for your Birman cat could lead to dehydration and other serious health problems.Keep a bowl of water by the cat’s food dish. Refill it daily so that the water doesn’t get contaminated.
You can also use a drinking fountain. Birman cats, in particular, love to drink from running water.
Make sure there is more than one water supply for your cat in case it dumps over the first one. You don’t want your Birman cat to be without water.
 Birman cats are very affectionate and playful. They love to follow their owners around and “help” them with whatever they’re doing. Play with your Birman cat every day to keep it happy.Make a game out of making the bed by letting your cat hide under the covers.
Purchase some toys and let your Birman cat chase the toys around.
 This particular breed of cat loves attention from their humans. To make your Birman cat happy, you should show it affection regularly and love on the cat often.Pet your Birman cat and show it that you care. Let the cat sit on your lap and stroke its fur.
 As with most other cat breeds, Birman cats should be spayed or neutered to avoid unwanted pregnancies and kittens without a home. When your Birman cat is old enough – for Birmans this occurs quite late, at three years old – you should schedule an appointment with your veterinarian to get your cat spayed or neutered.Spaying and neutering is the responsible thing to do as a pet owner. This helps cut down on cat populations that can overwhelm an area.
You should only consider not spaying or neutering your Birman cat if you plan on breeding it.
 Birman cats are especially prone to developing periodontal disease, so it’s quite important to schedule regular cleanings with your veterinarian. This should happen once every six months or so, with more frequent cleanings if you notice signs of disease like bad breath or tartar buildup.You can also give your Birman kitty treats that encourage dental health – like hard chewing sticks.
 Birman cats are typically a healthy and hearty breed, but they still need regular vet visits to make sure they are in tip-top shape. Schedule an appointment with your veterinarian once every year.In addition to a general health checkup, the vet will give your Birman cat its annual vaccinations to prevent it from getting sick.
Be sure to follow your vet’s advice regarding the health and care of your Birman cat.

