 If your baby is used to a specific bedtime routine, then going through the routine may help.For example, if you usually read your baby a bedtime story at 7:30pm, then do that. If you normally turn on your baby’s mobile, then do that.;
, Doing your baby’s regular feeding or a short bedtime feeding may also help to soothe your baby to sleep. Try giving your baby a bottle or breast feeding your baby to see if that helps soothe your baby to sleep.


Unless your baby is still a newborn, avoid feeding your baby too close to bedtime all of the time. This can cause your baby to link feeding with sleeping, which may make your baby expect to be fed every time he/she wakes up in the night., A warm bath is a good addition to a regular bedtime routine for your baby.It may also help your overtired baby to calm down and relax.


Try giving your overtired baby a warm bath with some soothing lavender scented baby bath. Then dry him off and put on a fresh diaper and onesie.
 If your baby’s diaper is wet or messy, then that may be preventing him/her from getting comfortable for sleep. Try checking your baby’s diaper and change it if it is messy.


Do not change your baby’s diaper if it does not need to be changed because this may further irritate an overtired baby., The sound of your voice is comforting to your baby, so you may be able to use that to your advantage when trying to soothe an overtired baby. Try doing things like singing, shushing, and speaking softly to your baby to help him/her fall asleep.



Sing to your baby. Sing or hum a lullaby to help soothe your baby to sleep.

Try shushing. Shushing may mimic the sounds of the womb, which may help to comfort your baby. Try shushing using a heart-beat like rhythm such as “Shu-Shush...Shu-Shush...Shu-Shush.”

Speak softly to your baby. Talking to your baby in a soft, low voice may help him/her to fall asleep. Say comforting things to your baby, such as “Mommy loves you” and “Just relax. It’s time to go to sleep.”

Read a favorite bedtime story. Reading a favorite bedtime story to your baby may also help your baby fall asleep.
 Rocking your overtired baby in your arms is a good way to soothe him/her and help him/her fall asleep. You can rock your baby standing up or sitting in a rocking chair. If you have a glider chair, then sitting in the chair and gliding back and forth with your baby in your arms may help to soothe him/her to sleep.


Make sure that you put your baby to bed before he/she falls asleep in your arms. It is best to put your baby into bed when he/she is drowsy and calm, but not yet sleeping.
 A massage is often a great way to help an overtired baby relax and lavender is known for its soothing scent. Giving your overtired baby a massage may help your baby relax and fall asleep. It is also a great way to bond with your baby.To prepare for a baby massage, measure out about a tablespoon of a carrier oil, such as baby oil or castor oil, and add a drop of lavender essential oil. Stir the lavender into the carrier oil and then put about a teaspoon into the palm of your hand.
Then, warm up the oil in the palm of your hand and rub the oil on your baby’s back and shoulders. Use gentle circular strokes to help calm and soothe your baby to sleep.

