 The most important thing you can do for your skin at night is to wash it. Removing all of the dirt and makeup from your skin will allow it to regenerate and will prevent breakouts.Keep your face free of oil during the night by keeping your hair away from your skin. Wrapping it in a silk scarf will protect both your skin and your hair.
 Friction between your face and your pillowcase can cause wrinkles to develop, so try to sleep on your back.If there's just no way for you to stop sleeping on your side, try switching to a pillowcase made from silk or satin. These materials create less friction, so they reduce your risk of wrinkles.
It's also important to change your pillowcase every few days because the oils from your face can build up on it quickly.
 Some people's eyes tend to be puffy in the mornings, even if they've gotten a good night's sleep. This may be due to fluid accumulation, so prevent it by elevating your head slightly as you sleep. Two pillows should do the trick.
 Whether you're concerned about puffiness or dark circles under your eyes, allay them by applying a generous amount of eye cream before bed.
 For healthy looking skin with a dewy glow, be sure to apply a generous amount of moisturizer to your skin before bed. This is especially important in the winter.For facial moisturizing, be sure to use a product that won't clog your pores.If you have other skin concerns, such as dark spots or wrinkles, you can find night creams that are especially formulated to deal with them while also nourishing your skin with the moisture it needs.
To moisturize feet, apply a liberal amount of lotion or petroleum jelly, then cover your feet with plush socks.
 Supplement your moisturizing regimen by drinking plenty of water and using a humidifier in the dry winter months., For radiant, nourished skin, try sleeping with a homemade mask on your face. Keep in mind that this will most likely be messy, so you will probably want to put a towel over your pillow. There are countless recipes available online, and some of the common ingredients include the following:Olive oil
Tea
Oatmeal
Honey
Brown sugar
Lemon juice
Avocado
Essential oils

, If you have acne-prone skin, fight off the bacteria that cause blemishes with a nightly application of an acne cream that contains salicylic acid.


For stubborn blemishes, try applying a clay mask before bed.
For a more natural treatment, try applying a mixture of cinnamon and honey to your face before bed.