 If you wish for a simple way to add more of a Harry Potter feel to your party, filling the air with the proper sounds can be effective. Try purchasing the movie soundtracks on the internet or in your local music store. In a pinch, play the movies on a low volume on the television.


There are plenty of craft ideas on Youtube.
The music soundtracks can be a good way to set the mood. The Harry Potter soundtracks are great and really put you the right mood for wizarding fun.
Wizard Rock can also be great background music. Wizard Rock bands include: Draco and the Malfoys, Harry and the Potters, The Parselmouths, Ministry of Magic, The Mudbloods, The Butterbeer Experience, and The Remus Lupins.
 If the weather allows, plan a muggle quidditch tournament. You can also have a prize for the winning house.


You'll want to have rules readily available for the players. Even if they don't know all the rules to Quidditch at first, you should be able to teach them pretty quickly. Since your guests obviously can't fly, you'll want to adjust the game for muggles and have the appropriate equipment. People can run with a broom between their legs while chasing someone designated as a "snitch" with a tennis ball., If you scan the internet looking for news on the Harry Potter, you will likely find that the internet is filled with Harry Potter trivia games. You can use these questions or make your own to create a Harry Potter trivia tournament.


Be sure to offer prizes such as Harry Potter bookmarks or pencils to the winners. You can even tailor well-known party games such as hangman, Pictionary, or charades to fit your Potter theme.
Another idea would be to hold a contest to see shows up in the best costume. They can also win a prize that is Harry Potter themed.
Be sure to start planning plenty of time in advance in order to create special events such as a trivia tournament.
 This way people can search through them and talk about their favorite parts. You can also use them as references to check for correct answers during trivia games.


You can consider offering a reading from the Potter books at different points throughout the night. Comb through the books for passages that would be great to introduce the various foods, decorations, and games that you bring out.
Since it's a party, only leave out Harry Potter books that you don't mind getting dirty. The books are quite popular, so it may be a good idea to find used copies at a second-hand store.
 Harry Potter is fun of magic, but you can try to recreate some of its magic through science experiments. Kids will be amazed and interested at how the magic of Harry Potter can be recreated.You can make a crystal ball using dry ice to "tell the future" for kids. The crystal ball will look cool and kids will be fascinated at your powers.A magic class can also be fun for kids. You can use water gel and three cup monte as a way to show kids how the properties of water can be magical.
 Magical creatures are a big party of the Harry Potter world. Including them in your Harry Potter party for kids can be great fun.


You can have a scavenger hunt for kids where they track down rubber snakes and spiders and put them back in their cages. If you make it a race, kids will have a great time trying to be first to finish the scavenger hunt.
Kids can also be put into teams to complete the scavenger hunt. This may be a better idea if you have fewer magical creatures or not a lot of space at your party.

