 Wherever you're going, it helps children to know how they're expected to behave, especially in public. Set some ground rules that you hold them to always, including at the supermarket. Be understanding and reasonably flexible, but don't allow bad behavior to become an exception or habit.;
, Tell them that you will be going on a trip to the supermarket, and you expect them to be on their best behavior.
 This is important too, because the child shouldn't have to be surprised an hour later when you say: "It's time to go to the supermarket!" If you can, inform them the day before so they'll know about it well in advance.


Since young children don't have a great sense of time, make sure you give them both a warning early in the day and a five or ten minute heads-up before it's time to leave. That way, they won't be surprised in the middle of something they were doing and won't unexpectedly have to interrupt a game, TV show, or other activity.
 Tell them that they need to be on their best behavior and reiterate any ground rules, like "Ask before taking any items off the shelf" and "Speak without shouting."

, It's okay if they are a few feet in front of you where you can still see them, but they shouldn't be in the next aisle over running around. If they get too far ahead of you, tell them: "___(your child's name), come back here please!" If they do not come back, catch up to them, and hold their hand.
 Keeping them busy with jobs to do is the best way to engage your child and prevent bad behavior. You can allow them to grab things that are on your list and put them in the cart for you.
 Realize that if you sometimes do buy your children snacks or treats at the market, they may want them next time, too. It's perfectly okay for them to request something (after all, they're unlikely to be able to buy it themselves). But if you feel like the requests are constant/unreasonable, or if they don't accept it when you say no, then set some rules. Maybe they can have one small treat once a week, or maybe they can only have a treat when they've earned it as a reward. Whatever rules you set are fine, but just stay consistent with them.
 Tell your child "I'm sorry, we can't get that today." Your child may be upset, but if you're consistent to the expectations you've already set, they'll learn that you mean what you say.
 If you still need an item that is in this aisle, grab it and then leave the aisle. This will eliminate the distraction of the item, and help them move on to the next task without prolonging their frustration.
 Acknowledge that they are upset, but tell them that they need to calm down. Speak in a low tone of voice. Let them know that it's okay to be upset; tell them you'd be upset, too, but that they can't throw a tantrum in public. Work on ways to handle tantrums if this becomes a problem.

