 Medicines like aspirin, Aleve (naproxen sodium), Advil or Motrin (both ibuprofen) will reduce inflammation and pain. They will also help provide relief if you have a fever accompanying your sore throat.WARNING: Do not give aspirin to children. It can cause Reye syndrome – sudden brain damage and liver problems – in children with chicken pox or the flu.;
, Acetaminophen will not reduce inflammation, but it can help to reduce the pain associated with sore tonsils. Adults should not take more than 3 grams of acetaminophen a day. See the packaging or talk to your child's doctor for safe amounts for children., Even if you don’t have a cough, these syrups will coat your throat and contain soothing pain relievers.If you don’t want to use a cough syrup, honey will also coat your throat and provide relief.
 There are a wide variety of over-the-counter antihistamines – drugs that reduce allergic symptoms by blocking histamine receptors. If your sore tonsils are due to post-nasal drip from allergies, an antihistamine may cure your symptoms., The streptococcus (bacterial infection) is the cause of approximately 5% to 15% of sore throats in adults and is more common in children 5 to 15. It may be accompanied by a runny nose, but unlike a cold, also results in severe throat pain with enlarged tonsils, often with exudate (pus), swollen glands in the neck, headache, and fever (over 100.4 degrees F). Your doctor will diagnose strep throat with a throat swab. With antibiotics, you will feel better within a couple of days.Always finish all your antibiotics, even if you feel better before they are done. Taking the full course of will kill all of the bacteria and prevent it from developing resistance to the antibiotic.
 Keeping yourself hydrated helps to fight disease. It will also help to keep your throat moist, reducing pain.Do not drink alcohol, coffee and caffeinated soda, all of which can make dehydration worse., Dissolve a ½ teaspoon of salt in 1 cup of warm water.Gargling several times a day has been shown to reduce swelling and remove irritants, including bacteria.


Add a ½ teaspoon of baking soda to help fight bacteria., Sucking on candies produces saliva, which keeps the throat moist.Anti-inflammatory lozenges and sprays should be used sparingly, for while they may dull throat pain temporarily, excessive use can make your sore throat worse.Do not give hard candies to children, as they may choke on them.Try popsicles or cold drinks instead., Honey will coat and soothe your throat, and it also contains anti-bacterial agents. Also consider adding it to warm drinks to improve their flavor and efficacy.Warning: Do not give honey to children under 1 year of age, as it can contain spores that result in infant botulism, a life-threatening disease., Lemon tea or tea with honey can help to soothe your throat.In addition, you might want to try one of these warm drinks:


Chamomile Tea – Chamomile contains anti-bacterial agents and natural pain-killers that will soothe your throat.Apple Cider Vinegar – The vinegar helps to kill germs and soothes the throat. Mix 1 tablespoon with 1 tablespoon of honey and a cup of warm water. It has a strong flavor, so gargle and spit if you don’t wish to swallow it.Steeped Marshmallow Root, Licorice Root, or Elm Bark – These substances are all demulcents, agents that relieve inflammation of mucus membranes like the tonsils by help to coating them with a protective film.You can buy teas with these ingredients or make your own. Pour 1 cup of boiling water over 1 tablespoon of dried root or bark and let it steep for 30 to 60 minutes. Strain and drink.Ginger – Ginger contains anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial agents. Start with a 2-inch piece of ginger root. Peel it, cut it into small pieces, and crush it. Add the crushed ginger to 2 cups of boiling water and boil for 3-5 minutes. Drink when cool enough., The sodium has anti-inflammatory properties. Chicken soup is also a good source of nutrients, which will help you fight off the disease causing your sore tonsils., You need nutrients to fight disease, and if you’re throat hurts to much to eat, ice cream is one solution. It’s easy to swallow, and the cold will soothe your throat., Garlic contains allicin, a compound that kills bacteria and also has anti-viral properties.So while sucking on it won’t do any favors for your breath, it can destroy the germs that are causing your sore throat.
 Cloves contain eugenol, a natural painkiller and anti-bacterial agent. Put one or more cloves in your mouth, suck on them until they are soft, and then chew like gum. Cloves are safe to swallow., Few remedies are more effective than resting in order to allow your body to recover. Not getting enough sleep, or continuing to work or go to school while sick can make your illness worse., This will help to moisten and soothe your throat. It will also thin any mucus that may be causing discomfort., Run the shower to steam up your bathroom and sit in the steam for 5 to 10 minutes. The warm, moist air will help to soothe your throat.
 Contact your doctor earlier if you or your child have swollen glands, a fever (above 100.4 degrees F), and severe throat painor if you have been around someone with strep throat and have a sore throat.


Consult your doctor if you have strep throat and are getting worse or not better after 2 days of antibiotics or if you have new symptoms such as a rash, swollen joints, decreased or dark colored urine, or chest pain or trouble breathing.
 Children with large tonsils are more prone to sore throats and ear infections. If your child has frequent tonsil infections – 7 or more times in 1 year, or 5 or more times over 2 years – you should talk to your doctor about a possible tonsillectomy – a low-risk, out-patient procedure to remove the tonsils.