 Difficult customers don't expect perfection but want to know that their problems are being taken seriously. Be attentive and listen calmly and completely to the customer's problem. Maintain eye contact, and don't smile or grimace. Nod when the customer makes a point you find valid., Most bad customer interactions escalate because the customer feels like you're not making an effort to understand his or her concerns. Communicating that you empathize with the customer can set the tone for the interaction as a whole, and establish you as an ally who wants to fix the problem.Say "I understand completely, and I'm so sorry you've been upset. Let's find a way to work this out." Saying "let's" casts you and the customer as a team working together to find a solution.
If the customer reiterates the complaint, turn up the empathy another notch. Respond with something like, "That sounds incredibly frustrating" or "I'd feel exactly the same way in your shoes."
Keep in mind that empathizing doesn't necessarily mean giving the customer whatever he or she wants. Instead of it being the customer versus you and the company, it's you and the customer versus the company.
 Imagining that an audience is observing the interaction can help you to stay calm. You never want customers to see you behaving badly.Assume that the customer is going to tell other people about the interaction they had with you.Your dealings with customers should never hurt your company, but be an example of the quality service that your company provides.
 Emotions are infectious. Lowering your tone and speaking slowly will demonstrate that you are in control and calm. This is especially important if the customer is very angry and talking loudly. You do not want to do anything to aggravate the situation., An apology is within every employee's capacity, no matter what his or her role in the company is. Look the customer right in the eyes and make sure your expression and tone of voice are sincere. Say that, on behalf of the company, you're sorry the customer wasn't satisfied and that you want to do whatever you can to help.Never be patronizing. Avoid apologizing in a way that seems like you're belittling the customer. A good rule is to apologize for your own actions and the actions of your company, never for the way your customer feels or is acting. For instance, instead of saying, "I'm sorry you feel that way, but I can't offer you a refund." Try saying, "I'm sorry we can't satisfy you with a refund. Is there anything else we can do for you?"

, The customer might ask you to do this anyway, but even if he or she doesn't, it's a good idea. Your supervisor has more authority to resolve issued with the customer, whether that means a discount, comped merchandise, or some other concession. Additionally, it transfers the responsibility of pleasing the customer to someone who's higher up the chain of command than you are, which customers can find reassuring.


If you need to keep the customer waiting while you fetch your supervisor, provide them with somewhere comfortable to wait. If you're authorized to offer refreshments such as water, then offer it. Being treated kindly may calm down a customer.
 Offering a solution or a promise that you cannot follow through with is one of the worse things you can do. This will make the customer more frustrated. If you are unsure about something, ask your supervisor. Do not make a rash decision under pressure.You can always tell the customer, "That may be possible, let me check with someone."

, Even if you addressed the problem exactly as the customer wanted and he or she is still mad, try not to let him or her leave in a huff. Instead, express gratitude for his or her patience, and promise you'll do everything possible to make sure the next experience goes smoothly. For example, you might say, "Thanks so much for being patient while we sorted this issue out. I'd be more than happy to personally oversee your transaction next time you're here so that I can ensure it goes smoothly - please don't hesitate to ask for me."


If you were unable to satisfy your customer, still try to generate a positive memory a he or she leaves by being kind and professional. The customer may leave thinking, "Well, they couldn't help me, but at least that salesperson was really nice."

, If the customer is engaged in violent behavior or shows no signs of calming down, call store or mall security or emergency services and ask the police to resolve it. If your customer is making a scene, verbally abusing you or other employees, or being physically intimidating, you have gone as far as you should, both for your sake, and for the sake of your other customers.


If a customer is drunk or under the influence of drugs, don't waste time trying to reason; call security immediately for the sake of everyone's safety and well-being.
 Be prepared to satisfy the customer even if you believe that he or she is wrong. You may have to humble yourself before the customer or apologize for something that you don't think is a big deal. Never be too proud to do your best to satisfy a difficult customer.


Think of the old retail stand-by, "The customer is always right." This doesn't mean that, objectively speaking, the customer's complaint is just and correct. Handling the interaction with a positive spin that satisfies the customer isn't meant to humiliate you as an employee, it's meant to maintain that customer's patronage.
 Keep in mind that a happy customer means better business. A satisfied customer might spread the word about having a good experience, but an unsatisfied one will almost certainly complain to other people. This means less money and less business for your company. As you attempt to cool your customers' nerves, think of your interaction as an opportunity to save future business that might otherwise be lost.
 Remember that whatever is happening has no bearing on who you are as a person. Complaints from customers shouldn't be taken as personal insults, even if the customer insults you as a person. Put aside pride and the desire to put your ego before the customer's experience. While it is tempting to convince the customer that you are right and they are wrong, resist this temptation.Difficult customers are a natural part of working in customer service. Think of these situations as a regular part of your job.