 You can get Key Fragments by hunting Guild Eidolon spawn during certain times. Every day, the Guild summons different kinds of Eidolons that players can kill. All who inflict damage on the boss will be given a reward, or if you're using a support character, being in a party will give you the same chance.



Eidolon Guild Spawns

Eidolon
Time (EST)
Notes


Kotonoha
Monday - 12PM, 5PM, and 10PM
Kotonoha wields powerful esoteric spells with ease, can recover your health, and will enable you to move faster. Quite ideal for Muses and Wizards.


Quelkulan
Tuesday - 1AM, 3PM, and 8PM
An electric element, Quelkulan too can recover allies’ health and remove negative statuses.


Aelius
Tuesday - 12PM, 5PM, and 10PM
Aelius is a Knight of the Sun, wielding fire property. He can help increase your defense, evasion, and accuracy.


Bel-Chandra
Wednesday - 12PM, 5PM, and 10PM
Bel-Chandra is proficient in all the dances, an Empress of Torment who wields electric property. Bel-Chandra increases the party's crit rate and crit damage. She also decreases the enemy's evasion.


Yarnaros
Thursday - 1AM, 3PM, and 8PM
Yarnaros wields the storm property. His attack skills cause devastating storm damage that may stun the enemy.


Gigas
Thursday - 12PM, 5PM, and 10PM
Gigas' skill attack may decrease the enemy's attack speed and accuracy. One of his skills inflicts lightning damage that stuns enemies.


Bahadur
Friday - 1AM, 3PM, and 8PM
Bahadur wields fire property. He increases your speed and critical chance.


Sigrun
Friday - 12PM, 5PM, and 10PM
An ice element, Sigrun can recover your health and stun enemies.


Tigerius
Saturday - 1AM, 3PM, and 8PM
Tigerus is an electric, or lightning, wielder. This Eidolon is good for Bards and tanks for luring because of the added speed.


Uzuriel
Saturday - 12PM, 5PM, and 10PM
Uzuriel wields the storm property and has skills that can decrease the enemy's defense and their evasion ability.


Vayu
Sunday - 1AM, 3PM, and 8PM
Wielding light property, Vayu is usually teamed up with tanks, such as Guardians or Berserkers. This is not a good Eidolon for Bards.


Eligos
Sunday - 12PM, 5PM, and 10PM
Eligos wields dark property. He inflects damage over time, boosts your Crit rate, and also increases your damage. His AoE ultimate is good for dungeon runs.


To get inside a Guild Hall, you need to be in a high level Guild.
Remember, every Eidolon gives buffs or added damage depending on the job class of their owner.
 On every map, there are a couple of mini-bosses you can kill. Upon killing them, you will be able to pick up an urn to be brought back to the town. Trade it with the guard for a bounty box. Each box may contain Eidolon Key Fragments at random, but the chances are quite slim.


To hunt a mini-boss, just check your map and look for any mini-boss icon, indicating its location.
Take note that mini-bosses spawn at different times but in the same place.
 Skandia can be entered when you reach level 50. Access portal for this dungeon is in Cacaktara map. Eidolons randomly appear in this dungeon. Defeating appeared eidolons can drop eidolons fragments or keys sometimes. Whenever you clear Skandia, you will be rewarded with Loyalty Points.


Loyalty Points can be used to buy Eidolon key fragments in Item Mall although they're quite expensive, ranging from 500 to 2,600 Loyalty Points per key fragment, depending on the Eidolon's level.
In this dungeon, random Eidolon may spawn. You can kill Eidolon spawns for randomly dropped Eidolon Keys and Fragments; however, Eidolons spawning in Skandia is rare.

