 In order for someone to believe that you truly hold these skills and abilities, it is important for you to act confident. If you believe in your abilities, others will believe in them too!


Being confident is not just about the ability to list off all of your skills, it's about expressing them in a way that is believable. Be enthusiastic and use a positive tone of voice.
Confidence can also be expressed by engaging in eye contact, wearing a smile and having good posture (standing or sitting up straight).
 When you want to showcase your skills it is not enough to just tell the person that you have a particular skill. You must provide an example that proves your claim.


For example, you easily tell someone that you have good negotiation skills, but how does your interviewer know that you really have the level of negotiation skills they are looking for? Providing an example will help you to showcase your negotiation skills in a way they can remember.
For example, try to recall one of your negotiations that created top results. Something like “I was able to successfully negotiate a $1.2million deal with a new customer”.
 If the work you produce is of a visual nature, such as an advertiser or graphic designer, it is important to have a portfolio available for others to view. You can create a portfolio using either a good old fashioned binder, a web page, a CD or an e-folio. Whichever method you choose, be sure to include the following (as long as it is relevant to being successful in that particular job):


Work samples (should be the largest section of your portfolio)
Diplomas
Certificates
Press releases
Reviews
Letters of recommendation

, When speaking with someone face to face, over the phone or via the internet, it is important to demonstrate the soft skills you claim to possess. Again, it is not enough to say you have these skills - you have to show them you do.


For example, if you claim to have great communication skills, every interaction you have with people should illustrate this skill. Speaking clearly, holding engaging conversations and writing effective sentences leaves little room for interpretation, allowing you to effectively express your claim of having great communication skills.
In doing this, you can ensure that you are putting your best foot forward and demonstrating your claims in a concrete manner.

