 Microneedling is not a cheap procedure and is not covered under insurance. You will need to undergo multiple sessions, along with buying products to help post-treatment.


Some places charge per facial zone. For example, you may be charged $100 per facial zone. Other places may charge based on the area, for example $90 for one scar, or $150 for eyes.
A few places provide deals where you get a free zone if you purchase multiple zones.Some places will give discounts if you do combined packages, such as face and neck, or face, neck, and hands.
Other places charge $100-$300 per treatment, depending on the area.Neck CIT can from $150 to $250.
Before you get the treatment, schedule a consultation to discuss what areas you would like and the overall price for the entire procedure, including follow up visits and any post-care products.;
, Before you undergo CIT, you should discuss it with your dermatologist or other medical professional. Determine why you want this procedure and if the procedure will yield the results you want.Discussing the treatment with a practitioner can help determine you are suitable for treatment.
This discussion also allows you to ask any questions to make sure you are knowledgeable about the procedure., CIT is available through spas or at-home treatments, but these can cause scarring and damage. You should always get CIT at places with medical professionals since the procedure breaks your skin.The inexpensive rollers or needle devices used at spas or sold for at-home treatment can have needles with poor quality. They are also shorter than ones used by professionals, so they can be less effective.
CIT should be done so that the needles are inserted into your skin at a 90 degree angle. This reduces the risk of scarring and trauma. Inexpensive devices are not generally angled properly or can get bent, which may cause scarring.
 Many places will take a before photo prior to your first treatment. Then, after a month or more, they will take an after photograph.These photographs are used to show a comparison of your skin pre and post treatment.

