 Avoid cutting them back until they are completely withered. This will usually take about six weeks. Even though it might look scraggly, the foliage collects the sun's energy through photosynthesis and pumps it down into the bulb so it can grow next year. If you want, you can cut the spent flower early, but be sure to leave the stem intact.;
, If you’re going to leave them in the ground, that’s all you need to do. Normal watering of the garden and winter rains will not bring them up to bud until they are “ready”. That’s it. If your preference is to bring them up for over-summer storage, proceed to the next step.
 Try to bring the bulb up with one clean spade full of soil and the bulb. Use care not to damage the bulb. Handle them gently, because bruising them will cause them to rot.
 Any bulbs that are clumped together will probably separate on their own as you brush off the dirt. Leave the ones that are firmly attached to the mother bulb as is. Remove any “caked-on” moist soil that is clinging to the bulb.
 Discard bulbs that do not appear to be healthy.
 Then, with a brush or a towel or rag, remove any additional clinging soil.
 A mesh onion bag or the leg cut from a pair of pantyhose or nylon stocking works very well. Inexpensive tulle from a fabric store can be used to fashion a bag, too. Close up the opening of the bag with twine or string, leaving enough excess to form a loop for hanging. You can also rest them on an old window screen set on two boxes or sawhorses so that air can flow underneath them.
 Far corners (away from the door) of the garage are fine, but avoid placing the bag near a water heater or laundry appliances. Generally, a shady spot with good air circulation is good.
 If you're using a bag and you've hung it indoors, you can simply leave them alone until you’re ready to do Autumn planting. If you used a window screen or if you left your bulbs outside, bring them in and put them in a paper bag for storage in a dark, cool, well-ventilated spot.
 Look for any signs of rot or mildew and discard them if they do not appear healthy. Plant the remaining bulbs and wait for them to bloom in the Spring!

