 Engagement stones come in a variety of different colors. Ask them, or take notice of their favorite colors and choose a ring that reflects it. Take notice of the current color of their jewelry and base your decision on that. Conventional rings are usually transparent, so consider getting a different color for your ring.


If your fiance doesn't wear jewelry you can ask them, "What colors do you like for your jewelry?"
Stones like emeralds and turquoise are usually green, rubies and garnets are red, and topaz are clear, blue, orange, red, green and pink.;
, Diamonds are the most traditional gemstone that you can use for your engagement ring. Luckily, there are a variety of other gemstones that you can buy that can replace the conventional diamond. Sapphires are an unconventional gemstone that you can use and come in blue, yellow, pink, and a variety of other colors. Sapphires are also among the hardest gemstones, which makes them more durable than other stones.Other options include morganite, emerald, turquoise, and Tanzanite., Examine the jewelry that they usually wear and try to choose a gemstone that matches their natural aesthetic. For instance, do they usually wear gaudy or loud jewelry, or is their style more subdued or muted? If the person you're getting the ring for enjoys earthy tones, a gemstone like a sunstone or labradorite may be good options for you.
 Different gemstones will have different natural cuts. For instance, you can get more traditionally cut stones with precious stones like rubies, diamonds, emeralds, and topaz, while you'll be limited in shape if you choose stones like pearls or turquoise.When purchasing an unconventional stone, expect the shape and size to also be unconventional.


Round diamonds are the most traditional, so consider getting a different cut of stone.
Other diamond cuts include princess, Asscher cut, oval, radiant, and heart., Search different antique shops for vintage rings or look at antique collections online. Figure out whether the ring will be used daily or whether it'll only be worn on special occasions. Find a durable ring if it's going to be worn regularly. Rings that have large stones or elaborate diamonds are more likely to be damaged over time. Examine the stone size and overall quality of the piece and choose one that embodies your partner's personality.


When purchasing an expensive antique ring, it may be useful to get it appraised at different jewelry shops.

