 Often, the best sources for plants are well-respected local nurseries. These nurseries will often have experts who can answer any questions you have. Ask around to find the best nurseries in your area.Home improvement stores and other big chains often focus on just providing the cheapest price. Sometimes their quality can be hit-or-miss.;
, Another good option is ordering a mint plant through the mail. You can still get high-quality plants, and you'll have a larger selection of varieties., Mint is easy to grow from a cutting even without roots. When you purchase mint, leave a cutting in a glass of water. Make sure it gets some sun, and it will grow roots. You can then plant it., Mint grows well from a cutting, so if you know someone who has a mint plant, you can simply ask for one. Most gardeners are more than happy to part with a cutting, as mint needs to be thinned often. Plant root cuttings in the soil, just as you would a regular plant., You have many options when it comes to mint varieties. Some unusual varieties include ginger mint, chocolate mint, and apple mint. Choose what you want based on the flavor or look you're wanting.Take a sniff of each plant to see which is most appealing to you.
 A healthy plant will be bright green. It will also have full, leafy growth. New growth is also a good sign. The mint should look and feel sturdy., Most reputable dealers should weed plants with rust out. However, you should still be on the lookout. Rust will show up as blisters on the leaves, as well as black, yellow, and orange spots on the leaves. The stems may might not look as green as they should, and they may be deformed., You don't want to buy a plant that's infested with pests, as they could kill your plant. Mint is susceptible to spider mites, flea beetles, and root weevils, to name a few. Check the leaves, stem, and soil to see if you notice an infestation.Also, if you run your hand over the plant, notice if small flying insects appear, which is another bad sign., You can plant mint in the ground, but it is very aggressive. It can take over other parts of your garden. A pot helps keep the mint contained. However, make sure you buy a pot that gives your mint room to grow.You only need a single plant in your pot, as it will spread out a good deal., When choosing a location, pick one with the most sun you can find. Of course, you'll need to make sure the soil doesn't dry out. However, partial shade is also suitable for growing mint., When choosing a potting soil, look for one that has pH between 6 and 7, which mint likes best. However, mint is not too particular, and it will grow in many soils. Also, add a bit of mulch on top, which will help create a moist soil that mint loves.