 Once developed, you can start connecting with other Google+ members. This will expand your connections, which means more people will see updates to your blog posts, with a potential for them to visit and read them. Search for the people you know on Google+ and connect with them to strengthen your circles. As you spend time on blogging sites and social web destinations, you can search for more links to connect with more people over Google+.;
, Though it may sound similar, this is not the same as developing connections. Building multiple circles means making one circle for each category. Add people to your circles based on their interests and which blogs they are reading.


For example, you can create a circle for your blog post readers, a circle for blog post sources, and one for people who bring in conversions for your website. Maybe make another for people who publicize your blog posts on other popular social networking platforms.
 This is the next important step for using Google+ to convince readers that it's worth their time to visit your website. Connect your Google+ business page with your home page. This connection will serve as another gateway for sending potential readers to your blog posts. Display your own picture next to your blog links. Include a Wikipedia-style listing in Google search results each time a user searches for your name.
 This is key! If you don't have good content, it won't matter what else you do, because no one will be interested in what you have to say. Search engine optimization does not mean to just keep on publishing links of your blog posts over your Google+ page, because people will see that the content never changes, and will start to ignore you, even it you do add new content. They will see it as boring and you will end up with no significant readership on your website. Remember, you are promoting yourself. For a powerful result from Google+, you must keep your content update interesting, engaging and meaningful for your audience. Adding new blog posts will motivate people to continue reading your blogs, thus directing the readers from your Google+ account to your website.
 Creating sparks does not mean just highlighting your content. You create sparks by tracking keywords in your blog post that are related to the topic of your blog post. Share your blog posts using the appropriate Google+ circle. Your audience will enjoy reading your new blog posts of interest to them. This will help you to expand your Google+ circle because more people will begin to follow your updates. Ultimately, you will get what you want because more connections means more visitors on your website.
 Hosting hangouts over Google+ will help promote your business branding, as you can use it to give a small webinar or tutorial. If you choose to conduct the hangout on air, then Google+ will concurrently stream your hangout here as well as on YouTube, record the video, and then send you email with the the video as an attachment. You can obtain a great SEO tool by uploading the hangout video to your YouTube account. Also include the link to your blog post, along with a short keyword enriched description. This SEO tool can direct more readers to your website, which could result in future sales if you are selling items or services as well.
 The cross platform approach involves interconnecting multiple platforms. With Google+, you can use the cross platform technique to expand your range of users on the Internet. You can use the social media icons such as Twitter, Facebook social plugins, Pinterest widgets, and so on, as an integrated blog marketing effort. Using these widgets helps the cross platform promotion of your content among your readers. As well as using the cross platform approach, you can host a Google+ huddle, which is a text chat between the Google+ members. By promoting this huddle on your blog post as a question and answer session (Q&A session) between the members, you can attract more people to come to your blog post to express their views.
 If you want to get lots of followers and +1's on Google+, ensure that your Google+ buttons and +1 buttons are prominently displayed on every page of your website.

