 The practice of meditation focuses on emptying your mind of thought. It’s a great tool for stress relief and isn’t hard to lean. It can be as simple as finding a quiet spot to sit quietly and collect one's thoughts.


Pick a comfortable and relatively quiet, but not necessarily silent, spot to meditate. It can be outside as well.
Do some light stretching and get in a comfortable sitting position.
Close your eyes, and focus on your breathing. Don't try to make each breath equal, just be aware of it.
Repeat a mantra, or focus on a mental image like a flower opening and closing in time with your breath.
You can set a timer to know when to finish, or follow an online, timed meditation guide.
 For some people, this is the ultimate way to relieve stress. A professional massage in a peaceful setting can soothe your physical aches, as well as calm your thoughts. Check out local massage places to see if they offer exam time discounts, or general discounts to college students. Alternatively, get together with a few friends and trade massages with each other to save money as well get some human bonding.
 There’s few things more relaxing than having a good soak in the bathtub. Mental stress can be internalized into the body, leading to stiff and sore muscles. Getting squeaky clean will not only give you a break from stressing over finals, but will relax your muscles that may have been stiffened by sitting at a desk all day.
 Sometimes you just need a human connection and some empathy. Meet a friend in person, or call them over the phone or Skype. Tell and listen to stories, laugh, and enjoy some conversation. This should put you in a better mood and energize you.
 Similar to meditation, do a simple breathing exercise in a moment of high stress. One way is to spend ten seconds breathing in, ten seconds holding the breath, and then ten seconds breathing out. Do this cycle several times and you should find yourself a little less stressed than before.
 It doesn't have to be masterful. Doodle some geometric shapes or figures. Make a sketch of the scene directly in front of you. Do a still-life by arranging a few objects and then drawing them. This will help take the focus off your stress, and you'll end up with a piece that you might love!

