 It may be tempting to start building right away, but give yourself ten to fifteen seconds to think out your build. Decide on what you are going to build and how you are going to do that.
 Scale is one of the most important things - too small, and you won't be able to put much detail into it, but if it's too big, you might not be able to finish your build in time., This is very cliché and super cheesy, but it is very important. When the theme has a double meaning, e.g. 'keyboard', choose the less obvious. People will be pleasantly surprised, that is, when the build itself also looks good. When the theme is 'bed', many people will make something that looks like an ordinary Minecraft bed. This is good, but you need to add that one extra detail to get the best score. Add a side-table, put a book half-hidden under the bed, go crazy.

Try to think outside of the box and build something which other players are likely to not build. However, make sure you still stick to the theme!

, If we take the example of the bed again, when you make the duvet red, that's good, but you can also colour it green, blue, or any other colour you like. This is a small change, but it will have a big impact on your scores. Material, on the other hand, adds texture. A good rule is as in real life, as in Minecraft. This means that you would make something wood, like the frame of your bed, out of wood. Of course, you will need to use some blocks in a different manner - cobblestone walls make nice walls, but when stacked on top of each other, they make pretty decent lanterns., This process is different depending on the theme but basically put in the structure without adding in details. Don't build it too big as it can be hard to finish within the time allocated (usually 5 minutes).Many players find animal related themes difficult to build. This step is crucial for convincing animals. Try to simplify the shape to a series of boxes and work from there. In a typical 5 minute game, this step should be complete before 3 minutes into the game., When you're building a bed, you don't want an earth floor. Change it to wooden planks or dyed clay. When you're building a beach, you can save a lot of time by setting the bottom layer to either sand or water.

Refer to the server's instructions on how to do this, as this differs from server to server.
 This also greatly determines the general atmosphere. A beach needs sun, an autumn scene needs rain, and a snowman of course needs snow.

Refer to the server's instructions on how to do this, as this differs from server to server.
 This also depends on the size and theme of your build, but starting in the middle is a safe move - you don't want to end up against the wall with your build., No matter what you're building, it's going to have some sort of base. Start with this and build the build around it., Due to the time limit, you should first have a decent build before moving on to the finer work - you don't want half a pool, even when it's nicely decorated., Your build might look nice from the front, but the back may look hideous. Make sure your build looks nice from each angle., When something doesn't look right, remove it and re-build it. When you don't have enough time, let it be for what is and move on to the next part., For example, on an animal, here is where you would add in the eyes and facial features. You can also use stairs and slabs for further refinement, as well as smaller blocks like fences, buttons, and the like., Some servers have peepholes in the walls, so you can look at your neighbour's build. When you see it's similar to yours, put in some extra effort to make it look unique., When you feel you're running out of time, either build 'rougher' (less details and effort), scale things down a bit, or keep going and hope for the best.

Once you have finished your build, in whatever time you have left try to integrate the build into the surroundings. This can be done using particle effects, changing the time and ground material, or growing grass and flowers, depending on your build. For example, if you build a house, you might integrate it by building a path leading up to it with a small garden or pond.
 Another cliché, but very important thing. You will get better over time, as you practice and look at other builds and techniques., When other people have to vote and see 'Vote this legendary!!', they will tend to do the exact opposite. Leave out signs like 'iiwHloverii was here xx', as people will get distracted, and it looks very unprofessional.

If you really want some kind of signature, use one of the following commands for the skull you have at the moment (the skull from your skin, what your head looks like). Replace Username with your own username.

/give @p skull 1 3 {SkullOwner:"Username"}
/skull Username



, When someone didn't build anything, or when the build looks awful, sure, give it a low score. But when you see people put a lot of effort into it, and when the build looks nice, give them a higher score. Vote on others as you would want others to vote on you - but that does not mean you should give everyone the highest score possible., Say gl hf (good luck, have fun) before the game and gg (good game) after the battle to encourage others., When you lose, accept it. Don't trace those who gave you a bad score and annoy them. When you win, congratulations! You can tell other people you won the game, but that's how far it goes. Don't go around bragging to others, as this is generally not appreciated.