 The function could include swimming, sailing, walking, running, hiking or golf.


Waterproof shoes for swimming are often made with mesh, rubber and other materials that allow water to flow through them. They give you stability to stand on rocks in a riverbed or walk across a swimming pool.
Waterproof golf shoes are created for extremely wet golf conditions. They have the spikes of non-waterproof golf shoes and they are made to fit you more tightly in the middle to help with stability while you swing. Waterproof versions tend to cost more because they are usually made with breathable leather uppers so your feet don't get too wet during a long game.
Waterproof walking shoes offer cushioning for the ball of the foot because of the emphasis placed there during walking.
Waterproof running shoes are very lightweight. They offer more cushioning in the heel than walking shoes do, since there is more impact on the body when you run. If you plan to do trail-running, then look for shoes with gripping soles and waterproof uppers - a mix between a hiking shoe and a running shoe.
Waterproof hiking shoes are made in a similar way as hiking boots, but they are not created for heavy backpacking and they have limited support on the ankles. Many of these hiking shoes are made with Gore-Tex material and lining that wicks sweat and moisture away from you. Gore-Tex fabric goes through a similar process as Teflon to make it waterproof. Then, they are made with mesh or leather uppers to keep water out.
Waterproof sailing shoes have an extra grip on the bottom for stability on a boat; however, the grip will not put marks on the boat. They often are treated to withstand salt water, which can eat away at normal shoes. They also allow water to flow through the shoe without having to take them off.;
, Some people in hot climates or people who do strenuous activities prefer to go without a waterproof lining to increase breath-ability and the drying time of the shoe once it gets wet. A Gore-Tex lining is apt to wick away water, but may be more expensive.
 You cannot tell by simply looking if a shoe will fit your foot shape or size.


Hold the shoe with 1 hand and bend the toe up with the other hand. If the shoe does not bend at the ball of the foot, then put it back because it will be uncomfortable when walking. The ball of the foot is the soft, meaty spot before your toes.






Twist the shoe. Unless you are choosing swimming shoes, there should be some resistance when you try to turn it.
, If the shoes do not fit snugly, then put them back.



Walk uphill in the shoes on a slope or stairs. If your heel lifts more than a very small amount off the heel when you pick your feet up, then there will be too much movement, which will cause blisters.
Walk downhill. If your toes touch the end of the shoe, then try another size or move on to the next shoe.
 Some shoes, especially those made with leather, have a 2 year warranty.
 The upside of this is that you may get a better price on the Internet. The downside is that it may take a while to find or you might have to wait for a sale.
 Most waterproof shoes are featured at full-price before and during the summer because people are engaged in outdoor activities. If you can wait, fall or winter are great times to look for a lower price.


If you wait for a sale, the store is less likely to carry your size, because part of the stock will already have been sold.
 Be sure to sign up for a warranty or fill out a card, if the shoes or shoe store offers a warranty.

