 Every life insurance policy has increasing amounts of insurance available at concurrent increasing monthly rates. For example, a $20,000 policy may only cost $3 a month, but a $100,000 policy may cost $10 a month. You have to decide how much coverage you think you will need and how much you want to pay per month.Take stock of all your debts, assets, and desired final expenses in order to figure out an accurate amount you will need available to your family after you pass on.
You may also consider incorporating the cost of other life expenses, like making sure your child's education is paid for by your coverage.;
, Although there are other types of life insurance, the most common policies purchased by individuals are term and whole. Their names suggest their definitions: “term” is life insurance that ends at the end of a “term” of years, i.e. when you turn a particular age; “whole” is life insurance that lasts your whole life and never expires unless you stop paying.Term insurance is cheaper because it only considers mortality rate plus administrative costs.
Whole life is more expensive due to the combination of mortality rate and a savings element (usually at a guaranteed low rate).
 The best rates may already be available to you through your employer. Most large companies that offer health insurance to their employees also offer life insurance, and these rates, as is usual when employers pay partial amounts on insurance policies, can be pretty low.


If you don’t know how to access your life insurance information, ask someone in HR. Most insurance information is bundled together on a benefits website for your company.
You can usually only sign up or make changes once a year during open enrollment, or if you have a qualifying life event like getting married or having a baby.
 The first thing you would do when shopping for any big ticket item starts with research to find the best prices and most reputable brands. The same is true for life insurance. You can find “instant quotes” on many life insurance websites, or you can call individual companies to give you quotes., Just like you do before investing in a new appliance or expensive item, you should read reviews written by fellow consumers to make sure the company you decide to go with doesn’t have a lot of complaints. Consumer reviews are usually unbiased and honest, making them a solid way to find out what a company is really like.


You can find life insurance reviews by visiting a consumer review website.You should also consider financial strength of the insurance company issuing policy. Look at Fitch, Moody's, and Standard & Poor's ratings for each company. These ratings can be accessed for a fee from the relevant rating company's website.
 The younger you are, the lower your rates will be. However, you can't lock in a rate unless you buy an extended term. Such policies include the mortality element for each year of the term, as well as a saving factor that provides a level premium. Increasing age brings increasing premiums., You can get a lower premium to start with if you already have a healthy lifestyle. But if you started with at an unhealthy level and recently improved your health, you can re-apply and perhaps see a drop in your life insurance premiums, especially if you have proof of this from a doctor.Losing weight, quitting smoking and working on your cholesterol can make measurable differences in your health that equate to life insurance discounts.
 If you fly airplanes for fun or drive a race car for a living, life insurance companies see you as high risk and don’t want to take you on. You may still be able to get life insurance, but the premiums will be much higher than for those with desk jobs, for example.Jobs that are seen as high risk include pilots, fire fighters, police officers, deep sea fishermen, and military personnel.
Hobbies that are seen as high risk include scuba diving, motorcycle riding, hang gliding, and sky diving.
 It may seem odd, but your driving record is important to life insurance companies. If you have a lot of points on your license or have more than one DUI, this indicates that you are not a safe driver and are therefore at greater risk of dying soon.


Typically a few minor infractions don’t make a big difference to insurers, but as soon as you start repeating offenses, things start to go downhill in terms of the life insurance rates you will be offered., Most life insurance companies factor credit history in their premiums. While having poor credit will not prevent you from qualifying for life insurance, it will likely make your premiums higher than those given to an identical applicant with good credit. Underwriters factor in credit scores when determining life insurance risk because, in theory, a high credit score shows responsibility on the part of the applicant., Some insurance companies may require an abbreviated or full medical exam before issuing a policy. Their decision is based upon the amount of insurance applied for, your age, domicile, and the content of your application.


Your insurance agent will probably supply you with paperwork for both you and your doctor to fill out.
 You can save money if you pay your entire year’s worth of payments in one fell swoop. Like monthly car insurance payments, there may be a slight charge for the convenience of smaller monthly payments. If your insurance company doesn’t offer to let you pay all at once, ask your agent about it., Life insurance tends to increase with each year that you get older. It makes sense—the older you are, the closer you are to death and the closer they are to forking out the cash they promised. To avoid paying more than you should, find out how your chosen insurer determines your age and use that information to apply at an advantageous time.Companies use two methods to determine your age for life insurance purposes: actual age or age nearest birthday.
The latter means that in the preceding six months before your birthday and the following six months after your birthday, you will be consider the age you reach on your birthday.
Check which method is employed by the company issuing the policy before deciding when to apply.
 Some insurance companies who offer more than one type of insurance may offer to let you “bundle” your life insurance in with your car, home, even health insurance. Bundling allows a shared administrative cost for all of your policies, so you may end up saving money. However, bundling can also be a way for the insurer to trick the buyer into thinking they are getting a good deal. Check rates before and after bundling to ensure savings., If you have a change in circumstance, you can ask to be re-evaluated to see if your rates will drop. Obviously this change will never be that you got younger, but it may be that you got healthier or that you changed to a safer job.