 Too often, non-autistic people write about autism without consulting real autistic people. They may come up with inaccuracies, laughable misconceptions, or extremely negative viewpoints on differences that don't hurt anyone. Thus, not all the bad things you read about autism are correct.


The autistic community often describes autism in a neutral or positive light. This may help you feel better about being autistic.;
, Autism is a complex neurological condition that comes with several blessings along with its impairments. You may experience some or all of the following:



Deeply passionate interests. These can lead to tremendous expertise, and possibly a very successful career or fun hobby.Helpfulness. Autistic people, in general, have a high sense of social responsibility, or the desire to solve problems and help others.Precision. It is often noted that autistic people focus on the small parts, rather than the big picture. This can lead to remarkable detail-oriented work, where a neurotypical person might be unable to focus so clearly on the individual aspects of something.Visual intelligence. Autistic people have tested higher on visual and nonverbal intelligence tests.Sincerity. Autistic people tend to mean what they say, and act as a "voice of reason" without becoming mired in social complexities.Your honesty and genuine spirit can feel refreshing to others.

Creativity and a unique perspective. Autistic people can learn in unusual ways.This provides insights that neurotypicals may never realize, and can become a great asset in collaboration., Plenty of famous people have been diagnosed or thought to be autistic. Strong special interests, focus, and a unique perspective can lead to innovation and creativity.


Historically, Einstein,Thomas Jefferson, Emily Dickinson,Mozart,and more people were thought to be autistic.Famous autistic people today include Tim Burton,Susan Boyle,Adam Young (from Owl City),Jerry Seinfeld,, Temple Grandin and more., Special interests are a clear upside of autism: you have an incredible memory about these facts, intense focus, and the ability to act like a walking encyclopedia of information whenever you want. You also get to have a lot of fun doing the things you love.


Most non-autistic people would be jealous of the way you can recall and discuss information.
 The social model holds that disability is not caused by defects in the brain or body, but by society's failure to accommodate and accept a certain variation.For example, most nearsighted people are not disabled: they are fully accommodated within society (glasses, contacts), and have the same opportunities that non-nearsighted people have. Their body can't do the same things, but technology makes up for that, so it is not an issue.

