 Healthy, moisturized, and supple facial skin is impossible during any month of the year without proper body hydration. By taking care of your skin's hydration needs throughout the year, you will enter winter with your skin at its optimal condition.


Hydration begins from the inside out. Our bodies are comprised mostly of water, and we need to take in a large quantity of water each day to replenish what we lose through sweat, waste, and energy.
You can calculate your water needs by taking your weight in pounds and dividing it by two. That number, in ounces, is how much water you need for a day when you are working indoors and mostly sedentary. For example, if you weigh 120 pounds, you need 60 ounces of fluids (this includes the water found in foods and other drinks). Increase the amount of water if you will be doing strenuous work or exercise, or if it is hot enough to make you sweat.;
, Using sunscreen every day throughout the year, particularly in the sunniest months, helps to protect your skin from sun damage, which in turn gives you the best chance at healthy skin going into winter.


On days when you don't plan to spend much time outdoors, use an SPF 15 or 30sunscreen as part of your daily skincare routine, especially on your face. Use an SPF 50 if you will be outdoors for more than an hour.If you're not sure what level of SPF to use, remember that SPF numbers tell you how many minutes you can be in direct sun without burning. Basically, if no sunscreen means you can be outdoors one minute without sun damage, an SPF of 15 means you have 15 minutes before you would have sun damage.Some makeup products like foundation or tinted moisturizer contain sunscreen, but the thin layer that is typically applied does not provide enough coverage on its own. Be sure you apply sunscreen before applying makeup. In order to avoid a greasy or caked appearance, let the sunscreen soak in for a few minutes before adding the makeup., Your skin's health depends on a variety of factors, one of which is the diet that you consume. Eating the right balance of nutrients throughout the year can help keep your skin at its healthiest as you head into winter.


Be sure that your diet is high in omega-3s and DHA, which you can get from eating oily fish like tuna or salmon. If you don't eat a lot of fish, supplement with DHA capsules.
Eat foods containing other healthy oils, like nuts, olive oil, coconuts and coconut oil, and butter. Avoid fried foods, saturated fats, and foods containing high amounts of sugar, which can wreak havoc on your skin's health and appearance.
Eat foods containing selenium. Selenium is a mineral, and research suggests it protects your skin from sun damage caused by free radicals. Some foods that are high in selenium include Brazil nuts, shrimp, lamb, and button mushrooms.You can also take a selenium supplement, available at most pharmacies and health food stores.
Be sure your diet contains antioxidants, which can also reduce damage to the skin. Colorful fruits and vegetables like berries, peppers, and beets are high in antioxidants.