 Wash, dry, and cut the fruit for your salad. Many types of fruit are difficult to keep fresh once cut, but there are methods you can use to help prolong freshness. Consider whether you want to prepare these fruits in advance using these techniques or if you want to add these fruits to the salad just before serving it.



Apples, pears, and bananas oxidize when the flesh of the fruit is exposed to air. This oxidation process is what causes these fruits to quickly turn brown after you cut them.
While lemon juice is the most common juice used to protect sensitive fruits from oxidation, most citrus juices would work. That includes lime juice, pineapple juice, and orange juice.
 Cover the container with a lid.


The water needs to be as cold as you can get it to be without adding ice.
You also need to fill the container to the brim with water. The pieces of fruit should be completely submerged and should not be able to come into contact with any air.
You can store the fruit separately in this manner or you can mix the salad and keep the entire thing, minus the dressing, submerged in water.
Note that this is only necessary if you have fruit that will oxidize, like apples or pears. It is not necessary if your fruit salad only consists of citrus fruits or whole berries.
 Place the container of fruit salad in the refrigerator and chill until you are ready to serve it.


Many types of fruit need to be refrigerated in order to stay fresh, including most berries. All cut fruit should also be stored in the refrigerator. As such, virtually any prepared fruit salad will need to be chilled, even if there are no fruits in it that can oxidize.
Even in the refrigerator, you should only store fruit salad for three to five days at maximum. Even if you can preserve it past that point, much of the fruit will lose a good portion of its freshness.
 Immediately before you intend to serve the fruit salad, take it out of the refrigerator and drain the water from it. Drain as much of the water away as possible.


You could also scoop the fruit out of the container with a slotted spoon.
 Do not refrigerate the fruit salad with the dressing mixed in. Instead, prepare the dressing just before you plan to serve the fruit salad and toss the prepared fruit into it before dishing it out.

