 Most cut flower bouquets come with a pack of floral preservative that you can mix into the flower water. You should always add this into the water to keep the flowers perky and fresh.Follow the directions on the package to make sure you are using the correct amount of floral solution per the amount of water in the vase. Too much water can result in a diluted solution and too little water can result in a solution that is too strong for the flowers.
Floral preservatives are effective because they provide food for the flowers in the form of sugar, they contain ingredients that kill bacteria and fungi, and they acidify the water.
 Sugar can help to feed the flowers and perk them up. You can use baking white sugar and stir it into the vase water so it combines well.You can also add one to two teaspoons of white vinegar to the water in addition to the sugar. Vinegar can help to get rid of bacteria in the water that could weaken the flowers., A citrus based soda like 7-UP can provide acidity and sugar for the flowers, which can help them to stay fresh. To combat the bacteria growth in the flower water, you can also add a small amount of bleach. This mixture can help to prolong the lifespan of the flowers and prevent bacteria growth in the flower water.To create a citrus based soda and bleach mixture, you can combine two cups of soda (not diet) with two cups water. Add one teaspoon household chlorine bleach. Mix well and place the freshly cut flowers into the mixture.You can also use two tablespoons lemon juice and one tablespoon sugar instead of two cups soda if you do not have access to soda.
 Vodka can help to prevent the production of ethylene gas, which can cause wilting. You will need to dilute the vodka to avoid poisoning the flowers.Add 1 tablespoon vodka to one to two cups of water.
 Aspirin contains nitric oxide, which can help to slow down the dying process in plants. To try this method, crush 1 mg or two tablets of Aspirin and let it dissolve into the water.Viagra will also work the same way as it contains nitric oxide.
In one test of the Aspirin method, the flower heads stayed perky until day 5 of the trial and the stems of the flowers turned gray., The copper in the penny can act as an antibacterial agent and prevent the growth of bacteria that could weaken the flowers. Make sure the copper penny is clean before putting it into the flower water.