 Take snuff in small portions. There is no need to inhale a large amount of snuff in one sitting. In fact, doing so could irritate your nose and cause light-headedness. Stick to balls of snuff that are smaller than the size of a pea., Snuff is usually sold in tobacco stores in small boxes. Most people inhale snuff by placing it between their thumb and forefinger. You would then place one nostril near the snuff and gently inhale.You are not trying to snort the snuff and get it deep into your nasal cavity. The goal is to inhale enough to get the snuff near the front of your nose.
Try to inhale gently, absorbing the scent of snuff.
If holding snuff between your thumb and forefinger is uncomfortable, you can use any other two fingers. For example, you could pinch snuff between your ring finger and thumb instead.
 A snuff bullet is a small, metallic bullet-shaped device designed for snuff users. You would place a small amount of snuff into the bullet and then inhale throughout the day. You can use a snuff bullet throughout the day without bothering others, which is its main advantage. It also makes for a nice storage container for snuff.


You usually fill the snuff bullet about 3/4 of the way full. This should provide you with enough snuff to snort safely.
Tap the bottom of the snuff bullet three or four times. The bottom is the less slender end of the bullet, that does not have an opening. This allows the snuff to move to the surface.
Place the open end of the bullet in your nose. Angle the bullet forward slightly. When you inhale, you want the snuff to go into your nose but not up your nasal cavity.
Sniff lightly until you feel some of the snuff settling into the tip of your nose. You will probably feel a slight burn, especially if this is your first time using snuff.
 Many snuff users advocate for putting snuff on the back of their hands to use. You can tap a small amount of snuff onto the back of your hand, lean down, and inhale. If you're outdoors, snuff could blow away in the wind using this method. It also may be cumbersome to use snuff like this is in a social situation., When inhaling snuff, go slow. You do not want to snort snuff into your nasal cavity. Only inhale with enough force to gently lift some of the snuff into your nose. This should be enough to provide you with a light buzz, similar to the buzz you'd get from a cigarette., It takes awhile to get used to the sensation of snuff. Therefore, expect some sneezing early on. It's not uncommon to sneeze more than once after using snuff for the first time. Keep tissues on hand when you first start using snuff. After awhile, sneezing should become less of an issue.If you're sneezing or coughing excessively after using snuff, you may have inhaled it too far into your nose. Remember, snuff should stay in the front of your nostrils. It should not be snorted too far back. If you cough or sneeze excessively after using snuff, try to inhale with less force next time.

