 Next, add 1/2 teaspoon of kosher salt, 1 teaspoon of yeast and teaspoon of white sugar. Combine the dry ingredients well.;
, Combine these two ingredients together, preferably by hand, with the dry ingredients.
 Mix these ingredients with a whisk, mixer, or stand mixer until there are only a few cubes of butter visible to the eye.
 Keep adding enough liquid, small amounts at a time, in order to receive a "sandy" consistency. You may continue to mix the dough in the mixing bowl or you may place it on a work space that has been dusted with flour.
 Knead the dough 15-20 times and divide the dough into 2 balls or hockey pucks; making sure one is slightly larger than the other.Wrap the dough in plastic food wrap and place them in the freezer for 15-20 minutes.
 Turn on the stove to a medium-high heat and let the oil heat up., Allow these vegetables to simmer in the heat for 3-5 minutes while continuously stirring them.
, Stir. After exactly 2 minutes, place 2-4 cups of organic chicken broth (depending on the thickness that you desire) and 1 tablespoon of kosher salt. Continue stirring until all of the ingredients have come together.,,,, Allow them to sit on a working table for 15 minutes (in order for them to come to room temperature).
 Using a rolling pin, flatten the dough into a circle, large enough for your pie pan. Do not make the circle too thin, the thickness of the crust should be 1/2 inch to 1 inch. Place the rolled out dough into your pan.
, Your pie filling should have thickened yet, there should also be some liquid left over. However, do make sure that you do not over-fill your crust.
 Using a rolling pin, flatten the dough into a circle. However, be careful not to make it too thin. It should be about 1 inch thick.
 Make sure to crimp your edges once again, allowing for no drooping of the dough. You may cut little slits at the top of your crust, in order for the air to steam out of the pie when it is being baked.
 Bake the pie for 35-40 minutes, or until your crust has turned slightly golden brown.
 Allow your pie to cool for 30 minutes before serving.

