 For example, there are weekend demonstrations in the city, it is best to keep an eye on the news to know where everything is taking place - ahead of time. This will allow you to plan your whereabouts and to know which areas need to be avoided if you wish to get around without being overly concerned.;
, Just because protests are taking place, that should not prevent you from carrying on with your social/work plans (except if the circumstances are truly extreme). Try to keep a plan B for everything; let that be the location of a social hangout and/or the route to take to get to your desired destination.
 If things get out of hand, or if you are simply too worried to take your chances when trying to get out to shop, keep a stock of the things you might need to survive, or even to host friends, such as food, bottled water, cell phone credit, and medication.
, If you need transportation on a daily basis (finding a taxi or a bus can be stressful in Cairo), try to make a deal with a taxi driver. Pay him on weekly/monthly basis, depending on your income and needs. This way you will ensure you will not have to waste time every morning arguing about the cab fare.
 Have like-minded friends, wherever they come from. Local friends can also help you understand the culture a little better.
, Save emergency numbers on your cell phone device, as well as on your computer. If you can hang them on your refrigerator, it is wise to keep the contact number of your cell phone network provider's customer service department, the nearest hospital, police station, and pharmacy. Almost all food places, even grocery shops, deliver here, so keep their numbers too, in case of emergency.
, As soon as you arrive to Egypt, make it a priority to let the embassy know your name and your whereabouts. They could pass you some useful information and help in case of trouble.
 Egyptians are very friendly and welcoming, however, they are fiery. Try to keep calm and do not let anyone drag you into an argument. If the situation escalates, do not just walk away (as it is a sign of disrespect). Instead, say you are late for something or just a simple "OK" or "whatever" will do.
 Sign up for a yoga class, fitness class or join an expatriate club (the Maddi and Heliopolis areas are full of such clubs).
 Hold these on some Friday nights. It is best to invite friends, who live nearby, to a meal/drink at your place, instead of wondering around the streets of Cairo.
 Focus on the reason you are here. Whether you are studying or working, try to reach the goals you set for yourself. That can help to keep your mind off chaos.

