 At least two weeks before the first day of school, start going to bed and waking up at set times earlier. Start showering regularly. Set up an exercise routine for 3-4 days out of the week. Start washing your face every day.;
, About a week and a half before the first day of school, go shopping. Get school supplies. That means: backpack, pencils, pens, notebooks, highlighters, folders, erasers, binders, a calculator, a planner, a pencil case, and a lunch box. I would suggest having a different binder for every class. Shop for things to go in your locker. You could use magnets, a small mirror, and maybe a container for extra pens and pencils. Collect the things you will need for lunch, such as lunch meat, bread, fruit veggies, water bottles, and ice pack(s).
 Put one notebook and one folder in each binder. Then, in the largest part of your book-bag, put the binders with the spine facing the hand you write with. Then, put the pencils, erasers, highlighters, and calculator in the pencil case. Place that in front of the binders furthest from the strap.
 First, you need to make lunch. If you are packing one, pack a healthy one with one food from each food group. Put it in the refrigerator where it is easy to get to. Take a shower. Wash all body parts, including your hair. Remove any unwanted hair. Change into some comfortable pajamas. Check the weather for the next day. Then, pick your outfit according to that. That means if it's supposed to be warmer, pick shorts. Lay your outfit where it won't wrinkle and where you can get to it easily. Go to bed and get a good night's sleep.
 Wake up at least an hour before school begins. Put on some cheerful music! Chances are, it'll cheer you up. Dress your self. Run to the kitchen and grab yourself a bite to eat. Cereal will do just fine here, but if you prefer another breakfast, that's okay, too. When breakfast is done, brush through your hair and style it as you prefer. Brush your teeth and apply makeup as you wish. Put on deodorant and perfume. Put on socks, shoes, and jacket. Grab your backpack from wherever you left it and your lunch from the fridge. You're ready to take on the school day,

, You will probably be a little confused, and that's okay. Find your home room and locker. If you need help, ask a nearby teacher. Don't be embarrassed. They are standing there for a reason!

, Put your binders on the shelf and your books on the bottom with your pencil case next to it. Hang your magnets and mirror on the inside if the door. Place the extra writing utensil container where you wish. Hang up your jacket and backpack and place your lunchbox where you wish.
 Say hello to your friends from last year. You're probably dying to see one another! If you have your friends around, you won't feel as nervous. You also should become familiar with the new surroundings. If you have time, take a walk around the new hallways.
 You have successfully organized your first day of school.

