 Something inexpensive, colorful, and heavy is easiest, but oblong or theme-shaped balloons may also be a nice touch, depending on what you're blowing up the balloons for.


A bag of latex balloons can be found in supermarket chains or party shops.;
, If you stretch out the rubbery latex of the balloon with your hands first, you'll notice that it becomes much easier to blow up the balloons by mouth afterwards. Stretching the balloon will loosen the latex, making the inflation process less resistant.









Stretch the balloon in all directions, being careful not to tear the latex. Just make sure not to stretch the balloon too much, or you risk it popping when you inflate it. A few stretches here and there will get the job done just fine.
 This will keep the balloon in position when inflating. Grasp the end of the balloon about a quarter of an inch below the lip of the opening. Your index finger should be on top and your thumb on bottom.
 Then use your lips to form a seal around the opening neck section of the balloon.
 This is the same action used when puffing your cheeks with air, but the air should pass into the balloon and your cheeks should be relaxed.









Try to keep your lips puckered and tight as you blow into the balloon. Your cheeks will fill with some air, but they shouldn't be getting really big — the balloon should!
Think of how a trumpeter blows into his or her horn: Maintain good embouchure, or facial muscle tension, especially if your lungs are weak or you're having trouble getting the balloon to fill with air.
Keep a tight seal between the lip of the balloon and your lips to maintain pressure.
 Then it will gradually expand after the initial resistance. You might be afraid that you or the balloon will go pop at this stage but don't worry, keep blowing and the resistance will soon pass and you will both be fine. This takes some getting used to, so keep trying until it happens, then use that experience to guide you for the next balloon.









If you're still having trouble blowing up the balloon after the first attempt, try tugging on the spout of the balloon gently as you blow into it for the second time.
If you are struggling, stretch the neck of the balloon, then seal the neck of the balloon with your thumb and index finger when breathing.
 If you need a breather in between blows, seal the balloon with your thumb and index finger. Then release your grip as you place the seal back into your mouth and blow in again.
 When you feel the balloon is resisting further expansion, the inflation process is complete. If the neck of the balloon inflates to a significant size, this means that you have overinflated the balloon and you'll need to let a little air out until the neck is flat again.
 When the balloon begins to strongly resist further expansion, it is time to tie the balloon. You've officially inflated your balloon. Now you can start inflating the next 49 balloons!








,