 If the person who snores struggles with stuffed up nasal passages, they may want to try a saline rinse before they go to bed to help them breathe easily while sleeping. To clean and rinse the nose, a Neti pot or nasal decongestant can be used.Nasal strips can help to reduce the volume of snoring, as they can adjust the nasal passages. They do not always help to eliminate snoring and are not as effective as a nasal rinse in the opinion of some., Shifting sleep position to laying on one side, rather than laying flat on one's back or stomach, will reduce the amount of pressure on the throat and help to prevent snoring. If there's difficulty maintaining a side sleeping position, you can sew a sock or a tennis ball into the back of their night wear. This will cause mild discomfort when rolling over on the back during the night and help to keep the snorer on one side.After a few weeks of sleeping on one side, it should become a habit and you can remove the tennis balls or socks in the pajamas.
 People with a snoring problem can see their dentist and get a custom mouthguard to help open the airway and bring the lower jaw and tongue forward during sleep.However, dentist-made appliances can be expensive, especially if healthcare does not cover it. Suggest they have a consultation with their dentist and discuss cheaper options, if necessary.
 If the snorer continues to snore despite adjustments to the sleeping environment and sleep habits, they may want to consider scheduling a consultation with a doctor to discuss a medical device or a surgical procedure to help with the snoring. A doctor may recommend the following options, including:Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP): This is a machine that blows pressurized air into a mask worn over the nose, or nose and mouth or whole face. A CPAP machine can help to keep airways open while sleeping
Traditional surgery for snoring: These surgical procedures will help to increase the size of your person's airways by removing tissues or correcting any abnormalities in the nose.
Laser-assisted uvulopalatoplasty (LAUP): This procedure uses lasers to shorten the uvula, which is the hanging soft tissue at the back of the throat, and makes small cuts in the soft palate. As the cuts heal, the surrounding tissue will stiffen and prevent the vibrations in the throat that cause snoring.

