 Many states have more stringent guidelines for the handling of asbestos containing material than the US government. If your building is in a jurisdiction that requires it, you should notify state authorities before you conduct any demolition or renovation work in a building constructed before 1980.


You may find a listing of OSHA-approved state plans and their contents at https://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/index.html. Be aware that your state may have its own set of regulations that are not approved by OSHA, so be sure to check first.
 Before beginning any demolition or remodeling on a structure built before 1980, hire a licensed asbestos inspector to assess the level of asbestos in the building. Structures built prior to 1980 are presumed to contain asbestos, and thorough testing must be conducted in order to determine otherwise.


If your building was built after 1980, unless you have reason to believe material containing asbestos is present, you do not have test as stringently as you would in a building built prior to 1980. In these cases, a survey rather than an extensive test is permissible.A searchable database of asbestos inspectors and abatement companies is at https://cfpub.epa.gov/flpp/pub/index.cfm?do=main.firmSearchAbatement.
 If you do find the presence of asbestos in your building, then you need to hire licensed professionals to conduct whatever type of asbestos abatement is necessary. Asbestos “abatement” is simply the removal or sequestration of the asbestos containing material. If you are demolishing the building, then removal is more likely. If you are remodeling, the abatement contractors may simply construct a protective barrier around the asbestos.


In some jurisdictions, you may need to notify authorities such as your state Department of Environmental Quality that you are scheduling an asbestos abatement. However, this requirement is far from universal and many abatement companies will do the notification for you. The abatement firm you contract with should be able to offer you more detailed guidance.
 If you’re remodeling the building, your next step is to develop an Operations and Maintenance (O&M) plan so that building custodians, housekeepers, and maintenance personnel will know how to deal with the asbestos in their midst. Your O&M plan should contain the following elements:Notification. All stakeholders, including workers and tenants, should be notified of where the asbestos containing material is and what it looks like, and to avoid it if possible.Monitoring and recordkeeping. The asbestos containing material should be monitored for any changes to its condition. All changes should be documented.
Train employees on ways to handle and work around asbestos safely. In addition, whenever any work is performed around asbestos, the work should be documented and approved by a supervisor.

