 It can be a challenge to find the time to work out during finals, especially if you are cramming for a test or an exam and are short on free time. Use your study breaks as mini workout sessions, where you work out for 10 to 15 minutes at a time. Working out during your study breaks can also help you stay focused on your studies and raise your energy levels, making it easier to dive back into the books.For example, you may do a 10 minute run up and down a flight of stairs or do a 15 minute run around campus. You could also do three sets of 10 pushups or sit ups during your study breaks. You may alternate between doing cardio, like jogging or walking, with doing strength exercises, like pushups or sit ups, for every study break you take.;
, You can also turn your daily commute to school into a workout by biking or walking instead of taking the bus or driving your car. Try to bike, walk, or jog to school, especially if you live close and have time in the morning for the commute.Even biking or walking to and from school a few days a week during finals can give you the cardio workout you need to stay fit.
 You can also get motivated to stay fit during finals by signing up for a workout class. You may enlist a friend to go with you so you both can hold each other accountable to the class and ensure you both show up to the class. Doing a workout class can be good motivation to take 30 minutes to 1 hour off and focus on getting fit, rather than stressing about your finals.You may try an energy boosting workout class like a spin class or an aerobics class. You may also try a more relaxing, destressing class like yoga.
 You can also motivate yourself to stay fit by creating a workout schedule ahead of finals. Try to plan out your study schedule for finals and put in time for working out as well so you can stick with your schedule when finals arrive.You may write out the schedule in your day planner or on a planning app on your phone. You could also write the schedule out on a whiteboard in your room so you can easily see it and remind yourself of the plan for the day.
You may set aside 30 minutes a day for a workout or do a one hour workout three to four times a week, depending on your finals schedule. Perhaps you plan a workout during the day when you know you may be low on energy and need a pick me up. Or maybe you schedule workouts early in the morning to get you ready for a long day of studying.
You may also find it helpful to work out after an exam to clear your head and get you ready for a study session for your other exams. You may try to plan your workouts for right after your exams during finals.

