 You've probably heard of fair-weather friends. They're the ones who are happy to be around you when things are going well, but are nowhere to be found when you really need them. Being a loyal friend will attract other people to you who value that quality. This is a good way to put your money where your mouth is and attract the kind of friends you want in your life.Part of being a friend is being prepared to make sacrifices of your time and energy in order to help out your friends.
If a friend needs help with an unpleasant chore, or if he or she just needs a shoulder to cry on, be there for them.
 Once you've started spending time with potential friends, remember to do your part. If you want to have good friends in your life, you need to be a good friend yourself. No one will want to be your friend if they can see that you won’t return the sentiment.This means initiating some of the activities, remembering birthdays, asking how the other person is feeling, etc. If you don’t do these things, the friendship will become unbalanced and an uneasiness or distance is likely to arise.
 When you say you'll do something, do it. Be someone that people know that they can count on. If you embody these qualities in your treatment of others, it will attract others who appreciate reliability and who will be reliable in return.If you and your friend agree to meet somewhere, don't be late, and do not stand them up.
If you're not going to make it on time or make it at all, call them as soon as you realize it. Apologize and ask to reschedule.
Don't make them wait for you unexpectedly; it's rude, and it is certainly not a good way to launch a potential friendship.
 Many people think that in order to be seen as "friend material" they have to appear very interesting. Far more important than this, however, is the ability to show that you're interested in others. Listen carefully to what people say, remember important details about them (their names, their likes and dislikes), ask questions about their interests, and just take the time to learn more about them.You don't want to be the guy or girl that always has a better story than anyone else, or that changes the subject abruptly instead of continuing the flow of conversation. These people appear too wrapped up in themselves.
 One of the best things about having a friend is that you have someone to whom you can talk about anything, even secrets that you hide from the rest of the world. Before people even feel comfortable opening up to you, however, you need to build trust.


The key to being a good confidante is the ability to keep secrets. It's no secret that you shouldn't tell other people things that were told to you in confidence.
 Project the good, unique qualities about yourself. Show others what makes you stand apart from the crowd. Talk about your interests and hobbies. Share a little bit about your background with new friends. Everyone has interesting stories to tell – don’t be afraid to share yours. If you are a unique person, then show it.A little humor always keeps conversation light and happy. People love to be around someone who makes them laugh.
If you have a quirky, different style of humor then make sure you let them know that the things you say are in fact a joke. This way you don't just come across as simply weird. It will also help them understand a bit more about you too, which could potentially spark their interest.
 Many people often times lose contact with their friends because they're either too busy, or just don't value their friends enough. When you lose connection with a friend, the friendship may fizzle out. And when you do try to contact them again, it can be hard to rekindle the friendship.Maintaining friendship is hard work. Make time and share your life with them. Be respectful of their decisions and share yours with him. Strive to keep in contact over time.
 As you befriend more people, you may find that some are easier to get along with than others. While you should always give people the benefit of the doubt, sometimes you may realize that certain friendships are unhealthy, such as if a person is obsessively needy or controlling towards you, constantly critical, or introducing dangers or threats into your life. If this is the case, ease your way out of the friendship as gracefully as possible. Cherish those friends you make who are a positive influence in your life, and do your best to be a positive influence in theirs.If you have to leave a friend because they aren’t good for you, try to preoccupy yourself with other things, such as a new volunteer opportunity, so that you can honestly say that you don't have enough time in your schedule to spend time with them (but don't substitute their time for time with other friends; they may notice and become jealous, and more drama will ensue).

