 Go back at least the past ten years, preferably 20 years (the longer, the better). You can get this information from the company's website. Furthermore, the dividend should be increasing every year, or at least every two to three years. Stocks that do not pay dividends or do not fulfill these criteria should be rejected.
 A five-year average of 15% should be the minimum, and 20% or more is preferred.


To calculate return-on-equity, divide net income (from the income statement) by shareholders' equity which is assets minus liabilities (from the balance sheet)., It should be at least 5% per year for the past ten years (the higher the better). Keep in mind, however, that a very high dividend growth rate (greater than 30%, for example) is unsustainable. To provide a margin of safety, look for a payout ratio (divide dividends by net-earnings) of less than 40%.


This payout ratio rule does not apply to utilities, real estate investment trusts (REITs), or master limited partnerships (MLPs).
 Go back at least the past ten years. Sales growth fuels earnings growth, and earnings growth fuels dividend growth. Without fuel from sales and earnings growth, dividend growth will not last.


To calculate earnings-per-share, divide net income (from the income statement) by the average outstanding common shares. (from the balance sheet)While dividend growth is certainly a hedge against inflation, some investors do not consider dividend growth as important as simply receiving consistent, level dividends year after year.
 Look for indications of a long-range competitive advantage and thus continued profitability. Companies that sell non-durable goods such as Johnson & Johnson (drugs), Procter & Gamble (household care products), and McDonalds (fast food) tend to remain profitable during both recessions and prosperity.
 Calculate or look up P/E (price-to-earnings) ratios and then rank them from lowest to highest. Calculate these ratios using average earnings over the past three years in order to minimize the effect of any unusual earnings periods (containing large but non-recurring expenses or income). Also calculate price-to-book (P/B) ratios and price-to-sales (P/S) ratios. The lower these are, the better.


To calculate a price to earnings ratio, divide the current stock price by earnings per share (found on the balance sheet.To calculate price-to-book ratios, divide the current stock price by total assets minus intangible assets and liabilities. (from the balance sheetTo calculate price to sales ratio, divide the current stock price by sales per share for a 12 month period. Find the sales amount on the income statement and the number of shares on the balance sheet.