 That way, if your crab has parasites or other illnesses, they won’t spread to your other crabs.


However, many hermie owners simply rinse their hermies in a quick freshwater bath and add them straight into the main crab population, since isolating a hermit crab in a quarantine tank can have negative effects on your crab’s health.
Weigh your options carefully before deciding to quarantine your crab.
 Since hermit crabs are very social creatures, you should have at least two or three small crabs together in a single tank. A population of this size will not be comfortable in anything less than a 10 gallon (37.9 L) glass aquarium.


If your crabs are immature, be sure to invest in a tank larger than 10 gallons (37.9 L), since the crabs will grow.
Hermit crabs are excellent climbers. Keep a mesh lid on your tank to prevent your hermies from climbing out. This will also prevent gnats, mites, and other bugs from getting in and hurting your crabs.
 Use all-purpose sand (the type you’d fill a child’s sandbox with) or coconut fiber. Fill the tank with substrate to a level two to four times higher than your largest crab.


For instance, if your tallest crab is three inches tall, your substrate should be six to twelve inches deep.
All-purpose sand is available at your local hardware store.
Coconut fiber might be available at some pet stores, but you can order it easily online.
If you wish, you can mix the sand and coconut fiber substrate together. Some hermie owners find that their crabs like this mixture best.
Always wet your substrate until it feels like the sand that has just had the tide wash over it. Use a plastic spray bottle to keep the substrate damp. Do not use dry substrate, as this won’t allow your crab to dig, and can dehydrate your crab.
Do not use wood chips, gravel, reptile sand, or special hermit crab sand. Additionally, do not use any kind of artificially dyed or chemically treated substrate.
 The tank should be at least 75 degrees Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius).Install a thermometer in the tank so you can always quickly check what the tank’s temperature is. If you have a hard time keeping the tank hot enough, place it near a window or invest in an under-tank heater to keep your tank warm.


Additionally, the humidity should be at least 70%. Invest in a hygrometer to measure the tank’s humidity levels.
If you need to increase your tank’s humidity, just spray the substrate a few times with a water bottle. Check it after 30 minutes or so to see how the humidity level has adjusted. Spray again if necessary.
Many hygrometers also have built-in thermometers.
Under-tank heaters are available at most pet stores.

