 Pulling out and looking at your map in a public space is a no-no. Study it before you leave your hotel, and if you do need to consult your map, step into a store or any other less public place. Have the maps pre-folded so they may be easily accessed and read. The same goes for other items:


If you must use a dictionary to translate a sign or menu, be discreet. For example, copy down the words of the sign and move aside to a less public place to work out the translation. Or copy some basic words in a notebook which you can easily pull out at dinner.
If you must consult a guidebook, keep it wrapped in a newspaper or novel. You may want to wrap the cover in brown paper before leaving home. You may wish to remove the pages detailing the day's destinations from your guidebook ahead of time, staple or paperclip them, and simply carry them as a sheaf of pages.
Don't carry US newspapers, magazines or books in plain view. Pick up a local/regional magazine or the local newspaper.
Just like in the US, most tourist friendly museums have literature in multiple languages. Look for the UK flag on them instead of an American flag.
 Try to find information online or in guidebooks. At least know what country you're going to, what language they speak and the name of their capital. Study the map in advance and learn about geography. (Thinking Copenhagen is in the Netherlands or Europe is a country is the fastest way to pick out an American tourist.)

, Many Americans are recognized for being louder than is customary in other parts of the world. Large arm and hand movements and boisterous behavior should be avoided until you know how the locals act. Adults in many non-American cultures use lower voices in public places. Either way, you're always better off being a little more reserved and quiet, at least for starters, than blasting onto a foreign scene with your vitality and making the wrong impression.
 When you pull things out of your bag in public to show your friends or family what you purchased, you might as well yell "I have money and I'm ready to spend it, unless you want to take it from me against my will!"

, Something as seemingly harmless as "Oh, I just love the scarves here!" will mark you as a tourist. And don't assume people can't understand what you're saying, just because you said it in English. In many parts of the world, people are taught to speak English along with their native language.
 Not every country is as "spacious" as the US (unless you're in New York City, where space is at a premium). When you're at a counter, for example, don't spread out your arms. When you're sitting down on the bus or train, don't stretch out your legs in a way that might get in someone's way. Be careful about physical contact. Get an idea of what is acceptable, and mind local customs, such as not touching the head or feet in most of South Asia. Don't get freaked out by the person in line behind you being very close, and if you leave too much room between you and the person in front of you, expect someone to step in to the space.
 It's just not very common outside of the US, and even within the US, it's a breach of etiquette under some circumstances.
 When traveling to a foreign country, you are bound to take pictures. However, having a camera strap and wearing it around your neck for easy access is a sure way to look like a tourist. If you can, keep it in a pocket or in a purse and pull it out when needed.
 If you're going to a country that speaks a different language, why not try to make an effort to speak the local language? It's a sign of respect and appreciation of the local culture. Learn a few basic words like "Hello", "Please" and "Thank you". Nobody will mind if your accent is not perfect; the fact that you've been willing to speak their language, even when you could well have spoken yours, is a thing that many people appreciate in tourists. While you are at it, learn the words for some foods that you like, and the ones that you don't like. It makes eating out much less scary.
 Shake hands with caution. In the west, the handshake is an acceptable greeting. In Thailand, handshakes are reserved for business with Westerners. The preferred greeting is the wai, hands pressed together in prayer position in front of the chin with a slight nod. In India the handshake is becoming common, but you must greet the eldest or most important person present first and work your way down, and shaking a woman's hand may be unacceptable. Your take-away message here? Do some research on etiquette and learn how to respectfully greet your hosts.
 In some countries, merely saying "excuse me," "I'm sorry" or "Please" will mark you as a tourist.

