 You may not be sure that you like this person because you entered the relationship shortly after ending another. This is a classic mistake, and can undermine your ability to form a healthy relationship with this person. Avoid jumping into a new relationship too quickly. Wait until you have completely resolved your feelings for your ex.


Maybe you got dumped and wanted to save face by quickly finding a new love. Or, maybe you’ve been divorced for some time and everyone keeps asking when you will start dating again—but you’re not quite over your ex. These aren’t good reasons to start a new relationship., If you have gotten hot and heavy with this new person over a span of days or weeks, you could be using the new relationship to cover up unresolved problems. A healthy relationship progresses at a moderate pace in which both people steadily become more affectionate. If you swear you are in love after a week, you could be rebounding to prevent loneliness., A major reason many people get into rebound relationships is because they fear being single. In truth, there are numerous upsides to being single like getting to know yourself, focusing on building a meaningful career, and spreading your love among family and friends. Don’t fall for the misconception that being alone equals being lonely.Being single can be enjoyable when you build your social network with supportive friends and family. Plus, you can learn to be single by directing your attention on improving yourself. Go back to school. Clean up your diet. Set objective goals. Don’t assign your value based on your relationship status.
 If your self-confidence is wrapped up in your identity of being half of a whole, you may need to work on that. Feeling less-than because you are single could contribute to you entering a toxic relationship just to feel the void. If you improve your self-esteem, you can overcome loneliness and make yourself a better candidate for the right mate when they come along.Recognize your positive qualities that have nothing to do with your relationship status. Write them down and hang them on your bathroom mirror as a reminder.
Improve your self-talk. Don’t call yourself a “loser” because you’re at home on a Saturday night. Either make plans with a friend or remind yourself that your value isn’t in your social calendar.
 Codependent people are basically obsessed with caring for others, even at the sake of their own health and well-being. If you have a type in relationships, always dating someone who always needs help or care-taking, you may need to work with a professional.Codependency can make you feel empty if you don’t have someone to care for. Therefore, you refuse to be alone and find a new relationship even if you aren’t actually in love with the person. If this sounds like you, ask your doctor about getting a referral to a mental health therapist who can help you get to the root of this problem.

