 A serious document should have a serious-sounding headline to introduce it; an upbeat document should have an upbeat headline.
 This can be as simple as the words "Introduction," "Recommendations," "Implementation," "Conclusion," and "Appendix" or something more creative, such as "About the Problem," "We Suggest," "Doing It," "In Summary," and "For Further Reading." (The exact wording would be determined by the tone of the article, your audience, and whatever style guide you may be writing to.)

, You do not have to keep your headlines to 3 words or less, but shorter headlines usually grab your readers' attention better than do longer headlines. Put the most important words close to the beginning, so that people will notice them more easily and remember them better.


One way to structure a headline is with a main point, followed by a colon and then a memorable subtitle, such as "Help Files: How to Write Them So Users Will Actually Use Them."

, Sometimes, the information in a document or section of a document covers more than a single headline can reasonably introduce. In those cases, you can have a main heading as an overview of the section, with subheadings introducing each significant concept within the section. (In this article, the subheadings "Planning Your Technical Document" and "Writing Headlines For Your Document" communicate first the importance of planning the document itself before you write headlines for it and then the process of writing those headlines.)

, There are several ways you can capitalize headlines in a technical document. You can use a different capitalization style for a subheading than you do for a main headline, but you should use the same capitalization style for each headings and for each subhead within the document.


Capitalize the first letter of each word in the headline. (This is known as "Title Case" in Microsoft Word.)
Capitalize the first letter of the first word and of the last word.
Capitalize the first letter of the first word, the last word, and each significant word in between. (Words that aren't capitalized are the articles 'a, an, the' conjunctions, and prepositions of 2 or 3 letters, unless they are the last word in the headline.)
Capitalize the only first letter of the first word and any proper nouns or adjectives that may be in the title. (This is known as "Sentence Case" in Microsoft Word.) If you combine this style with one of the others, use this style for subheadings and the other for headlines.
 "Parallel construction" means to structure phrases the same way: if one headline begins with a verb, all headlines should begin with a verb. (The subheadings in this article, "Planning Your Technical Document" and "Writing Headlines For Your Document," are an example of parallel construction.) Although more commonly used in writing bullet points, parallel construction is also effective in headlines to show your reader the similarities in content that follow each similarly phrased headline.


Parallel construction is more difficult to maintain when you have a large number of headlines or subheadings to work with.
 You can further structure your technical document by incorporating a numbering system into your headings and subheadings. In this system, section headings begin with an Arabic numeral, followed by a period (1., 2., 3.), then the text of the heading. Subheadings below the section heading begin with Arabic numerals with one decimal place, followed by a period, (1.1., 1.2., 1.3.) and are indented so that the numeric label falls under the first word of the heading. The next level of subheading begins with an Arabic numeral, a period, another Arabic numeral, another period, and another Arabic numeral and period (1.1.1., 1.1.2., 1.1.3.) and is indented so that the label falls under the first word of the subhead above it.


This method is more commonly used for technical documents for an internal audience, such as engineering procedures. It is rarely used for documents for an external audience, such as software user manuals or help files.

