 It is likely that you already know what you don’t want in your life. What you need to do next is identify your preferences, and then pinpoint exactly what you do want in life. The more clear you desires without reservation, the more effectively you can work toward them.If you know what you want, it is harder for others to convince you to do their bidding. This is crucial both to generating your own success and to stop having your time and energy used by someone else.
Sometimes guilt and stress can cause you to work against what you desire. Knowing what you want will make you stronger when facing these difficult situations.
 Once you know exactly what you want, it is likely that you’ll have to delegate some things to other people. Communicate exactly what you want and expect to those around you. Do not compromise on your desires.You might have to trade some of your time and talent to get another person to do what you need, but set boundaries and do not let the other person use your desires against you.
 When you agree to do things that will not benefit your goals, you are wasting time. Do not give your time away. Engage only in activities that further your personal goals, and politely decline any other requests or invitations.


Be direct. Say “No, I cannot (or will not) do that.” If you prefer to add an explanation, such as “I don’t have the time to commit,” that is okay, but not necessary.This can be difficult when are being guilted. Things like charities that you do not support, friends that want your help, and even family that demands too much of your time can be serious hurdles to your success. Say “No.”

, Whether you are speaking for yourself or your company, organization, community, etc., it is often hard to accept the fact that you can benefit by working with other human beings, but it’s true. Cooperating with others can be a healthier and more effective way to reach your goals. Make sure that the relationship remains mutually beneficial and that neither party is being used.Relationships go two ways. When you are working with other people, make sure you give as much as you take. This will help you build stronger professional and social relationships.
 You will often be asked for help in some way. You should understand why you are being asked and what the other person hopes to gain from asking. Understand why someone wants something from you, and then you can decide if it benefits you in such a way that you’d be willing to do it.

