 Many banks will provide an authorized user card to the children of their cardholders. There are usually age limitations to these types of arrangements, so check with your parent or guardian’s bank to get the details.Keep in mind that as an authorized user you will not be building your own credit history because you will be using your parent or guardian’s account.
 You cannot become an authorized user of your parent or guardian’s account without his or her consent, so you will have to ask first. Before you talk to your parent or guardian, think about your reasons for wanting to be made an authorized user.


Try saying something like, “I was hoping we could talk about the possibility of adding me as an authorized user to your account. I think it would be a good idea because _______. What do you think?”
If you parent or guardian says no, you may need to consider a different method to get a credit card. But if they say no but seem open to the idea, try to continue the conversation by explaining your reasons for making this request.
 If your parent or guardian agrees to add you as an authorized user on his or her bank card, you will need to go to the bank together to complete an additional signer form. When you go to the bank, you and your co-signer will need to present valid photo identification and you will need to know your Social Security Number.
 When you arrive at the bank, your parent or guardian should ask to speak with an account representative. Your parent or guardian should ask the account representative for an “additional signer form” or say, “I would like to add an additional signer on my existing account.”


Your parent or guardian should not say “I want to get a credit card for my child.” This could mean something different to the account representative and it might take longer to get the form that you need.
 Fill out the additional signer form and ask the account representative if you have any questions. After you are finished and you have both signed the form, return the form to the account representative.

