 If you want your bruise to look real, you've got to pick a good spot for it. Some places don't actually bruise that much, so you've got to pick a good fleshy place on your body, or a place where you might be injured. The best places for fake bruises are usually:


Your forearm.
Anywhere on your leg.
Your forehead.
Your chest or shoulder.
Don't put a fake bruise near or around your eyes.
 It's fine to experiment and play around, but if you're really going to fake it, you've got to make it look real. Spend some time getting it right and playing around with different color combinations to get the best look possible for your skin tone.


Don't make the shape too circular. If it looks like a perfect circle, it'll be obviously fake. Real bruises are jagged and oddly shaped.
 If you want someone to really believe you've got a nasty bruise, you'll need to do a little acting and not spoil it too soon. To play your prank the right way, cover the bruise with your clothing or under a hat until you're ready to reveal it.


Pencil graphite bruises are difficult to cover up without them rubbing off. Those types of bruises are typically best for just showing off quickly as a goof. If you want to fake it, try using makeup or another technique.
 Real looking bruise in place? Check. Unsuspecting friend in sight? Check. Wait for a good moment, when you're both doing something physical or playing in some way, then fake an injury. Wait until your friend comes close and then grab the area with the fake bruise suddenly and start hollering.


Really play it up. Pretend that you're in pain and look angry. It's a good way to build some sympathy or freak out the victim of your prank.
If you don't want to go through all the acting trouble, you could always just whip out your bruise and say something like:

"You should see the other person."
"I got this working on an oil rig."
"I fell off my dad's motorcycle."



, After faking it or coming up with your great excuse, it's time for the big reveal. Pull up your sleeve and groan loudly, saying, "Ahh, look at that! It hurts!" or you could play it tough and say, "Doesn't even hurt."


Show it quick and then tuck it back away so your friends don't have time to closely inspect it and see that it's not real.
If accused of using sparkly eyeshadow for your bruise, claim that you were embarrassed and tried to cover the bruise up with makeup that had sparkles in it.
 After you get your friends going, a good extra part of the joke is to take your finger and make the bruise "disappear." Wipe part of it off, then look at it like you're confused, then say, "Gotcha."


It's not usually good to keep up a joke like this for very long, especially if your excuse is about fighting or being hit by someone. Jokes are one thing, but tell the truth eventually.
Use warm water and soap to get the eye shadow off when you're done. Water won't do. You may also use eye make up remover.

