 Visit https://mega.co.nz/#sync to reach the download link for the Windows app.;
, Click the box with the Windows logo and text “Free Download for Windows.” The setup file will be downloaded.
 After the download, look for the setup file on your computer. The filename should be “MEGAsyncSetup.exe.” Double-click on this file to begin the installation., Before the installation completes, you will be asked for your MEGA account. The program will use this to fetch your files from your MEGA cloud drive. Key in your email address and password, then click the “Next” button.
 Once your account has been verified, you will be asked to choose between a “Full account sync” or a “Selective sync.”


“Full account sync” syncs your whole MEGA cloud drive to your local computer. “Selective sync” only syncs selected folders from your MEGA cloud drive.
Click on the radio button for your choice and click the “Next” button.
 Once everything’s configured, click the “Finish” button. Your MEGA cloud drive will now be automatically synchronized or mirrored to the specified local folder.
 As long as MEGA Sync Client is running, it will reside in your notification toolbar on the lower right corner of your desktop. You can identify it by its logo of a red circled “M.” While it’s running, it will automatically sync all the files on your local MEGA folder and on your MEGA cloud drive., If you want to add files to your MEGA account for storage, backup, and syncing, just use the normal Windows operations to add files into the MEGA folder. You can drag files into the folder or use the keyboard shortcuts to copy or move.


All the files you put into this folder will automatically be uploaded and stored in your MEGA cloud drive.
 Similar to Step 1, the normal Windows operations are used to move and copy files in and around your MEGA folder. You can click on a file and do the basic copy (CTRL + C) or cut (CTRL + X) then paste (CTRL + V) actions.


All the changes you in your local MEGA folder will be updated and reflected in your MEGA cloud drive.
 Similar to Step 1, the normal Windows operations are used to delete files in your MEGA folder. You can click on a file and press “Delete” on your keyboard. You can also click and drag the file to your Recycle Bin.


All the files you removed from this folder will also be removed from your MEGA cloud drive.
 If you want to add folders to your MEGA cloud drive for better file organization and structure, just use the normal Windows operations to add folders into the main MEGA folder. You can right-click on the folder and select “New” then “Folder” from the context menu. A new folder will be created, which you can now name.


The new folders you create locally inside the MEGA folder will also be uploaded and reflected in your MEGA cloud drive. Once the folder has been created, you can add, move, or copy files into it, as in Part 3.
 Similar to Step 1, the normal Windows operations are used to move and copy folders in and around your MEGA folder. If you don’t want to add files one by one to your MEGA folders, you can move or copy a whole folder.


All the files inside that folder will also be moved or copied together. All the changes you in your local MEGA folder will be updated and reflected in your MEGA cloud drive.
 Similar to Step 1, the normal Windows operations are used to delete folders in your MEGA folder. You can click on a folder and press “Delete” on your keyboard. You can also click and drag the folder to your Recycle Bin.


All the files inside the folder you’ve deleted will also be removed from your local MEGA folder and from your MEGA cloud drive.

