 A filling casserole is a great way to use up a roasts and any leftover vegetables you may have in your fridge. Cook a simple sauce or use leftover gravy as a base for the casserole. Cut up leftover roast and stir it into the sauce along with cooked vegetables and pasta. Bake the casserole until it's hot and bubbly.


If you'd like to base your casserole off of a recipe, try stroganoff. Toss together mushrooms, leftover roast, onions, sour cream and noodles. Bake the stroganoff and serve it with crusty bread., Heat a simmer sauce or make your favorite curry and stir in diced roast. You can also add coconut milk, bamboo shoots, and vegetables to round out the curry. Potatoes, eggplant, carrots, and carrots work well with leftover roast. Serve the curry along with one of these sides:Jasmine rice
Naan
Quinoa
Bulgar

, Assemble your favorite stir fry vegetables (like snow peas, snap peas, carrot strips, bell peppers, or bok choy). Saute the vegetables in a little oil until they soften. Stir in strips of leftover roast and cook them over high heat until they heat up. Season the stir fry with:Soy sauce
Honey
Lemon juice
Cooking sherry

, Shred the leftover roast using two forks. Heat the meat in a skillet or in the oven and season the meat with taco seasoning. Combine the meat with strips of bell pepper and onion. Cook the burrito filling until the vegetables soften. Fill flour tortillas with the meat and vegetable filling and roll the tortillas into burritos.You can serve the burritos after you roll them or heat the rolled burritos in the skillet to crisp them up.
 Chili is a great way to use up leftover roast if you don't have a lot of meat. Combine chunks of the leftover roast in a large sauce pot and add cans of diced tomatoes and beans. Simmer the chili mixture along with tomato sauce and chili seasonings.


If you'd like to make a stew, just chunk up the leftover roast and simmer it with your choice of vegetables in a beef broth or stock. You can thicken the stew with a cornstarch and water.
 For a quick sandwich, place slices of the cold roast on your favorite bread with your favorite condiments. You could also make a hot sandwich by quickly frying strips of the leftover roast and placing it on your favorite bread. Lay a piece of cheese and sauteed onions over the meat and warm the entire sandwich in the oven until the cheese melts. Consider making these sandwiches with leftover roast:French dip
Sloppy joes
Steak sandwiches

