 Not belonging doesn’t feel good, so even if you don’t make any major changes, it can still make you feel better to interact more often. Make a personal goal to have one or two conversations with a peer at work each day. Think of some conversation starters to make it easier.Increase your chances of conversing by hanging out with your co-workers more. If they eat in the break room, don’t take your lunch at your desk or work-station. Join them. Then, listen to their discussion and participate when you have something of value to add.
For example, your co-workers are discussing vacation plans and one of them mentions a trip to a specific location. If you have an interest in that place, you might say, “That sounds so exciting! What sorts of excursions are you planning during your visit?”

, If you are shy or hesitant about chatting it up with your co-workers, follow this rule-of-thumb: don’t dwell on how shy you feel, turn your attention completely to the other person. Act as if you are serving them in a way—try to make them smile or laugh, get them talking about their own life.


When you’re worried about how you’re coming off to others, you might over-analyze and end up ruining a perfectly decent interaction. Take a break from focusing on yourself and devote your attention to the other speaker.Make sure to ask open-ended questions to keep the other person talking. These are questions that invite elaboration and that don’t have a simple yes or no answer.
Be willing to share about yourself as well to keep the conversation going and to form a genuine connection.
 If you’re notorious for responding with “no” each time your peers invite you to lunch or to after-work drinks, they’ll quickly stop asking. No one wants to be rejected over and over again, so you may have inadvertently caused them to exclude you.


When you catch them discussing plans, ask if you can tag along. Or, if someone directly invites you, try to say “yes” unless you absolutely cannot go.
Practicing saying yes to invites can improve your work life and your personal life. Accept a set amount of invitations per week and invite people to do things as well.
 If the group as a whole makes you self-conscious, target one particularly non-intimidating, friendly co-worker. Making just one social connection at work can help you feel less isolated. Plus, once this person gets to know you, they might encourage the others to do the same.Say something like, “Hey, Carla, I enjoyed our talk earlier. It’s refreshing to talk to another newbie mom. Would you like to get coffee together one morning before work?”

, If your workplace culture doesn't emphasize inclusion, you might not be the only one feeling left out. Make a recommendation to your superior to stimulate connectedness with group events. Plan a potluck lunch or dinner to celebrate a company victory. Start a baseball, cricket, soccer, netball or basketball team.
 Maybe your co-workers seem to have a vendetta against you, overlooking you for social outings and never including you in workplace gift exchanges. If this is the case, you will have to carefully consider how you choose to move forward. The best thing to do is to talk with someone you trust at your workplace about what has been happening. It can also help to first share your worries with a trusted friend.


You might say, "I get the sense that I am the odd one out at work. They never include me. And they stop talking whenever I come around. What should I do?"
Even if you don't take your friend's advice, it can help to have some unbiased support.

