 Stretching and meditating for even a few minutes in the evening can reduce stress and help you sleep better. Some types of yoga, which often combines stretching with meditation, can be particularly beneficial.Plan a simple stretching routine, or try some yoga poses that are known to be particularly helpful for relaxing and easing tension, like one of the following:


Forward bend: Sit on the floor and cross your legs. Lowly bend your torso forward until your chest is resting on your knees and your forehead is touching the floor. Stretch your arms out in front of you.
Standing forward bend: Stand with your feet a few inches apart and your knees slightly bent (don’t lock your knees!), and slowly bend down until you are touching the floor. If you have trouble reaching the floor, try holding the elbow of one arm with your opposite hand instead. Sway gently from side to side.
Child’s Pose: Kneel on the floor and slowly bend forward until your torso is resting on your thighs and your forehead is touching the floor. Stretch your arms out in front of you and let them rest on either side of your head.
 Choose a quiet, comfortable part of your home where you have plenty of room to stretch out. Clear some space if you have to. Put down a yoga mat, especially if you have hard floors. Dim the lights and put on some soothing music.
 Put on a comfortable t-shirt and some soft, loose-fitting yoga or pajama pants. Don’t wear anything that will restrict your movements or make you too hot.
 It’s especially important to be mindful of breathing when you are exercising, even during light exercise like stretching or yoga. Controlled breathing can help you reduce stress and reduce your blood pressure.Try regulating your breathing by counting to four while you inhale, and again while you exhale. Breathe in and out through your nose.
Do some abdominal breathing. Place a hand on your belly while you breathe to make sure that it is your abdomen expanding with each breath, rather than your chest. Focusing on abdominal breathing helps you expand your diaphragm fully and get more air into your lungs.
If you’re trying to get ready for bed, avoid breathing exercises that are designed to wake you up, like Nadi Shodhana (“Alternate Nostril Breathing”).
 Meditating for even a few minutes can help rewire your brain and reduce feelings of stress and anxiety. Take a few minutes to meditate before or after your stretching routine, or meditate while you do your stretches.Pick a mantra (either a short, calming phrase or a simple sound, like a hum) to repeat silently or out loud. If you feel your thoughts drifting, take a moment to find your focus again.
 If you find a particular stretch too painful or uncomfortable, move on to something else. The goal is to relax and destress, not hurt yourself.

