 A birth plan includes the logistical details of your child's birth. You will need to decide where in the house you’d like to have the baby, and what hospital you will go to in case of emergency. You also need to consider what kind of home birth you prefer. You might choose a water birth or simply use your bed. Also consider pain management. Will you take medications or use natural methods to manage the labor?Discuss your birth plan with your partner or with a trusted loved one. Your doctor can also advise you on what is needed during birth.
Though many midwives support water births, this method can present risks and is not recommended by all obstetricians., You will need to hire a reputable certified midwife or a certified nurse-midwife to attend the birth. Expect the midwife to assess you and your health before accepting you as a client. You will also need to assess whether he or she is the right midwife for you and your family.Ask the midwife important questions in the interview. Inquire about their experience delivering babies in home. Make sure you check their references before making the final decision.
Discuss the circumstances under which they would suggest a hospital transfer. Ask how the midwife would arrange for a transfer to a hospital. Will they have an ob/gyn who is prepared to accept you at the hospital?Review your birth plan with the midwife. Make sure that the midwife is comfortable with it and that they can accommodate your needs. Don't forget to inquire about postnatal care for both you and your baby.
Midwives come equipped with everything that is needed for delivery. Still, ask your midwife about the amount of extra towels, sheets, or waterproofing bedcovers you will need for the birth.
 Doulas are experts in pain management and provide physical and/or emotional support to the woman giving birth. Doulas will often do prenatal and postnatal visits in addition to attending the birth itself. You can also hire a doula to attend only the birth or assist after the birth.Like midwives, doulas go through a certification process and are trained in assisting pregnant women.
Seek referrals from other women who have worked with doulas, or consult with organizations that specialize in maternity.
Investigate the cost. Doula fees range from $500 to $3,500 depending on the service you request and the area in which you live., Make a list of loved ones that will bring you comfort during your home birth. Don’t overwhelm yourself with guests. You can have someone take pictures or video to show off later.


Avoid distractions during labor. Assign someone to be the contact person who calls everyone on your list.
Arrange for someone to take care of your other children or pets, if you have them.

