 Your body biologically needs around seven to nine hours of sleep on average in order to be fully rested. Without proper sleep, it will cause dark circles around your eyes that will make you look tired. Be sure to plan accordingly to that you can get the proper amount of sleep.Regular sleep deprivation will lead to premature aging over time. Make sure you get your rest.
 If you wake up with a dull, sunken complexion, drink a tall glass of water. Drinking plenty of water helps to naturally restore your skin’s moisture and natural glow. At the minimum, you should be drinking eight, 8oz. glasses of water a day. Dehydration starts on the inside with proper water intake and if you don’t get enough, your skin will look dull, patchy, and dry.


Try keeping a large water bottle at your desk throughout the day and refilling it each time you’re done to encourage you to drink more. Water hydrates our organs and our brain, so we’ll not only feel more awake, but also look it., The sugars that are found in processed foods and candies cause many negative side effects for skin. Sugar causes inflammation which produces enzymes that break down collagen and elastin, resulting in sagging skin and wrinkles. It also causes acne breakouts and makes your skin age faster.
 Eyes are generally the first place to show signs of tiredness. Take preventive steps to keep your eyes healthy and clear, and avoid the itchy red eyes associated with sleep deprivation. If you wear contacts, make sure you clean and store your lenses properly to keep your eyes bright and white., Besides all of the negative health consequences such as cancer and gum disease, smoking takes a huge toll on your skin. It causes your skin to look mottled and even with premature fine lines and wrinkles. It also causes a leathery, rough skin texture because it dries out your skin and breaks down cells., Sunscreen helps to prevent facial brown spots, skin discolorations, the appearance of red veins and blotchiness. It also prevents the development of wrinkles and premature aging skin.








By regularly using sunscreen, you can keep your skin looking young and healthy.

