 For example, if you want to wrap text around a photo or graphic frame, use the "Selection" tool to click the frame. The element you select will be highlighted with a light-blue border and have handles at its corners.;
, Find the palette by going to "Window," and then select "Text Wrap." You can also use the keyboard command "Ctrl+Alt+W" on a PC or "Command+Option+W" on a Mac.
 When the palette opens, click "Wrap Around Bounding Box." It is the second icon from the left at the top of the palette. This enables you to wrap text around all sides of the photo or graphic frame. A dialog box will open, prompting you to enter how far off the frame you want the text to run. You can enter different values for each edge of the frame.
 The "Jump Object" command prevents undesired text wraps along the sides of the frame. Click the "Jump to Next Column" button to force the text to the next leg of type.
 Simply create the display type as a separate item. Select it and utilize the wrap commands as needed.
 Select an object with an irregular shape. It will be highlighted. Click the "Wrap Around Object Shape" button. It is the third icon from the left in the palette. This function offers a single offset value.
 This is a crucial function to learn if you want to wrap type in Indesign.

Select an image with a solid background.






From the main toolbar, click "Object" select "Clipping Path" and then "options".






Use the default settings.






Drag the Threshold setting to the desired level to help create the path. The higher the setting you choose, the wider the range of pixel removal.






Manipulate the Tolerance setting to dictate the path's detail. Higher settings make the path less accurate but smoother.






Enter a value in the "Inset Frame" field. This is a single offset value.






Choose the "Include Inside Edges" command to make paths inside the image. You might need to adjust the Tolerance setting for the program to select these spaces.






Save your path, click "ok". Now you're ready to wrap type around this object.


Select the image if the illustration you're using has a clipping path on it. Click the "Wrap Around Object Shape" button.






Select "Show Options" from the palette menu.






Choose the "Same As Clipping" option under the "Contour Options" at the bottom of the dialog box.






Enter the value you want the text to bounce off the object.







