 Get a bunch of white, rectangular Lego blocks. They can be whatever size you choose. Build your igloo on top of a corresponding white Lego mat. Create a circle base and then gradually move the cubes inward until you have a dome. No adhesive is necessary unless you are worried about stability., Freeze an assortment of ice cubes from full-size to quarter-size in an ice tray. Remove the cubes and position them in a circle on your platform. Use a combination of salt and water to make the cubes adhere to one another as you build upwards. Periodically freeze the entire structure for added stability. When the structure is completed, coat it with a thin layer of a salt-water mixture. Re-freeze.The salt works as an adhesive by partially melting the cubes together. Then, by placing them in the freezer, you freeze them together.
 Collect a number of clean, plastic milk jugs. Using a hot glue gun, attach the jugs by the handles on top of the circle that you’ve drawn as your foundation. Then, continue to stagger the jugs as you make your way towards the top of your dome. You can also cut the jugs and place them together like puzzle-pieces for added stability.It isn’t necessary to throw the milk caps away. You can use them as decorations either on top of your dome or around it.
 Get a bag of mini, regular, or jumbo-sized marshmallows. Start building up from the base by creating a marshmallow ring. Connect the marshmallows using frosting or cold glue. If you use frosting, it is a good idea to freeze your final creation for added stability. You can also insert toothpicks at various points in the structure to serve as an added framework.If you want your igloo to be edible, stick with marshmallows, icing, and straight pretzel sticks for support.
 Gather a number of intact packing peanuts. Dip each peanut on the side in water before attaching it to the igloo. The water serves as an adhesive. However, be careful as too much water will also break down the peanuts and reduce them to mush., To create this type of igloo, you will want to cut out rectangular “blocks” beforehand. Make sure that the blocks are relatively uniform in shape and size. You may want a number of smaller blocks to use around the door area. Build up the igloo by layering the blocks on top of one another and connecting them using hot glue or heavy tape.