 A shirt dress is a dress that looks something like a longer t-shirt. This can be great for a casual beach look. You can go for a looser, flowing shirt dress. You can also opt for something like a button-down shirt dress that will be more form-fitting.Shirt dresses come in a variety of different styles and patterns. Choose a fun pattern you like, like stripes or leopard print.;
, A sarong is a long, loose-fitted piece of fabric you can style in a variety of ways. A sarong is great because it provides versatility. You can tie the sarong differently for different looks throughout your day at the beach.You can create a loose dress with a sarong by wrapping it around your chest. Then, take the two ends and tie them around your neck to secure the sarong, creating what sort of resembles a halter top.
Try tying two ends of the sarong around your chest. Then, wrap the rest of the sarong around your body a few times. Tie the ends together when you run out of fabric to create a form-fitted dress.
 A caftan is a long, loose flowing dress. It can work great for a beach cover if you want something less revealing. It's easy to throw a caftan on over a damp swimsuit if you want to go out for lunch or do some shopping.Caftans can come in solid colors or patterns. You can choose any design caftan that works for your style.
As caftans are big enough to cover your entire suit, it's not necessary to match your caftan with your suit's color or design.
 When it comes to dressed, you have many different options if you go this route as a cover up. A variety of longer, looser dresses can work great for a cover at the beach.A crepe dress is a lightweight dress that comes in a variety of bright colors. It can be great over a damp suit, as it allows your suit to dry as you walk along the beach.
Try a convertable dress. These dresses can either be worn as a full dress or a skirt. If you're unsure whether you want full coverage, bring a convertable dress to the beach.
A maxi-dress is always a nice choice for the beach. It can easily be slipped on and off and will cover your suit.
Try a sundress. This is a fitting style for a summer day that can be slipped on over your swimsuit.
 A romper can easily fit over a swimsuit. It is also slightly more form-fitted than dresses. If you choose a romper, choose a lightweight material that will let your swimsuit dry underneath.The one downside to a romper is they can be somewhat cumbersome. It can be difficult to take them on and off and go to the bathroom.

