 Any time you do something you truly love, it probably brings joy to your heart and brightens your day. Actively schedule time every day or every weekend to do something you love so that you can be joyful and reduce stress.Check you list of things that bring you joy and figure out where you can fit them in your schedule. This may require actively carving out time in your day, even if it is only for 10 minutes, to do some yoga poses or grab a cup of coffee and read the paper.
Make sure to devote ample time to thing you love on days you have no responsibilities or commitments. The relaxation and joy from that day can easily carry over into days where you are feeling blue or stressed.
 Not only can you find joy in things you already love, but you may also in a new hobby. The learning process can bring you joy and happiness.Try out something you’ve always wanted to do. It could be something like skydiving, doing ballet, kayaking, or creating pottery. Give yourself a few weeks to see if you really love it and if it brings you joy. If you find out it isn’t what you thought, you can always try out something else.
Use your new hobby to meet new people, who may also help you be joyful.
 Having time to yourself is important for your physical and mental health. “Me time” can help you relax, improve your concentration, allow you to have some self-discovery, and enhance your relationships. Allow yourself to indulge in alone time to reap its benefits, including joyfulness.Use your me time to do things you love that bring you joy. This can be as simple as reading a book or even enjoying some solitary running or kayaking in the woods.
Tell someone who asks to go along that you would like to go alone that day. Be nice about it by saying something like, “I’d love for you to go with me, Anna, but I’ve had a really stressful week and need to decompress by myself a bit. I'd be happy to go with you another time, though.”
Pamper yourself during your me time. Remember that your me time is meant to bring you joy, including by reducing your stress. You can pamper yourself in a variety of ways such as getting a massage or letting someone fill your gas at the station.
 Allow yourself to buy or do something you’ve really wanted for a while. This might be something as simple as a sundae if you’re dieting, getting yourself a jazzy new pair of shoes, or going on an exotic vacation.


Avoid treating yourself too often. Treating yourself too frequently makes it less of a "treat" and can also cause financial problems.
Consider allowing yourself small treats on a daily basis if you need the pick me up. This could be something such as having a mini candy bar or taking the elevator instead of the stairs.
 A nice way to treat and pamper yourself is by going to a restaurant. Having a great meal and attentive service in a cozy environment can help you relax and be joyful. Go to your meal alone or invite your family and/or friends. Order something you love or be a little adventurous and try something new. Make sure to top off the night with a dessert that you love.
 Just as it’s important to have “me” time, it’s just as vital to your happiness to spend time with your family and friends. Giving a little time to the ones you love can relax you and bring joy to you — and them.Do activities that you and your family and friends enjoy. This could be going to happy hour or dinner, talking a walk or vacation together, or even just talking on the phone for a few minutes.
Be aware that it is more important to spend more time with your loved ones than it is to have “me” time. This allows you to connect to them and experience joy in different ways than simply finding it on your own.
 Do you ever find yourself thinking about that good friend from school or work with whom you’ve lost contact? Find a way to get in contact with the person and you may find she was also thinking about you. Talking to the person and getting together can bring both of you a lot of joy.Find a clever way to contact the person. With social media, it’s often very easy. For example, you could send an old photo of yourself with the person and say, “Remember this? I’ve been thinking about you a lot.” Don’t discount simply calling the person, either.
Avoid forcing the friendship. Friendships are never something that should leave you running after another person. You may also find that you need to have a new type of friendship with the person because people do change over time.

