 Showing, rather than telling, means you immerse the reader in the world of the story through scene, dialogue, setting, and character. Simply telling or explaining an emotion or scene to a reader is usually not very effective. Showing the scene or emotion will ensure the reader is engaged in the story.For example, rather than tell the reader that a character felt sad, describe how the character looks and sounds using sensory details. You may write, “Tears dotted her cheeks,” to convey the character is sad.
 A cliche is a phrase that has become so familiar it no longer has meaning. Avoiding cliche characters in your writing will only make it stronger and more engaging. Focus on creating characters that feel particular and unique to you. Express your unique perspective through your fiction so it stands out on the page.For example, rather than have a cliche male character who is the star quarterback with the perfect smile as your main character in a high school setting, have a male character who is bad at sports and has bad teeth. Or, model the character on someone you know who is unique and particular so the character is as well.
 Another key craft element in fiction writing is dialogue. Do not have dialogue simply for the sake of having something for your characters to say. Dialogue should always build character and move the story forward.For example, dialogue like “Hi” or “How are you?” do not really move the story along or provide character. Instead, dialogue like “You’re late, friend,” or “What have you done?” is more engaging and action driven.
 To improve your craft, read the masters of craft. Seek out fiction writers who are known for well crafted storytelling. Read and study the ways in which they tell a story. Borrow from them and make their approach your own.For example, you may read The Best American Short Stories anthology to improve your approach to writing short fiction.
Other master storytellers worth reading include Joyce Carol Oates, Toni Morrison, Virginia Woolf, Margaret Atwood, and Don DeLillo.
You can also read books by writers on the craft of writing, such as Stephen King’s On Writing or Somebody With a Little Hammer by Mary Gaitskill.

