 Gift boxes are a slightly nicer option for money box material and so can be ideal for making a wedding box--the box into which guests can put checks, money, cards, etc. at a wedding reception. This particular design mimics the look of a tiered wedding cake or a stack of gifts.


Choose three gift boxes (or whatever number you prefer). The boxes you choose can be square or round, depending on your own preference or the wedding theme.
The boxes should be in descending size, in order to create what will appear to be a stack.
 The box you choose is up to you; the top box will be easier for people to see, while the middle box will be larger.


The placement of the slot depends on how you're decorating the box and what you think will be more visually pleasing.
Use a ruler and marker to trace out a rectangular shape either on the lid or side of the top box or on the side of the middle box. The rectangle should be slim but both long and wide enough to accommodate long envelopes.
Cut out a neat rectangle shape. Use a craft knife to cut out the rectangle shape to form an envelope slot. A craft knife is preferable over scissors, which will leave ragged edges.
 Use a ruler to measure length and width or each side of each gift box.Write down the dimensions of each.
 Using the measurements for reference, lay the paper or fabric upside down on a flat surface.


Trace the dimensions of each side of each box onto the paper or fabric. If necessary, label the outlines so you’ll know which box they belong to.
 Spread a thin layer of glue on the back of each cutout and attach it to the corresponding part of each box.


When the glue has dried, Cut away the paper or fabric covering the envelope slot with a craft knife. If the slot has ragged edges, cover the edges with ribbon.
 Use any ribbon, lace, tulle, etc. you like to put the final decorative touches on the box.


Add a message underneath the money slot, saying something simple, such as "Thank You" or "Kaitlin and Rob, 2015."

, Place the largest box at the base, place the next largest on top, then place the smallest on top.


Secure them in place with glue.
You can optionally also tie a wide, quality ribbon around the entire stack, finishing it with a large bow on the top box to make it resemble a stack of gifts.
Place your wedding box on the table where gifts will be received. Those giving money gifts can discreetly drop their money gift into the money box through the slot.

