 Since time consultants are generally hired by larger organizations, they will be heavily vetted based initially on education and then on experience, a track record of excellence. The type of undergraduate degree you choose can greatly enhance your future career in productivity consulting in several fields:


For educational consulting, consider a degree in childhood development, counseling, occupational therapy or education. You can be hired to help teachers to engage students, and to help children to gain learning skills, making them more productive.
For business consulting, consider a degree in business administration, occupational therapy or psychology, with a minor in a business field.
For manufacturing and building, choose an engineering field, if you are able in math and analytical problem solving skills. Also, be involved in product development, construction architecture, design engineering, industrial engineering, technology, production, processing, technical writing, publishing,...;
, Often productivity consultants hold an MBA. With this degree, you can be expected to understand the business environment and how people interact in that setting.


For consulting in the academic setting, you can pursue a master's degree in student counseling or educational psychology. In some programs, you can create a master's thesis with your own focus. Choose a degree that stresses student centered productivity and types of learning skills, to become an expert in an institutional setting.

Seek a job in a university, community college or high school counseling setting. If you want to follow an educational path, you should apply for jobs working directly with students. Give preference to jobs where you work with people's study habits, such as designing study schedule materials for a person's individual needs.
Be trained and paid as a Graduate student "Time Management and Study Strategies Consultant" at the campus student center (SC), library resource center (LRC) or academic resource center (ARC), etc. Free training sources: you will be selected and trained as a qualified graduate student, in diverse disciplines (primarily in the fields of education, child development, and occupational therapy) and varied backgrounds (international students, speaking English as a second language, first-generation college students, and students who may themselves have learning or attentional disabilities). The team of TM&SS graduate consultants form a dedicated, cohesive, and diverse corps.
 A productivity consultant's resume should be able to show that using your highly efficient work style has led to success. Gather a list of successes, whether they are your clients increases in sales, their promotions or gaining new clients.


Seek work experience where you can make presentations regularly to colleagues and managers. The confidence gained from speaking in a group setting will be invaluable later on.
 Enroll in classes taught by working consultants, to get an idea of how their sessions are conducted and what they offer. Try a handful of these sessions in different professional settings. They may hire and train you for free, because you fit their own needs and plans.
 Many time management consultants become keynote speakers, inspirational trainers, and group training session leaders. If you do not have speaking experience already, sign up for a local Toastmasters Club and perform some long presentations.
 You should come up with an original plan and your presentation that can be implemented in a wide variety of business settings. Most time management consultants have separate strategies to present to individuals from those that are presented for company-specific needs.
 It might will be necessary to begin to work in a part-time capacity as a time management consultant in conjunction with other services: accounting, engineering management, related employment agency, efficient temporaries, efficient debt collections,...


File business structure documents with your Secretary of State and County Clerk. You may choose to be a sole proprietor or form a partnership or corporation.
File a fictitious name certificate or "doing business as" (DBA) form. You should name your business in a way that helps people identify what you offer. For example, "Productivity Services," "Efficiency Experts, Inc," or something similar.
Apply for a business license in your state. In most locales, you are required to become a licensed business consultant in order to make money in your business.
 You will need a website, business cards, letterhead and presentation aids. Make sure you use a logo and branding that is constant throughout these materials. Offer training such as for:


"Team Efficiency - Group Training" --- "Build Team Enthusiasm by Focusing - Removing Blocks of Productivity"
"Get Sustainable Results - With Your Philosophy" --- "Control Your Email - Using Automated Systems" --- "Learn from Background Chatter or Noise - Increase Creativity and Productivity"
"Learn Productivity Tricks - Form Success Habits" --- "Responsible Emotions Management - Keeping Cool Under Stress"
"Identify Your Goals - Find Inspiration and Pursue Them" --- "Personal Productivity - Executive Training"

, Try a number of the following options to gain credibility for your business. Be a: Certified Professional Organizer® and become active in the National Association of Professional Organizers (NAPO) and local area NAPO, as well as in the American Society for Training and Development (ASTD).


Write a catchy book. Create an ebook or a paperback business book that names some strategies for particular industries, for instance. You can sell this book or give it to potential clients to convince them of your value to an organization.
Start a productivity blog. Regular blogging allows you to show that you are an expert. Offer small snippets of valuable information in your posts, and professionals and businesses may come to you.
Earn a teaching fellowship while finishing your master's degree.
Be an instructor at a local business school. This credential will prove that you can teach adults. This may be something you can do while you offer consulting services.
Speak at conventions. Market yourself to business conventions throughout your area or the country. As a time management consultant, your skills can apply to almost any industry, so you can develop a large market. You may want to study specific industries in order to offer industry-specific solutions.
Start a professional time management organization or group. Create a website or a meeting for your industry. Since the productivity industry remains open and unregulated, you may establish yourself as a leader in the industry.
Write expert articles for journals, magazines and websites. Many professions could use time management advice, so make a press kit and offer your services to radio talk shows, local news stations and print or online media.
 Since the modern working environment is always changing, you should change with it. For example, one-third of American workers are now working from home, and they need advice that works for the relaxed, distracting home business setting.


Consider forcing all B priority tasks either "To do: A" or "Get around to: C" priority.




Set short, medium and long-term goals -- Work in priority order, goal focused, purposeful ("Let gravity help set some goals" - Tasks that attract/need actions)
Get on task -- Set cell phone To-do list, multiple calendar alarms as reminders (Sometimes a list of priority tasks, jobs or sales appointments is kept by a production coordinator, staff member, receptionist or clerk.)
Manage/Coordinate production jobs/projects -- Schedule on spreadsheet; job or project board
Look ahead and predict events -- Using appropriate, frequent reviews
Keep track of the big picture items -- Managing company policy in smaller areas
Make trusted policy choices -- Ensuring what you "can do, in any given moment"
Expect "unexpected" events -- Manage emergency planning and preparedness
Motivate applying productivity policy -- Get decisions, check back and "celebrate examples!"

,