 Set it to public to optimize your job search. Treat this as a forum for your resume, so fill out your job information completely. Use first person instead of third, particularly in writing your summary section.Use the summary section to list specific types of experience you have, rather than as a general statement of your background. This will make your profile much more searchable. Create a custom URL for your public profile by changing the URL to https://www.linkedin.com/in/yourname (or some similar, simple variation on your name if somebody is already using it).Go to "Edit Profile" and then "Settings" for your URL link, and change it from there.
Don't include buzzwords. Unlike your resume, buzzwords will actually hurt your presence on LinkedIn because it will make you less searchable. LinkedIn periodically releases lists of the most overused words on the platform, reference these to know what to avoid - including words like "motivated," "driven," and "passionate."

, For people in creative professions, this provides an easily-accessible, visual overview of their work. For those in other professions, it's an easy way to control your online presence and impress a potential employer should they search for you online. There are many online portfolio services that are free or charge a low fee, including Behance.com, Carbonmade, and others. Even Wordpress has many portfolio layouts available.


Include research, publications, and reports. This can be anything from academic papers to work-related reports.
Post testimonials and letters of recommendation. Upload copies or screenshots of any positive feedback you've received from employers, mentors, professors, and so on. , Attend events, communicate with your existing network, and actively seek to make new connections, especially in the field you work in or would like to work in. This will give you greater visibility in your field and your area.


Attend networking events through sites such as meetup.com and LinkedIn Events. Look for professional groups or associations that are local to your city, and gain membership. Consider attending trade shows, conferences, and alumni events. Come up with a basic speech or paragraph summarizing your background and who you are. Make sure that it's short and sounds natural. Use this summary in conversation when you attend events, and in emails or messages as you seek to build professional contacts.