 To start writing the kanji for "suki", begin by drawing a vertical line from top-to-bottom that leans to the left. Then, change the direction it's moving in, so that the line, while still vertical, is directing towards the right.
 The second stroke in the kanji is somewhat similar to writing a "fu" in katakana (フ), so imitate the stroke order and simply stretch it out.
 To the right of the symbol you just wrote will be an imitation of the kanji 子, but smaller.


Start by drawing a horizontal line, going from left to right. Then make a sharp diagonal angle back inwards, stopping when your pen or pencil is perpendicular to the center of the horizontal line. Continue writing, but vertically, until you reach the bottom of the line you're writing on; once the line is that long, curve it back upwards a small amount.






Where the diagonal line becomes vertical, draw a horizontal line going from left to right.
 The "ki" sound in 好き isn't connected to the kanji like one might expect - rather, the kanji is simply for the "su" sound, and hiragana is used for the "ki" sound. Writing き should be easy enough if you've practiced it enough times, however.


Write a short horizontal line, going from left to right.






Underneath the first line, write a slightly longer horizontal line. Again, go from left to right.






Starting above the center of the shorter horizontal line, draw a vertical line that slopes slightly to the right. After you've crossed both horizontal lines, swoop the line to the left and curve it back to the right, stopping once you're about a third of the way from connecting to the vertical line.
, To begin writing the kanji for "ai", start between the center and the top of the line and draw a slightly curved line, going from left to right.
 Underneath your first stroke for the kanji, write three short, slightly tilted lines.


Start with the leftmost dash, and write from top to bottom. This dash starts slightly to the left of where the first stroke started, and it doesn't matter whether it connects to your first stroke or not.






Continue to the center dash. This dash is written exactly like the previous one, except it's centered rather than to the left.






Move to the rightmost dash. This stroke is also top to bottom, but is diagonal going from right to left rather than left to right.
 Underneath and to the left of the three dashes, write a slightly diagonal line going from top to bottom. This dash should be short.
 Starting next to the top of the dash you just wrote, write a straight line, then "hook" it back around once it's longer than the first stroke you made (the curved line).
 To the left of the hooked line, draw a slightly diagonal dash going from top to bottom. The dash should be going left to right.
 Next to the dash you just wrote, draw a line that hooks upwards, going from left to right. It should be shorter than the first hooked line.
 Above the center of the hooked line, draw a diagonal, slightly curved dash going from left to right. The dash should be extremely short.
 To the right of your second hooked line, draw a diagonal dash that tips from left to right. Write it from top to bottom.
 Underneath and to the left of the second hooked line, write a short stroke resembling a dash. It should tip from right to left.
 Starting where the last dash started, write "fu" (フ) in katakana and lengthen the lower stroke until it's about the length of the stroke it's connected to.
 Starting halfway down the stroke written before the previous one, write a curved line going from left to right. The stroke should end where the previous stroke curves.
, The first stroke in the kanji for "koi" is a simple short line, centered above where the rest of the kanji will be written. This line is drawn diagonally from top to bottom.
 The next stroke is a horizontal line that is much longer than the line you initially drew. It should converge with your first stroke, and goes from left to right.


If you're having trouble getting it to look right, think of it as drawing a flat lid to a jar. The short vertical stroke (the "handle") will be in the center, connecting with the actual "lid" (the horizontal stroke) of the jar.
 Starting from the top and writing vertically, create a line curving out to the left. This line will be under the horizontal line you wrote before, and to the left of where the first stroke ends.
 Parallel to where your curved line started, write a vertical line from top to bottom. Once the line is at a certain length, create a short, sharp angle that goes diagonally and to the left.
 To the left of the curved line, write a quick dash from top to bottom that's roughly perpendicular to the curved line. The dash should bend outwards, similar to the curved line next to it.
 From top to bottom, write a diagonal dash next to the angled line. This dash extends out to the left and looks like it's somewhat close to being horizontal.
 Below all the aforementioned lines, write a slightly diagonal dash starting from top to bottom. The line should curve out to the left, but only slightly so.
 Starting from the left, write a stroke that looks somewhat like a hook. The "hook" should be slightly diagonal so that the curved section becomes the lowest part of the kanji.
 Above the hook and centered between the two lines in the middle of the kanji, write a small, U-shaped curve.
 The last stroke of the kanji is simply a slightly curved line, similar to the one above where it should be written. It should be written from left to right, and rest slightly above and off to the side of the "hook" that was written earlier.
