 When your dog first starts experiencing diarrhea, stop feeding them for between twelve and twenty-four hours. This will prevent further episodes. If they keep having diarrhea after you have taken the food away, or they are vomiting, contact your vet.


If you have a puppy, only fast them for twelve hours. You can place a little bit of pancake syrup on their gums to make sure that they are getting a little bit of energy., If they can keep their food down or if you have already fasted the dog, you should try giving them plain, cooked foods. These foods should not be spiced, greasy, or processed. Some foods you can give your dog include:


Boiled and shredded chicken mixed with rice
Banana baby foodMashed pumpkin, Digestive issues can often dehydrate a dog, especially if they are vomiting or having diarrhea. Make sure your dog is drinking plenty of fresh water. Change the water at least twice a day. If your dog is not drinking, try leading them to the bowl or placing the bowl near them to encourage them to drink.Give the dog small amounts of water. Too much water at one time can cause them to vomit.Add a little bit of water to whatever food you give them. This can help hydrate them as they eat.
 If the dog is drinking too much water at once, they may start vomiting. This will only increase their dehydration. If you suspect this is the case with your dog, give them ice chips instead. The dog will suck on the ice chip slowly.


Try freezing Gatorade ice cubes to help restore the electrolytes your dog has lost by vomiting.
If the dog has not vomited for four hours, you can reintroduce small amounts of water. Start by giving half a cup of water, and monitor them to see if they can keep it down., If the dog is having trouble keeping food down or if they are dehydrated, you can give them Pedialyte to restore electrolytes and vitamins to their system. You can use unflavored Pedialyte bought at the drugstore or animal-friendly powder mix bought found at a farming store.If you bought powder, you can mix it with water according to the instructions on the packet.
If the dog is able to keep water down, you can add Pedialyte, Gatorade, or meat broth (with no onion or garlic) to their water bowl. Dilute the liquid with an equal amount of water., If the dog is not eating or drinking at all, you may have to feed them Pedialyte with a syringe. Fill the needleless syringe with Pedialyte, and place it between their gums and cheek on one side of their mouth. Gently press out the liquid into their mouth. It is highly advised that you get your vet to show you the proper method to do this, as sick dogs are likelier to choke or aspirate on the food., If you think that the dog has consumed a petroleum based product — such as gasoline, motor oil, or lighter fluid — or if they have swallowed a cleaning product — like antibacterial spray or laundry detergent — give them a tablespoon or two of cooking oil. Contact an emergency vet immediately. Do not induce vomiting.