 Children like to mimic and mirror what their parents do. If they see you really interested in something science-related, they will also be interested. If you’re watching a science show, have them join you and explain what the show is talking about., Don’t try to force a certain type of science on your child. If they’re particularly interested in nature or the weather, foster that curiosity. Provide them with more information specific to their interests.If your kid really likes bugs, go on a bug hunt and see how many different types you can find.
 If your child really likes dinosaurs, go to the library and get some books about dinosaurs or visit a natural history museum. Resources are accessible everywhere. Simply going online and finding information on what they like can give you ideas for easy and free activities.


Help them find out information on their own as well. Guide them to resources and let them discover from there.
 Kids have lots of questions, but it’s important to try to answer them in ways better than “that’s just the way it is.” Provide an explanation and then encourage a discussion afterward. Reward their curiosity with the information that they crave.If you don’t know the answer, say “That’s a great question that I don’t know the answer to. Let’s find out together!” Then, go to the library or search online to find the answer.
 Try to avoid asking questions that have a simple “yes” or “no” answer. Ask questions that make your child think about the answer. Ask them “how do you feel about…?”, “what do you think will happen if we do…?”, “why do you think this happened…?” These type of questions encourage your child to develop their ideas and how they feel about something.These questions don’t have to have a right or wrong answer, they just need to make your child consider their thoughts before answering.
 When you are out and about, point to things and ask your child questions about them. If you see a bird, ask what color it is. If you are looking at the leaves of a tree, count the number of points on each leaf. Compare different things, asking them “what’s different about these two things?”


After you have been somewhere, ask them questions about where you were to encourage them to constantly observe their surroundings. Ask questions like, “What interesting things did you notice at the park?” or, “How many cats did you see at grandma’s house?”, When they are trying something new or experimenting, it is important to let them make mistakes and not correct everything along the way. Sometimes it is hard to let them fail, but it’s necessary to their learning process. If they make a mistake, they will figure out how to correct it and they will remember the lesson better than if you told them how to do it.If they ask for your help, guide them towards the solution instead of directly telling them how to do it. Ask them, “How do you think you should do this?” or, “What order do you think we should do these things?”

