 Also make sure it is 6 inches away from other kitchen appliances such as microwaves, toaster ovens, and coffee machines. This way, the cooker’s heat will be able to dissipate., This way you can avoid cross contamination. Also, store your meat and vegetables separately in the refrigerator if you decide to prep them ahead of time, like the night before.You may need to chop large cuts of meat into smaller pieces before placing them in the cooker. Make sure to consult your instruction manual.
 You want to do this because vegetables cook slower than meat. Then place your meat on top of the vegetables and pour broth or water over the ingredients per the instructions.Make sure your cooker is halfway to three-quarters full before cooking. However, do not overfill your cooker with food.
 Depending on how fast you want it to cook, place the cooker on the low or high setting. The low setting will cook your food in about 8 to 10 hours, while the high setting will cook it in about 4 to 6 hours.If possible, cook your food on the high setting for the first hour then switch it to the low setting if you are using the low setting to cook your food. However, it is ok if this is not possible.
If you are going to work, it is better to cook your food on a low setting for a longer amount of time than on a high setting for a shorter amount of time that uses a timer to turn it off automatically once it is done cooking., Do this once your food is done cooking. This way you can ensure that your food is cooked through.Beef, steak, lamb, veal, roasts and seafood need to have an internal temperature of at least 145 degrees Fahrenheit (62.8 degrees Celsius), however 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71.1 degrees Celsius) is ideal.
Poultry, stuffing, casseroles, stews, soups, and sauces need to have an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit (73.9 degrees Celsius) to be safe for consumption.
 Do this once you have determined that your food is cooked through. After you are done eating, turn off the cooker and unplug it from the wall. Then transfer the leftovers to tupperware and store them in the fridge.Make sure to store your food within two hours after turning off the cooker.

