 The EPA is the main federal agency tasked with enforcing federal environmental laws. Examples of laws the EPA enforces include the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Clean Air Act. If you see or hear of a corporation polluting water resources or air resources, among other things, contact the EPA as soon as possible. To identify pollution, look for drilling, dumping, discharges, leaks, and gas being dispersed into the air. Take pictures of anything you see and document things in as much detail as possible.


After you document the pollution, fill out an EPA complaint form. You can find and submit the complaint online on the EPA's website. Within the complaint form you should identify yourself as well as the alleged polluter. Include the polluter's business, identity, and contact information if you have it available. You will also need to characterize the pollution and describe it in as much detail as possible.After you file your complaint, you may be contacted for more information if the EPA finds your allegations credible. The EPA will conduct an investigation that might lead to administrative actions, civil judicial actions, or even criminal actions.While filing a complaint with the EPA is an easy process, it is not always effective. The EPA does not have the budget to investigate and enforce every single instance of pollution, which is why you might need to take your complaint elsewhere to make sure it is heard.;
, If the federal government chooses not to listen, or if you think you will have better success alleging a corporation polluted in violation of state law, then you should contact the state agency in charge of enforcing environmental laws. Each state's agency should have a complaint process very similar to that of the federal government.


For example, in Illinois, you can visit the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency website and submit a complaint online. The online form will ask you to fill out your personal information, as well as any information about the corporation you believe is polluting. You will then describe the pollution you see, which might include industrial emissions, open dumping, discharges into waterways, or odors coming from farms. To complete the complaint form, you will write a detailed description of what you saw, when you saw it, and if any person or property was damaged., If you want to take matters into your own hands, you can write a cease and desist letter directly to the polluter. A cease and desist letter is a cautionary letter sent to the polluter describing the pollution and requesting that the corporation stop. The letter also provides notice that legal action will be taken if the pollution does not stop.If you are going to write a cease and desist letter, consider hiring a lawyer to make your letter more official. While you may be able to write one on your own, most corporations will throw it away unless it has some legal force behind it.


If you are writing a cease and desist letter, include the corporations name and contact information at the top. Also, include the attorney's information if you are working with one. In the opening paragraph, explain the evidence you have against the corporation and respectfully request that they stop the polluting activities. In the next paragraph, state that you will bring legal action under a specific law and in a specific court if the pollution doesn't stop.
 If the corporation responds to your cease and desist letter, listen to their response and attempt to settle the dispute before it ever gets to court. Often, a corporation will want to avoid the cost of litigation and will work with you to alleviate your concerns. If an agreement can be reached, be sure you have the corporation sign and commit to a "consent decree." A consent decree is a document that lays out what the corporation must do to fix the pollution problem and when they must do it. The consent decree also states that if the corporation does not follow the requirements they can be sued.


Common requirements within a consent decree include updating treatment facilities, fixing broken infrastructure (e.g., cracked concrete allowing seepage, broken curbs allowing wastewater to flow by), and creating or redrafting a corporate environmental handbook for employees.Be aware that if you enter into a consent decree without getting a court involved, you may be ultimately responsible for ensuring the corporation follows it. This is another situation in which it will be helpful to have a lawyer.
 If you feel like you need to file a lawsuit in order to have the corporation stopped, you will need to find a law to sue under. If you are simply a concerned citizen who has seen the pollution first-hand and felt its effects, you will need to find a law that prohibits corporate pollution while allowing for citizen suits. A citizen suit provision is a piece of a statute empowering citizens to bring lawsuits against polluters when agencies procrastinate or do not take action.A number of federal environmental laws include citizen suit provisions. For example, you can find citizen suit provisions in the Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act., Federal jurisdiction over citizen suits is set by statute. Most federal environmental statutes explicitly state that cases need to be brought in federal court for certain causes of action (e.g., for violations of emissions standards or orders). These statutory bases for federal jurisdiction will help you get into federal court without having to prove citizenship or have a certain amount in controversy., Most federal laws allowing for citizen suits require that you give the EPA Administrator, the state, and the violator at least 60 days notice telling them you plan to bring legal action.These provisions are meant to give the polluter an opportunity to come into compliance with the law (i.e., stop polluting and clean up their mess), and to give the EPA notice in case they want to be involved in the action.


Check with your lawyer or federal law for more information about providing adequate notice. In general, you should provide each required party with a written letter stating your intent to bring legal action and that the letter is meant to serve as the required 60 day notice.
 When you file a lawsuit, you have to file it in the proper venue. In federal environmental statutes, the proper venue is almost always the judicial district where the polluting source is.For example, if you found a corporate polluter dumping water into the ocean in Los Angeles, California, you would have to bring your lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California., Courts require plaintiffs to have standing in order to bring a lawsuit. This requirement ensures that courts are only hearing actual controversies between two parties where the plaintiff has actually been injured. Therefore, before you will be able to bring a federal lawsuit to stop the corporate polluter, you will have to show that (1) there has been an injury, (2) the defendant's pollution caused the injury, and (3) there is redressability, which means the court could remedy the violation.
 If you pass all the tests and you are able to sue in federal court claiming that a corporation has polluted, you will start the litigation process by drafting a complaint. A complaint is a legal document that tells the court and defendant why you are suing and what you are seeking. The complaint will be the basis for your lawsuit and must include:A caption, which includes information about the parties and the court you are filing in.
An explanation of jurisdiction and venue. For your case, you will explain that you are filing a citizen suit provision and that the statute dictates where the case must be filed.
A description of your lawsuit, which will include a brief statement of facts along with a citation to the law you are suing under.
A request for relief where you will ask the court to make a certain determination and award a certain amount of money.
 A summons form notifies the defendant that they are being sued and requests that they respond. In federal court, the summons form can usually be found on the court's website or by visiting the court in-person. Once you find the form, all you will have to do is fill in the defendant's name and the number of days they have to respond. The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, available online, will tell you how long the defendant has to respond.Each law may have different time requirements, but generally the defendant will have to respond within about 30 days.
 When you complete your complaint and summons, take the originals, plus at least two copies, to the federal courthouse and file them with the clerk of courts. The clerk will check your documents and make sure everything is in order. Once approved, you will be required to pay a filing fee of $400. If you cannot afford the filing fee, you can file a motion to have the fee waived.


If you pay the filing fee, you will immediately have your documents stamped "filed" and you will receive an official summons form from the court.
If you filed a motion to have the fee waived, you will need to wait for the judge to rule on your motion before you can move forward. Once the judge approves of the fee waiver, your documents will be stamped "filed" and you will receive an official summons., You must notify the defendant that a suit has been filed naming them as the defendant. To do this, you must serve them with a copy of your complaint and summons. Find an individual over the age of 18 who is unrelated to the case to give the documents to the corporation in-person or through the mail. Service must be completed within 120 days of filing the lawsuit.


Because you are serving a corporation (i.e., not a person), you will need to serve the lawsuit on the corporation's "registered agent." A registered agent is someone who is authorized to accept service on behalf of the corporation. To find the corporation's registered agent, contact your state's secretary of state., Once the defendant corporation receives your complaint, they will most likely respond by filing an answer and serving it on you. An answer is a legal document responding to each of the allegations made in your complaint. In addition, the defendant's answer might include counter-complaints, which are like mini-lawsuits filed against you if the defendant things they have a cause of action.


Read the defendant's answer carefully as it will give you clues about how the defendant plans to fight the case. Talk with your lawyer about how to proceed after getting the defendant's answer.
 During discovery, each party will exchange information about the case in order to prepare for trial. You will be able to talk with witnesses, gather documents, take pictures, and see what the other side is going to say at trial. To achieve these discovery goals you can use the following tools:Depositions, which are formal interviews with witnesses and parties conducted under oath.
Interrogatories, which are written questions that a witness or party must answer under oath.
Requests for documents, which are written requests to the defendant asking them to hand over documents not otherwise available.
Requests for admission, which are written statements the defendant must admit or deny.
 As soon as discovery concludes, the defendant corporation will likely file a motion for summary judgment. If successful, the court will end the litigation immediately and rule in the defendant's favor. In order to win, the defendant will have to show there is no genuine issue of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the defendant has to persuade the court that even if every assumption was made in your favor, you would still lose at trial.


You can defend against this motion by submitting affidavits and evidence to the court showing that there are disputed facts that need to be settled at trial. If you are successful, the litigation will continue., Before trial starts, you might want to consider trying to settle the case. Trials can be time consuming and expensive. Start by sitting down with the defendant and discussing the case and what you would consider an agreeable outcome. Listen to the defendant and see if an agreement can be made. If informal negotiation methods don't work, try the following:


Mediation, which involves bringing in a neutral third party to try and find common ground in order to reach an agreement. The third party will not take sides and will not make opinions about the case.
Arbitration, which involves bringing in a judge-like third party to review the case and draft an opinion. The arbitrator will listen to each party's story and will then draft an opinion and take sides.
 If a settlement cannot be reached, you and the defendant corporation will attend one final pretrial hearing in order to set the trial schedule. You and the defendant will sit down with the judge and discuss every issue that needs to be resolved. The judge will then make a road-map of the trial including timelines.Be sure you mention every issue in dispute during this meeting. If you neglect to raise an issue here, you may not be able to raise it at trial.
 If you invoked your right to a jury trial in your complaint, you will choose the jury before the trial starts in a process called "voire dire." During voire dire you will have the opportunity to question potential jurors about the issues in the case in order to find out if they are biased. If you think a potential juror is biased, you can ask the court to have them removed. Once a jury is chosen, they will be paneled and the trial will begin.


If you waived your right to a jury trial, all the factual determinations will be made by the court., The trial will begin with you making an opening statement. An opening statement is an opportunity for you to tell the court your story as well as give an outline of the trial. You should tell the court in very plain terms why you are going to win. Do not make the opening statement very long and never introduce evidence or other important pieces of the puzzle here.


When your opening statement is complete, the defendant will have an opportunity to do the same. However, some defendants may choose to hold their opening remarks until after you have presented your case.
 When you present your case you will call witnesses to the stand and introduce testimony, as well as physical evidence, through them. You will ask them questions about the alleged corporate pollution until you get the answers you want. Once you are done asking each witness questions, the defendant will have an opportunity to cross-examine them., When you have rested and presented your entire case, the defendant will have an opportunity to present their case. After each witness they question, you will have an opportunity to cross-examine them. When you cross-examine a witness you are trying to poke holes in their testimony. For example, if the defendant claims they never discharged any sewage into a a river, but you have a picture that said they did, you would present that., When the defendant is done presenting their case, you will close the trial out by making a closing argument. A closing argument is your opportunity to bring everything full-circle and emphasize all of the great evidence you presented. Be clear that your evidence proves the defendant polluted and that the case should be decided in your favor.


The defendant will have an opportunity to make a closing argument when you are done. Once the defendant makes their closing argument, the trial is complete.
 When the trial is complete the fact-finder (i.e., judge or jury) will take a moment to review the case and analyze the evidence. When the fact-finder comes to a conclusion, they will present the verdict in court. If you win, the defendant will probably be required to pay damages and fix the pollution problem. If you lose, the defendant will not have to do anything., When you take on a polluting corporation in both legal and non-legal battles, you should hire a lawyer to help whenever possible. A lawyer will be able to forcefully draft a cease and desist letter, negotiate a settlement, and navigate the legal process. To hire a lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. When you contact them, they will ask you a series of questions about your case and you will be put in contact with qualified lawyers in your area.


Be sure you look for a lawyer who specializes in federal environmental litigation, especially citizen suit provisions.
 There are a number of nonprofit organizations out there with missions to protect the environment from pollution. Most of these nonprofits even have legal teams that sue corporations who pollute. For example, water-keeper organizations throughout the world bring citizen suit provisions to protect waterways from pollution. These types of organizations are constantly looking for "standing witnesses", which are individuals who testify in court to ensure the nonprofit has standing to sue.


Do a quick online search for organizations tasked with protecting the environment from pollution. Contact the ones you find and ask about their programs. Specifically, ask if they have a litigation team that files citizen suit provisions.
 Corporations rely on their identity and reputation to make sure business is good and profits are high. because of this, many corporations are afraid of bad press. Therefore, if you find out that a corporation is polluting, go talk to the media. Conduct interviews, provide news outlets with evidence, and bring the issue to the public. When you do this, corporations will likely be quick to settle a claim and fix the problem in order to avoid further bad press.


However, be sure you are not lying when you speak with the press. If you are found to be stretching the truth, a corporation might sue you for defamation.

