 Wi-fi is super convenient, and it might be the way to go for your handheld devices, like your phone or tablet. But some studies indicate that by using wireless Internet, you could be reducing your speed as much as 30%., Older routers could suffer from outdated components that might be limiting your access to the data for which you're paying. Routers range from the ultra-expensive to the bare-bones basic, which could range in cost from $20 to over $10,000.For most home users, a router in the $20 to $50 dollar range should be sufficient for your Internet needs.


Wireless boosters and directional antennas can salvage wasted data by either directing wireless data in a more concentrated fashion or by making it easier for your computer to pick up the wireless signal.Decide if one is right for your situation by searching "wireless signal boosters" or "wireless directional antennas" online.
 Many modems are provided by your ISP for a small monthly rental fee, but rental fees stack up and sometimes the modem you are renting is less than optimal. Do an Internet search of which modem will work best with your Internet connection, and if you find the one provided to be lacking, upgrade to a newer model.


Some experts suggest you upgrade your modem every three years to guarantee maximum efficiency., Running technology for long periods of time can create a backlog of errors, recorded files, updates, and it can put strain on it from the constant usage.Though this isn't guaranteed to improve your Internet speed, resetting your router and modem weekly can have a noticeable improve Internet speed.
 If you are using an older computer or device, your internet speed issues might simply be the result of outdated technology, insufficient RAM, or inadequate processing power.A new, fully updated device, might be the only way to improve your speed if this is the case.
 Moving your device closer to your wireless router, in the event you are using wireless for your device, can significantly improve your signal strength and speed.Walls, furniture, or household items might be interfering with or absorbing your wi-fi signal, and a small move can sometimes make a big difference in speed.


Re-positioning your router might also be a good idea, especially if signal strength is an issue with your Internet., If several users in your household are using the Internet at the same time, the max Internet speed being provided to you will be divided among the devices. Even if you aren't directly using your phone or tablet, leaving those devices on and connected to the Internet can steal precious bandwidth from you, slowing down your speed.

