 Life can feel pretty complicated if you have to deal with a family member that you don't like. Since it's hard to cut family out of your life, it's usually best to find a way to cope. Look for another family member to be on your side.Holiday gatherings can be pretty stressful, particularly if you are around someone you do not care for. Ask a favorite sibling or cousin to help you cope.
Try saying something like, "Brad, I just can't deal with Aunt Linda. Would you mind running interference if she tries to corner me?"
Your ally can also emotionally support you. Just tell them what you need. You could say, "Sally, I am having a rough time. Do you have a few minutes to take a walk around the block and let me vent?"

, There are many ways that dealing with family members can be tough. Maybe they criticize your life choices. Or maybe you have a grandparent who constantly complains. Humor can be helpful in dealing with all kinds of annoyances.Try to deflect insults with humor. You could say, "Yup, I sure do work too much. But that's what keeps me looking so young and fresh!"
Say things in a light tone of voice. For example, if an argument is brewing, try laughing and saying, "Hey, I thought this was a party, right?"
Bring up a funny memory. If the conversation is uncomfortable, change the topic. Try, "Hey, remember the time Mom burned the turkey and we had to order in Chinese food for Thanksgiving?"

, One of the trickiest things about family members is that they often ignore boundaries. Your relatives might have an annoying habit of asking deeply personal questions and offering unwanted advice. Try to steer the conversation in a more neutral direction.Maybe your mother is constantly asking you when you are going to get married. Avoid any topics that have to do with weddings, honeymoons, or anything related.
Try not to talk about politics. You might enjoy discussing current events, but if you know it's a hot button topic for your family, avoid saying, "So, who are you all voting for?"
Firmly and politely establish your boundaries. You can say, "You know, Aunt Nancy, the decision to have kids is between my partner and my. I would appreciate it if you could respect our privacy."

, Narcissists can be very difficult to deal with. A self-centered person can put a damper on almost any gathering. It can be especially frustrating if the narcissist in question is a family member. A narcissist is someone who makes everything about them. They will find a way to turn any topic of conversation into a tale of their woes or success.
Maybe you are really tired of hearing about your sister-in-law's ongoing kitchen renovation. Try saying something like, "That must be frustrating. Let's give you a break from talking about it. So, has anyone read a good book lately?"
You can also excuse yourself politely but firmly. You can say, "I've got to excuse myself. Maybe next time we chat you'll be interested in hearing about anything that is going on in my life."

, Maybe you have a family member who is exceedingly negative. Some people seem to just bring down everyone around them. It's normal to not like this type of person.The best way to deal with a downer is to find something positive to say. Make sure to phrase your questions very carefully.
Don't give the opportunity to go off on a complaining rant. Instead of saying, "How's your fitness plan going?", try saying, "What is your favorite part of getting in shape?"
Don't offer your own complaints. Try saying, "My resolution this year is to be more positive. So I'm trying to only say nice things!"

