 For best results, the plow pulled by the tractor must be level from side to side and from front to back. The more plow blades on the rig, the more important levelness is.


To level the plow, take it to a concrete pad in your driveway or some other place that is perfectly flat. One of the two lower bars will be made for angling the plow from side to side. There are normally levers for the two hydraulic arms. The first lifts both arms up and down. The second is for the plow draft, or side-to-side angle. Adjust this lever until the plow is flat from one side to the other on the concrete (you can lay a carpenter's level on it to check).
If there isn't a plow draft lever, there should at least be a manual crank on the one arm that you can turn to adjust the angle.
Next, adjust the third upper arm so that the plow is level front to back. It may need further adjusting when you start plowing, as the plow should be level when it is sunk into the dirt and plowing.
 When you're using a mechanical rig, you can use hydraulic controls to change the depth of the plows as you work. You want the plow blades deep enough that they turn over the top layer of soil. However, the plow shouldn't be so deep that it is causes the tractor to labor hard. The exact way to adjust the plow's depth will vary from rig to rig.


There is normally a depth stop on the up and down lever for the plow's hydraulic arms. Set it so your plow stops at the proper depth each time you get to the end of your row and need to turn around and drop the plow again.
If the tractor starts pulling to hard raise the plow up a little then let it back down while keeping going. If the ground is when and you start spinning your wheels, pull the plow up fast

, Position your tractor with the plowing rig hitched behind it in the corner of your field. Start plowing your field in rows, using the hydraulic controls to lower the plows into the dirt. When you reach the end of a row, raise the plows out of the ground as you turn, then lower them again for the next row.


When using a tractor, you want to space out your furrows carefully because these will be the low, wet spots in the field. After you plow each row, there will be a rut at the one side of where you just plowed. When you turn around, your tractor's tractor should go into this rut. The next swipe should plow the dirt from the next row over into that rut, covering it up.
 When you're using a tractor to plow a large field, you need to worry about soil erosion. One way to fight this is to plow the end rows (the rows along the shorter edges of the field) at 90 degrees to your main rows. This way, the raises and furrows act as a protective barrier from wind and rain, keeping the soil from washing away.If you're not dealing with a perfectly rectangular field, your end rows may not be perfectly 90 degrees. This is OK — just get the opposing edges of the field as perpendicular to the main rows as possible.

