 Although the taxpayer is providing your meals for you, dinner is certainly not from McCormick and Schmick’s Steakhouse. In fact, most prison food is bland and high in calories.Prison food can be supplemented with food from the commissary or canteen to improve your diet.
Many commissaries sell products rich in vitamins and minerals. Try to replace a meal or two per week with these alternative choices.
Drink lots of water and stay hydrated.
 Stretching, resistance training, and aerobic exercises are three exercises that can be easily conducted on prison grounds. This will give you strength while keeping your waistline slim.Exercising will make the time go by faster.
Prison is a stressful place and exercise provides a better outlet than fighting to relieve your stress.
Physically fit people are less likely to be targeted as victims for strong-arm tactics since you will be better prepared to defend yourself.
 There is a lot of time to do something in prison. Instead of lying around your cell all day, participate in a sport, non-lethal card game, or join a club.Idleness in prison only results in trouble. Participating in positive activities will take you mind off the time and situation.
Activities are stimulating and social. They take a little fear out of being there, even if temporary.
Play basketball, lift weights, play pinochle, or join a walking club.
 All prisons are different in how they treat inmates who are sick, but health care in prison is always delivered in the most cost-effective and efficient manner that can be achieved with safety and appropriate care. Most prisons offer infirmary and hospital care either in the prison or at a community hospital depending on the severity of illness and treatment required.If you need medical care in a prison, a written request must be submitted. Once it is received, it will be screened and prioritized for an appointment.
Emergency services are available as necessary.
Drugs, surgery, prenatal, and hospice care are provided if necessary.

