 After you mail in your ballot request application, you will usually receive your absentee ballot via the mail within one to two business weeks.


Note that this only applies if your request has been sent within the early voting timetable. Early voting in Ohio begins 35 days prior to the date of the election. You can request an absentee ballot earlier than that, but you will not receive the ballot prior to the 35-day window.
Contact your county board of elections if your ballot fails to arrive within this time frame. Your application may have been lost, or there may be some condition preventing the application from being accepted. The simplest and fastest way to find out is to give your county board of elections a telephone call.
If you have any other questions about your absentee ballot request, you should still call the local board of elections. Do not call the Ohio Secretary of State.
 Complete as much of your ballot as desired. All issues that can be voted on in this election should be listed on the ballot, regardless of whether those issues are national, state-wide, or county-wide.


You are not obligated to place a vote on every issue. You can vote on as few or as many issues on the ballot as you choose.
Follow the instructions on the ballot carefully. You will usually be instructed about the proper way to fill in the bubbles next to each option, as well as how many options you can select for each issue.
Do not attach any identification information to the ballot. The absentee ballot, like regular voting ballots, is meant to be anonymous. The identification information you provided when requesting the ballot should suffice as proof of your identity and voting eligibility.
 Your ballot should be delivered to your county board of elections when completed. Place the ballot in the attached, secure return envelop and deliver it by mail or in person.If turning the ballot in directly, you must do so prior to the close of the polls on Election Day.
If mailing your ballot, it must be postmarked no later than the day before the election. The board of election must also receive it no later than 10 days after Election Day.
You cannot fax or e-mail your absentee ballot.

