 By exercising on a regular basis, you can improve your health and feel better when you are naked since some research has indicated that regular exercise can lead to a better body image.Find some type of exercise that you enjoy and do it often. Aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day.


Try walking, swimming, dancing, biking, running, or get into a sport!

, Foods that are bad for you can harm your body and your mind. Some research has shown that high fat and simple carbohydrates (like processed flour sugar, etc.) can have a negative effect on your mood.This negative effect may make it hard for you to enjoy being naked.


Choose foods that will nourish your body instead, such as fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, and whole grains.
 Sleep deprivation can affect the way that your body performs as well as how you feel.If you constantly feel run down and sad, you may have an even harder time of feeling good while you are naked. Make sure that you are getting 7-9 hours of sleep per night to feel your best as you try to feel better naked.Try sleeping naked. Sleeping naked has multiple benefits including better sleep, a reduction in stress hormones, and improved intimacy with your partner., What you wear can affect the way that you feel naked, so choose clothes that make you look and feel amazing. Choose clothes that fit your body well and that you are comfortable wearing. If you haven’t bought yourself any new clothes in a while, treat yourself to a new outfit. Getting yourself something new to wear will remind you that you are worthy of nice things, which may improve the way you feel about yourself when you take your clothes off.If your fears about being naked are related to being intimate with your partner, try getting some sexy underwear. Wearing some lingerie or silk boxers may help you to feel more confident as you strip down.
 If you are stressed, it could be affecting your self-esteem by leading to self-blame, self-doubt, or becoming anxious. Relaxation is necessary for your overall well-being and it may also help you to feel better naked.Make sure that you set aside at least 15 minutes per day to just sit and relax. You can meditate, do some deep breathing exercises, or just lay around.Try taking a long bubble bath to relax. This will combine a relaxing activity with being naked, which may help to promote more positive feelings about being naked.
 Another way that you can build more positive feelings about being naked is to do things to pamper your naked body. People who have a poor body image or low self-esteem tend to avoid pampering activities, but pampering can improve your feelings about yourself and your body.If you have been avoiding pampering yourself, visit a spa and get a massage, body mask, or some other enjoyable body treatment that requires you to be naked.
 Consider the people that you spend your time with and how they make you feel. If you have a lot of negative or judgmental people in your life, that could be contributing to your dislike of being naked. It is especially important that the person who you are intimate with are accepting of your naked body.If your significant other does not appreciate your body, that may have something to do with why you don’t enjoy being naked. Consider moving on if the person you are with does not appreciate you for who you are, as you are.
 While you can do several things to feel good about being naked on your own, you may need to talk to a therapist if your body image problems are severe or if it is causing problems in your relationship. If you are having trouble functioning on a daily basis or if you have other problems, such as an eating disorder, you should seek help from a mental health professional as soon as possible.

