 Talk to family and friends about simple changes they can make, and why they should do so to help protect the environment. You don’t have to lecture or preach (but if that’s what works with your family, go for it); show them that you have thought a lot about the subject, are passionate about making a difference, and really could use their support.


Take advantage of all the new social media technologies that your parents can't keep up with. It's easier now than ever before to connect with people all over the world. Find out how environmental destruction impacts all of us everywhere, and discuss ways to stop it.
You might want to mention the notion of “sustainable happiness,” which focuses in part on how interconnected we all truly are.You parents will know how serious you are if they realize you’ve done research!

, There are numerous national organizations dedicated to protecting endangered species, cutting greenhouse gas emissions, preserving clean water supplies, and so on. But there are also probably local environmental groups doing things like planting native trees or setting up hard-to-recycle pickups in your own neighborhood.


Is there an environmental club at your school? If not, round up some buddies who know the importance of the issue and start one. You can do some good and make your college applications look a little better at the same time.
 No, you probably can’t vote for them yet, but most of them want to remain in office long after you’ve turned 18. And they want your parents’ votes right now anyway.


Depending on their respective offices, ask them to support legislation to reduce carbon emissions or protect endangered species, or to back local measures like curbside recycling or plastic shopping bag fees. Get in the habit of demanding action from your representatives when you are young and it will be easier to do so when you’re older.
 Regardless of what some adults may think, teens can have great ideas too. When you have one, put your youthful energy to good use.


Your idea might be as straightforward as a neighborhood clean-up day, but go for it. Pass out flyers. Ask local businesses to donate supplies or refreshments. Round up your buddy’s garage band and turn it into a block party at the end of the day.
Teens like you have helped pass legislation banning electronic waste from landfills, and created organizations that help schools run environmentally-friendly proms. Surely they had people tell them they were too young to make a difference. But the earth’s future is your future. So don’t be so quick to accept “can’t” or take “no” as an answer.

