 To make this ice cream, you will need your ingredients, a blender, medium saucepan with a lid, spoon, large bowl, strainer, ice cream maker, and a freezer-proof container with a lid.This recipe makes 2 quarts (1.9 L) of ice cream.
The best berries for this recipe are blackberries, blueberries, or strawberries.To make this ice cream in an ice cream maker, you must chill the freezer bucket for 24 hours prior to making the recipe. Wrap the bucket in a plastic bag first to protect it from freezer burn.;
, Set the berries aside and combine the remaining ingredients in the saucepan. Heat the mixture over medium heat, and give it the occasional stir. Remove the pot from the heat when the mixture begins to simmer.


Put the lid on the pot and let it sit for 20 minutes. This will give the basil flavor time to diffuse into the milk., To remove the basil leaves and any other chunky particles, run the mixture through a strainer or cheesecloth and into a large bowl.


When you’ve strained it, press or crush the basil leaves in your hand to remove as much moisture and flavor as possible.
 Pour the ice cream base into the blender, along with the berries and two or three of the basil leaves. Pulse the blender 10 to 20 times.The mixture is ready when the ingredients are combined, there are no chunks of fruit or basil, and the berry color has been evenly distributed throughout the liquid.
 Transfer the mixture back to the bowl and let it chill in the freezer for about 20 minutes before transferring it to the ice cream maker.


You can also chill the mixture in an ice bath for 30 minutes. Transfer the blended mixture to a bowl and set it into a larger bowl filled with ice water., For this ice cream recipe, you'll need a medium saucepan, blender, electric beaters, wooden spoon, candy thermometer, strainer, large bowl, larger bowl filled with ice water, ice cream maker, and a lidded freezer-safe container.


Place the freezer bowl from the ice cream maker into a bag and into the freezer about 24 hours before making your ice cream.
 To get the maximum basil flavor, combine the basil, milk, a pinch of salt, and ¼ cup (56 g) of the sugar in the saucepan. Bring the mixture to a boil, stirring occasionally.When the mixture comes to a boil, remove it from the heat, put on the lid, and let the basil diffuse for 30 minutes.
 Transfer the cooled mixture to the blender after 30 minutes. Blend on medium for one minute.


In the bowl, cream the egg yolks and remaining sugar together using the electric beaters. Beat the mixture for about a minute on medium, until it becomes smooth, creamy, pale yellow, and thick.Slowly add the milk mixture from the blender as you continue to beat the mixture. Mix to combine all the ingredients.
 Return the mixture to the saucepan and heat it over medium heat. To prevent the eggs from cooking, stir the mixture constantly, and don’t let it boil. Insert the thermometer into the pot, making sure it doesn’t touch the bottom.


Continue heating and stirring the mixture until it reaches 175 F (79 C). When the mixture is ready, it should be thick enough to coat the back of the spoon without falling off., When the mixture reaches the right temperature, remove it from the heat and strain it into the bowl. Place the bowl inside the larger bowl filled with ice water and let it chill for about 20 minutes.


Once the mixture has chilled, it’s ready to go into the ice cream maker.
 When your ice cream mixture has finished chilling and is ready to become ice cream, remove the freezer bucket from the freezer and the bag.Place the bucket onto the ice cream maker base, and insert the paddle into the bucket.
 Turn on the ice cream maker and immediately pour the chilled mixture into the bucket. Put on the lid and let the ice cream maker work its magic!


Read through the manufacturer’s instructions to determine the exact time for your ice cream. Generally, it takes 20 to 30 minutes.The purpose of the ice cream maker is to freeze the ice cream, and the constantly moving paddle prevents ice crystals from forming so that the ice cream stays creamy and delicious.
 After about 20 to 30 minutes, turn off the ice cream maker. Use a spoon to help get all the ice cream out of the bucket. Cover the container with an air-tight lid and put it in the freezer.


If you prefer soft serve ice cream, you can serve it directly from the ice cream maker.Using a freezer-safe container with an air-tight lid will help prevent freezer burn. Don’t store ice cream in the ice cream maker’s freezer bucket, because it doesn’t have a proper lid and won’t prevent freezer burn., Most ice cream will take between four and six hours to reach the right consistency. For a softer ice cream, serve after two to four hours. For a harder ice cream, wait the full six hours or longer.


When serving leftovers, allow the ice cream to sit and soften for a few minutes before serving.,