 There can be several reasons, and any one of them can make living a soda-free life an attractive option:


reducing caffeine intake
reducing sugar intake
avoiding high fructose corn syrup
limiting carbonation
limiting artificial sweeteners
minimizing acid intake - the phosphoric acid present in most dark sodas is detrimental to bone health and softens tooth enamel saving money - if you add up how much you spend on soda in a month, you might have enough for a retirement fund
;
, Water is the healthiest and cheapest replacement for soda, but quitting soda cold turkey and making the big switch to water might mean setting yourself up for failure. The best way to quit any kind of addiction is to ease your way out of it, but check your numbers. Some fruit juices have more calories and cost more than soda which may defeat the goals you just set up. Here are some suggested soda substitutes:


flavored water
juice
seltzer or sparkling water
juice spritzers (carbonated juices)
sports drinks

iced tea (e.g. iced green tea) or tea
Minty water w/ lemon
milk alternatives (soy, almond, hazelnut, hemp, oat, rice, etc.)
water with stevia (a no-calorie sweetener)

, Estimate, as accurately as you can, how much soda you're drinking per week. (This is very important for the next step.) Do you drink soda with lunch at work? In between classes? While you're unwinding in front of the TV? Calculate how many calories you're racking up from soda alone to get an idea of how fizz might be affecting your weight, Calculate how many calories you're supposed to be getting per day and see how much of that you're getting from soda. For many people, this is a powerful observation that might give you the motivation you need to change this habit.
 Cut the amount of soda you drink by 25% for one week, then by 50% the next, etc.


Gradually increase your consumption of the substitutes you chose.
Be sure that you're still consuming the same amount of liquid (if not more) or else you may become dehydrated, which will make quitting even more difficult.
 If you drink most of your soda at home, this will be easier to do. If the soda isn't purchased, then you won't feel the urge to drink it when you're at home.


If you drink a lot of soda from vending machines, don't carry a lot of extra change with you. If you do carry change, it may be time to start paying for other items with that change so you won't have the urge to stick that money in the machine for a soda.
If somebody who you live with loves to drink soda, then ask them to hide it so you won't have to drink any. This may seem a little strange, but it will eventually pay off.
Start buying 8oz soda cans instead of 12oz ones. Doing this can reduce your soda intake by 33%. Also, avoid buying those big 2–3 liter (0.5–0.8 US gal) bottles. They are only open invitations to drink more soda than you should.
 Do not underestimate the addictive power of caffeine. If most of the soda you drink has caffeine, you may experience headaches and other withdrawal symptoms for about a week, especially if you cut your soda consumption dramatically. Likewise, if you depend on both the caffeine and sugar fix that soda pop brings to get you through the day, you'll probably feel more tired while your body adjusts to not having carbonated "pick-me-ups"., If the symptoms are too dramatic, tweak your schedule so that you're weaning yourself off more gradually.
 Write yourself a note that says something along the lines of "Drink water," and stick this note in a place where you are likely to see it. Avoid negative phrases like "Don't drink soda." You only have to tell a three-year-old not to do something to figure out why that is. This is because a phrase that tells you not to do something has that something right in the sentence. Your brain can't help but imagine doing the very thing you are trying to refrain from!


One very effective way to remember that a 20-ounce bottle of soda is the equivalent of 17 teaspoons of straight sugaris to fill empty bottles with that amount of sugar and keep them in places that you normally drink soda (the fridge, at your desk, etc.).
If you normally drink from the can, find out how much sugar is in each can, put it in a zip lock bag, and drape it over the top of an empty can. The sight of all that sugar can be a sobering reminder of what you're really trying to avoid.
 To do so, look on the nutrition label for how many grams of sugar there are per serving. If you have a scale, weigh out that amount of sugar; remember that there are about 4 grams of sugar per level teaspoon. Repeat for every serving that there is in the container (check the label) and you'll see how much sugar you're consuming with each bottle or can.