 If your cat has a benign tumor on its skin or just below its skin, a lumpectomy may be performed. Your veterinarian will do a complete physical examination on your pet to locate and understand the size of the tumor. Your cat will need to go under general anesthesia, as the veterinarian will need to surgically remove the mass and its underlying tissues.
 Cryosurgery is effective for removing benign, superficial lesions on the surface of the skin.During cryosurgery, the benign tumor is frozen and removed by liquid nitrogen or nitrous oxide. There is little pain for the animal, and the tumor usually falls off or dissolves within four weeks.Most cryosurgeries do not require that the cat be anesthetized, which makes it a great removal option for senior cats., Most benign tumors can be completely removed by surgery. Depending on the tumor location, size, and potential future harm, your veterinarian may recommend leaving the tumor alone since benign tumors are slow-growing.Talk to your veterinarian about your options.


Mammary tumors and the surrounding tissue may be removed surgically. Since tumors in this area can be aggressive, your veterinarian may recommend removing the entire mammary chain as tumors here can metastasize.Non-cancerous bone tumors and cysts are rare in cats, but they can be removed by surgery if they are affecting the cat’s movement. Usually these tumors do not spread, and many will stop growing after the cat has matured., If the benign tumor is causing your cat discomfort, your veterinarian may prescribe pain medication like a NSAID, an opioid, or a corticosteroid. Be sure to give your cat the suggested amount, and talk to your veterinarian about the side effects of the medication., A benign tumor may not need to be removed if it is not causing your cat discomfort, impeding on its ability to move, or disrupting other bodily functions.If the tumor is not removed, it is important to check it regularly for signs of growth or change. If you notice any changes, make an appointment with your veterinarian., If the tumor is not removed surgically, it is important to watch your cat’s behavior and notice any signs that it is in pain. Talk to your veterinarian if your cat’s personality or behavior changes, if it is withdrawn, or if it has trouble moving around. Also watch for loss of appetite and restlessness., Try to create a stress-free environment for your cat to keep its immune system healthy and to help reduce anxiety.Plan to play with your cat every day to stimulate their mind, stick to a schedule, and provide them with safe hiding places where they can retreat.


Leave the carrier in the corner of a room, or leave a closet door cracked so your cat can safely hide. You can even drape a towel over the back of a chair or provide it with a cardboard box to jump in.Reduce the intensity of your usual playtime to make sure that the tumor does not cause your cat pain.
Cats love routine, so try to stick to a consistent feeding, sleeping, and playing routine as much as possible.If you feed your cat every morning at 8 AM, plan to do that every day. Set an alarm on your phone each day so you can remember to play with your cat when you arrive home from work.

