 Always condition your hair after shampooing with a dime-sized dab of conditioner. This will help keep your hair soft and smooth. Don't completely wash out all of the conditioner. Just leave a little in after you take a shower – enough to make your hair feel smooth while it's wet. Salon-quality products are best, if you can afford them, and some conditioners are actually designed to make your hair softer.
 Provide your hair with the supplements and nourishment that it needs by washing or misting your hair, massaging it with oil, and then thoroughly washing out the oil. This may help your hair retain the luster and softness that you want. Massage a few drops into your hair at night, and you may wake up with soft, shiny hair.









Try using a mixture of pure coconut oil and almond oil. Avocado, tea tree, castor, rosemary, lavender, olive, and argan oil may also help soften your hair.
Consider treating your hair to a deep conditioning with hot oil once a week. Use natural oils like rosemary and lavender. If you don't like the smell of those oils, use a store-bought oil that is clear enough to see through.
Rub in an anti-frizz hair oil on the bottom half of your hair. A dime-sized amount should be enough.
 The heat causes you hair to become damaged and dull. Excessive curling burns your hair, turning it hard, crispy, and bristly. You may be able to partially repair your split ends with pure argan oil, but the only way to vanquish them completely is to get your hair cut.
 You can spread your hair with honey, egg yolk, or eggshells for a natural softening experience. Leave the mask on your hair for 15 minutes to an hour, then wash it out thoroughly with shampoo. You can leave it on overnight, though this may not significantly boost the softening effect. Repeat the procedure several times each week, and you may find that your hair grows softer.


Prepare a hair conditioning mask from honey. Apply honey mask to your scalp and massage it for five minutes so that it spreads all over hair. Keep this mask on hair for 20 minutes and then wash it. Honey helps hair to restore moisture. It also helps prevent infections, keeping your hair smooth and silky.
Prepare an egg mask by mixing a few lemon drops to an egg white. After properly mixing all the ingredients apply this conditioner to hair and leave it for 15 minutes. This home remedy not only provides softness, but also clears the dandruff and makes hair strong.
Crush eggshells into a powdery texture. then mix a little bit of water until it is not diluted but enough to stick to your hair. Then, apply the crushed eggshells over the area you want to soften. Leave it to dry for 30 minutes to 1 hour, depending on how soft you want your hair. Then rinse the eggshells off.
 Over time, hairspray can build up and harden on your hair.
 Coloring will dry out your hair, and all the chemicals thrown in during the process will not help your hair soften.
 Then, wrap your hair in a towel. After a few minutes, take out the towel and spritz your hair with a silkening spray. Comb the spray through your hair, and dry. Once you're done, spritz on a bit of shine spray and brush it in. Apply extra to the ends of your hair.
 Certain supplements, such as Omega-3 oil, fish egg phospholipids, and vitamin E, improve the shine and growth of your hair. You can get these in a gel-capsule at local health stores.

