 (See "Things You'll Need" listed below.) Copy or paste the JPG pattern below into a word processor for easier resizing and printing.
 Bear in mind that you may need to adjust quantities of fabric, stuffing and foam for larger cubes. The quantities given in this article are enough to create an 8 inch (20cm) plush cube.

Print off at least six copies of the pattern.
,,, These will be the first things sewn.,, Make two parallel lines of stitching approximately 1/4 inch (6 mm) from each other on each pink strip. Trim the excess fabric away to leave only the narrow pink lines.
, Take care to line up the pink lines from the pattern with the underlying pink lines you sewed onto the bottom, dark grey, layer.
 Take care to line up the sewn pink lines with the pattern.
 Back stitch each section as you sew it, to prevent the seam unraveling. Lift the needle and pressure foot between each section. (Don't stitch any extra or connecting lines between sections.)
, The paper should tear away from the fabric along the seam lines fairly easily, since the needle holes create a perforated line as you sew. Remove all the pattern paper.
 Pin it in place and top stitch it carefully to the center.
, (Center "O" and the lines going out from it to the edge.)

,,, You will place the squares "facing together" or "right sides" together for sewing, so marking on the "back" or "wrong" side will give you a line to sew along and help you keep your cube sides absolutely square and perfect. A straight edge and a 90 degree angle are helpful. You can also use a paper pattern piece cut along the seam lines as a guide.
 Take special care to line up and pin the edges of the light grey sections. If they are sewn askew, it is very noticeable in the finished product. It can be quite difficult to unpick the seams to fix later., Back stitch all seams to prevent raveling. Leave one side unsewn for stuffing. It is best to sew the four sides and top together first and stuff from the bottom so that the hand sewn closing seam is less visible in the finished product. Trim the seams carefully to make it easier to turn them right side out.
, Notice that you cannot simply cut six equal pieces. You must cut two squares and 4 rectangles to cover the cube neatly. In the case of an 8 inch (20cm) cube, assuming that your foam is one inch (2 cm) thick, the cube's sides would be: four 8"x7" (20cm x 17.5cm) rectangles and two 6" (15cm) squares.


Measure twice and be certain of your measurements before you cut the foam to prevent frustration later. The foam sheets are not "strictly" necessary, but they prevent your cube from taking on a very rounded look when stuffed later on.
Adjust your measurements if you are using a thicker foam sheet or a foam cube as a base.
 Depending on the foam used, you may need to glue or sew the foam pieces together along their edges before stuffing to prevent shape deformation.,, Enjoy!

