 If you are in anyway unsure about the weather conditions at your destination, consider packing layers rather than bulky "just-in-case" items like rain jackets or jeans. That way, you can layer up or down depending on whether it's hot or cold.For example, you can pack a combination of long-sleeved and and short-sleeved t-shirts which you can wear individually or layer up if it's cold.
Or instead of taking bulky jeans, try packing some light-weight but cozy leggings which you can wear underneath dresses and skirts.
 Most suitcases and bags have extra outside pockets which are ideal for storing the plastic bag containing your toiletries. Storing the bag here will make it easily accessible when you're going through security - which is important as you will need to remove it from your case for screening.


Keeping the bag here will also make your toiletries easier to reach while traveling, which is great if you need to freshen up during your flight.
In addition, having your liquids separate from the rest of your suitcase is a good idea in case any of them should spill or burst during transport. Opening your bag to find all of your clothes are covered in sticky shower gel is never fun!

, It may be tempting to take your expensive watch or diamond jewelry with you while traveling, especially if you plan on attending any fancy dinners or special events. However, it is very easy for such items to become lost, broken or stolen while traveling, so you should try to leave these things safely at home. It's just not worth the heartbreak of losing your engagement ring somewhere in the Mediterranean.


Consider buying a cheap (and perhaps waterproof) watch just for your holidays. Chunky, costume jewelry is a great option for embellishing your outfits without the need for expensive gold and silver., This step is pretty obvious, but make sure to look up the weather forecast in your destination are before you leave. If it's raining in London, you may want to pack a small, fold-up rain jacket and an umbrella for your arrival and leave the sunscreen lotion at home. And while certain weather conditions may be expected, if not guaranteed, in certain areas, you should always double check just in case that place is experiencing unseasonably hot or cold conditions.
 When planning outfits, try to stick with more neutral colored items that work well together, particularly if you're traveling for business. Blacks, browns and grays all work well, and you can never go wrong with a crisp white shirt or blouse. If you feel too boring going all neutral, you can add a pop of color with accessories or a bright tie., Look up your local airport regulations to get an exact list of what items you are forbidden from bringing in your carry-on luggage. Being aware of these restrictions will prevent you from accidentally packing anything like razor blades or gel candles which could trigger a security check during the screening process and cause you delays while traveling.
 Make sure that you weigh your bag before you leave the house to make sure it's not over the airline's weight restrictions. Although some airlines can be pretty flexible, others will happily hit you with exorbitant fees if your bag is even a pound overweight. Try to give yourself a couple of pounds leeway if possible, as you may want that extra weight to pack souvenirs or gifts on the way home.

