 These symptoms include having a fever, being tired, or having chills. If the symptoms fade after a few days and you feel healthy again, you probably just had the flu. That being said, if flu-like symptoms do not subside, see your physician. Leukemia patients often mistake leukemia symptoms to be those of the flu or other infections. In particular, look for:


Continual weakness or tiredness
Frequent or severe nosebleeds
Repetitive infections
Unexplained weight loss
Inflamed lymph nodes
Swollen spleen or liver
Bleeding or bruising easily
Small red marks on your skin
Profuse sweating
Bone crampsBleeding gums;
, Chronic fatigue is often an early symptom of leukemia. Because fatigue is quite common, many patients overlook this symptom. Weakness and very low energy can accompany fatigue.Chronic fatigue is different from just feeling tired. If you feel unconcentrated or like your memory is weaker than normal, you might have chronic fatigue. Other symptoms include swollen lymph nodes, new and unexpected muscle pain, sore throat, or severe exhaustion lasting longer than one day.You may also notice that you feel weak, such as in your limbs. It might be harder to do things that you normally do.
Along with fatigue and weakness, you may also notice a change in your pallor. These changes may all be due to anemia, which is when you have low hemoglobin in your blood. Your hemoglobin transports oxygen to all of your tissues and cells., Losing a large amount of weight for no apparent reason is often a symptom of leukemia and other types of cancer. This symptom is called cachexia.This can be a subtle symptom, and taken alone it doesn't necessarily point to cancer. Still, if you're losing weight without changing your regular diet and exercise habits, it's important to visit your doctor.It's normal for weight to fluctuate up and down over time. Look for a slow but steady drop in weight through no effort of your own.
Weight loss that’s related to sickness often is accompanied by a feeling of low energy and weakness rather than increased health.
 People with leukemia tend to bruise and bleed more easily. Part of the reason is because they have lower counts of red blood cells and platelets, which can lead to anemia.If you seem to bruise after every minor bump, or start bleeding profusely from a small cut, take note. This is a particularly important symptom.Also beware of bleeding gums., These spots will look out of the ordinary and unlike normal splotches you'd get after exercising or blemishes from acne.


If you see round, tiny, red spots on the skin that weren't there before, see a doctor immediately. They will appear as a rash rather than as blood.They often form in clusters on your skin., Because leukemia damages your healthy white blood cell count, frequent infections can occur. If you have a lot of skin, throat, or ear infections, your immunity might be weakened., Bone pain is not a common symptom, but it is possible. If your bones feel achy and painful, and you have no other reason for the soreness, consider getting tested for leukemia.


Bone pain associated to leukemia can happen because your bone marrow becomes overcrowded with white blood cells. Your leukemia cells also can pool close to your bones or within the joints., Some people are more predisposed to get leukemia. Although having some risk factors does not mean one certainly will get leukemia, recognizing risk factors is important. You might be more at risk if you have (had):

Prior cancer therapies like chemo or radiation.
Genetic disorders
Been a smoker
Family members with leukemia
Been exposed to chemicals like benzene