 One of the best ways to avoid getting F’s on tests is to attend class and complete your work on time. Tests are usually based off of material discussed in class or from previous assignments, and if you don’t keep up, it will be hard to do well.


Before the test, teachers often discuss the format of the exam or give advice on how to study, and if you’re not present you could miss crucial information.
If you have to miss class or can’t turn in an assignment, ask a classmate or friend to borrow notes. Also, try to complete the assignment even if you can’t receive credit so you’re better prepared for the test.;
, Writing out information will help you remember it, so taking good notes in class or when you’re studying will help ensure you get a great grade on the test.Having clearly written and well-organized notes will also make studying a lot easier.
If you already have notes from class, try recopying them before the exam. This will be a more effective study strategy than simply re-reading them.
 Organizing your study materials will make it a lot easier to prepare for the test. It also helps you feel more in control, confident, and ready to tackle the exam.


Use a binder or folder to keep track of and group your notes.
A planner or calendar can help you remember test dates and due dates, and you can also schedule regular study sessions.
 Familiarizing yourself with the format of the test will help you be as prepared as possible when you sit down to take it. Take the time to do research and ask your teacher questions about the test format.


If this is a standardized exam that many people all over your state or country take, look up some information online about the test. Pay attention to the type of questions they ask, the time limits, and look for any specific test-taking tips or resources that might be available.
If it's an exam for a specific class, ask the teacher if they can tell you about the format of the exam. They might be willing to give you some details

, Taking tests is stressful, especially when you feel a lot of pressure to do well, but negative thoughts can limit your ability to successfully study for the test. Try to push these negative thoughts aside, and replace them with more positive ones.Instead of focusing on how you are going to fail the exam or fail the class if you don’t do well on the test, remind yourself that you’ve been working hard and preparing. Tell yourself that you’re going to do well.
Try visualizing yourself easily answering the questions on the test.
 Although it can be tempting to wait until the last minute to cram for an exam, it won’t help you learn the material or ace the test. The earlier you begin studying, the more prepared you’ll be for the exam.Studying right before the test often makes you feel more panicked and it limits your ability to learn and correctly recall information.
While it might depend on how important the test is and how much material you have to get through, it’s a good idea to start studying at least one week in advance.
If it’s a bigger test such as the SAT, ACT, LSAT, or GRE, you will probably want to spend several months preparing.
 When you begin studying, the amount of material you have to get through can seem overwhelming. To keep from feeling as stressed out and to make your studying more effective, split your studying up so you are only reviewing small amounts of material at one time.For example, instead of trying to memorize a long list of vocabulary terms or definitions all at once, break up the list and focus on small parts each time you study. You will retain the information better and get through the list much faster.
It can also be helpful to switch up the material you are studying. For example, try working one type of math problem during one sitting and then switch to a different type of math problem for your next study session. Your brain has to work harder to decide which strategy to use to solve the problem. Don’t stick to one topic; instead, study a bunch of different material in one sitting.Try to split up your studying into 25 to 50 minute intervals, and take breaks in between. You’ll feel more relaxed while studying and also get through the information more effectively.Education experts describe this technique as “spaced repetition” and have found that it’s much more effective than trying to memorize lots of material all at once., Although you might feel like you need to focus exclusively on your studying, research has shown that taking regular breaks will improve your focus when you return to studying and keep you calm before the test.While you can choose to do anything you enjoy during your break, researchers have concluded that exercise improves your memory and lowers your blood pressure. Walk, jump rope, dance, or jog during your break and get pumped to ace your test. Yoga has also been shown to improve focus and attention span, which might come in handy when taking a test.
 Music, phones, and the television can all distract you while you’re studying, so it’s best to eliminate them while you’re preparing for the exam.If you have to listen to music in the background, choose instrumental music or classical music.
Turn your phone off or put it in another room so you’re not tempted to text, check or your email, or use social media.
If you need the computer to study, disable email alerts, messaging functions, or anything else that might distract you from your goal of doing well on the test.
 Although most of us have stayed up all night studying for a test before, it’s not an effective study approach if you want to avoid getting F’s on tests. It will make you feel more anxious, less prepared, and will interfere with your ability to remember the material you stayed up all night studying.Instead of pulling an all nighter, review the material once more before you go to bed, and make sure you get plenty of sleep. Your brain will keep working to remember the information while you are sleeping.
One psychology study found that pulling an all-nighter actually hurt your ability to reason and remember information for up to 4 days after you stayed up all night.
 While you might have a go-to study spot such as the library or your room when preparing for a test, holing up in one location can actually keep you from remembering the information as effectively. So, instead of remaining in one place, switch locations.A quiet coffee shop, a bench outside, and an empty classroom are all great places to try.
 While it might sound silly, telling yourself a crazy or funny story about the material can help you remember it more quickly and clearly. This technique works particularly well for ordered lists, formulas, or anything with an acronym.The story doesn’t have to make sense or be real, it’s just to help you recall the material.
 When preparing for a test, many of us focus on re-reading chapters and highlighting or underlining material. Research indicates, however, that these methods are not as effective as creating flashcards or taking practice tests.


Make flashcards with a friend and then quiz each other. You could also ask a parent or sibling to quiz you with the flashcards.
If there is a practice test available for the test you are about to take, make sure you take advantage of this resource. Give yourself the appropriate amount of time so you are taking the practice test under the same circumstances that you will take the actual test.
If there isn’t a practice test available, try making your own. If you have a general idea of the test’s format, the act of writing and answering the questions will help you learn and retain the information.
 When you’re studying for a test, read information out loud. It helps you learn the material more quickly and effectively because you are seeing the information as well as hearing it.


Try reading your notes out loud.

