 If your backache is recurring (chronic) and caused by weak spinal muscles, poor posture or degenerative conditions such as osteoarthritis, then you need to consider some form of rehabilitation. A physical therapist can show you specific and tailored stretches and strengthening exercises for your back, hips and abdominals (which can all be implicated with chronic low back pain).Physiotherapy is usually required 2-3x per week for 4-8 weeks to positively impact chronic back problems.


If need be, a physical therapist can treat your sore muscles with electrotherapy such as therapeutic ultrasound, electronic muscle stimulation or microcurrent.
Good strengthening exercises for your back include swimming, rowing and back extensions, but make sure your injury is resolved first.
 Acupuncture involves sticking very thin needles into specific energy points within the skin / muscle in efforts to reduce pain and inflammation.Acupuncture can be effective for many different causes of backache, especially if it's done when the symptoms first occur. Based on the principles of traditional Chinese medicine, acupuncture works by releasing a variety of substances including endorphins and serotonin, which act to reduce pain.


It's also claimed that acupuncture stimulates the flow of energy, referred to as chi.
Acupuncture is practiced by a variety of health professionals including some physicians, chiropractors, naturopaths, physical therapists and massage therapists.
 Yoga and meditation are other aspects of traditional Chinese medicine.Yoga may be an effective strategy for alleviating back pain by making people more aware of how they move their bodies. It also helps to stretch (elongate) muscles, improves flexibility and often has a calming or relaxing effect on people.Meditation often goes hand-in-hand with yoga and acts to reduce emotional and physical stress, which are contributors to chronic back pain.


Mindful meditation has been shown to be effective in reducing pain. One study found that 3 sessions over 3 days for 20 minutes each was able to significantly reduce pain. In addition, pain was reduced after meditation, meaning the results lasted long after meditation was finished. People that are depressed or suffer severe trauma are more likely to experience chronic aches and pains.

