 You can marinate chicken in just about anything, including bottled vinaigrette, but nothing beats a good, homemade marinade. You can use all sorts of ingredients in a marinade, but the trick is getting the proportions right. Of course, some recipes will use different proportions, but in general, you'd want to use the following amounts:1 part acid or enzyme
3 parts fat or oil
Your choice of seasonings;
, You will need about 1 ounce (30 milliliters) of an acid or enzyme per 1 pound (455 grams) of chicken. Here are some ideas for acids or enzymes:Acid: buttermilk, lemon juice, vinegars, or wine/beer
Enzyme: honey, milk, pineapple juice, or yogurt (including Greek)

, If you are making more chicken, plan on using three times as much fat as your acid/enzyme. Here are some types of fats that you can use:Oils, such as: almond oil, chili oil, olive oil, or sesame oil
Dairy-based products, such as buttermilk or mayonnaise

, While you could only choose one type of acid/enzyme and one type of fat, you can choose several different items for your seasonings. You will typically need 1 tablespoon per pound (455 grams) of chicken. Here are some ideas to get you started:Fresh herbs or dried herbs
Spices or hot pepper flakes
Garlic
Onions, shallots, or green onions
Fresh grated ginger or citrus zest
Maple syrup

, You can do this in a bowl with a whisk, but a blender or food processor would be better because they will help the fats and acids bind together easier.Salt makes a great seasoning, but don't add it to your marinade. Instead, add it to the chicken just before cooking it.
 You can use a glass, ceramic, or stainless steel baking dish. You can also use large, re-sealable, plastic bags. Do not use containers made out of aluminum. Aluminum tends to react with most acids; this can change the color and flavor of your chicken.You can marinate other cuts of chicken too, but boneless, skinless chicken breasts are the most popular, followed by thighs.
 You will need about ½ cup (120 milliliters) of marinade for 1 pound (455 grams) of chicken. After you have covered the chicken breasts/thighs with marinade, flip the chicken over a few times. This will help the marinade coat it more evenly. If you are using a plastic, re-sealable bag, zip the bag shut, and shake it; you can also gently "massage" the chicken in the marinade instead.


If you have any leftover marinade, set it aside so that you can baste the chicken with it after you are done cooking.
 The chicken must be kept in the fridge while it is marinating, or the meat could develop bacteria, and become unsafe to eat. Keep in mind that the longer you marinate the chicken, the quicker it will cook; your chicken may be done sooner than what the recipe you are using states.Boneless chicken breasts only need 2 hours.If you are using a plastic, re-sealable bag, consider placing the chicken in a baking dish. This way, if any of the marinade leaks out, your fridge won't get dirty.
 It is ready when the internal temperature reaches 165°F (74°C). If you have any leftover marinade after you set the chicken on the grill or skillet, discard it. Listed below are some ways in which you can cook boneless, skinless chicken breasts:You can bake chicken in the oven at 350°F (180°C) for 35 to 45 minutes.
You can grill the chicken over medium heat, covered, for 9 to 12 minutes per side.
You can fry the chicken in a skillet over medium-high heat for 8 to 11 minutes per side.
 Keep the chicken covered with a sheet of aluminum foil while it is resting so that it doesn't dry out. If you reserved any fresh marinade in the beginning, you can pour it over the chicken before serving it.

