 It can be tempting to slump forward at our desk during the day, which can wreak havoc on your neck and shoulders. Your feet should be flat on the floor in front of you. There should be a bit of a gap between the back of your knees and your seat. To keep your back straight, stretch your head up to the ceiling and then tuck your chin in a little bit. Your back and neck should be comfortably straight and your shoulders should be relaxed, but not rolled forward.If you are standing at work, your ears should be aligned with your shoulders and your shoulders should be lined up with your hips. Your hips should be lined up over your knees and ankles. Your shoulders should be neutral, as opposed to rolled forward or tensed up around your ears.;
, Sit in a chair with your feet straight in front of you and the soles of your feet flat on the floor. Pull your shoulders up high, imagining them moving up to the ceiling. Hold your shoulders up high for three to five seconds. Then, let your shoulders drop down. Let the pull of gravity do the work for you and just let go of any tension., Stand up or sit down with your feet flat on the ground. As you inhale, pull your shoulders back as far as they can go and then up to your ears. On your exhale, push your shoulders in towards your chest and then drop them down in front of you. Let gravity do the work and release any built up tension. You can also rotate your shoulders in the opposite direction.Make sure to roll your shoulders back after you finish stretching to retain your good posture.
 Standing with your feet hip width apart, interlock your fingers behind your back. Pull your shoulders back. Gradually raise your interlocked arms behind your back but not so far that they reach your head. Then, release your fingers and let your hands fall in front of you. Bend down and let your arms dangle in front of you. Then, raise yourself back to a standing position and roll your shoulders back., Lean your head to your left shoulder. Then, relax and let your head roll to the front of your chest. Slowly move your head to your right shoulder so that you are looking to the right. Then, repeat the exercise starting with your right shoulder and moving to your left. 