 Lukewarm water can calm inflamed skin. It can also help remove psoriasis scales that may make itching worse. Hopping in the bathtub can quickly soothe itching. It may also minimize the risk of a future outbreak. Consider adding bath oil, colloidal oatmeal, and Epsom or Dead Sea salts, which can further soothe and moisturize your skin.Fill the bath with lukewarm water. Hot water can remove natural oils from skin, making itching worse.
Sit in the bath only for 10 to 15 minutes. When you soak for too long, it can dry out your skin, causing it to itch even more.Pat your skin dry as gently as you can. This can minimize irritation and itching as well as prepare your skin for moisturizer.
Avoid using harsh soaps, which can cause itching and inflammation.;
, Keep a lotion, cream, oil, or ointment you like in the refrigerator at all times. This can have the doubly soothing effect of cold and moisture. It can also quickly relieve your itching., Some products contain ingredients that can quickly soothe psoriasis-related itching. Read product labels and follow application instructions or apply as directed by your doctor. Be aware that these products may cause dryness. Products containing the following ingredients can help relieve an outbreak of psoriasis-related itching:Hydrocortisone
Camphor
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride (HCl)
Benzocaine
Menthol
Aloe vera, Heat can exacerbate itching from psoriasis. Cooling your skin with a compress can quickly soothe itching and any inflammation you may have. A cool shower can also relieve itching rapidly.Use a cold or cool compress for 10 to 15 minutes every 2 hours.Take a cool shower if your itching is widespread.
 In some cases, relief from itching may be as simple as taking an OTC antihistamine. These drugs block the chemical that can make itching worse.In general, they start to work within 30 minutes.Consider chlorpheniramine (Chlor-Trimeton), which is available in 2mg and 4mg. You can also try diphenhydramine (Benadryl), which is available in 25mg and 50mg.Make sure to follow dosing instructions on the package or given by your doctor. These drugs can have sedative effects so drive, drink alcohol, and/or operate any machinery with great care.
 The body’s natural instinct is to scratch an itch. However, it can not only make the itching worse, but may harm your skin and prevent healing. Do your best to keep your fingers away from areas that are itching.