 If you like to do your lipstick, blush, and contouring last, then that is fine. At the very least, you should already have your foundation, eyeshadow, and powder on. You want your eyeliner to be nice, sharp, and clear for this look, and if you apply it first, you might end up smudging it when you do your eyeshadow.


Choose an eyeshadow color that suits your character.;
, Start at the inner corner of your eye, and work your way towards the outer corner. Once you get to the outer corner, extend the line just a little bit. Try to match the angle with your lower lash line, and the length with your upper lashes.This will be the base for your wingtip. The longer you make this line, the more dramatic the wingtip will be.
 Place the tip of your brush against your lash line, a few millimeters above the outer corner. Then, draw a straight line down towards the tip of the extended line. Once you have your outline, fill it in. If you are using liquid liner, wait for it to dry at this point.
 Anime characters are known for having big eyes. Applying white eyeliner to your waterline will make your eyes appear even bigger than they actually are. Gently pull down on your lower eyelid, and run a white eyeliner/kohl pencil back and forth across the waterline.If you already have large eyes, or if your characters has small eyes, you can skip this step.
If you have very small or narrow eyes, apply some white eyeshadow to your lower lashes, and the skin just behind them. You are essentially extending the whites of your eye.,


If you have small eyes, and have filled in your lower lash area with white eyeshadow, draw a false lower lash line just below that. Follow the natural curve of your eye, and only go a quarter of the way. Choose a brown shade for this., Start at the base of your lashes, then apply the mascara using wiggling motions. If you'd like, you can also apply some to your lower lashes too.


If you extended the whites of your eyes, and applied white eyeshadow to your lower lashes, consider using white mascara on your lower lashes. This will help conceal them better.
 Be sure to trim the false lashes to fit your eye, and to match the style to your wingtip. The more dramatic your wingtip is, the longer and thicker your false lashes should be.


If you can't apply false eyelashes, or don't like wearing them, layer on some lengthening and volumizing mascara.
If you have small eyes, and draw on a false lower lash line, you can add some mini "accent" false lashes to the bottom corner., Bring an eyelash curler close to your lash line, and then gently squeeze it shut for a few seconds before opening it back up. This will help blend your false lashes and real lashes together. When you are done, you can apply another coat of mascara to help "seal" them against your natural lashes.

