 They would give you a better understanding of professional criticizing.Some can be 'The Rolling Stones' or 'All Music'. You need to learn how they write it and how they explain it.;
, If you mourn over them too much they may get too depressed and have revenge on you. Learn to speak politely while communicating effectively and writing a speech correctly.
 Whether it's songs or books, you should usually stay with one topic and make sure you are experienced. If you were a random person criticizing random objects, who would listen to you?

, If it was a really great thing with nothing bad, don't make things up. Even if you was your best friend or Britney Spears, you have to tell the truth and tell them how bad the song or whatever was to become a trusted and expert criticizer.
 Don't use the words 'nice' or 'good', use extraordinary words like 'this song was absolutely amazing that it popped my ears' or 'this song has a bad taste with the simplistic effect of drums; there was nothing much left'. Do not ever use any swearing words or words that may seem too harsh. That's a thing to really think about e.g. 'stupid' or 'dumb'. Usually the more technical words you use the more professional you are.
 Do not just go like: 'It was an ear-popping song because it had a great instruments', use: 'The masterpiece was an ear-popping example to represent the modern-day culture of civilised instruments; very well done.'

, If you said the song was boring and gave the product a 4 out of 5, that would seem very weird. Try to make it as original as possible. If you said the song was okay then give then give them a 2.5 out of 5. Remember that the rating score doesn't have to be out of 5, it can be out of 2 too. Remember that you can even give the product you are reviewing a 0 out of 5, it doesn't really matter but as long as you explain why you gave the mark properly.
 Remember that if you relate it to the owner they may get furious and it's a little bit in mature to do so or in respectful. You can say something like this though: 'The song wasn't as good as expected compared to other songs by Britney Spears'. The example before was okay as long as you do not directly make reference to the maker.

