 Some studies report that déjà vu happens more often when you are stressed.Deal with your déjà vu by doing things to lower your overall stress level.


Identify the things that have you stressed and problem-solve ways to reduce the stress they are causing you.
For example, if you are stressed about your workload then you might talk to someone close to you about how you are feeling and try to get organized.
Start practicing meditation as a way to keep yourself calm and reduce some of the stress you might be feeling.
Try some deep breathing exercises as a way to lower your anxiety and decrease any stress that you are feeling.
 There is some research that links déjà vu to lack of sleep and fatigue.In order to deal with your déjà vu, make sure that you are getting enough sleep and not wearing yourself out.


Go to bed at a regular time each evening. Do something relaxing and soothing in the hour or so before you go to sleep.
For example, you might read a book, listen to calming music, or have a cup of tea.
Make sure that you are taking time each day to simply relax and do something calming and peaceful.
 There is a body of research that suggests that certain medications can trigger increases in chemicals in the body, like dopamine, that can increase your likelihood of experiencing déjà vu.Taking a look at your medications and researching how they affect your dopamine levels can help you deal with déjà vu.


Ask your physician if any of your regular or short-term medications increase the dopamine levels in your brain.
Ask yourself if your déjà vu began or increased around the time you started taking the medication?
If you have ever stopped taking the medication, did your déjà vu experiences decrease or stop?

, Experiencing déjà vu frequently, especially in children and teenagers may be a sign of epilepsy.There has even been a case of frequent déjà vu being caused by anxiety.Discuss it with your doctor if you feel that your déjà vu experiences are happening more than they should be.


You might say, “Dr. Yung, I’ve been experiencing déjà vu a lot lately and it’s worrying me a bit.”
Or, you could try, “I’d like to talk to about déjà vu and what it might mean if I have it a lot.”
Bring your déjà vu journal with you to your doctor’s visit so that you can share it with your doctor.

