 Do not become discouraged or upset at yourself, or worry that you will be unable to continue living. After the death of a loved one it is normal to feel sad, upset, and lost. You should not tell yourself to "get over it," or move on rapidly. Instead, accept your feelings as a natural response to death -- it will make it easier to address your grief as time passes.Common, emotions include:


Denial of the death
Shock or emotional numbness
Bargaining or rationalizing how you could have "saved" the deceased.
Regret for things done while the person was alive.
Depression
Anger;
, When you first find out about a loved one's death it's going to hurt. Instead of avoiding those feelings you should try to let them out however feels natural. Crying, silent reflection, or the wanting to talk about death should be encouraged if you need. Don't resit crying because you think it "looks weak." If you need to cry, let yourself cry.


Don't feel like you need to grieve in a certain way. This process if personal and you should accept the feelings and expressions that feel right to you.
 It is all too easy to let negative emotions of death overwhelm us and drown out the wonderful memories of someone while they were alive. Think of the funny, quirky traits of your loved one and share them with others. Celebrate a person's accomplishment's and life, finding the good in a difficult time.


Many studies show that our mindset while coping with grief profoundly affects how we feel 1-2 years later, so positive feelings now will help you stay positive in the future."Healing from grief is not the process of forgetting, it is the process of remembering with less pain and more joy." -- Marie José Dhaese, Oftentimes our reaction to tragedy is to eliminate free time-- working more hours, going out often, and sleeping in late. This is an attempt to "bury" feelings of grief, keeping busy to avoid unpleasant or sad feelings. Coping with death, however, takes time.


Resist urges to use drugs and alcohol to cope with death, as this not only inhibits your ability to cope but can lead to other physical and mental problems.
 You are not alone in your grief, and sharing your thoughts, memories, and emotions with others can help everyone understand what has happened. Shutting out others not only hinders your ability to cope with death, but it creates rifts between people when they need each other the most. While talking is difficult, there are ways to begin the conversation:


Bring up you favorite memories of the deceased.
Plan the funeral service, burial, or rituals together.
Admit when you need someone to vent your feelings of anger or sadness to.
 Even if you only jot your thoughts down in a journal, finding a way to express your thoughts helps you to face them head on. By writing or forming your thoughts through art, you make them tangible and easier to manage.
 There is a strong correlation between our physical and mental health,and taking care of one will always benefit the other. Continue to eat well, exercise, and get enough sleep, even if your feel sluggish or uncomfortable., Finding other people who understand you pain can be a valuable tool to help your learn about your feelings and cope with death. Know that you are not alone in your pain, and that a simple internet search for "Death Support Groups" in your area can help you find a group near you.


There are often specific groups for different types of death -- groups for those who have lost a spouse or parent, groups for those dealing with cancer, etc.
The US Health Department has a detailed list of support groups and ways to contact people on their support group website.
 There are trained professionals who can help you cope with the death of a loved one, especially if you feel like you cannot function or have lost the will to keep living.Guidance councilors, school therapists, and mental health professionals can all offer guidance and support while you cope with the death of a loved one.
 There is no "correct" amount of time to deal with grief -- sometimes it takes a month, sometimes it takes over a year. When a loved one dies there is no telling exactly how it will affect you, so do not try to rush yourself to feel better. With time, you will learn to cope with death in your own way.The "stages of grief" are only guidelines for common emotions felt after the death of a loved one. They are not a series of boxes a grieving person must check off to move on.