 For light colored hair, such as various shades of blond, keeping it clean is key to getting maximum shine. That’s because your hair looks dull when it’s greasy. Wash your hair at least every other day to keep your hair looking super shiny.If your light hair is dry, wash every other day to keep it shiny. Use a moisturizing shampoo and always follow up with conditioner.
If your light hair is fine or thin, you can usually wash every day. Use conditioner only on the ends of your hair to avoid making it greasy. You may also want to use a clarifying shampoo once or twice a month to remove any buildup that might dull your hair.;
, Dark colored hair tends to look its shiniest when it is properly hydrated. Shampooing your hair too often can actually strip the moisture from your hair and leave it looking dry. Wash your hair no more than every other day to boost its shine.If you have dry, dark hair, you may be able to go every two days between shampoos. Be sure to always use a conditioner when you wash to keep your hair hydrated.
If you have fine, dark hair, you should probably wash every other day. If your roots look greasy between washes, apply a dry shampoo to soak up the excess oil.
 Whenever you shampoo and condition your hair, it’s important to rinse your hair properly. Cool or cold water seals the cuticle so your hair appears smoother and shinier. Even if you wash with lukewarm water, give your hair one final rinse with cool water for extra shine.In a similar way, blasting your hair with cool air just before you finish blow drying it can help make it shinier.
 Dry, dehydrated hair always looks dull, so you must deep condition your hair regularly to keep it soft and shiny. Use a deep conditioner or moisturizing hair mask weekly or monthly for shiny hair.If you have dry or damaged hair, apply your deep conditioning treatment once a week.
If you have fine or thin hair, apply your deep conditioning treatment once a month.
 Hair gloss is a topcoat for your hair that adds major shine. You can have it done at the salon, but there are also at-home treatments that are easy to apply. In most cases, you simply apply the formula to your hair after shampooing and conditioning, let it sit for a few minutes, and rinse it out.Pay careful attention to the instructions on your at-home kit to ensure that you don’t damage your hair.
Most gloss treatments last 2 to 4 weeks. You can usually use them once or twice a month.
You can find clear gloss treatments that work for all hair colors, as well as those that are designed for specific hair colors. They usually deposit some color in addition to the gloss, so be sure that you’re using one for the correct hair shade.
 You might not give too much thought to the kind of brush that you use, but the right one can actually boost your hair’s shine. Always use a brush with natural bristles -- they are more gentle and help distribute your hair’s natural oils for shinier hair.Avoid brushes with synthetic bristles because they’re too rough and may lead to hair breakage.
 Heat styling your hair too often isn’t good for your locks, but strategic straightening can boost its shine. Flat ironing your hair seals and smooths the cuticle so it reflects the light for major shine.For the most intense shine, use a flat iron whose plates are infused with an oil such as argan.
 When you’re done styling your hair, you can add more shine by using the right finishing product. A hair oil or a shine spray can give your hair a little more shine no matter how you’ve styled it. Use it as the final step of your hair routine.If you have fine or thin hair, choose a lightweight oil, such as avocado or macadamia nut oil, or shine mist instead so it doesn’t leave behind much buildup.
If you have thick or dry hair, choose a heavier oil, such as argan or babassu oil, or a shine serum to boost the shine.
 Heat can quickly strip your hair of moisture, leaving it dull and flat. To keep your locks shiny, protect it from heat styling, such as blow drying, straightening, or curling, as well as environmental factors, such as the sun, saltwater, and chlorine.Always apply a heat protectant spray before blow drying, flat ironing, or curling your hair. It coats your strands with extra moisture so the styling tool doesn’t dry out your locks.
Use a hairspray with SPF whenever you’re going to spend time outside. If you’re going to be in the sun for a prolonged period, wear a wide-brimmed hat to cover your hair.
Before you go swimming in the ocean or a pool, wet your hair with fresh water or a leave-in conditioner. That will prevent your hair from absorbing the ocean or pool water, which can dry out your hair.
 Omega-3 fatty acids help keep your hair soft and shiny by keeping it hydrated. Incorporate foods that are high in these fatty acids to ensure that your hair maintains its shine.Foods that are high in omega-3 fatty acids include salmon, tuna, walnuts, egg yolks, soybeans, and spinach.
You can also take an omega-3 fatty acid supplement that provides 1 gram a day. Just be sure to talk to your doctor before starting any supplements.
 Hair that features both dark and light shades tends to look shinier than hair that’s all one color. Incorporating highlights or lowlights to your hair can help it reflect more light and boost its shine.If you have a blonde base, ask your stylist about adding lowlights throughout your hair to give it more dimension.
If you have dark hair, ask your stylist about adding thin highlights to incorporate lighter tones in your hair.

