 Before you determine where to hang your whiteboard, measure its width.This will help you determine where to place the screws so they will effectively screw into the studs.If you have three studs, be sure to divide your measurements into threes. If you have two, divide into two, and so forth.;
, Drywall alone is not enough to hold up a whiteboard, so using a stud finder (or through simply knocking on the wall), identify the location of the studs adjacent to your chosen space. Mark the studs to refer back to.

To use a stud finger, place the finder flush against the wall, press the button, and slide it along the wall until you hear a “beep” indicating that a stud was located.
Measure the area between the studs, as well, to help you determine where to drill.
 Drill a hole into the top and bottom of your whiteboard, measuring the area to align with your studs. This is particularly crucial if your whiteboard has a metal frame, rather than a wooden one, as metal will not allow a screw to be drilled directly into it.Make sure you use a drill bit that matches the size of your screws.
 Place the pre-drilled holes against the wall in line with the studs you found. You can hold your board up by yourself, if it is small, or prop it up with a table or ladder if it is large.


You can also hold the board with one hand and screw the whiteboard into the wall with the other, if coordination allows.
 Before you place all of the screws into the wall, place a level on top of your whiteboard to make sure the top of your board is even. If it is not, quickly alter your placement.

You can tape your level to the top of the whiteboard to hold it in place as you try to maneuver it.
 Line your screws up with the holes you’ve drilled. Pressing firmly, screw your whiteboard into the wall with an electric drill, trying to keep your screws as even as possible.If you find your arm slipping, or the screw going in sideways, stop and start again, keeping the screw steady and straight.
If you accidentally mess up on a hole, you can lift your whiteboard a few inches higher to hide the mistake.

