 If the grout haze has hardened and does not come off with a scrubbing tool, use a mild vinegar and water cleaner. Mix together one part vinegar to four parts warm water. Then, use a mop or a nylon scrubber to spread the cleaner and remove the grout haze.Make sure you use a scrub pad that is soft and made of nylon. You do not want the scrubber to scratch the surface of the tiles.
Use the scrub pad to loosen up any grout haze caught between the tile and the grout. Then, swipe the mop over the area to remove the grout haze.
 Make sure the cleaner is labeled mild and is made for grout haze removal. Using a strong acid-based cleaner can damage the tile and weaken the grout. Dilute the mild acid-based cleaner with half water. Then, spray the cleaning solution on the tile surface with a spray bottle. You may notice a fizzing effect on the tile as the cleaner reacts to the grout haze.Scrub the grout haze off with a mop, making sure you remove any excess cleaning solution on the floor. You can also use a nylon scrub pad to get rid of any hardened grout haze on the tiles.
 If you have tiles made of stone, never use an acid-based cleaner on the tiles as this can damage or stain them. Instead, get a non-acidic cleaner made for stone tiles at your local hardware store or online. Use a mop and a nylon scrub pad to apply the cleaner and remove the grout haze.If you have tiles made of stone, do not wait a day for the grout to set before you remove the haze. Instead, clean the grout haze as soon as the installation is done, as the grout haze will be harder to remove on stone tiles if it dries overnight.
 No matter what type of cleaner you use on the flooring, you should always rinse the floor well with water at the end of the cleaning. You do not want any excess cleaning products to remain on the surface of the flooring. Wet a clean mop or a damp terry towel and wipe the entire floor so any remaining cleaning solution is removed., You should also dry the floor with a clean cheesecloth or terry cloth once the cleaning is done. This will ensure the flooring looks fresh and polished once the grout haze has been removed.


Dry the floor as soon as it has been rinsed, as you do not want excess water to remain on the flooring. Excess water can damage the tiles and the grout, especially if it has recently been installed.

