 It is not necessary for your hair to be freshly washed, but if you do wash your hair before styling it, you may find it useful to add some volumizing spray to it before you blow it dry.


You can apply some products after blowdrying your hair, so just be sure to follow the instructions of whichever product you choose.;
, With your hands, use your thumbs along the sides of your head to help you separate the top third of your hair from the bottom. Use a clip to hold this section in place. To create the other two sections, simply separate the remaining hair into two halves with your left and right hands. Lay the left section over your left shoulder, and the right section over your right shoulder.


It is not necessary to clip these two bottom sections.
 Starting with one of the two bottom sections, brush the hair with a paddle brush and then spritz the entire length of hair with a heat protectant.
 Starting at the back of your head and moving toward the front, alternate between curling towards and away from your face. For the pieces of hair that frame your face, you’ll want to curl away from your face. Each curl should look like a little spiral.


Hold each strand on the wand for roughly 20 seconds. It could be slightly less time depending on the quality of your wand and the thickness of your hair. If your hair is fine or damaged, you may want to start at 10 to 15 seconds to see if that works for you.
Curling away from your face means pulling your hair away from your face to wrap it around the wand. Curling towards your face means pulling your hair towards your face to wrap it around the wand.
If your hair doesn’t hold curls well, as you let the curl slide off the wand, let it fall into the palm of your hand and hold it there until it cools off., Ensure that you cover all of your hair with hairspray. Fold your body over so that your head is upside down and your hair is hanging towards the floor, and then shake your head in a “no” motion as you spray your hair.
 Run your fingers through your hair gently to mould the curls together and shape them into a look that you’re happy with.


For a slightly softer look, lightly run a paddle brush (a large, flat brush) over the top layer of your hair while also working it with your fingers until you get a look that you are happy with. This will make the curls look more natural.

