 Gently place this on your face and let it sit for one to two minutes. This will open your pores and prepare the skin on your face for exfoliation. Exfoliation is one of the most effective means to get rid of dead skin. Be careful that you use a warm and not scalding hot towel.;
, After using the warm towel, the next step is to wash your face using a mild cleanser (such as Cetaphil) — the same as the one you likely already use on a daily basis as part of good skin care. Cleaning your skin can further help to open the pores and better prepare the skin on your face for effective exfoliation.


After washing, gently pat your skin with a dry towel. Be gentle and do not rub too vigorously, to avoid causing any damage to your skin.
You may try standing in front of a fan to dry your body, especially hard to reach areas.
 There are two types of exfoliation: physical, and chemical. Physical exfoliation is when you physically use a product that scrapes away dead skin cells by the pressure exerted upon them. Examples of tools for physical exfoliation include exfoliating pads and microdermabrasion kits.Skin-care professionals do not recommend microdermabrasion without the consultation of a doctor or dermatologist first, as you could damage or irritate your skin.
Skin-care companies such as L'Oreal, Ponds, Clinique, and Neutrogena are now producing at-home microdermabrasion kits.
These generally consist of an abrasive cream or scrub with a special tool for application.Sometimes they come with a microdermabrasion cloth with fibres that are rougher than normal and meant to remove dead skin cells.An example is Olay Regenerist Microdermabrasion and Peel System., There is a variety of chemical exfoliating products available. Your best bet is to consult a professional in aesthetics or a dermatologist for advice in choosing the right product for you.If you are unable to afford a professional consultation, carefully read the labels of the products and choose one that is suited to your skin type.


After washing your face and gently drying it, carefully apply the chemical exfoliating product. Spread it all over your face, being sure to cover the full surface area.
Gently massage the chemical exfoliating agent into your skin. Try delicate circular motions with your fingers. Do not rub too hard, as you do not want to damage your skin inadvertently.
Many people exfoliate their neck as well.
Some examples of chemical exfoliating agents include a glycolic acid peel or a lactic acid peel. The acidic nature of these peels is part of what makes them so effective.
Chemical exfoliation tends to work better than physical exfoliation (in particular for long-term results) because it is able to access deeper layers of the skin. Chemical exfoliation works by breaking chemical bonds, which in turn releases dead skin cells and allows them to shed much more easily.
 Then gently pat it dry. Leave it for about five minutes to air dry and then finish by applying a moisturizing lotion.


Moisturizing lotions are recommended as part of general skin care. They help to prevent early signs of aging and give your skin an overall healthy glow.
 Basically, all areas of your body are okay to follow this same process of exfoliation (other than sensitive areas and mucous membranes); however, the most common area people use it for is the face and/or the neck. This is because these areas are most visible to the public, and often the highest cosmetic concern for people.


Look for exfoliating body scrubs that are made to work on the rest of your body and not your face.
 Not all exfoliating solutions are products bought in a store. In fact, it's easy to make your own exfoliating creams, peels, and rubs at home, if you prefer a more natural approach. Below are two easy-to-use recipes:


Sugar and Oil Scrub: Combine equal parts brown sugar and any cooking oil (like olive oil, grapeseed oil, etc.) for a highly economical, highly effective skin scrub. Rub into the skin to exfoliate, then rinse with soap and water. Add a tablespoon of honey and a few drops of lemon for extra nutrients.
Greek Yogurt and Papaya Enzyme Face Conditioning Mask: Mix 1/2 cup of Greek Yogurt and three tablespoons of mashed up papaya. Apply to face or body, and leave for 15 to 30 minutes. Peel off and rinse face when done.