 Before you mix together the ingredients, you will need to divide your flour. Measure the 2 cups of flour and set aside in a separate bowl. These two cups of flour will be the last ingredient you add to the dough.;
, Add the dry ingredients listed below to a large mixing bowl. Use a wooden spoon to combine the dry ingredients. Stir until all the ingredients are combined. The dry ingredients you will mix together are:1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons shortening
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt

, Once you have combined all the dry ingredients, add two eggs and 1 cup applesauce to the mixture. You do not need to beat the eggs before adding them to the dry ingredients. Simply crack the eggs on the side of a bowl and then add the eggs to the dry ingredients., Once you have added the eggs to the dry ingredients, you will mix the dough until well blended. You can use an electric hand mixer or an electric stand mixer. Beat the ingredients together on medium speed until just blended., Take the 2 cups of flour you put aside earlier and add the flour to the dough mixture. Mix the flour into the dough mixture on medium speed. The dough will be completely combined after mixing on medium speed for about two minutes.
 Once you’ve finished making the dough, cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Place the bowl of dough in the refrigerator and refrigerate for about 1 hour. This will allow the dough enough time to stiffen so that you can shape it into donuts., You will need a pastry board or another flat, clean surface upon which to roll out and cut your donuts. Take a pastry board, or large cutting board, and sprinkle with flour. Make sure the entire surface is covered in a light dusting of flour.
 In a deep fryer or in a 3-quart saucepan, heat about 2 to 3 inches of oil to a temperature of 375 degrees Fahrenheit or about 190 degrees Celsius. If you do not have a temperature gauge on your deep fryer, you can check the temperature by dipping a wooden spoon handle in the oil. If the oil starts to steadily bubble, then it has reached the proper temperature., Remove the donut dough from the refrigerator. Next, take the plastic wrap off the top of the bowl. Finally, divide the donut dough into two halves. You will roll each half separately to make and shape your donuts., Take one half of the donut dough and place it on the well-floured pastry board. Grab a rolling pin. Take the rolling pin and roll out the donut dough. The dough should be about 3/8 inch or about 1 centimeter thick., Ideally, you will use a 3 inch or 7.5 centimeter donut cutter. If you do not have a donut cutter, you can use a cup or glass that is about 3 inches or 7.5 centimeters in diameter. You can then use a clean soda bottle lid to cut the hole in the center of each donut. You can also substitute a circular cookie cutter and the base of a large pastry tip., Use a wide spatula to slide the donuts into the oil. Fry about 1 to 1.5 minutes on the first side. At this point, they should begin to rise to the surface, which is a signal it is time for you to flip them. Fry on the second side for an additional 1 to 1.5 minutes. The donuts should be golden brown when they are finished.
 Once you have fried the donuts for 1 to 1.5 minutes on each side, it will be time to remove the donuts from the oil. Place the freshly friend donuts on a plate or platter lined with paper towels or a clean kitchen towel. This will help absorb any excess oil.
 If you wish, you can sprinkle sugar, or a mixture or cinnamon and sugar, on your freshly made donuts. You can eat them once they have cooled or serve them up to a day later. Enjoy!

