 Dogs need strong, healthy teeth to thrive. Chew toys are a great way to keep their teeth healthy. Some chew toys are made of durable plastics, rubber, and other materials that will last your pup a long time. Others, like bones or rawhide, are edible., If you don’t have a lot of money to buy new toys for your pet, get creative. Your house is probably full of dog toys. Gym socks are a great toy option. You can fill the toes of old socks with treats that your pup will have to dig out, or tie a knot in the socks and play tug of war. Use an old tennis ball as a puzzle toy. Cut a small incision in the ball along the white lines. Pull back the flap, fill with treats, push the flap inside of the tennis ball, and give it to your pup. Your dog will have a blast getting the treats out.


Do something different to clothes and other home-made items, so your pup knows which socks or clothes belong to it. For instance, tie a knot in socks or attach old clothes around a plastic bottle. Otherwise, don’t give your pet old shoes, cushions, clothes, or other household items you’ve taught it not to chew. This will undo its training., Challenging your dog to use its brain, teeth, and paws to get a reward is a great way to help it pass the time. There are numerous varieties of puzzle toys available for dogs of all sizes. Some of these toys are made to hide treats. There are also puzzle toys that your dog will need to pull apart. You can then put the toys back together, allowing your pup to start the fun all over again., When purchasing foods or making them in the home, make sure to keep in mind your dog’s health and weight. If you have a dog that is overweight or has other health concerns, look for treats that are lower in calories or that include health supplements. Remember a word of encouragement or petting your pup can be just as effective.


Ask your vet for recommendations, or talk to a representative at your local pet store.
Cheese, beef jerky, and lunch meats are all relatively affordable and healthy treats for your dog.
Check the label on store bought snacks looking for high calorie counts, ingredients that you don’t recognize, and other tell-tale signs the treats are less than healthy.