 Being a jerk signals that you are a bully and you are not being yourself.;
, Don't fake who you really are, it forces the girl to not like you in an intimate way. She won't know who you really are.
 If you are fighting make sure that it's not a petty reason. For example:Someone doesn't like your shoes.
 Girls like boys who are funny, but not constantly. They don't like getting in trouble so don't always talk to them. Interact at times when you're allowed to. If you don't, it may be a turnoff. It also says that you can't be taken seriously. If you do get in trouble for talking, put the blame on yourself. It says that you are a gentleman. However, if the girl takes advantage of this, she is not the one.
 Girls want to hang out with boys, but not all the time. They want to be with their friends too. So try not to: Interrupt her conversations, Follow her around, Sign up for all her classes,ETC.
 If you want to ask the girl out, don't say, "Do you want to go out with me?" Try something more like... "Hey, I'm going to see this movie on Friday, I think you'd like it." When asking the question, don't use adjectives like fun and boring. These tell about your taste in the movie and that can be a kill. After she responds say something like, "Wanna come?" It works a lot easier and shows her that you want her to be in your life besides school.
 Some girls aren't ready for that yet. They might prefer to be just friends and then work their way into a relationship. Make sure that the girl you are interested in does not have a boyfriend. If she does, distance the flirting but still remain friends. She will come around sometime.
 Most girls secretly want to kiss a boy, but boys usually make the first move. If you ask them to kiss... they'll be clueless or think you might cause physical troubles later on in your relationship. After you both are comfortable with each other... then you can get into physical contact. Try not to touch parts of her body other than her face. It may seem as if you want something from her.
 Girls like guys that are confident and if they don't like you as a boyfriend, most girls will let you down easily.

Questions, Comments, Concerns. If liked this article then click the smiley face to the right. Comment if you think it is necessary. And I will get back to you on any questions.