 Grease a 2-quart baking dish and turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (204 C). Carefully cut one spaghetti squash in half lengthwise. Scoop out the seeds from each half and discard them. Drizzle the spaghetti squash flesh with 1 tablespoon of olive oil and place both halves cut-side down on a baking sheet. Bake the squash for 40 to 50 minutes.The spaghetti squash should be completely tender if you poke it with a fork.
 Use a fork to scrape the spaghetti squash flesh into a mixing bowl. Add 1/2 teaspoon of dried basil and 1/4 teaspoon of ground thyme to the spaghetti squash. Stir the mixture to incorporate the seasonings.Set the spaghetti squash aside while you prepare the beef filling.
 Heat the remaining tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Once the oil shimmers, stir in one onion that's been diced and 2 pounds (907 g) of ground beef. Season the onion and beef with 1/2 teaspoon of kosher salt and cook it until the meat is completely browned, about 8 to 10 minutes.Stir the beef and onion frequently to prevent it from sticking to the pan.
If the ground beef is greasy, consider draining the grease from the pan before using the meat in the casserole.
 Stir 2 cloves of minced garlic and 1 1/2 cups (35 g) of marinara sauce into the sauteed beef and onion mixture. Cook the mixture for another minute over medium heat.You can use your favorite spaghetti sauce in this recipe or use a homemade marinara sauce.
 Spread half of the seasoned spaghetti squash in the prepared baking dish. Spoon half of the meat sauce over the squash and sprinkle 3/4 cup (84 g) of shredded mozzarella cheese over the sauce. Spread the remaining spaghetti squash over the cheese and top that with the remaining meat sauce.Ensure that the sides of your baking dish are well greased so the casserole doesn't stick as it bakes.
 Get out a small bowl and combine 1/4 cup (25 g) of grated Parmesan cheese with 1/4 cup (25 g) of panko breadcrumbs. This will give the casserole a little extra crunch and creamy flavor.If you don't have panko breadcrumbs, you can use traditional breadcrumbs.
 Turn the oven temperature down to 375 degrees F (190 C). Sprinkle the cheesy breadcrumb topping evenly over the top of the casserole. Cover the casserole with a sheet of aluminum foil and bake it for 20 minutes. Remove the foil and bake it for another 10 minutes. The casserole should be golden and bubbly.For a little extra spice, consider sprinkling red pepper flakes over the casserole.

