 If you’re a people pleaser, you’ve likely spent most of your life saying “yes.” Maybe you’re afraid you’ll upset people if you say “no,” or you don’t like doing it because you honestly want to help. Either way, you must understand that saying “no” isn’t an attack on the person; it’s a way to save you.


Always doing what people ask you to do can drain you both physically and mentally. When you say “no,” you are essentially putting your needs in front of that person, which may be uncomfortable for you.
But understand that if you’re constantly saying yes, particularly to things that the other person could do for themselves, you’re prone to burning out. When you’re in this state, you can’t be your best, which means you and those closest to you could suffer.Also, remember that it is not selfish to take care of yourself. It is necessary!

, Being put on the spot can make even the most confident people weak in the knees. These situations often cause people to agree to things they wouldn’t normally do otherwise. One way to avoid this is to stall your answer, so that you have time to formulate an effective response.


For instance, if you are asked to do something you know that you don’t want to do, you could say, “Let me think about it” or “Can I get back to you?” This gives you a chance to build the confidence to say no and come up with an answer you feel comfortable with giving., It may sound silly, but spending time actually saying “no” can help you when the need calls for it. Say it when you’re alone, like when you’re in the shower or driving to work. Having experience saying it can make you feel more comfortable when the time comes to use it.


You can also practice a response to go with it. For example, you could say, “I’m sorry but my schedule isn’t going to allow me to do that.” You could also say, “I appreciate you coming to me for help, but I’m afraid I can’t.” You don’t need to get into the details of why you can’t, unless you want to. Frankly, it’s no one’s business as to why you can’t help.You can also write your answer down to help make it more concrete.
 If you really want to help but can’t in the way you are asked, try to develop a compromise that works for you. This may make you feel less guilty, but also helps you protect yourself and stick to your guns.


For example, if your friend wants you to shuttle her kids around to school every day, try to create a schedule where you can one or two days a week. If your family member wants you to loan them money, try to help them come up with a budget instead.