 Mindfulness techniques help you focus on the present moment and how you are feeling in it. It helps you be aware of your emotions which means you will be able to recognize when you are starting to get angry.If you can recognize it then you will be able to use humor to release it.


Focus your senses on what you are experiencing the present moment. Pay attention to what you see, taste, smell, feel, and hear.
Center your thoughts on what you are doing right then. Think about what is happening and how you feel about it.
Pay attention to your body. For example, does anything hurt or feel tense? Does anything feel relaxed?

, Your physical reactions can help you to identify when you are feeling angry. This is important since ongoing anger can lead to severe health problems, such as ulcers, slow wound healing, heart attack, and stroke. Some physical signs of anger include:Heavy or fast breathing.
Sweating.
Flushing.
Increased blood flow to muscles.
Increased strength.
 If you are aware of how the people around you are feeling, you will know when tension is rising. You will also be able to tell if using humor is the right way to try to decrease the anger the people around you are feeling.


Listen to what people are saying when they are talking to you. Their words will either let you know directly how they feel or give you clues.
For instance, if you are with your sister and she says, “I’m so mad right now”, that’s a direct sign that she’s angry.
Look for hints in their body language. Does their body seem tense? Are they pacing?
For example, if you walk in and see your friend with his jaw tense and fists balled it may be a sign that he’s angry.
 Depending on the level of anger you or the other person is feeling, humor may or may not help diffuse the situation. Determine whether it’s a low level of anger or if it’s out of control.If the situation has the potential for anger, but it’s not there yet, you can likely use humor to release it.
For instance, if you know you are about to confront your friend because of something they did, then try visualizing something funny to lighten your mood.
If you are the other person is mildly angry, you can still attempt to use humor.
For example, if you can tell that your dad is starting to get frustrated then try cracking a small joke.
If you are extremely angry, then humor may not help right then.

