 Different counselors have different schooling and experience requirements. The most common counseling positions include: Social Worker, Guidance Counselor, Career Counselor, and Drug Counselor.


There are two main types of social workers:

Direct-service social workers are people who work directly with others to help solve and cope with problems in their everyday lives. Direct-service social workers usually work for organizations as part of larger outreach programs.
Clinical social workers diagnose and treat mental, behavioral, and emotional issues. These people often work in clinics or hospitals.



Guidance or school counselors provide academic, career, college readiness, and personal/social advice to children and adolescents. Guidance counselors usually work at elementary, middle, and high schools, catering to students from kindergarten to Grade 12.

Marriage or family counselors help people improve relationships with spouses and among family members. These counselors typically have a masters degree in this specialty, as well as additional training to become licensed.Career or vocational counselors work with clients to help them prepare for careers. Career counselors help clients identify their unique interests, strengths and talents, as well as capitalize on them to find their best career path. Career counselors may work in universities to support faculty development, for large corporations, or open private counseling practices.

Drug abuse counselors help patients identify the underlying causes of their addiction. Drug abuse counselors are often responsible for following patients completing comprehensive drug treatment. It is arguably one of the most challenging career choice for mental health counselors, as drug addicts often have a variety of other mental health disorders . Drug counselors commonly work in halfway houses, homeless shelters, hospitals, jails/prisons, and drug/alcohol treatment centers .

Some states require, and many organizations prefer, that you be a former addict yourself.

;
, Interview a counselor or counselors in the areas you are interested in. The best way to decide if a career is a good fit, is to interview someone who is already in that career. Contact local schools, clinics or rehab centers (wherever your counselor of interest would work) and express your interest in becoming a counselor. Ask if they would put you in contact with their counselor for an informational interview. Not everyone will accept, but you should be able to find someone happy to talk about their career.
 When interviewing someone about their job it is important that you properly prepare. Remember that the person you are interviewing is doing you a favor, so be respectful of their time.


Be considerate of the counselor's time, schedule the meeting on their side of town, and at a time that works best for them. Common places to meet are coffee houses, but the counselor may also prefer to meet during the day at their office.
Make a token gesture. If you meet at a coffee shop or restaurant, make sure you pick up the tab. If you meet in the office, consider bringing a small token, such as a $10 gift card for coffee or the movies.
Prepare questions ahead of time. Again you do not want to waste their time, prepare question ahead of time, so that you use the time efficiently. Common questions you may decide to ask are:

What is your education background?
How did you decide to become a counselor?
Is your education/career path typical?
What is your favorite part of the job?
What is the most challenging part of the job?
What do imagine the future is like for your career?
How is the work/life balance?
If you had to do it all over again, what would you do?


Make sure you bring a pen and paper to write down any important things gleaned from your conversation.
Be professional. Do not underestimate the power of informative interviews. It may be nothing more that a one time conversation, but you never know when you might make a lifelong ally and friend in the field. Therefore, dress and treat the informative interview like the real thing. Dress appropriately, keep your jokes clean and your attitude professional.
Bring a business card to exchange.
Update your LinkedIn account and clean up your Facebook page. Being professional does not end at an interview. Keep your online presence professional as well. It is common for prospective employers to google your name.

