 You can ask the sheriff to seize and sell the defendant’s personal property. This includes things like boats, cars, furniture, jewelry, horses, etc., so long as it is in Florida.You need the locate this property. The sheriff won’t find it for you.


You can serve interrogatories or ask the debtor questions under oath in a deposition to find out what property they have. If they lie to you, then they’ve committed perjury.
You can hire a private investigator, if necessary, to find out if the debtor has property in the state.
If you search yourself, don’t do anything illegal, like trespass on the debtor’s property.
 You can’t have the sheriff seize all property. For example, the debtor can exempt $1,000 in a motor vehicle and $1,000 of other personal property. These exemptions don’t apply if the debtor is a business.The debtor might also own the property jointly with their spouse, in which case it is exempt. To be exempt, they must have an equal interest in the property and have taken ownership at the same time while married.For example, if a couple buys a boat together while married and receive joint title at the same time, then it is probably exempt.
However, if the husband buys the boat and two years later puts his wife’s name on the title, then it is not exempt and the sheriff can seize it.
 Fill out the judgment lien certificate, which you can find at http://dos.myflorida.com/sunbiz/forms/judgment-lien/. Make a copy for your records and then file the certificate with the Florida Department of State.You can file and pay the fee online or submit through the mail.


A judgment lien for personal property lasts only five years, but you can renew for another five years., Go to the court that issued your judgment and speak to the court clerk. Show them a copy of your signed judgment, and ask the clerk for a writ of execution. You’ll need to take the writ to the sheriff’s department., Before the sheriff can sell the property, all people with a lien on the property must be notified. Florida requires that you search the www.sunbiz.org website to find out if there are other liens.Also check if any Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) security interests have been filed in the debtor’s name at www.floridaucc.com.
You’ll need to create an affidavit for the sheriff and include all of the information you found about other lienholders. The sheriff might have a sample affidavit you can use, or you can find an example online., You must describe the property you want seized, so that there’s no mistake about what the sheriff takes. You also must tell the sheriff where the property is located., Take your court judgment, writ of execution, affidavit, and levy instructions. The sheriff might need multiple copies of these documents, so call and ask ahead of time.

The sheriff will require that you deposit money to cover some of their expenses and costs associated with the levy and sale.Bring your check book.
 Tell them the day and time of the sale and hold onto proof that you contacted them. Their contact information should be included with their filings with the state.In some counties, the sheriff might contact them., In the local newspaper, advertise the date, time, and location of the sale.Check with the court clerk if there is a particular newspaper you should use. Also ask how long you must run the ad.
 The sheriff will sell the property at auction, and you can bid on it if you want. The sale proceeds will be distributed in the following sequence:The sheriff pays the costs of the sale. If the proceeds cover all costs, the sheriff will refund your deposit out of the proceeds.
The sheriff then pays you $500 for your costs, even if you didn’t spend that much.
Finally, the sheriff pays judgment liens based on priority. So, if someone filed a lien before you did, they will get paid first.

