 Some good choices include fat-free or low-fat dairy milk, soy milk, cool herbal tea, almond milk, juice, or water. Make sure that you consider the fat and calories when choosing liquid bases for diet smoothies because this can have a dramatic effect on the overall fat and calories of your smoothie.


For example, a smoothie made with juice will have up to 200 calories more than a smoothie made with water.The ratio of the liquid base to the fruits and vegetables should be about two to ¾. That means that for every two cups of liquid base you should add about ¾ of a cup of fruit, vegetables, or other ingredients.
Pour your liquid ingredients into the blender first.;
, You can add whatever fruits and vegetables you would like to use. Fresh fruits and vegetables may taste better and have more nutritional value, but frozen fruits and vegetables work well also. Make sure that you look up the fat and calories before you decide. For example, a banana has more calories than an orange or a carrot, and an avocado has more fat than a cup of spinach.


Some good low-calorie fruit choices include peaches, strawberries, oranges, watermelon, cantaloupe, and papaya.Low-calorie vegetable choices include celery, cucumbers, carrots, kale, and spinach.Keep in mind that fresh and frozen fruits and veggies will thicken a smoothie, but frozen fruits and vegetables will also make your smoothie cold. Toss in a handful of ice cubes if using fresh fruit.If you have a high powered blender, then fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables should be easy to blend. If your blender is not too powerful, then you may want to defrost your fruit or even cook the vegetables first to soften them up a bit.
Rinse off fruits and veggies before adding them to the blender to ensure that they are free of dirt and debris.
 Nuts and seeds can be a good addition for adding healthy fats and protein to a smoothie. Just keep in mind that these ingredients will also increase the calories and fat in your smoothie. Some good nuts and seeds to try in a smoothie include:


almonds
cashews
sunflower seeds
chia seeds
flaxseeds, You can also change the flavor of your smoothie without any added fat or calories by adding a dash of spice. Consider what spices will work best with your other smoothie ingredients. For example, if you are making an apple smoothie, then a dash of cinnamon would be a nice complement. Some good spices to consider when making smoothies include:


cinnamon
ginger
nutmeg
cloves
chili powder
cayenne pepper
cardamom

, Adults only need about 48-56 grams of protein per day, so adding protein to your diet smoothie may not be necessary if you get enough protein from other sources. But if you are replacing a meal with a smoothie each day, then adding protein may be a good idea.If you want a diet smoothie that is packed with protein, then add a scoop of protein before you blend.
To keep the fat and calories low, choose a protein powder without added sugars and that is low in fat.
Read labels to find a protein powder that is low in fat and calories.
 After you have all of your ingredients in the blender, place the lid on the blender and blend the ingredients on high for about one to two minutes. You can blend for longer if needed.


If ingredients seem to be getting stuck in the bottom of the blender or on the sides, then turn off the blender, wait for the blades to stop completely, and then use a spoon to stir the ingredients. Then, remove the spoon, replace the lid, and blend on high again.
If the contents of your smoothie seem too thick, then you can add a little more water or other liquid. If the contents seem too thin, then try adding a bit of ice or a couple more pieces of fruit.
When the ingredients have all been liquefied, then transfer your smoothie to a glass and serve!

