 Try to buy them in all different washes, cuts, and styles. You can get them from the same store, just be sure there is something noticeably different between each pair. This way, you won't be buying jeans that all look the same! But if anything, make sure you have a tighter pair, a comfortable, slightly baggy pair, and that one pair that fits just right.
 Get one pair in a soft shade, and one in another color that flatters your skin tone and eye/hair color. These are great for lazy or sick days, when you're running late, just want to be comfortable, or cold days when you're not in the mood for jeans. Everyone needs a break! But make sure they fit nicely. Tight around the butt, but not too tight. Get pairs with drawstrings to adjust the waist size.
 If you just don't wear skirts, skip this step. If you're worried about people seeing your undergarments, try to get ones with built in shorts.
 Just wait until the spring-like is hot again, and then you should buy more. Also, don't buy them too short, or you won't be able to wear them after the first few weeks of school, due to weather issues!

, Try your favorite stores and second hand shops for things you'll like. Fitted tees are good if you think you won't grow out of them. Again, look in the clearance first. Some places can be really pricey though! Can you really afford 35-50 dollars for one shirt? You can buy 2 shirts in the clearance rack at a good expensive store if it fits your budget. The more the merrier, right?

, 3 to 5 plain, solid colored layering tees will sooth your layering addiction! These are just those plain-colored, but still fitted and cute, tees that can be repeated in a week without being recognized. They can also be accessorized as much as you like. Try to find 1 or 2 bright ones, and the rest soft and/or neutral shades.
 Some people have like to have 5 so they can wear a different one each day of the week. These are the most common way to stay warm in the winter and fall time.
 Try getting one heather gray, one black, one tan, one blue jeans, and the last one is up to you! Leggings are important because they go great with cute skirts and are comfortable on days when you just don't feel like wearing pants. Plus, since fall is right around the corner, it will suit the weather!

, If you don't have good quality shoes, you'll get blisters and be very uncomfortable. Running shoes can be all dirty, but they are comfortable. It's gym and fashion is not imperative. If you get really good shoes then its probably going to get ruined during track and field, or basketball, etc.
 Try to have 4 to 7 pairs of other shoes to wear outside of gym class. Try to mix it up with your favorite brands and types. Just make sure you feel comfy!

, If you want more than one pair, get one in a light shade and one in a darker shade.
 Try to get the other 1/4 in cute patterns, colors, and designs!

, You can also get 2 to 4 good quality bras in fun colors or designs, but make sure one is neutral. Get one strapless, and the rest is up to you! Find and try out different styles, colors, and brands.
 One option is to get colors that you love on your underwear, and the other is to get underwear in a matched set with your bra.
 So, if you rarely add anything to outfits, start! But stick with 1 or 2 pieces in each category. If you love accessorizing, embrace it, but don't go crazy!Necklaces are important. If no other jewelry, a girl should always have her signature necklace. That one you wear no matter if you're shopping or playing a sport. Try ones that you can find matching bracelets to go with it. Buy 2 belts, 2 sunglasses, tons of bangles and bracelets and a cute purse.
 If you put hoops in your first holes, then put tiny diamond studs in the second holes.
 Try to have one backpack for school. This backpack should be comfortable yet cool, have big pockets to put all your books in (and make it look like you don't have any books when really, its heavy), and have small compartments on the side to put soda, gum, sunglasses, etc. If you like messenger bags, by all means go ahead. I prefer not to use them because they put all the weight on one shoulder, and studies show that it will make your walk and posture lopsided. Why not make your backpack fun by putting key chains, signatures of your friends, drawings, and pins on it?

