 Match-fitness means that you could play a full game, usually 90', without significantly tiring out and losing your skills. Soccer is a quick moving, constant game that requires a lot of endurance, and your first benchmark should be to run for at least 45' without tiring. There are a lot of ways to practice this:To work on endurance, run 2–3 miles (3.2–4.8 km) 2 times a week and time yourself. Try to improve this each week, slowly working up to 5–6 miles (8–10 km) each run.
Play games. The best way to get match fitness is to play matches. These don't have to be full games -- 3 v 3 for an hour is an incredible way to get real, game like endurance training.
Tire yourself out every practice. Practice is where you build your endurance up in preparation for games. If you're practicing hard, tiring yourself out, you get your body used to performing with less energy, making you more effective later in the game.
Try interval training. This is when you alternate jogging and sprinting on a run, usually jogging for twice the amount of time you sprint, without stopping for any breaks. This is a great way to simulate a game when you're training all alone., To improve your speed, work on sprinting. Find a soccer field, start from the goal line and sprint to midfield, from there jog to the next end line. Repeat this step then walk the length of the field to cool down. Do this as long as possible until you are too fatigued to continue or for about 15 minutes.


Speed is partially determined by genetics, but the time it takes you to hit top speed and your ability to keep sprinting is determined by your training. The more you work, the faster you'll get., Some exercises considered useful for all ages are leapfrogs, wheelbarrows, and lunges. When doing leapfrogs; start from a squatting position and leap as far as you can, rest for a couple of seconds and then repeat. When lunging start from the standing position, step forward as far as you can with one foot and touch the ground with your knee of the non-stepping foot. Then put your weight on your foot that you first stepped with and now step forward with your opposite foot and touch the ground with your other knee. Continue to do this down the length of the field. You will need a partner to do wheelbarrows. Have your partner standing while holding your ankles. You should be in front of them with only your hands touching the ground. You should both walk simultaneously (you with your hands and your partner with their feet) to midfield. Switch positions at midfield. Do all of these exercises 2-3 times down the field, you will drastically improve your leg/abdominal strength.
 Just because you can't use your hands doesn't mean you shouldn't work out your arms. Having great full-body strength means you can fight hard for loose balls, resist tackles from defenders, and jockey for position on headers. While you don't want to turn into The Hulk, light upper body toning is essential for great players. Light weight-training is perfect for soccer players at any position. Work on the following muscle groups 3-5 times a week.



Chest and Back: These muscles are essential for remaining strong on the ball and in the air. Work on 100 push-ups a day, and do as many pull-ups as you can do, completely in sets of 3.

Tone your arms: Basic bicep curls, dips, diamond push-ups (with your hands touching under your chest), and pull-ups are great ways to get upper-body workouts without heading to the gym.

Abs and Core: Essential for every position. Your core is how you transfer energy from your upper body to lower, essential for tight turns, big shots, powerful headers, and trapping. Sit-ups, crunches, and planks are an essential part of your workout, performed daily until you are too tired to continue.

