 This is extremely important if you want your piece to be accepted. Oftentimes, if a writer neglects to look at a magazine’s submission guidelines, they will submit something that wastes both the writer’s time and the editor’s time. For instance, at Family Circle, they specifically state that they do not accept fiction or poetry, so if you submit a short story to them, you won’t be accepted, no matter how good your work., It is important to read the guidelines for queries and pitches, as the guidelines vary from magazine to magazine. You may be eager to submit a your query to a slew of magazines, but you shouldn't rush, unless you are concerned about the timeliness of an article (something to do with politics or world events). Even then you should take the time to make sure the letter contains no typos or grammatical errors.You should also keep in mind the following:


Be careful of simultaneous submissions with major magazines. A simultaneous submission is when you submit the same idea or piece simultaneously to different magazines. Each magazine will have a different policy on simultaneous submissions, so check their submission guidelines.If you do submit simultaneous queries, make sure you submit in groups by tier. In other words, submit to your dream magazines first, wait a few weeks, and then submit to other publications.If you are accepted by a magazine and you have multiple submissions out, email the other places to withdraw your piece., You should wait until you’ve heard back to write the piece. While you can write the piece beforehand, if you don’t get accepted into the magazine you want, you may end up re-writing. However, you may end up making a ton of revisions anyway even you are accepted into your dream magazine. Waiting to write until you’ve heard back, though, will give you time to formulate new ideas and queries. You can focus on writing the article once you’re accepted.Accept rejection as a learning experience. While it is never fun to receive a rejection (or not to hear back at all), it can be a good time for reflection. Did your piece not fit well enough with the other content in the magazine? What might you do differently next time? It can also be beneficial to get a friend to look over your piece if you haven’t already to get a fresh perspective on it. It can also be a great time to develop your voice., If you’re a well-known writer or a celebrity, you may be able to blow off deadlines without any consequences, but if you are a new writer, missing deadlines can spell trouble for your potential career. If you have a life crisis or get sick, and cannot meet the deadline, email your editor to let them know. Nothing is worse than letting a deadline go by without saying anything. Often the deadlines are there to make sure the magazine or content goes out on time., You can do this by keeping up with the latest trends and by reading the women's magazines to see what's happening. You'll want to check the submission sections frequently. Once you've established good relationships with editors, you may be able to contact them directly with a piece you think they might be interested in. You may even want to subscribe to a site like Duotrope, which collates information about different magazines and journals you can submit to. Though it has a literary focus, it also includes some mainstream women's magazines.