 Using heat on tense muscles can relax the contracting muscle, but it will also help relieve the pain. There are different kinds of options for heat therapy that include heating pads and rubs to hot water bottles, all of which may help alleviate your discomfort.Fill a hot water bottle or get a heating pad and place it on your back.
Over the counter heat rubs or patches may also minimize tension and help relax muscle that are spasming. You can purchase these products at most pharmacies.
 Draw yourself a warm bath when you have back pain. Warm water will soothe cramping and tense muscles. It may also relieve general tension and relax you.Make sure that the water is between 36 and 40 degrees Celcius so that your skin doesn’t burn. Check the temperatures with a thermometer. A whirlpool tub can help relieve tension because the jets will massage your back muscles.Epsom salts can have a sedative effect on you and help relieve muscle pain further.If you don’t have a bath, consider using the shower or a steam room., Studies have not linked dehydration and tension, though there is some evidence that not staying hydrated may contribute to cramping. Drinking enough throughout the day may help you avoid back spasms and tension.Water is enough to keep you hydrated. If you prefer something with a little flavor, try sports drinks or juices. Just make sure to drink them with water throughout the day.There is some evidence that tea, especially red raspberry leaf tea, can help relieve cramps., Some medical studies have linked low levels of potassium, calcium and magnesium to muscle cramps. Getting enough of these nutrients in your diet may help prevent back cramping and back.Fruits such as bananas and oranges are good sources of potassium.You can get magnesium from brown rice, almonds, and avocados.Dairy products such as yogurt and cheese, and dark green vegetables such as spinach are good sources of calcium., Reduce the amount of caffeine you consume and stay away alcohol and tobacco if you can. All three can constrict blood vessels and limiting your intake during your period can alleviate cramping and back pain.Reduce your intake of coffee and caffeinated tea as much as possible.You should also reduce your consumption of foods that contain caffeine, such as chocolate.If you can, don’t drink alcoholic beverages during your period. They can constrict blood vessels, dehydrate you, and generally make you feel worse.
Avoid tobacco if you can. If not, try chewing nicotine gum or use an electronic cigarette to minimize how much tobacco you ingest.
 Sleeping in some positions and having a tightly made bed can increase the frequency of muscle cramps and exacerbate back pain. Loosen your blankets and sheets and sleep on your side to minimize back pain and any cramping you have.


Consider sleeping without a flat sheet, which can constrict your movement.The best position to help minimize the risk of developing cramps or back pain is on your side with your knees slightly bent.