 Put all of the ingredients into a blender or food processor and combine until smooth. Spread this onto a damp face and leave it on for five minutes before washing it off using lukewarm water. Here is what you will need to make this facial cleanser:2 apple slices, peeled
½ cup (125 grams) plain yogurt
½ tablespoon olive oil
½ tablespoon honey

, Put all of the ingredients into a bowl and stir them together with a fork or spoon. Massage the mixture onto a damp face and leave it on for 30 seconds before washing it off using lukewarm water. Here is what you will need to make this cleanser:½ cup (50 grams) rolled oats
¼ cup (60 milliliters) fresh lemon juice
¼ cup (60 milliliters) water
½ tablespoon honey

, Put all of the ingredients into a blender or food processor and blend until everything is smooth. Spread the mixture onto a damp face and leave it on for five minutes before washing it off using lukewarm water. Here is what you will need to make this cleanser:½ cup (125 grams) plain yogurt
½ medium cucumber, diced
5 medium mint leaves, chopped

, You can use yogurt on its own to cleanse your face, or you could mix 1 tablespoon of yogurt and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice. The lemon juice will not only give the yogurt a pleasant scent, but it will also act as an astringent; lemon juice is especially beneficial for drying skin.Simply spread the yogurt onto a damp face, taking care to avoid the areas around the eyes, and rinse off using warm water.


You can also add 1-2 drops of essential of essential oil to give the yogurt a nicer smell. Consider oils such as vanilla or lavender.
If you choose to use lemon, stay out of the sun; lemon juice makes your skin more sensitive to sunlight.
Keep in mind that yogurt may lighten your skin. If you are proud of your tan, you may want to keep this in mind.
 Mix everything in a food processor until you get a smooth consistency. Spread the mixture onto a damp face, and rinse it off using lukewarm water. Here is what you will need to make this cleanser:1 large aloe vera leaf, peeled
1 small papaya slice, peeled
1 tablespoon honey
1 teaspoon plain yogurt.
 Put all the ingredients into a food processor and blend until smooth. Spread the mixture onto a damp face, and rinse off using lukewarm water. You can freeze any leftovers for up to one month. Here is what you will need to make this cleanser:1 ripe tomato
2 tablespoons milk
2 tablespoons fresh orange, lemon, or line juice

