 If you want to marry a bachelorette, the first and most obvious thing to do is to pick a bachelorette to court. There are 14 bachelorettes to choose from, 5 girls who are common and easy to court, 4 girls who are special and harder to court, and 5 girls from Mineral Town who do not have a visible Heart Color and can only be seen by equipping a Love Bangle or by talking to her. Once you've chosen your bachelorette, you are now ready for the next step!
, You must complete all of the bachelorette's Heart Events if you ever want to marry her. To do that, you must:

Get her to a certain Heart Color.
Wait for the right time and weather.
Walk from a certain place to the place where the event will occur.
Must have seen a certain Heart Event.
 Even after you've finished all the Heart Events, you still have to get the bachelorette to the highest Heart Color there is! To do so, you must:

Give the girl her favorite present everyday.
Talk to her everyday.
Give her the right answers to her questions in every Heart Event.
 This step can be done any time! As long as you have the money for it. To marry your bachelorette, you must have room for her and your future child. This might take a while because you have to upgrade it twice., This step can also be done at any time! As long as you have the money for it. Another essential thing for marrying your bachelorette is owning a Big Bed! To do so, you must have gotten the TV Shopping Channel in the Sprite Station. The Big Bed is the first thing on sale when you have upgraded your house twice, even if you don't have a kitchen!, This is probably the hardest and most irritating step. You must find 60 of the 101 Sprites scattered across the valley. But if you are aiming to marry the Harvest Goddess, you're going to have to find all of the Sprites hidden in the valley., Getting the Blue Feather is the last thing you'll ever need to do if you want to get married. The Blue Feather will be available as soon as you propose except if it's a Tuesday or if it's already after 5 PM., This is the last and the easiest part of getting married. Just find the girl and equip the Blue Feather then use it on her., After this, she will accept, and you will need to wait for one whole week for the marriage ceremony. After the ceremony, the credits will roll and the game will end. Also, if you ever try to reload the game, you will go back to your last save point where you're unmarried.