 A picture chart can help your toddler understand his bedtime routine. You can even involve your toddler in making the chart to help him feel more empowered about the process. The picture chart should include images of pre-bedtime activities along with corresponding times when these activities will be performed. The bedtime activities should take no longer than 30 minutes (not including a bath).Some sample times and activities that you may want to use in the bedtime chart include:7:30 enjoy a bedtime snack
7:40 brush teeth, wash face, and put on pajamas
7:50 read a story in bed
8:00 turn off the lights and go to sleep;
, Although you do not need to start getting your child ready for bed an hour or two before bedtime, it is a good idea to encourage your toddler to do some calm activities. Allowing plenty of time to start winding down your toddler will help make the process less stressful for you as well.Some good ways to help your toddler wind down include:


Coloring or drawing
Playing with a doll
Reading a book to your toddler
Talking to your toddler

, About a half hour before your toddler’s bedtime routine begins, start setting the tone for bedtime. By setting a soothing tone, you will make it easier for your toddler to start getting sleepy. Some ways to set the tone include:Dimming the lights in the house
Playing some soothing classical or jazz music
Talking in a low soft voice

, A bath before bed can help to soothe your toddler in preparation for a good night’s sleep. Try using a soothing nighttime bubble bath for kids, such as a lavender scented one. Some people use lavender to help with insomnia, so the scent might help to soothe your toddler and help her fall asleep., Screens such as tablets, computers, and TVs may make it harder for your toddler to fall asleep and stay asleep. This is because the blue light that these screens emit can affect circadian rhythms.To help prevent sleep problems from screens, turn off all screens at least one hour before bedtime and make sure that your toddler knows that this is a rule.
 A high-carbohydrate snack before bedtime can head off requests for food after your child has already gotten into bed. A high-carbohydrate bedtime snack may also help your toddler fall asleep and stay asleep. Some good bedtime snack choices include:A piece of whole wheat toast with jam
A piece of fruit
A couple of graham crackers

, It is important to encourage your toddler to go to bed at the same time every night, even on the weekend.Make sure that your toddler knows when it is time for bed and do not give in to requests to stay up later.


Do not move up your toddler’s bedtime if he missed a nap or seems sleepy. Your toddler may end up waking up a few hours later and have trouble getting back to sleep for the night.