 Exercising does a number of things to help reduce your acne. It releases endorphins which lower stress levels and therefore reduce oil-production and also makes you sweat which cleans out dead skin cells. Try exercising on a daily basis for a minimum of thirty minutes to help reduce your acne not only on your face, but also on your chest, shoulders, and back.;
, This is incredibly difficult, as people are prone to touching their faces on a regular basis. Be careful about scratching your face, resting your face on your hands, and picking at pimples. Never pop your zits or squeeze at pesky blackheads, as this only introduces more bacteria to your skin and will make your acne worse.
 Although you may want to keep your water bill down, showering regularly helps to keep oil production low, kill bacteria, and rinse away dead skin cells. Wash your entire body with a mild cleanser and use shampoos that limit oil production in your hair. Be sure to always shower after exercising to remove the dead skin cells your body has sloughed off through sweating.
 Foods that are highly processed and contain a lot of oils greatly increase the amount of acne on your body. Getting the proper amount of nutrients from whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and protein help your skin to regenerate faster and limit unnecessary oil production. When at all possible, avoid foods that are processed or contain a lot of sugar (think junk foods).
 Sleeping kills two birds with one stone, as it helps to relax your body as well as detoxify it. If you aren’t getting enough sleep, chances are your skin hasn’t had the time or ability to renew its skin cells. Regulate your sleep cycle by going to bed at a consistent time every night and sleeping for a minimum of eight hours., Although we’ve all heard to drink eight glasses of water a day, there isn’t a set amount on how much water you should consume. Water helps to detoxify your body and purify your skin, so make sure you drink water often throughout the day.
 High stress levels lead to increased sebum production, so do your mind and your skin a favor by giving yourself some time to relax. Try taking a bath, reading a book, meditating, or practicing yoga and watch your skin transform in response.
 Any fabric that comes into contact with your skin on a regular basis - clothes, towels, pillowcases, and sheets - should be washed at least once a week to remove oil and bacteria that build up over time. Use a gentle cleanser for sensitive skin to help solve your acne problem.
 If you wear makeup, you may be stuck in a vicious cycle of covering up acne while simultaneously causing it with your cover-up usage. Find acne-fighting oil-free mineral makeup to help prevent worsening your acne while simply trying to hide it. Power foundations are also recommended. When possible, avoid wearing makeup at all though as it clogs your pores over the course of the day.


Regularly clean makeup brushes to prevent bacterial growth.
 Ultraviolet Radiation is the number one cause of premature aging. It also leads to Skin Cancer in high enough doses. Treat the sun like the death ray that it is. Exposing your skin to harmful UVA and UVB rays damages skin and prolongs post inflammatory erythema(PIE)--red acne marks, as the sunlight stimulates pigment-producing cells.


Not only can the sun prolong PIE appearance, it can lead to premature aging including sun spots, fine lines, and wrinkles. UV damage is DNA damage. Sunscreen is an anti-aging must for all ages young and old--preventing future skin cancer. It is the fountain of youth in a bottle. Prevention is better than treatment. There is no such thing as safe tanning, as tanning is the result of sun damage.
Therefore, it is very important that you wear sunscreen everyday, with an SPF of 30.Of note, after SPF 30, there are decreasing marginal returns in UVB protection. The % of UVB protection as a function of SPF Value is a log graph and plateaus after SPF 30. Therefore, there is not much difference in protection between SPF 40 and 50. Sunscreens with an SPF 100 are banned in some countries.
For UVA protection, a sunscreen with a high UVA protection of PA+++ or higher of PA++++ as recommended, especially to treat PIE. PPD is the UVA equivalent of SPF; use a sunscreen with a minimum of PPD20. The PA+ system has a + that corresponds to a tier of PPD protection. Of note, different countries use different PA systems. Japan and Taiwan changed their PA system to a 4+ tier system while Korea uses a 3+ tier system.
When out in the sun for long periods of time, stick to the shade as much as possible and wear a wide-brimmed hat and light, long-sleeved clothing. Wear sunglasses, especially those that have less melanin in their eyes. Consider carrying a parasol. In Asia, they are a popular fashionable accessory.
 If used without care, some experiences suggest they may cause irritation or chemical burns on your face.Toothpaste, lemons, baking soda, and salt are touted as common convention to treat acne or improve the appearance of discoloration but they will damage skin instead. Avoid using any of these ingredients.



Apricot Scrubs are a cult product but the walnut shells are too sharp to exfoliate skin, and will cause microtears--contributing to photoaging.
Plastic microbeads are in the process of being considered banned in several states as they pollute waterways and are swallowed by fish.

