 If your dog's breath is worse than usual, it could be a sign that your dog has dental disease. With dental disease, bacteria and infected tissue can exude a putrid smell once it has developed quite a bit.Dogs can have bad breath for a wide variety of reasons. The key is to identify when the smell changes or becomes markedly worse.;
, If your dog is pawing at its mouth or jaw, that is a sign that it may have a dental infection. If it is having a hard time eating, that may also be a sign that there is a problem in its mouth. These are behavioral clues that you need to do some investigation in your dog's mouth.Do not let your dog suffer by ignoring signs it is in pain. If a dog is showing its pain outwardly, it usually means that the dog is in pretty bad pain. Most dogs are good at hiding pain, so when you can actually see that it is in pain, that means it is serious., Look in the dog's mouth for signs of inflammation and infection. This can include red and puffy gums or discolored teeth. It can also include pus or discharge coming from the gums.If you see any problems in your dog's mouth, then you should take the dog to a veterinarian for evaluation.
 Call your veterinarian and make an appointment to get your dog's teeth looked at. At the appointment your veterinarian is likely to first ask you a variety of questions about your dog's symptoms and when they began. He or she will then proceed to look at your dog's teeth and assess their condition.


Many dogs are resistant to letting a stranger, or even their owners, look in their mouths. Because of this, your veterinarian may need to give your dog a sedative or have you help restrain the dog while they look in its mouth.
 If your veterinarian thinks that there may be a problem with your dog's teeth, then they will probably suggest a dental cleaning exam that will allow them to get a better look at the dental problems. A professional dental cleaning includes a thorough examination and x-rays of the teeth and jaw. This will allow the veterinary dentist to understand the extent of the disease and how best he or she should proceed with treatment.Your dog will need to be put under anesthesia to have their teeth completely assessed and cleaned.
If the dental disease is mild, treatment will only require the removal of buildup and polishing of the teeth.Your veterinarian may refer you to a veterinary dentist if he or she thinks the condition needs a specialist for treatment.
 In some cases of periodontal disease, the tooth cannot be saved and the best treatment is to have the diseased tooth taken out. In cases where the infection is just in the tooth, and not down in the jaw, this will eliminate the infection.Tooth extraction requires that your dog be put under anesthesia.
 If the dental disease is so advanced that the infection is in the dog's jaw, then removal of the teeth may not be enough to eliminate the infection. If the infection goes into the jaw, a veterinary surgeon will need to go down into the jaw to remove diseased tissue and debris.If the tooth can be saved, then the surgeon will do a process called "open root planing" in order to get down into the infected area without removing the tooth.
 There are some risk factors that may increase the chance of your dog getting dental disease. These include:Age: Older dogs are more likely to get dental disease.
Chewing habits: Eating soft food instead of hard kibble can increase the chance of gingivitis build up
Tooth alignment: Small breeds and short-muzzled breeds often have teeth that are tightly together, promoting food and bacteria to stay in the teeth.
 The earlier in life you start cleaning your dog's teeth, the more your dog will be used to it and the healthier its teeth will be. Even a puppy that has baby teeth can have its teeth cleaned, if only to get it used to the process.Start the process by getting your puppy used to having your hands near it mouth.
 Dental disease is entirely preventable if you clean your dog's teeth regularly. Take the time to brush your dog's teeth so that your dog does not have to go through the pain and discomfort of dental disease.It is recommended that you brush your dog's teeth daily.However, any amount that you can do to help to eliminate plaque and gingivitis is better than nothing.
 If you are concerned about dental disease, or your dog has a history of dental disease, then you may want to consider feeding it a diet that is specially formulated to help with dental health. You can also give special treats that are chews that help clean the teeth.While neither of these options should be used as your dog's only dental care, they have been shown to benefit a dog's dental health.
 If you are unable to clean your dog's teeth regularly, perhaps due to your dog's resistance to the process, then you should get its teeth professionally cleaned. Have your dog's teeth assessed when it gets veterinary treatment or a check up and discuss whether and when teeth cleaning should occur.Your veterinarian should be able to do this process or can refer you to a veterinary dentist who specializes in this kind of treatment.

