 A degree in marketing can provide you with knowledge and skills in market analysis, communication, and decision-making. Consider getting a Bachelor of Science degree from an accredited four-year institution, like a state university or private college. Many school also offer online marketing degrees.Research multiple programs online and figure out what schools are a match. Consider the specializations offered, length of program, and cost.;
, You will want to choose at least one area of marketing to specialize in. Some examples of marketing specializations include market research, content marketing, search engine marketing, direct marketing, and database marketing. Each of these deals with a specific aspect of marketing. For example, content marketing focuses on the creation of marketing content while market research focuses on researching market trends and marketing approaches, One of the best ways to learn or hone a skill is by actually doing it. The same goes for marketing. Look for an opportunity to get some practical experience. Reach out to companies in your area by sending an email or calling. Tell them you are looking for a marketing internship and ask if there are any current opportunities.


Try volunteering. Contact a non-profit organization in your area. You might reach out to an animal shelter and offer to help publicize their upcoming adoption event.
 While it is important to read about marketing, you will also need to be able to successfully implement what you learn. Seek out opportunities to implement the potential marketing strategies you learn about from reading or through your education.For example, volunteer to implement your new skills in content marketing for a new restaurant in town.
Try working with your employer or internship supervisor to put your new skills to work in your current position. For example, try asking your boss if you can utilize your skills in search engine marketing on the company’s latest marketing project.
You can also volunteer to implement your new skills for a local business. For example, try asking a new local restaurant if you can help out with email marketing.
 To become a marketing expert, you will need to have experience creating effective campaigns on social media platforms. Seek out opportunities with companies to increase their brand awareness and level of customer engagement on social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram., The creation of content like blog posts, videos, and emails is a critical component of any successful marketing campaign. To become a marketing expert, you should have experience creating a wide variety of content tailored to a client’s needs. Seek out employment and internship opportunities that will give you experience creating multiple content types.Be specific with potential employers and internship supervisors about your desire to gain experience in content creation.
For example, try saying to a potential employer, “I am really interested in building a set of professional experiences based in content creation. What opportunities will I have in content creation with your company?”

, Effective media strategies are key to successful marketing. Look for opportunities that will allow you to communicate with the media on behalf of a business as part of the business’s overall marketing strategy.Seek out opportunities to create and distribute press releases.
Ask your boss for opportunities to send cold emails to press outlets about your company’s latest philanthropy campaign.

