 To start, assume the starting yoga position. Make sure to use a yoga mat. To do so, stand up straight on your mat. Keep your feet hip length apart and your arms at your side., From here, you'll want to spread your feet apart. Do so slowly to avoid tripping and falling. You want to strive for about 3.5 to 4 feet of distance between your feet., In triangle pose, your feet need to be bent at different angles so you can maneuver your body correctly. Your right foot and left foot should be pointed in slightly different directions.Turn your right foot away from your body, so your toes are pointing outward. Keep turning your right foot until it's at a 90 degree angle.
Now, move your left foot. You should turn your left foot slightly inward. Your back toes should form a roughly 45 degree angle pointing towards your body., Raise your arms outward on either side. Form a line with your arms, going from the fingertips on one arm to the fingertips on the other arm, that runs roughly parallel to the floor.Stretch your fingertips out to each side.
Make sure your palms are facing the floor.
 Now you can begin the actual exercise. To start, inhale. Then exhale and, as you do so, bend your body to the right. You want to keep bending until the line of your arms forms a roughly 90-degree angle with the floor.As you bend, make sure you bend your body from the hips. You want to keep your body facing forward as you bend.
Keep your waist as straight as possible while you bend, and keep your arms in a straight line.
 Try to touch your right hand to your right shin. If you can't do this, touch your ankle or the floor just outside your mat. Touch whatever place is comfortable for you and allows you to keep your balance., While touching your shin, ankle, or the floor, stretch as much as you can. Stretch your left arm towards the ceiling. Slowly turn your head to the left, gazing at your right thumb, as this helps stretch out the body.If stretching causes you to feel pain, stop stretching and just hold the pose as is. You do not want to strain yourself, and it may take awhile for you to be flexible enough to stretch during this pose.
 Now, hold the position while breathing in and out. How long you hold the position depends on how long you feel comfortable. You can hold it up to one minute, but you may hold it significantly less than that if you're starting out. When you begin to feel strained, stop holding the position., Once you've finished holding the position, raise your body up. Keep your arms in a straight line, but unbend your feet. Make sure you come up on an inhale rather than an exhale.Once you've done one side, repeat the same maneuver on the opposite side of your body.
 For most people, triangle pose is safe. However, certain health conditions can make triangle pose risky.You should not attempt triangle pose if you have low blood pressure, diarrhea, or headaches. You should turn your head downward instead of upward if you have high blood pressure.
If you have a neck injury, you should hold off on triangle pose until it heals.
 Everyone's body is different. Certain poses may be more or less safe for you depending on your personal abilities. Before attempting triangle pose, you should take a yoga course with the supervision of a professional trainer. A trainer can tell you whether or not triangle pose is safe for you., It can take awhile to get the body movements behind triangle pose right. Do not stretch or bend too much too soon. It may be awhile before you can hold the position for a full minute. You may be unable to do some aspects of triangle pose, such as bending your head or stretching your arm, until you've practiced for awhile. Be patient and give your body the time it needs to adjust.

