 Detoxification and medically observed withdrawal are usually the first stage of treatment. This is when your body rids itself of the drugs, but it is only the first step in achieving sobriety. During the detox process, you will be supervised by medical staff to help treat your withdrawal symptoms. These can include nausea, chills, fever, diarrhea, and depression. Sometimes, medications such as methadone, buprenorphine, or naloxone may be administered to help you cope with withdrawal symptoms. Remember that completing drug or alcohol detoxification without pursuing follow up treatment or care is not considered treatment. , Some patients proceed to long-term inpatient or residential treatment after completing detox. During this time, patients live in a structured environment and work through their presenting issues both in individual and group therapy sessions. Long-term treatment typically lasts 120 to 180 days. This type of treatment is often best for those who have chronic, long-term addictions.
Long-term residential treatment is also a good choice for those who also have mental health disorders., If you cannot afford long-term care or cannot make the time commitment because of your family or job, a short-term stay may work for you.


These usually require a 30-day stay.
They are often based on a 12-step approach to treatment.
After completing a short-term residential treatment program, you will follow up with further counseling with self-help groups, such as Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) or Narcotics Anonymous (NA). , If you have a supportive home environment and social network, outpatient treatment may work well for you. It also allows you to remain at your job, and it costs less than inpatient programs. Intensive outpatient treatment is a highly focused approach that usually requires attending sessions at least three days each week.
Partial hospitalization approaches are helpful if you are undergoing a medically assisted withdrawal. They usually involve no overnight hospital stays, but do meet for at least 20 hours per week. Therapy and counseling are forms of outpatient treatment that often are a follow up to more intensive residential programs. Through meeting with counselors, you will learn about the causes of your substance abuse and work to mend broken relationships and learn skills to live substance free. 