 You can do this by putting a drop of hot glue onto the bottom of the wick tab, then pressing the tab against the bottom of the jar. You can also use some melted wax or a piece of double-sided tape instead.


If your wick doesn't have a tab at the bottom, you can buy a wick tab separately, and secure it to the wick using a pair of pliers. You can also tie a paper clip to the end of the wick instead.
You can reuse jars from jams and baby food as well, but make sure that the walls are thick. If the glass is too thin, it may shatter.;
, Alternatively, you can wrap the excess wick around a pencil, and place the pencil over the mouth of the jar. This will help hold the wick in place. You can also use pens, chopsticks, short dowels, or even popsicle sticks. If the mouth of your jar is small enough, you can even use a clothespin, and slide the wick through the spring hole.
 If you don't own a candle-making pouring pot, you can use a large, glass measuring cut instead. To ensure that the heat is distributed evenly, consider placing a cookie cutter or jar lid under the pouring pot/measuring cup.
 Heat the wax to about 170 to 180°F (77 to 83°C). Stir the wax often as it heats to help it melt evenly. Do not leave the wax unattended at this time, as hot wax is flammable.You will need about 1 pound (455 grams) of wax for a pint (475-milliliter) sized mason jar.
 Let the wax cool to 140°F (60°C) before adding any color or fragrance.Once you have the dyes and/or fragrances added, give the wax a final stir to blend everything together.


You can add color with liquid or solid dyes meant for candle-making. Add a little bit at a time, and keep in mind that the color will lighten once the wax hardens.
You will need about ½ to 1 ounce of fragrance oil for 1 pound (455 grams) of wax.If you can't find dyes or fragrances meant for candle-making, you can use a broken crayon and essential oil instead.
 This is very important. If the wax is too hot, it may cause sink holes or cracks as it sets.Use a thermometer to test the temperature. If you don't own a thermometer, wait until the wax starts to thicken and resemble a slushie. This will take about 20 to 30 minutes., If you pour too quickly, you risk the wax splashing or forming air pockets. Make sure that the wick is centered as you pour., If you are in a hurry, however, you can let the wax set partway, then stick the jar into fridge for 20 to 60 minutes., Always keep something under the candle, such as a dish or candle charger; even through your candle is inside a mason jar, the jar itself can get hot.

