 We are often our own worst critics. The thoughts you have about yourself are very important. Are constantly criticizing your looks? Do you mostly say negative things about yourself? Replacing negative self talk with positive self talk will help you feel more confident about yourself.Begin to filter the thoughts you have about yourself. When a negative thought enters your mind, replace it with a positive thought.Instead of saying, "I look terrible," say "I love myself for who I am."
It takes practice to consistently have positive self talk. You may not believe the positive statements about yourself at first. However, you will eventually begin to believe those positive thoughts.
 It is easy to look at other people and feel like you are inadequate. You may feel that other people are more attractive than you or have better skin. Remember that you are only competing with yourself.You see other people from an outside perspective, but you do not know what their life is really like. Focus on yourself and the wonderful qualities that you have. If you are working to improve yourself in any area, track your progress and celebrate the victories, big and small.
 Exercise reduces stress, improves self-esteem, and causes your brain to release feel good hormones. It is also beneficial for your skin. When you exercise, your blood circulation improves and your pores unclog due to sweat.Aim for 150 minutes of moderate (e.g. brisk walking, swimming) exercise a week or 75 minutes of vigorous (e.g. running, aerobics) exercise a week.Find activities that you enjoy doing.
 You are so much more than your appearance. Basing your self- worth on your appearance can actually make you feel worse about how you look.Think about all the other qualities, accomplishments, and other positive things (e.g. friends, family, relationships, etc.) in your life. Focusing on those qualities and continuing to develop them will make you a more attractive person from the inside out.


Sit and make a list of all the things you like about yourself. You may be surprised how long the list is. If there are things that you do not like, make a plan to work on them.

