 In order for an Airbnb user to achieve Superhost status, they need to be fairly experienced in how the basic service operates. Potential Superhosts will need to keep an active account and have hosted at least 10 trips in the past year. This will let company representatives know that you’re taking your duties as a host seriously.Make your property available once a month or so to fulfill your required number of rentals throughout the year, or take as many bookings as you can during busy seasons to get them all out of the way at once.
The more bookings you take, you more experience you’ll gain in meeting and surpassing guest’s hopes.;
, Nobody likes to feel like they’re being ignored. Try to follow up all correspondences in a timely fashion, and maintain a courteous and professional tone. The quicker you can respond to your guests’ comments, questions and concerns, the more trustworthy you’ll be in their eyes, and the more likely they’ll be to come back to you for future bookings.If you’re a frequent user hoping to be granted Superhost status, get in the habit of checking your email several times a day to see that you’re getting back to interested parties quickly and no messages slip through the cracks.Remember that your guests may have time-sensitive reasons for choosing to stay at your property, such as work functions, a narrow vacation window or traveling for a wedding or other important event.
 Try to paint as accurate a picture of your living space as you can for your soon-to-be lodgers. Take clear, full-color photos of each of the main rooms, and provide a short description of your home and what your guests can expect to find there. The snapshot you present will help Airbnb users make an informed decision about where they’ll be best off staying.Be sure to include any features outside or nearby your home that might make it more attractive to renters, such as a flower garden, private backyard, scenic view or proximity to other popular destinations.Don’t try to falsely depict your living space as something more than it is in order to get more bookings. You’ll only run the risk of disappointing your guests once they see it for themselves.
 Once you’ve made an agreement with a guest, do everything you can to honor it. Airbnb Superhosts rarely, if ever, cancel bookings. This exceptional reliability is something that guests can depend on and places Superhosts into a league of their own.Unexpected circumstances sometimes pop up that may make renting out your home difficult or impractical. When this happens, do everything in your power to resolve matters without canceling the trips you have booked.Should you be forced to cancel a booking for any reason, make sure you notify your guests immediately to spare them any added inconvenience. It may help to offer them use of the property again in the future at a discounted rate.
 The cleanliness of your house, apartment, condo or cabin is paramount. As soon as you confirm your next booking, start picking up, wiping, washing, scrubbing and making the place presentable inside and out. The goal is to empty out all signs that somebody lives there so that the guest can turn your space into their own for the duration of their stay.Like any other rental, the areas of your home that receive the most use (like bedrooms, bathrooms and the kitchen and laundry room) will need a thorough cleaning after every stay.A dirty or disordered property can really impact your user ratings. Pay attention to even the smallest details to ensure that your guests are satisfied with what they see.
 You don’t have to have your quarters decked out in the latest couture furnishings, but it will help if the general design and layout of your property is one that your guests can feel at home in. Think about what types of amenities you tend to favor as a lodger yourself and focus on extending every comfort and consideration possible.Supply your lodgers with basic provisions they would find at other lodgings, like soap, shampoo, toothpaste, toilet paper and clean sheets and towels.Unless your property is specifically marketed as a rustic retreat or peaceful getaway, renters are going to expect luxuries like television, wi-fi and electronic appliances.
 Don’t let your guests walk into a property that’s ill-equipped or in poor repair. If you’ve been putting off sealing a draft or fixing a leaky washing machine, now is the time to do it. Perform regular inspections of your property and work with a contractor or handyman to keep appliances, fixtures and electronics running the way they’re supposed to.Look for mention of complaints related to the condition of your rental in guest feedback and get those issues corrected posthaste.
If you’re renting a property that you don’t spend much time in, stop by periodically or have a trusted neighbor check in to make sure everything stays in good working order.
 Stay informed and up to date on average travel expenses and adjust your property’s going rates accordingly. If the place where you live is a popular tourist destination in the summer, for instance, it will be acceptable to charge slightly more, whereas it will be wise to reduce prices in the winter months when things drop off. Keeping your rates fair will encourage more users to stay with you and leave them with a more positive experience overall.Your property’s rates should reflect things like size, location, amenities, time of year, accessibility to nearby highways and interstates and other factors people consider when booking travel accommodations.Take a look at what other hosts in your area are asking for to come up with a figure that works for you and your guests.
 As a bonus, furnish your lodgers with a few additional resources they might find helpful during their stay. You could leave a list of some of your favorite local eateries on the refrigerator, or outline a couple tips on how to get around town and a few of the best things to see and do in the area. Gestures like these show that you have a genuine interest in the quality of your guest’s stay.A stack of brochures or coupons on the kitchen counter can clue visitors in to how they might spend their free time during a stop in your town.
Leave the name and number of a friend or relative that your guest can contact in the event of an emergency or a problem with the property.
 If you’re going to be around when your guests arrive, consider taking an extra moment to show them around your place yourself. Even just sticking around long enough to shake hands and meet face-to-face can make both you and your renter more comfortable with the arrangement. Not only will this help familiarize them with their temporary residence, it will let you take a more active role in receiving your guests and show that you’re devoted to making them feel welcome.Emphasize to your guests that your home is theirs for the length of their stay. Explain what all will be available to them and what is off-limits, but try not to come off as miserly or distrusting by imposing too many restrictions.
If you’re unable to be physically present, you can still write out a short paragraph explaining how everything has been set up and where your lodgers will be able to find everything you’ve made available for them to meet their basic needs.
 After your guests have come and gone, show them that you’ve appreciated their stay as more than a business transaction. Let them know that it was a pleasure having them make use of your home, and that you hope the found everything to their liking. The desire to build a strong personal connection with the guest is one trait that distinguishes regular hosts from Superhosts.Leave a note somewhere in your property where it will be discovered, or send your regards via email after your guests have departed.
Invite guests to come back and stay at your property anytime they want. This will help develop an ongoing relationship while ensuring that you benefit from repeat business.
 Rather than getting upset at a lodger for leaving a negative review, pay attention to the points they bring up and think about what you can do to offer an even better experience next time. Since your mission is to provide the best service you possibly can, you should be thankful that you’re receiving valuable insight into what guests are looking for and how you can give it to them.Sometimes a guest’s gripes may be over matters of personal preference, but if multiple reviews mention the same issue, it may be something that you can consider changing or improving.
Not all critical reviews are justified. Difficult or unruly lodgers, especially those who breach Airbnb’s contractual agreements, should be reported to the company. This will prevent whatever negative feedback they may leave from damaging your reputation as a Superhost.