 Simple carbohydrates are sugars such as sucrose (found in fruit and sweets) and lactose (found in milk products). They contain only two sugar units. Sucrose is composed of one glucose molecule and one fructose molecule – two sugar units. Lactose is composed of one glucose molecule and one galactose molecule – also two sugar units. Complex carbohydrates are starches and fibers. They are abundant in grains, vegetables, and legumes (e.g., beans, lentils, and peas). They take longer to break down in the digestive system because they contain hundreds of sugar units.;
, Today, Americans get 16% of their calories from refined sugar.Due to their simple chemical structure, sugars are digested and absorbed quickly, producing a roller coaster in blood sugar of peaks and troughs.In fact, if you eat something sugary, your blood sugar may eventually dip below the baseline.Sugars don’t provide the body with a stable source of energy. Sugary drinks have been shown to temporarily increase energy levels and later produce a crash.In The Complex Carbohydrate Handbook, Shirley Ross says that trying to use sugar as a fuel is like “trying to run an electrical appliance on a bolt of lightning.”, You probably know a candy bar wouldn’t make a very good breakfast. If you ate a candy bar for breakfast, you might feel hungry or tired later in the morning. Many breakfast foods have a high sugar content, such as pastries. A breakfast with a lot of fruit might not be the best choice either. Studies show that fruit is digested rapidly, like sugars.By contrast, a bowl of oatmeal, with its complex carbohydrates, can keep you feeling full and feeling good. A 150-calorie serving of oatmeal provides 6 grams of protein,and you could make it with ½ cup milk to add another 4 grams. Two slices of whole-wheat toast would give you 8 more grams of protein., This will help prevent ups and downs in blood sugar throughout the dayand give you plenty of energy for the whole day.
 Whole grains are digested more slowly than refined grains, improving blood sugar levels. Don’t be fooled by products that contain only a small amount of whole grain. Choose 100% whole grain when possible. If in doubt, look for “enriched flour” in the list of ingredients.
 Some vegetables, such as tomatoes, beets, and carrots, are high in sugars, but others are rich in fiber, such as green vegetables, or starch, such as corn, potatoes, sweet potatoes, and pumpkin. Many people think potatoes are fattening, but in actuality, potatoes are bulky and filling; it’s the butter and sour cream that are fattening. A medium potato has only 130 calories,about the same as a banana. It provides 21% of the Daily Value for potassium,more potassium than an extra-large banana (16% DV)., A medium banana, for instance, contains 13 grams of complex carbohydrates.Comparing 100-gram servings, you’d find that cranberries contain the least sugar (4 grams),followed by strawberries (5 grams),blueberries (10 grams), and grapes (15 grams).Prefer whole fruit over fruit juice, since fruit juice is so concentrated and since fruit juice lacks the fiber contained in whole fruit. If you’d like to have some fruit juice occasionally, choose the types that naturally contain less sugar, such as pure cranberry juice, pure strawberry juice, watermelon juice, or prune juice (These contain less sugar than apple juice), or drink a smaller amount.

