 Look for specific migraine medications when choosing an OTC medication. Many brands now offer migraine relief to treat specific migraine symptoms.


Some acetaminophen drugs, such as Excedrin, include caffeine, which can help or hurt depending on how your migraines react to caffeine.For example, Excedrin Migraine and other over-the-counter migraine medications contain Acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine. This combination is FDA-approved treatment for migraines.Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using any migraine medications or supplements in children or if you are pregnant or breast feeding, have other medical problems, allergies, or take other medications.
 There are several other types of medications your doctor may prescribe if you don't respond to the usual medications. These may include: anti-nausea medications, corticosteroids, or rarely, opioids.Triptans are the most common and can be very effective, but come with a risk of heart attack or stroke.Talk to your doctor about your health history before taking anything. For episodic migraines, your doctor may prescribe:


Valproate - the mechanism of action of valproate is not fully understood, but it’s ability to help with migraines has been established.
Topiramate - a sulfamate-substituted monosaccharide, approved by the FDA for use of migraine prevention. This is a commonly used medication for migraines and is mainly used for migraine treatment.
Propranolol /timolol/metoprolol - these belong to a class of drugs called beta-blockers and they serves to reduce frequency of migraines. This class of medication lowers blood pressure and causes vasodilation of blood vessels., Some Triptans are available as a nasal spray.The drug dihydroergotamine has been found to reduce some migraine symptoms, such as light sensitivity and nausea. This medication is part of a class of medications referred to as ergot alkaloids. These medications will constrict the blood vessels in your brain through the inhibition of compounds your body releases that may cause swelling.