 This might not be an option for everyone, but reducing the places where allergens can live in your home can help reduce your eczema symptoms. This includes removing or reducing carpets or area rugs. But it also includes replacing fabric curtains with non-fabric window coverings., Pet dander can be the cause of allergic reactions in many people, and could potentially be a trigger for your eczema. There are several things you can do to help reduce the amount of allergens spread by your pets around your house.Create an allergy-free zone in your house where your pets are not allowed to go, possibly your bedroom. Install a HEPA air cleaner in that room to help further reduce allergens.
Bathe your pets once a week using pet-specific shampoo (or as directly by your veterinarian). Just like humans, baths help to eliminate dead skin cells on your pet’s skin, which is the cause of most allergies.
 Skin cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in the United States, yet it is fairly easy to protect yourself from the sun on a daily basis.Reduce the amount of time you’re exposed to the sun during the peak hours of 10 am to 4 pm. This includes days when it’s cloudy, as up to 80% of the UV rays from the sun can get through the clouds.
Wear clothes that will protect as much of your skin as possible if you’re outside, including long-sleeve shirts and pants. Always wear a hat, especially one with a brim, to protect both your head, face and neck.
Wear sunglasses when you’re outside, all year round. Sunglasses protect your eyes and they also protect the skin around your eyes from sun damage. Sunglasses should protect from both UVA and UVB rays, and do not have to be expensive.
Use sunscreen on any exposed portions of skin, including your face, hands and lips. Use sunscreens that are considered "physical blockers" (which contain zinc or titanium) rather than chemical sunscreens (which contain benzones, amino benzoic acid or cinnamates) as they are less likely to cause an eczema flare-up.
Select a sunscreen that has at least 30 SPF and protects against a broad spectrum of UV rays. It is also very helpful to select a sunscreen that is water-resistant so it doesn’t need to be constantly reapplied.

