 Prevention is the key. Present a clear and obvious start and finish date/time for their stay--whether it's a dinner party or an overnight guest. If anything, this allows you to save face if it comes down to showing them the door.


Get it in writing. If an appropriately formal event, consider invitations in print with an end time to really make it known.
Mention how the time has passed, or how close it is to the end of their stay. A sympathetic "I can't believe the weekend's almost over" or "What a shame you're leaving tomorrow" is a sly way to remind them of when it's time to go.;
, Particularly if your house guest has come for a vacation, have a rough itinerary of what you'd like to do together, with at least one thing being the last thing you do. Whether you save the best for last, or just want to relax on the final day, having activities as sign-posts for your guest's stay is a convenient way of reminding them when their stay is up.


If hosting a party and you weren't able to establish it beforehand, a short "I think this might be it for me" from the hostess will have guests understanding that the current activity is the last.
 No matter how long your guest is staying (but especially if it's on the long side), always leave time for you to relax alone in your own home. Let your guest know ahead of time just when this will be so there's no confusion. Make them aware of when you usually go to bed and get up, so that they can avoid interrupting your sleep.


Also consider making it clear which parts of your house your guest can wander in. It's awkward and unnerving to find your guest in your bathroom when you never thought to clean it.
If desperate, think about buying your guest tickets to event, or any other outing. Try being honest and suggest you need the house to yourself, even if only for a bit.
 As a rule, only be a bad host if you've got a bad guest. But whether it's first thing in the morning or right before bed, you might not always feel like playing maid and concierge. Be firm when trying to get this point across to your guest: you have no intention of lowering your standard of living on their behalf.

