 The cold water soak will help loosen any dried blood. You can also wash the bed sheets in your washing machine. Use cold water and a mild detergent. This will not necessarily remove the stain, but it will help loosen it. Follow this step with any of the stain-removal treatments listed below.


Keep in mind that the stain may be permanent, especially if it has been through the dryer. Heat sets stains, so if you put your stained bed sheets into the dryer, the blood may have been baked into the fabric.
 For a small stain, fill a bowl with vinegar first, then soak the stain in the bowl. For a larger stain, place towel or rag under stain first, then pour vinegar over the stain. Wait 30 minutes (for both small and large stains), then wash the bed sheet as usual using cold water.
 Mix 1 tablespoon of meat tenderizer and 2 teaspoons of cold water into a paste. Spread the paste onto the stain, making sure to work it into the fabric. Wait 30 to 60 minutes, then brush the paste off. Wash the sheets in cold water., In a small cup, combine 1 part laundry detergent and 5 parts water. Stir to mix, then apply the solution to the stain. Pat it in with a soft-bristled brush and wait 10 to 15 minutes. Blot the stain with a damp sponge or towel, then pat it dry with a white towel., Pour some hydrogen peroxide onto the stain, and pat it with wait a soft-bristled brush. Wait 5 to 10 minutes, then blot the stain with a damp sponge or rag. Pat the stain again with a clean, dry towel.Light turns hydrogen peroxide into water. If it is very bright in your room, cover stain with plastic wrap, then place a towel over it.
Do a spot test on colored sheets first. Hydrogen peroxide may fade or bleach colored fabrics.
Use full-strength ammonia as a last resort. Avoid it on colored bed sheets., Follow the instructions on the box of borax to create a soaking solution. Dunk the stain in the solution for several hours to overnight. Rinse it out the following day with water, then hang it up to dry., Use cold water, a mild detergent, and you usual cycle setting. Remove the wet sheets as soon as the cycle ends. Do not place them in the dryer. Instead, let them air dry either by hanging or in the sun.


The blood stains may not come out right away. If this happens, simply repeat the stain removal process.
Consider using bleach on white sheets.

