 There are eleven types to choose from. You can as many types as you want although it's recommended you use just one energy type (as in the energy of the attack). If you plan to use Pokémon in the deck that are support based and not to attack (one with a useful ability such as Hoopa-EX) then don't count this Pokemon's energy type when deciding on what type you choose;
, Just remember that you might not have much Pokémon to choose from that type. If you decide to use two or more types, you will have more Pokémon to choose from but will risk drawing the wrong energy cards during a game.
 Some may play more and some may play less but this is the average amount you will be using.
 Decks can have any number of Pokémon in them depending on the deck and play style. The only rule for Pokémon in the deck is that you must have at least 1 Basic Pokemon. Usually you will have 7-15 in the deck though you might end up with more if you play a deck with stage 2's. Here is some general advice on how to structure your Pokémon depending on what you choose.
 For example, if you decided to put Hippowdon (Rising Rivals 25) in your deck, consider also putting in Manectric (Platinum 11) in because Manectric can stop Hippowdon from hurting the Pokémon on your bench with its Electric Barrier Poke-body.
, So, for example, if you have a deck that uses Stage 2's, you will want to use Rare Candy in the deck to skip the Stage 1 and speed up the deck to get right to the powerful attacks of the Stage 2. If you run a Grass deck, you will want to use the Stadium card Forest of Giant Plants because it lets you evolve any grass type immediately which will also speed up your deck (this does not work with Rare Candy so you don't want to use that case even in a stage 2 grass deck).
 These cards are called "Staple cards" and are constantly changing because of Pokemon's Rotation format. There are many guides online however that will list out the up to date list of the more useful cards in the game., For example, a BREAKthrough Typhlosion actually tends to run about 30 fire energy in it and a Greninja BREAK, even though it uses stage 2 Pokémon and isn't a grass type deck, does not use Rare Candy. Always consider what your plan is, how the Pokémon you use work and what will make these Pokémon function in the best way when building your deck.