 A game can wake everyone up and break the ice. The game doesn't even have to relate to the same topic as the Bible study; however, it can add a fun element to the lesson, if it does.


If you want to play a game that relates to the lesson, try to incorporate the main theme of the story topic into the game. For instance, if your Bible passage has to do with trusting God, consider doing Trust falls using "spotters" to push them back up for instance.
If you have enough space, play a large hide-and-seek-tag related game, like release or capture the flag.;
, Bean bags, couches, mats and cushions are great additions to a Bible study room. Your pupils will be able to concentrate more when they are comfortable.
 Apple slices in baggies could work. A large community bag/bowl of chips is easier than passing out snacks before you read the study passage. If the kids are too hungry, chances are their concentration levels will be lower. If you are playing games that involve walking/running around, make sure that the food is simple, not too messy, and easy on the stomach.


Depending on the time that your group meets, consider occasionally providing dinner for the class. Ask a different parent or guardian to bring an entrée once per month. Or, you could transport the students to a fast food restaurant as a celebration once every 3 months, if you have parent permission. Someone could bake a few frozen pizzas or bring takeout party tacos or wings. Provide a paper towel for each person. Pasta, such as ravioli, and simple salad make a great meal that almost everyone likes. Always remember to cater to the needs of any vegetarians and kids with food allergies, too.
 Say, "Who wants to read the passage? If nobody volunteers, then I'll pick someone." Pick someone!


Get attention: Never read the passage yourself, nobody will pay attention. If people are talking, get one of them to reread it aloud. If one of their peers is reading or talking to the group, chances are they will pay more attention.
"Accept" it when they explain the passage. But, repeat each verse, one by one, and ask (and wait 5 seconds/count to 5) for a group member to say it in other words that the group can understand, call on someone, or ask why your purposely messed up explanation makes or does not make sense, if no member gives an answer.
 Pick a different person to summarize what the group just said, and ask whether anyone had any different understandings/interpretations. -- Do not comment negatively on their understandings or experiences.
 Ask whether they have ever gotten in trouble or been upset from results of a misstatement/misrepresentation (theirs or others'):


Sharing their real stories that come up during the lesson/discussing on the scripture or Bible story can be fun, and it can be tied in with the lesson and made to come "full circle" -- from the words -- to everyday life -- and connected back to the words of scriptures.
If you are reading a passage about lying, make this an opportunity to share stories about lies that the teens/kids told, and what the results were. -- Do not allow put-downs or cut-downs (mean comments) about each other's stories or interpretations of meanings.
 Let them use their experiences (ask and wait/count for 4 seconds -- to allow gears to turn), to make personalized connections about how God is revealed/real, in their daily lives, connected in the words of the Bible, so have someone read that part again to see how it fits either implied or directly, as you proceed in discussion.
,, Take this very seriously (get someone who will ask for names to be repeated when necessary, and such, to get it right) -- and later, you or another parent can add it to the prayer journal. The group should bow their heads, and you should pray for all the things they suggested, using the notes of requests.


Allow the class members in coming weeks to tell about progress in these things and for answered prayers in the requests that were written down and other prayer results that they wish to relate.

