 List what will go in your suitcase and make another list of things you need to do before the trip. This can include getting a car tune-up, or washing/waxing/cleaning the car. This will help you be less stressed since everything is written on paper, and you will be less likely to forget something.;
, If you have a portable DVD player, make sure everything is set up in the car the night before, as it will save time later.
 Even if you have a car charger, it will be easier to sit back with your phone than being tangled with a cord.


Download what you need. Want the hottest new songs to listen to during the car ride? Download it. Want to get the new game that just came out? Download it. Want to watch the movie your friends say is awesome? Download it. Don't wait for the last minute to download new songs, apps, and movies.
 If you have people going with you on the trip, make sure you have everything planned out. Set a time for rest stops and when to switch turns in driving.


If you are one of several who drives, create a schedule to figure out who drives when and where.
Plan when you will take rest stops and when you will get food.
, You don't want to be cramming all your hand luggage into your handbag.
 This gives you time to think about adding things in or taking things out and will generally make you less stressed before the trip.


Pack comfortably.
 This could include some books, electronic entertainment (handheld games, mp3 players, laptops, DVDs if the car has a DVD player, etc.), non-perishable snacks (such as granola bars and cookies), and drinks if you have a cooler. Remember that if you bring carbonated drinks, they may go flat.


Pack a pillow to sleep well.
You could go to your local library and check out books. Or get new books on your Kindle. Books are a good and easy way to pass time in the car. You could also get magazines or newspaper articles.
Talk to your family. Find out who wants to watch which movie at what time. It can become a big problem when you all want to watch a different movie or listen to different music.
 It's better to prepare your snacks beforehand than be scrambling to fill resealable bags at the last second. If your whole family is sharing a snack, don't bring the whole bag. Then you have to pass the bag around the car. It's easier to separate servings into resealable bags or plastic food containers so each family member can their own snack. Some good snacks to take might be:

Pretzels, chips
Cheese sticks
Veggies such as celery bite-sized pieces, carrot sticks and cherry tomatoes
Fruit such as mandarins and apple slices.
 Bring gum, peppermints and ginger on your trip. These foods can help ease queasiness on the trip and can help calm down the person eating or chewing them.
 Under your regular clothes, wear something comfortable (maybe even pajamas). Wear a pair of sweatpants, a light t-shirt, and a hoodie. You don't want to be uncomfortable for the entire length of a long car trip.
 Make sure everyone has used the bathroom, that you have money for gas, that there is entertainment in the car, and that nothing was left on in your house.
 Try not to sit behind someone who is notorious for pulling their seat back. Sitting by the window is generally a good choice, as you can open it if you need air and you can view the sights that you pass by.


Don't fight over seating. Switch around and share the different places.
Be considerate of anyone who gets very sick in the back seat––let them sit in the front.
 Punch the location in on your GPS system if you have one. Go to rest stops on the way there to get meals and use the bathroom.

