 You want to grab the pencil near its point if you are sharpening it with a knife, about 1 ½ inches from the end of the pencil. This will stabilize the pencil. Hold the pencil in your non-dominant hand, and the knife in your dominant hand.


You want to make sure the utility knife is sharp. You can sharpen your knives (carefully) with a knife sharpening stone or steel.Position the knife about ¾ of an inch up the shaft of the pencil. Start to remove the wood. Expose the graphite that is within the pencil itself.
Push the blade of the knife through the pencil’s wood with your thumb holding the pencil. Push the knife toward the unsharpened end of the pencil as your non-dominant hand rotates the pencil. A thumb knuckle’s length away from the end of the pencil is how deep you want to go. Once you’ve exposed the graphite, you can shape it into a point.
 You’re ready to refine the graphite when it’s showing about 3/8th of an inch. Keep the blade’s steel on the graphite. Hold it as a low angle. You don’t want to remove too much material.


If your knife doesn’t cut through the pencil’s wood easily, it’s probably too dull. If the lead of the pencil is soft, cut small bits away of the wood at a time. If your pencil sharpener will not sharpen the pencil well, check that the space where the pencil tip should go is not blocked by broken graphite (the black part) from the tip of the pencil. If it still will not sharpen well, the blade in the sharpener may be blunt. Do not jam in the pencil too hard.
Knives are very versatile tools for sharpening pencils. Make sure you cut in a direction away from your body for safety purposes. Use a utility knife. Hold the edge of the knife so it faces the pencil’s tip. Put your non-dominant hand’s thumb on the non-sharp edge.Use your thumb to push the knife out with your thumb. At the same time, press down with the thump that is holding the knife. You could put a garbage can in front of you between your legs to catch the scraps.
 Take a utility knife. Hold the pencil firmly in one hand and make sure the tip is pointing away from you.Use slow and certain strokes in an outward direction to sharpen the pencil. You can also use a special carpenter's pencil sharpener. Insert the pencil into the hole, and slide it back and forth against the blade of the pencil sharpener.
Try an X-Acto knife. These are good for charcoal pencils because charcoal is soft and can be damaged by electric sharpeners. Worse, the charcoal can damage the sharpener if it gets stuck in it..

