 Sort out all the papers, furniture, toys, books, pens, pencils, clothes, EVERYTHING. This may take a while. Don't worry. Spread it out over a few days. You may have a pigsty of a room for a while, but at the end, your room will be spotless. Be sure to scrub the furniture, make the bed, wash your clothes, get rid of unwanted items and make your room clean. You could even get some friends to help, to make it quicker.;
, Try to pick a good colour scheme to make the room look stylish and well-coordinated. A great option is white walls with any other coloured furniture and furnishings. Remember that white goes with ANYTHING. If white isn't your style, why not opt for: pink and purple, blue and purple, yellow and orange, red and grey, green and pink or choose three colours that match. Choose a colour that you like, something vibrant that captures your attention, and you won't get bored of after a few months.
 Make sure you move any furniture out of the way so that it does not get covered in paint that won't wash off.
 Choose necessary, practical furniture for you age type. As a tween, here are some good furniture choices: bed (obviously) - either a single, double or daybed, desk - for all the homework you get, bookshelf - if you have a lot of books, this will be VERY handy, wardrobe - you can even add a full length mirror on the door if you want, bedside table - just in case you can't be bothered to get up! These are all smart ideas, but these are just basics! You may also want: armchair, beanbag, floor lamp, dressing table and many more!

, Tip: There is never too much storage space in a tween's room. Take this from me - I used to have no space for anything, so it ended up on the floor. Cram as many drawers, shelves, tables, cupboards, bins, bags and boxes as you can inside this bedroom. If there is nothing to put in your space, just leave it empty - I can nearly guarantee that there will come a day when there is something to put in them. Think - you need to have space for clothes, books, pens, pencils, make-up, hair accessories, toys and anything else you have. Bet that got you thinking, huh?

, Firstly, choose your bedding. Pick something that contrasts with the walls for a sophisticated look. Then, find/buy as many pillows and soft cushions as you can. Hang up any pictures you want in stylish frames, display your collections, make sure there is lots of cool lighting, and most of all.... CREATE A 'KEEP OUT' SIGN FOR THE DOOR!

