 Anti-itch creams help moisturize and soothe itchy skin. You can try over-the-counter topical anti-itch creams or, if these don't work, ask your doctor to give you a prescription for something stronger.Some common anti-itch creams include Aveeno and 1% hydrocortisone.
If you try corticosteroids, apply the cream to the affected area, then soak a cotton material (such as a washcloth) in water and cover the area with the damp material. The moisture from the cloth will help the skin absorb the cream.You should keep in mind that anti-itch creams are generally for short-term relief and short-term use (usually no longer than a week).
You should also consider talking to your doctor about getting a prescription anti-itch cream that can generally be used for longer than a week.
 These are topical creams that help reduce skin inflammation and can be used instead of anti-itch creams, especially if the affected area of skin is not too large.Some of the available calcineurin inhibitors include tacrolimus (Protopic) and pimecrolimus (Elidel).
However, as this drug can weaken your body’s immune system, use it according to instructions and never exceed the recommended dose.
 Antihistamines can help fight your itchiness by blocking histamine production, which is the chemical that causes an allergic reaction and makes you feel itchy. You can buy over-the-counter oral and topical antihistamine products from your local pharmacyAntihistamines can be taken in oral form (pills and liquids) or topical form (creams and lotions). If the area of skin that itches is large, it is recommended you take an oral antihistamine that provides systemic relief. However, if the area is small and contained, you can use a topical cream for localized treatment.
Make sure to take a non-drowsy antihistamine during the day (such as Claritin) and leave those that cause drowsiness for the night (such as Benadryl)
Some common antihistamine brand names include Allegra, Claritin, Benadryl and Chlor-Trimeton.
Remember to always follow directions stated on the drug label and never increase dose or take more than is directed.
 Hormone replacement therapy helps replace the declining hormone levels (such as estrogen and progesterone) that occurs due to menopause. It is proven to reduce hot flashes, vaginal dryness, and decrease bone mineral loss. It may help with your itchy skin, though it is not marketed for this purpose.Your doctor can prescribe a low-dose estrogen pill or a patch to help relieve symptoms of menopause.
Your doctor may also recommend a combination therapy (estrogen/progesterone/progestin). This type of combined hormone therapy is used for women who still have a uterus and is given in low doses either by pill or patch.Side effects of hormone therapy can include bloating, breast swelling and tenderness, headaches, mood changes, nausea, and vaginal bleeding.
 Your doctor may also prescribe you antidepressants to treat your itchy skin. Selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors have been shown to help reduce various types of skin itching.One of the medications your doctor may recommend is buspirone. This anti-anxiety medicine helps treat itchy skin by blocking dopamine, the neurotransmitter that controls the brain’s reward and pleasure centers.Your doctor may also recommend selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors such as fluoxetine (Prozac) and sertraline (Zoloft).