 Spider bites from any arachnid family look like two distinct puncture marks. These puncture marks are caused by the hollow fangs that all spiders use to inject venom into their prey. A crab spider’s bite is not dangerous to humans because the venom is not potent enough and most crab spiders are not big enough to break the skin with their fangs. However, some species like the giant crab spider (Olios giganteus) are big enough to puncture the skin, and the bite from the larger crab species is said to be pretty painful., Due to the crab spider’s preferred habitat, it is very unlikely to find this type of spider inside. If you do happen to find one inside though (and you’re not too scared!), it is recommended that you gently capture the spider by scooting it into a cup, covering it, and releasing it outside. They are not harmful to humans and are a great way to control the population of other insects like bees, wasps, mosquitoes, and flies. Some other tips for reducing the number of crab spiders in your home include:Check all flowers and plants for crab spiders before you bring them inside, especially flowers recently cut from a garden.
Capture and discard or relocate individual spiders that have wandered inside because they reproduce rapidly.
Remove or regularly inspect any potted plants and flowers inside the home as this is the most likely spot a crab spider would reside in indoors.
 Crab spiders are harmless to humans, so eradicating them from your outdoor area is not advised unless there is an extreme infestation. Try to see the crab spider as helping to keep your home free of bees, wasps, mosquitoes, flies, and other pesky insects. However, if you prefer to reduce the number of crab spiders in your outdoor area, you can:Remove all piles of plant debris, like piles of kindling, grass clippings, or mulch.
Keep grassy areas near your home cut short.
Avoid planting pollen-producing plants.
Periodically remove crab spider nests with a broom or a hard spray of water.

