 Volumizing conditioner is lighter than a regular formula, and doesn’t add extra weight to hair when used regularly.


People with fine, flat hair should never use smoothing conditioners; these heavy products will make your hair hang even more flatly.;
, Wavy hair can be hard to work with — in humid weather it can frizz out of control, and in dry weather it can grow limp. The more curl there is in a strand of hair, the dryer the end of the strand gets, because it’s hard for the natural oils from the scalp to wind their way down a curled strand than a straight one. Although wavy hair doesn’t tend to be as dry as curly hair, you still need a moisturizing conditioner to stand in for those oils that aren’t making their way down to the tips of your hair.


However, since wavy hair can still flatten out throughout the course of the day or in dry weather, you want to avoid moisturizing conditioners that will weigh down your hair.
Look for products marketed specifically to wavy hair, rather than curly hair.
 If you have thick, curly hair, odds are that without a deep-hydrating conditioner to make up for the lack of oils making their way from the scalp to the tip of the strand, you’ll have dry, dull hair with a tendency to frizz.


Look for conditioners labeled as “deep hydrating” or for curly hair specifically.
You should also consider using a leave-in conditioning mask on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. These conditioners are meant to be left in your hair for 10-15 minutes, then washed out like regular conditioner. With regular use, you should see a significant change in the way your curls hold together rather than frizzing away.
You should also purchase leave-in conditioner in spray form. You can spray this product onto your hair when it’s either dry or wet to keep it soft and hydrated.
 African American hair is sometimes described as “kinky” due to the intensity of its curl. However, with the right conditioning products, even the curliest hair can be shiny and healthy. In the grocery store, look for the section of the beauty aisle geared specifically toward African American hair products; they’re designed to boost moisture in a way products for non-black hair usually can’t compare.


Products with shea butter or various types of oils — from coconut oil to the more expensive Moroccan argan oil — are a good bet.
Though this is unrelated to conditioners, you shouldn’t shampoo your hair regularly. Shampoo every 7-10 days — every 14 days at the minimum.Over-shampooing will strip the hair of natural oils, causing even more dryness and counteracting the positive benefits of your conditioning routine.

