 Contrary to popular belief, trimming your split ends doesn't actually make your hair grow any faster.The follicles in your scalp determine the speed at which your hair will grow. When you trim your split ends, you ensure that your new locks are as healthy as possible.









The ends of your hair are the oldest part of your hair and have the most broken follicles, as they are most affected by coloring, curling, and straightening. When you trim the ends, you'll shed these damaged parts. This gives more room for healthy hair to grow in.
When your hair grows longer, your cuticle grows weaker and breaks. This leaves the middle strands of your hair unprotected, and your split ends move higher up your hair. Prevent this by taking care of unhealthy split ends quickly.
 There are many oil treatments that improve the health of your hair. You can buy these natural oils at your local health or vitamin store.By applying one of these treatments weekly, you'll promote the healthy growth of new hair.









Coconut oil contains a large amount of Vitamin E. Vitamin E strengthens your roots by improving your body's circulation. Your hair will grow in much thicker and shinier.
Argan oil, while quite expensive, contains a large variety of nutrients that will improve the strength and flow of your hair.
Extra-virgin olive oil, the same oil that you use to dress salads, improves scalp health and fights bacteria.
Make sure that you're properly applying these oil treatments. Massage a bit of oil, either room temperature or slightly warmer, into your roots and scalp. Let it pass down your tips like you would with any condition.
Slip on a shower cap and let the oil sit for about half an hour, then wash and rinse normally.
 While we often sleep on cotton pillows, the coarser texture of cotton mats your hair while you sleep, causing it to tangle.If you allow your hair to rub against this cotton, your hair will become damaged and unhealthy.


Silk fabrics compare very closely to the structure of human hair, containing 97% amino acids and 3% waxy and fat fibers.
Satin pillowcases are cheaper than silk pillowcases and also benefit the health of your hair.Cotton pillowcases drain moisture from your hair. This will make your hair coarser, drying it out and making it brittle.

