 This will give you a fresh and clean base to work with so you can look and feel your best. Your hygiene is one of the first things that other people will notice about you, so it is important to maintain a clean lifestyle. Try working these steps into your daily routine:


Wash your body everyday. Although it is not necessary to wash your hair everyday, you should either take a bath or shower everyday to keep good hygiene. If you shower in the morning, and then find yourself getting dirty or sweaty later on in the day, take another shower. This will keep your skin clear and your body smelling good.
Use deodorant every morning. Regardless of what the day ahead has in store, always use deodorant. This will help you smell your best.
Brush your teeth every morning and every night before bed for two minutes.Oral hygiene will not only help you look your best, it is extremely important for your overall health. Along with brushing, be sure to floss and use mouthwash, and consider bringing your floss with your during the day to use after each meal.
 Clear, glowing skin is a great way to look amazing. Skin is very delicate, and it needs to be properly maintained, treated, and cleaned in order to stay healthy. Follow these tips to help your skin look its best:


Be extra careful with the delicate skin area around your eyes by never rubbing your eyes with your hands.
Use a quality facial moisturizer to keep your skin supple. Immediately after you wash your face or shower, you should apply a facial moisturizer to lock in moisture. Use a lighter moisturizer for mornings, and apply a heavier moisturizer before bed.
Wear sunscreen to protect your skin from drying out and becoming sunburned. Many face moisturizers have sunscreen in them so you can hydrate and protect your skin with one product.Wash your face every morning and before bed to keep skin clear. After washing your face, pat it dry with a towel, and avoid tugging on your skin. You can use cleansers with salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide for skin that is experiencing breakouts. If you still can not achieve clear skin, consider seeing a dermatologist for professional help. Do not squeeze or pick acne, pimple, or blackheads. This can scar your face and lead to more clogged pores.
 Your hair should display healthiness and good care everyday. After you take a bath or shower, never brush your hair wet, as it will cause damage. Instead, use a wide-toothed comb and dry your hair either naturally or with cool air.


Keep your hair clean. Depending on your hair type, you may only need to wash your hair once every three days. Keep an eye on your hair, and once it starts to look greasy, treat it with shampoo and conditioner.Use shampoo and conditioner that are tailored towards your hair type. For example, hair products are sold for thick, thin, curly, straight, and frizzy hair types to help give them the nourishment each type needs.
Trim your hair every 6-8 weeks to keep split ends away.
 It is important not to overlook your fingernails or toenails as they can represent your overall hygiene. Keep your nails trimmed, or filed neatly. If you paint your nails, be sure that the paint fully covers your nails. When the paint starts to chip, touch them up with more polish, or remove the polish.
 Eating foods that are good for you will keep you feeling and looking your best. Incorporating plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins into your diet is good for your whole body, inside and out. Eating nutrient rich foods will also help your skin stay clear and glowing.A typical female should be eating two servings of fruit and three servings of vegetables everyday.You need about three to five servings of whole grains each day.It is recommended to get about 48 grams of protein each day., Smoking cigarettes has an endless list of negative consequences including many health problems. Cigarette smoke causes your skin to dry out, wrinkle, and age faster. When trying to live perfectly, smoking should never be part of your lifestyle habits.

