 Applying castor oil to hair seems like it might be simple, but there are a few things you could do to make it more effective and easier to apply. Here is a list of what you will need:Castor oil
Other oil (argan, avocado, coconut, jojoba, sweet almond, etc)
Hot water
Bowl
Jar
Shower cap
Towel
Old shirt (recommended);
, Castor oil is very thick, which can make it hard to apply. Try using one part castor oil, and one part of another oil, such as: argan, avocado, coconut, jojoba, or sweet almond.All of these oils are great for hair. You can also try the following combination:3 tablespoons castor oil
1 tablespoon jojoba oil
1 tablespoon coconut oil

, Castor oil can smell bad. If this bothers you, try adding in two to three drops of a fresh-smelling essential oil, such as: rosemary, peppermint, or tea tree., Close the lid tightly, and shake the jar for a few minutes. When you are done, take the lid off.
 Make sure that the bowl is large enough to fit the jar. You will be warming the oil. This will make it more effective and easier to work with. Do not attempt to warm the oil in the microwave.
 Make sure that the water level is at the same level as the oil. Also, make sure that the no water gets inside the jar, or the oil will get wet. If the water goes with the oil , it won't cause the same effect but if you want, heat the shower to the hottest amount possible - dont worry you won't go in it , then put conditioner in your hair and just sit in the bathroom. The warmth will moisturize your hair, help split ends, promote more growth to your roots and make you hair soft and shiny. make sure to have a glass of water in case you start to feel dizzy or too hot!!!

, This will make it easier for you to dip your fingers into when you go to apply it.


Consider pouring the oil into a small bottle with an eye dropper. This way, you can use the eye dropper to just drip the oil to your scalp.
 This will help the oil absorb better into your hair. A quick way to dampen your hair is to fill a spray bottle with water, and spraying just your scalp., This will protect your clothes from getting covered in oil. It may also be a good idea to wear something you do not care about anymore, in case the oil drips past the towel.
 Use your fingers to spread the oil between your hair roots and across your scalp. Massage your head with your fingertips using small, circular motions.


You can also use an eye dropper to drip the oil onto various points on your scalp. This may be easier for you, and less messy. Be sure to massage the oil into your scalp for about five minutes.
 Scoop a little bit more oil onto your fingers, and rub it between your palms. Then, run your hands across your hair. Use your fingers to comb your hair; this helps distribute the oil. Again, start with a small amount. You do not need a lot of oil.
 Loosely pile your hair on top of your head. If you need to, you can keep it in place with a claw clip. Slip a shower cap over your hair. The shower cap will trap the heat inside, and it will keep your hair from drying out.
 Warm up a towel by soaking it with very hot water. Twist the towel to get any excess water out, then wrap it around your head. You can tuck the end of the towel in under your "turban," or you can secure it with a large hair clip. The heat from the towel will make the oil more effective.
 You can also leave it on overnight, although there is little evidence that shows this is more effective. When you go to wash your hair, know that it may take a while before you get all the oil out. Some people find that washing with just conditioner, and skipping the shampoo, is more effective than using shampoo.
 Keep in mind, however, that you may not see any results the next day. Try using the castor oil treatment for four weeks before moving onto something else.