 Once you get the hang of meal planning, you'll realize it is a fantastic tool to spend your time and money more effectively. For example, find multiple recipes for the Brussels sprouts used on Monday and then buy them in bulk instead of buying a smaller, and more expensive, amount of sprouts. Choose recipes like stir-fries or fried rice that are easily customized at the end of the week, allowing you to throw in all your leftover onions, peppers, and other vegetables.


For example, you might do a chicken salad one night and chicken tacos the next. You can cook all the chicken the first night, then reheat it in taco sauce or seasoning the next., There is no reason you have to do this all by yourself. Moreover, getting the whole family to send in recipes ensures that everyone gets to eat something they want. This is also a great way to help kids expand their palettes and make sure that they eat each night.
 When meal planning healthy recipes, you ensure that you eat healthy food. If you only plan healthy meals, you can can avoid a last-minute box of Mac and Cheese on days you're unsure what to eat. Planning around your schedule takes the stress off of you later in the week to find something healthy each night., Determining what is in season, and how to use it, is difficult at the store, but you can easily plan for seasonal fruits and vegetables at home and pick 2-3 recipes that make use of them. Check out what is on sale online when meal planning, then plan your recipes accordingly., This takes a whole day off of your calendar, making planning that much easier. It also lets you perfect that one option every week. When you're at the store, you can easily start mixing and matching the recipes depending on what is on sale, since you know generally what you'll need for Hot Salad Saturdays., It is no secret that our food preferences change depending on the weather. So, if there is a cold rainy night coming up, prepare for grilled cheese and soups. If a heat wave is coming, look for meals that don't require tons of time over a hot oven or stove, like fresh salads or sandwiches., The first few weeks will be a little odd as you get used to your new system and make changes. Keep all of your receipts to track how much money you're spending, and write down what you think of each recipe. As you keep planning, you'll be able to adjust your schedule depending on changing finances, recipes you love, and currently available produce.