 You can also connect via your Facebook account.

Create a pirate through your web browser (or download download the desktop version of the game, and then create a pirate/ account - read below).

It is recommended to download the desktop version of the game, as it is known to be faster, better and more efficient than the web-browser version.
;
,, Create a new account and a pirate. Choose your preferences and click Play Now!

Choose a pirate name. The pirate name will be your identity in the game.
Choose your pirate's gender - male or female.
Pick your pirate's appearances. Choose his/ her hairstyle, hair color, skin color, torso, legs, torso color, and legs color.
Once the game starts, click on the Ahoy! tab on the right side of your screen. Click on Save Pirate to create an account for yourself. Please remember: you need to be more than 13 years old to play this game.

If you already have a Puzzle Pirates account, you can click on I have an account and thus proceed to the log-in screen.
 In mundane, non-piratey MMORPG language, an ocean would be called a "server". The oceans are distinct and separate.


Subscriber Ocean: A subscriber ocean is an ocean in which a user has to pay for a subscription regularly to enjoy the game completely. Subscription has to be bought using real money and not the virtual game money (PoE). Subscription can be bought on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis.

The Cerulean Ocean is the only subscriber ocean open for players. It was formed through a merger of the former Midnight and Cobalt Oceans on January 31st, 2012.



Doubloon Oceans: Doubloon oceans do not require a subscription. But players playing on doubloon oceans use two types of in-game currency: PoE and doubloons. PoE can be earnt by doing various activities in the game. Doubloons can either be exchanged for PoE or bought using real money. Many users who decide not to spend real money on this game choose doubloon oceans.

The Emerald Ocean is a doubloon ocean that was formed through a merger of the former Sage and Hunter Oceans on January 31st, 2012. The emerald is currently the most populated ocean in the game.
The Meridian Ocean is a doubloon ocean that was formed through a merger of the former Malachite and Viridian Oceans on January 31st, 2012. Meridian is the oldest, and the second most populated ocean in the game.
The Opal Ocean was the fourth doubloon ocean and opened on December 8th 2006. Opal is a German language ocean. Being a German language ocean, Opal ocean is scarcely populated.
The Jade Ocean was the sixth doubloon ocean and opened on July 1, 2009. Jade is a Spanish language ocean. The population of the Jade ocean is similar to the one of Opal ocean.


Most players prefer to play on Doubloon Oceans as almost everything can be played for free. Even doubloons can be bought in exchange for PoE, the basic monetary unit. PoE can be earnt by playing different puzzles, winning tournaments, events, blockades, pillages, stalls, etc.
 Click on the Puzzles tab in the Notice Board so that you get a brief idea of the various puzzles.
, Visit inns, shoppes and talk to other players using commands like /tell, /officer, /royalty, /fofficer, /crew, etc.

For help, contact Ocean Masters (OMs), talk to greeters, ask help in inns.
Ocean Masters (OMs) are employees of Three Rings Design (the developers of the game). They take care of petitions, complaints and make sure the oceans are safe. Ocean Masters have blue coloured names and are named after Greek Gods.Greeters are experienced players who help new users get used to the game. Their name appears pink to greenies (new users) and yellow to regular players., It is a wiki written by many Puzzle Pirates players and developers.


Visit the official game forums at http://forums.puzzlepirates.com/

For further help and options (to change password, email, developer support) you can visit: http://www.puzzlepirates.com/help.xhtml.


