 If you find yourself in a dull moment, try eating something to pass the time. Whether you are stuck at the airport, bored on a road trip, or waiting in line at an amusement park, a small calorie boost can keep your spirits high.Try packing:


Unsalted mixed nuts
Carrot sticks with peanut butter or hummus
Popcorn
Fresh fruit
String cheese

, Chewing gum can help you to focus your mind as well. Try having a stick of gum whenever you are feeling stressed, anxious, or bored., With smart phones, many people have music, podcasts, and audiobooks right at their fingertips. If you know you are going to be doing some waiting, bring your phone and headphones along.If you are driving, you should not wear headphones.
Instead, you can listen to music or audiobooks through your car radio.
If you are in a space where you can speak out loud, you can even use your smartphone to try learning a new language.
 Perhaps the most tried and true method of self-entertainment is reading a book. Look around: you’ll see people reading on the bus, at the doctor’s office, or even in line at the grocery store. Find a book or magazine that you enjoy, and keep it in your bag for when dull moments arise.You can download e-books onto your smart phone or tablet.
Visit a local library to borrow books for free.
If you’re not a big reader, try doing Sudoku or working on a crossword puzzle.
 An excellent way to pass the time and stay entertained is to talk to somebody around you. Striking up a conversation is a great way to learn something new and remain patient. Plus, you may even make a friend.


Open non-verbally with a smile, nod, or wave.
Make an observation: “Wow, these lines are long today!”
Ask for a small favor: “Can you unplug my laptop for me?”
Introduce yourself: “My name is by the way.”

, If you are in a situation where you can use your phone, there are any number of ways you can entertain yourself! If you are connected to wifi, you have even more options.In case you need new ideas for passing the time with your phone in your hand, here are a few:


Check social media
Play an online game
Create an online wish list
Look up recipes
Text a friend

