 After you have learned how to hold a two-handed handstand in water, you are now ready to start learning how to do one-handed handstands.


Learning to do a one-handed handstand can be a lot more difficult and take a lot more time to learn than a two-handed handstand.
Be patient.
 While holding a two-handed handstand, begin to slowly spread your legs apart as far as you can. Remember to keep your back straight and extend your muscles.


Don't stretch the legs too far, instead, only spread them to a point that is comfortable.
The wider you can stretch your legs, however, the more easier it will be to find your balance due to a lower center of gravity.
You may have to move to shallower water if you can spread your legs far enough that your feet begin to dip.
 If you are planning on doing a one-handed handstand on your right hand then you should shift your weight to your right side.,


Try to imagine a straight line between the shoulder you will be standing on, and the opposite hip.
 Bending the elbow on the arm you will not be hand standing on, lift your palm off the ground so that you come to rest on your fingertips.


Try to maintain the straight line between your support shoulder and opposite hip., Begin with your pinky, then the ring and middle fingers, and then the thumb.You should now be supporting your weak hand with only your pointer finger.


Depending on how strong your fingers are, this may take quite a bit of practice.
If using one finger is uncomfortable, you can try skipping the last finger and going directly into the one-handed handstand.
 Be careful not to swing your arm out, but instead, be sure to bend your elbow so that it draws your hand up closer to the shoulder. This will help you keep your balance.


Try lifting the hand straight up to your shoulder. This will help you keep your center of balance.
 Your arm should now be extended outward to your side.


Try to keep your elbow locked. This will help stabilize the arm and make it easier to maintain your balance.
Remember to extend all of the muscles in your body. This will help you stabilize yourself.

