 Cut a section of lemon or lime peel slightly larger than the wart and tape it over with an adhesive bandage or tape. Refresh the peel every day or so and keep the wart covered for as long as possible. After about a week or so, the entire wart will come out completely.
 Tape crushed, fresh basil to your wart using waterproof first-aid tape. Do this daily for up to a week. The virus-killing compound in the basil leaf will kill your wart.
 Do this twice a day for at least several weeks. Warts should start peeling off in one or two weeks, but take the garlic until the wart disappears. You can also cover the wart with garlic oil once or twice daily for a month., Garlic, sweet potatoes, whole-grain breads, sunflower seeds and rice are all examples of this.
 Finely grate a carrot and add enough olive oil to it to make a paste. Dab the paste on your wart twice daily for 30 minutes. Do this for two to three weeks.
 Mash up a fresh fig and place some on your wart for 30 minutes. Do this daily for two to three weeks.
 Squeeze lemon juice on your wart, then cover it with fresh, chopped onions. Do this for 30 minutes once a day for two to three weeks.
 Soak your wart in pineapple juice. It has a dissolving enzyme.
 The potassium may help speed the disappearance of the wart.
 Cut out a section of the peel so it's slightly smaller than the tape you'll be using. Rub the inside of a banana peel onto the wart and then secure with duct tape. Keep it on the wart for a day before removing. Repeat until wart is fully removed.
 Curcumin is a turmeric extract that can be found in health food stores. Combine curcumin, papaya extract (Papain. It may have to be purchased in pill form and crushed into powder), and vitamin E oil.


Dab the wart and surrounding area with alcoholic extract of golden seal. This will stimulate local immune activity.
Take a sharp needle or pin and dip it into the curcumin paste. Press the needle as deep into the wart as possible. Continue injecting more of the paste into the wart, poking several holes if necessary.
Spread the remaining paste over the wart area and cover with medical tape. This technique is effective against flat warts, which are found on the face and hands. Flat warts are notoriously stubborn and will often remain on the skin after the body has acquired resistance to the virus. This will finish the warts off in lieu of freezing.
 Take a cotton ball (only enough to cover the wart) and soak it in the vinegar. Secure with a band aid overnight. Keep in mind that this might be very painful. Change the cotton pad daily and keep it on every night if you can. After one week, the body of the wart will start to peel off and you can gently scrape it away to reveal healthy flesh beneath. Let the area heal once this is done.

