 The type of rope you work with does not matter, but since you will be handling it a lot, it might be a good idea to work with something that is soft so that your fingers don't feel sore by the end. Macramé or 100% rope would work best, however., You will be changing your floss often, so it does not matter how long it is. You can make it as long or as short as you want, so long as you can work without it getting tangled.Something around 24 inches (60.96) would be ideal, however.You can use the same color of embroidery floss throughout the project, or you can use different colors to create a more interesting looking basket.
 Take your rope, and fold the end under itself. Twist the rope into a spiral until you have a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wide disk. This will be the foundation for your basket.
 Push the needle through the side of your coiled disk, and pull it out the other side. Give the thread a tug until the knot bumps up against the disk. Turn the disk 90 degrees, and push the needle back through the disk, forming an X. This will hold the foundation of your basket together., Bring your needle across two coils, then push it down through the space between them. Pull the needle out through the back of your work, and bring it back up to the top of your disk., Bring your needle across one coil. Bring it just past the gap between the two coils, and push it through the edge of the second coil. Pull the needle out through the back of your disk, and bring it back to the top of your work., Work in a spiral around the disk. The stitches can be as close together or as far apart as you want them to be. Something around ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) would be ideal, however.


When you run out of floss, push the needle under the stitch, through a coil, and knot the floss to the previous stitch. Pass the needle and floss through a few stitches, then cut the floss.
To start a new thread: thread your needle and tie a knot at the end of the floss. Pass it through the same stitches, but going forward this time. When you are back where you left off, continue sewing, the same as before.
 Previously, you held the rope against the side edge of the disk. Now, move the rope so that it is on the top edge of the disk. Wrap the thread around both coils: the top one that you are feeding onto your basket, and the one attached to the disk. Do this for one row.Add an element of design to your basket by wrapping the floss around the rope a few times to create a colored band. These bands can be as thick as you want them to be. Be sure to go back and sew the coils together as you normally would, however.
 Wrap your thread over two coils, then over one coil and through the coil just beneath it.If you need to, place a large bowl inside the basket while you build up the walls. This will help you shape the basket., Find the spot where you first started building up the wall of your basket. Continue sewing your basket until you reach that spot, then cut the rope. Wrap the embroidery thread around the end of the rope tightly until you have a colored band that is about ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) thick. This will not only add an element of design to your basket, but also keep the rope from fraying., Sew the end of the rope to the basket using the same technique as you did for the body of the basket. Wrap your floss around the top of your rope, and then push the needle under the coil just beneath it. Go back over the top of your rope, then through the coil below it. Tie the floss to the stitch next to it, then push the needle between two coils of rope, hiding the floss between them. Cut the floss, and tuck the end into the ropes.