 A copy of the judgment may have been included with your garnishment notice, or you may have to go to the clerk of court's office to request a copy.


The judgment is the court order issued when the judge determined you owed the creditor money. After the judgment was issued, the creditor went back to court and enforced that judgment by having your wages garnished.
If the judgment was obtained improperly, you may be able to get rid of it by filing a motion to vacate.Keep in mind that you cannot dispute the debt at any garnishment hearing. Filing a motion to vacate is the only way to challenge the underlying judgment that gave rise to the garnishment.If the creditor got a default judgment against you, go to the clerk's office of the court where the judgment was entered and ask for the entire case file. This way you can review the way the case was filed and find errors or reasons the judgment should be vacated., Each state provides specific reasons why a judgment entered by its courts may be vacated.For example, you may have a basis to dispute the judgment if the creditor was awarded a default judgment but you were never served with the creditor's complaint and didn't have a chance to respond to the lawsuit.You also should check to see how long you have to file a motion to vacate after the judgment was entered. Typically you must file this motion within 30 days of the date of entry of the judgment, but in some jurisdictions you may have less time., If you believe the original judgment should be vacated, you may want an experienced attorney to advise you or guide you through the process.Once you have a copy of your complete court file, you might want to talk to a consumer law attorney. Often these attorneys will at least give you a free initial consultation where they review your case and explain your options.If you're worried about attorney's fees, keep in mind that attorneys who take these types of cases are accustomed to having clients with few financial resources, so they typically are willing to work with you.
 You may be able to find a form for your motion to vacate, or you can create it yourself.Search on the website for the court where the original judgment was filed for forms, or contact the clerk's office and ask if a form is available that is approved for use in that court.
You can ask the clerk for motions to vacate filed in other cases in the same court and use those as templates, but make sure you adapt the language to fit your own case.
If the court doesn't have a form available specifically for a motion to vacate, you may be able to use a blank motion form. You still should find examples of motions to vacate filed in the same court in similar cases so you have an idea of what your motion needs to say.
Generally, you must identify yourself and the judgment entered against you, then state that you want the judge to vacate the judgment for the following reasons. Then list your reasons, such as never having received notice of the lawsuit.
 You should file your motion with the clerk of the same court that entered the original judgment.


Before you file your motion, make enough copies of it so that you can keep one for your records and have one delivered to the creditor. The clerk will keep the original.
You will have to pay a filing fee, typically less than $100, to file your motion.If you can't afford the filing fee, ask the clerk about filling out an application to have the fee waived. You must disclose details about your income, assets, and expenses, and if your financial resources fall below a certain threshold the court will waive filing fees for you.The clerk will let you know what you have to do to get the motion delivered to the creditor. In some jurisdictions the clerk will send it for you, but typically you must take care of this yourself. The easiest way is to send the motion using certified mail with returned receipt requested, so you have proof that the creditor received it., The clerk will schedule a hearing for the judge to review your motion and decide whether the original judgment should be vacated.


There likely will be a number of other motions also being heard on the same day as yours. Take a seat in the gallery of the courtroom and wait until your name is called. When you are called, you must tell the judge about your case and why you believe the original judgment should be thrown out and you should be given a chance to defend yourself.Keep in mind that even if the judge vacates the judgment, that doesn't mean the debt – or even the lawsuit itself – has gone away.However, if the judgment is vacated you now have the opportunity to defend yourself and file an answer to the lawsuit disputing the validity of the debt.