 Splashing and shouting occurs when someone is in difficulty, not drowning (this does not mean they do not need help urgently however). If someone has only their mouth or nose above water with the head tipped back, is vertical, is lying face down in the water, making very little movement or is frantically flapping arms and legs underwater but not making any sound, splash or moving anywhere you should act immediately. A small number of non-swimmers will drown without making any attempt to save themselves. It takes a lot of training to recognise drowning and people in difficulty which is why you must always swim under the supervision of a qualified lifeguard.
 Most importantly, shout for help. If you cannot access the person, call the emergency services.


Make eye contact and use a firm, kind tone to calm them down and encourage them to swim to shore.






Reach to them using a pole or a stick. Alternatively, throw an item of clothing they can grab onto or a rope and pull them in. Lie on the bank as you do so so you are not pulled into the water.






You could throw a ring buoy or other item that can float, such as a big empty bottle with the lid firmly screwed on, and encourage them to kick their legs into you.






A strong swimmer could wade out to the subject and hold a swim ring at arms length, encouraging them to follow you in. A strong swimmer may also swim a short distance out to throw them an object and encourage them to come in but always stay at least 7 meters (23.0 ft) from the subject to avoid them grabbing you and drowning you in their attempt to save themselves.







Do not attempt a contact rescue unless you are qualified to do so.
, The water attracts lightning and it is very dangerous during a storm. Strong winds cause rough, choppy water and big waves.
 Swim gradually out of the current by swimming diagonally across it. Swim one stroke with the current and one against it.
 Do not attempt to care for a spinal injury victim if you are not trained to do so. Alert the lifeguard or call an ambulance immediately. Tell everyone around you to clear the pool or area immediately, moving slowly and causing minimum movement. Hold the head of the victim between your two hands in a tight clamp and do not allow for any movement.

