 Descartes was considered the father of Modern Philosophy. He rationalized and defined the precepts of what can be considered true.;
, The specific purpose of these books is to give you a spectrum / timeline and introduction to significant philosophers and how each of them fit in with one another, what was going on in the events and thoughts of their time and of course the basic premise of each of their philosophies and major works on the human mind, politics, economics, morals and ethics.
 It is arguable which of Plato's dialogs are most important, and after you have read Russell or Durant you'll have an idea which ones you want to read. Yet any such list must include Euthyphro, Apology of Socrates and Crito. It is hard to find an idea in philosophy that is not traceable back to Plato. As such, you do yourself a disservice to not start your readings with the father of philosophy. Similarly, you should not neglect his greatest pupil, Aristotle, whose Nicomachean Ethics stands at the head of all Ethics, and whose Metaphysics stand at the head of all Metaphysics.
 The first and the second to last of these works are considered to be the most important works by John Locke by most. You will gain an insight into understanding and interpretation theories by sensations and a "perfect knowledge" or instinct. note: Thomas Jefferson was heavily influenced by John Locke's ideas and works.
 There are other great works by David Hume but the three above are typically considered his most significant. David Hume and John Locke go hand-in-hand with one another.
 It's said when reading about the philosophy of the 17th Century excommunicated Jew, Spinoza you do not read his works, but instead you read about his life. Though there may be a great degree of accuracy in that statement you will need to read the significant work The Ethics. This read should be done slowly and carefully, allowing you to take in the full concepts of his work. You will gain a greater basis on religious views and begin to understand the concept of the natural God that can only work within it's nature. You will also see how philosophy and mathematics are so intertwined. You will learn how to read Spinoza correctly after completing this step.
 It is said he had written 99 volumes in his 84-years, not counting his plays, letters and other works. Luckily you don't have to read them all! Start by reading up on Voltaire. There are hundreds of books you will find on him, his exile, his return to France, his followers and the belief that the "devil was in him."

, What do you mean Kant mathematically proved that a higher entity must exist? Using both David Hume and John Locke's works in the highest degree against them to prove his theories, this 5'0" tall little man upset and mangled the mathematical and philosophic followers of his era.
 This split represents a polarization of philosophy in the wake of Skepticism and Kant's Transcendentalism. Continental Philosophers: Friedrich Nietzsche, "Thus Spoke Zarathustra" and "Beyond Good and Evil". Søren Kierkegaard, "Either/Or" and "The Sickness Unto Death". Edmund Husserl, father of phenomenology, especially "Philosophical Investigations" or "The Idea of Phenomenology". Martin Heidegger, specifically his magnum opus Being and Time which asks What is being, or what does it mean to be? Jean-Paul Sartre, the father of existentialism, a philosophical system expounded in his Being and Nothingness. Jacques Derrida, especially Of Grammatology. Analytic Philosophers: Bertrand Russell is one of the big players here. Ludwig Wittgenstein's "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus". W.V.O Quine "Two Dogmas of Empiricism" and "Word and Object".

