 Hypotheses are mainly used in the sciences, but you still need to narrow down the field. If your class is in organic chemistry or botany, you still need to narrow down the field even further. Choose a particular aspect of the field, such as genetics in botany.;
, It’s fine to use Wikipedia at this point, but you shouldn’t stop there. Look at online articles in databases, accessible through your library, library books, and journal articles.


It’s easy to use the library database at your local library. Once you locate the library’s databases, you should pick out ones that are focused on science articles.
Most libraries have some form of EBSCOhost, and if you use advanced search, you can select the databases you want, such as Science and Technology or Science Reference Center.
Once you’ve decided on databases, you can use search terms to find what you need. Ask your librarian can help you if you’re having trouble.
 More basic articles will be helpful when you’re just getting started. In fact, if you can find chapters from other textbooks, that can be helpful. However, also looking at studies others have done can give you an idea of what you want to do.


As a high school student, you’ll want to stick to more basic stuff; you can find databases geared towards your level, and your librarian should be able to point you in the right direction.
If you’re a college student, you should be able to use most of what you find in the academic databases. You can also use your textbook to help you decide what you want to study, as well as whose theories you will base your own experiment on.
For instance, maybe you want to study Gregor Mendel’s techniques with genetics and plants.
 Read articles in databases and books in the library. Be sure to take notes and remember to note down where each piece of information came from, including the author, title, date, publisher, city of publication, and page number. You need this information so you can make a bibliography later.


It’s best to keep all of the bibliographical information together so you can find it again. Just make sure you jot down the name of the author when you begin taking notes from a source, so you know what bibliographic entry it came from.
You should also note where you found the article or book, as well, so you can go back to it if you need to do further research.
 You want something manageable, not something that could end up being multiple projects. Be realistic - you won’t be able to cover genetics and psychology and eating habits in one paper. Your paper needs to cover one topic only.


It is possible to be too narrow, but it is easier to expand it a bit if you need to rather than to condense it after you’ve tried to tackle too much research. If you are a younger student, such as a high school student, you may just want to repeat Mendel’s experiments to see how they work.
If you are an older student, such as a graduate student, your work will need to be more original. You will need to put your own spin on plants and genetics. Maybe you want to study how splicing together two plants changes the genes of the plant over time.
 That is, pull together like ideas. Walden University suggests making categories for your research.That is, with a paper on hybrids, you might want to make one category on Mendel’s research, one for newer studies that are similar, one for splicing, and one for the type of cucumber you are using.
 That is, make sure you know what has already been done in your field. Find similar studies that are relevant to your research.
 What you manipulate is determined by what you want to study. For instance, with the splicing of plants, maybe you want to focus on how to manipulate cucumbers to produce a particularly crisp fruit through splicing.


To conduct the experiment, you will splice plants that manifest certain characteristics to see which produces the desired results. In this case, you are manipulating genes by picking plants for certain characteristics.
According to Explorable, the point of an experiment is to change one variable while controlling other ones and watching for changes.That is, with the cucumbers, you would need a control, such as splicing one set of cucumber plants at random, noting its characteristics, instead of choosing for a particular characteristic. Then you compare the fruit each type of plants produce.
 In the case of splicing plants, it seems likely that if you are always picking the plants that have the crispest fruit, you will end up with crisper fruit over time.
 Begin with what you want to test. In this case, you’re testing a theory about splicing plants, crisp cucumbers, and how genes change over time.


Also include how you plan to carry out the experiment and what you expect to happen. Because a hypothesis is a guess about what will happen, you have to spell out for your reader what you're thinking.
Start putting it together into a formal sentence. Basically, your hypothesis is how you tell your reader in one concise sentence what you are going to do. You are boiling it down as much as possible.
 For instance, if you are specifically looking at Armenian cucumbers, you should include the scientific name. Basically, you need to write out your guess in a formal manner, using specific details.For instance, for this experiment, you could write something like, “This experiment will test the hypothesis that selecting Armenian cucumbers (scientific name Cucumis melo var. flexuosus) for crispiness and splicing those plants together will, over time, produce a crisper cucumber, and this hypothesis will be tested by selecting cucumbers for crispiness to splice with cucumbers with similar traits, along with a control group for comparing results.”
This hypothesis is specific, it tells what you want to do, and it gives an idea of how you are going to do it.
 Usually, your teacher or professor will have no problem reading your hypothesis to see if you are on the right track.

