 You can use any image file to create your cover photo. What you pick really depends on what you want to represent you. This could be a landscape, vacation photo, piece of art, or any other picture you can imagine.


Many people avoid using a picture of themselves in the cover photo since their picture is already displayed in the Profile picture. Instead, try to convey a mood or outlook with your cover photo.
If you find an image online that you want to use, right-click on it and save it to your computer. Give it a name that will be easy to remember, as you will need to find it later.;
, Right-click on the image on your computer. Select Properties and then click the Details tab. Look for the Dimensions entry.


Facebook cover photos are 851px x 315px. If your image is smaller than that, it will be stretched to fit that size. This could result in distortion. If it is larger than that, you will be asked to select which area of the image that you want to display when you upload it. This means that parts of the image will not be seen.If you want to resize a larger image so that the entire image fits in the cover photo, see this guide.
 Before you upload your image, make any edits and changes in your preferred image editing software. You can add quotes, touch-up imperfections, and more. See this guide for some image editing tips.
 Once your image looks the way you want, you will need to upload it to your Facebook profile. Go to the Facebook home page, log in with your email and password, and then click your name in the upper-left corner of the Facebook page.
 You will see a button appear that says "Change Cover". Clicking the button will allow you to choose a picture from your Facebook photos or upload a photo from your computer. Click "Upload Photo" to choose the image from your computer.


Depending on the size of the image and the speed of your connection, the upload process may take a few minutes.
 If the image is larger than 851px by 315px, you can click and drag the image to set what part of it is displayed. You can always adjust it later by using the "Change Cover" button.

