 Get on a completely flat surface either on an exercise mat or outside on the grass. Your feet should be flat on the ground, separated by no more than 12 inches (30.5 cm).During the military test, someone will hold your feet or ankles in position. Get a partner to hold your feet in order to simulate the actual test.
The heel is the only part of your foot that must maintain contact with the ground. You can raise up your toes if you want.;
, They need to stay laced throughout your set of sit ups; if you remove them from this position at any time, that rep will be disqualified.
 Use your abdominal muscles to lift your body until the base of your neck is above the base of your spine. Stop when the bend in your hips is at a 90˚ angle.









Do not arch your back. It should remain straight.
Do not raise your buttocks off the ground to raise your body.
Do not let your knees exceed a 90 degree angle., Use a steady motion; Do not let yourself bounce back up, and do not rest when you reach starting position.
 Use the exact same motion and do at least 53 sit ups. If you rest on the ground, you'll have to start over completely. Any single rep can be disqualified from your final count if you do the following:









Fail to lift your upper body to a vertical position
Bow your back
Exceed 90 degrees with your knees
Fail to keep your fingers locked behind your head
Raise your buttocks off the ground.
, When you train, simply continue the exercise until muscle failure occurs. Repeat until you've completed 4 sets. There should be no more than one minute of rest between each set.
 In order to start seeing/feeling results, aim to do four sets three days a week for six weeks. For faster results, increase the number of sets/times per week you do this exercise.
 If you're able to make it to 72 perfect sit ups, you'll receive a score of 90 points and a rating of "excellent" for this exercise. If you're good at sit ups, work your hardest to receive the highest rating you can achieve.








