 You may look around you and think that today’s children are over-indulged. In certain cultures, this is unfortunately the case. But even more unfortunately, there are millions of children in the world, in both developed and developing countries, who are not indulged at all. They’re hungry, overwhelmingly poor, sometimes orphaned or sick. The numbers of children in need can be overwhelming. But don’t let that stop you from doing something. Even in your own neighborhood, there may be families in need. In just a minute, without much sacrifice, you could bring a bag of groceries to a family, offer to babysit while a single mom gets a well-deserved break or tutor some students in a subject or skill you're brilliant at.


If you offer to help children through education, use your enthusiasm to guide theirs. If you love a subject or a skill, that enthusiasm will show through naturally and will spark the same excitement in the children too.
 You can’t eliminate the problem of poverty completely, but you could give one child hope. If every person in a position to help did so, the whole world would be changed. As British statesman Edmund Burke once said: "All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is for good people to do nothing." So do something, no matter how small!


Decide where you wish to donate. Some people choose to support local organizations in their own area or country, while others like to sponsor children overseas. You may even find you can afford to do both, which can be a nice balance. Whichever way, you will be making a difference of great importance.
Organizations that you can sponsor a child through include Compassion International, World Vision, Childfund, Save the Children, UNICEF, etc.
Locally, look for welfare projects focused on alleviating childhood poverty that are run by churches, community groups, charities, etc.
 Share knowledge with children about how democracy works and how they can get heard in society. Teach them why it matters that they will vote some day and the importance of being an engaged part of civic life.


Explain to children how government works. Take a moment to show them who their local representatives are.
Use online government resources to teach children how to find legislation, government information and news. You don't need to spend long doing this––simply task them with finding out the answers to some well asked questions!
Suggest that they look at youth parliament/council, etc. projects online. This may encourage them to get involved too! Ask them for a quick summary of what they discover.

