 Click or tap to select. The first (and easiest) lesson is located on the far left.


You can skip ahead to future lessons if you want, unless they display a lock symbol on top. This means that you must pay to access those lessons.
 Topics have multiple lessons to choose from. The lowest numbered lesson is the easiest, while the highest numbered is the most difficult for the selected topic.
 If the language you are learning uses a different alphabet from your native language, you can tap/click the toggle button in the upper right corner to switch which alphabet the words are displayed in.


The toggle will display in the upper right corner of the lesson window on the website.
Use the alphabet of the language you are trying to learn for an extra challenge.
 You will listen for a word, then tap/click the corresponding picture. Press “Check” to see if your selection is correct.


You will see heart icons at the top of the lesson window. You will lose a heart each time you get an answer wrong. The more hearts you have at the end, the higher your rating.
 Select words to move them into the sentence area and arrange them into the correct order. Press “Check” to see if you got it right.


Most of these exercises will give you more words than you need to complete the sentence.
On harder difficulties, instead of being provided words you will have to type out sentences after they are read to you.
 When you see an underlined verb, you can tap it to see a popup of that verb conjugated into its different tenses.
 Tap/Click “Conversation” at the bottom of the page to jump to that lesson. The computer will read aloud a sentence, then you will be prompted to tap/click and hold the blue record button (at the bottom) and speak the sentence back.


You will prompted to enable your microphone for this section (if you have not already done so).
 Tap/Click “Vocabulary” at the bottom of the page to jump to that lesson. You will be given words without any associated pictures. Drag the word up to down towards one of the possible answers.

