 Even once you decide to sort by category, there's still a bit of wiggle room. Your categories can be whatever you choose -- aisle, product type, or how often you buy.


Examples include "dairy/frozen," "paper products/cleaning products" and a category dedicated to drinks and snacks. This method used to organize coupons allows you to focus on a specific category of products if your trip to the store is for a few items only.

If your coupons are in order by aisle, you are less apt to forget important items on your list. Think about how you meander through the store as you organize.
 If you have a bunch of stores you frequent, this may be the method for you. if you sit down on Sunday mornings with the newspaper, it's pretty easy to grab each store's ad and file away accordingly.


Generally this method should only be used if the number of stores you frequent is greater than the coupons you use at each store. If not, you'll wind up with 50 coupons in each section and have to sift through them to get to the ones you want.
 You can do this either by brand name or by product type. This can be easy to flip through if you're shopping for a specific product. However, this also may be a bit more difficult if you have a lot of coupons on your hands.You also may need a lot more tabs. If you try this method, you may need to refine your system by adding more space for the common letters and take out the tabs that don't get used.
 If you want to get the most bang for your buck, you'll want to use every coupon before it expires. Organizing by expiration date may help you plan meals in addition to saving money.


The main downside to this system is that sometimes expiration dates are long into the future. Your coupons will stack up and you may be looking at months and months and stacks and stacks of coupons.
 Whether it is nobler in the binder to include the width and length of the entire sheet or to take scissors against the border of the sales and by cutting make them smaller. Some couponers swear that filing away the entire insert saves them time and thus money. Others say it's just too bulky and nonsensical. You decide which way feels right for you.


The pros of not clipping: You don't clip any coupons you won't use, so you never have to waste time clipping something that will later just get thrown away and you won't accidentally throw away a coupon that, at the time, you didn't think you'd use but now discover an awesome deal where it could be used, and wish you had saved it.The cons? You'll spend more time right before a shopping trip getting ready, since you'll have to retrieve and clip specific coupons at that time. And to the extent you also collect and use loose coupons, such as printable coupons, blinkies, catalinas, peelies, etc., you'll need to keep track of these coupons too, and since they aren't in an insert you'll have to create a separate organization system to organize coupons from these categories. In addition, because expiration dates differ, you'll be holding onto some inserts for a very, very long time.