 Maybe you want to enjoy your movie in solitude, or maybe you want to round up some pals or family members to watch with you. It’s your call.

Watching a movie with others can be a blast, but it also means that you might need to compromise on a movie selection.;
, If you are watching alone, simply pick the genre that you’re in the mood to watch. If you’re stressed, a comedy could help you relax. If you want some excitement, go for a horror flick. On the other hand, deciding on a genre as a group can be tricky, particularly for diverse groups. When in doubt, pick a popular genre, like adventure or comedy. You might want to avoid more polarizing genres like documentaries or musicals., Browse movies within your own collection, or take a look at the options on streaming services like Netflix, Hulu, and DirectTV, if you have them.For each movie you consider, check out online reviews to get a better idea of movie content and quality.
Set a time limit for movie browsing. This can take forever if you’re not careful, and then you’ll have less time to enjoy the movie. Give yourself 20 minutes, max., If are watching a movie with kids, be certain to check movie ratings as you browse to help you find age-appropriate content. While ratings can guide your selection, they aren’t meant to provide all the answers. You should do research on your own as well.Reading a couple of different online sources can help you determine whether a movie is age-appropriate.
 If you are enjoying your movie alone, simply pick the movie that you feel like watching within your chosen genre. Otherwise, consult the people who are watching with you.

If you can’t come to a consensus, try taking a vote.
If movie night is a regular event with your family or friend group, different group members can take turns picking the movie each time., Ideally, it should be a relatively quiet space with curtains or blinds that allow you to block out light.If you have a basement, consider using it as your “home theater.”
Your room could also work as your "home theater." Watching a movie from your bed is a super comfy option.
 Of course, your home theater will need a screen to display your movie. Flat screen TVs work best for areas with ambient light, like a living room. However, if you have a dedicated home theater in a darker area of the house, consider investing in a projector.Projectors can create a movie theater-like experience. Pick a room with enough wall space for a 100 inch screen, and one that’s large enough to set up the projector at the proper distance from the wall.
Conduct online research and talk to professionals to find the right projector or TV for your space.
You don't need a TV or projector to watch a movie. If you are enjoying a movie alone, you can watch directly from your computer or tablet.
 If you want to take your home theater to the next level, consider purchasing speakers. Speakers will enhance the sound quality, creating a more immersive experience.

Consult a professional to determine which speakers would be best for your space and needs. Room size is a major factor. Large speakers don’t work well in small, closed-in rooms, while small speakers may sound weak in large, open rooms.A sound bar is a good option if you want a significant upgrade in sound quality, but aren’t ready to invest in a pricey surround sound speaker system., A good view of the screen is key to enjoying a movie. Make sure the chairs and couches are positioned for a great view. Sitting too close to the screen can be overwhelming, while sitting too far away can make it difficult to see.If you are watching a movie with others, make sure that they can get a decent view from their spots.
 A dark environment is important for an immersive cinematic experience. Turn off or dim your overhead lights and lamps, and close curtains and shades if it’s light outside., Light and sounds from a phone can be extremely distracting, as you probably know from your local movie theater. Turn off or silence your phone, and have others do the same.One option is to have your fellow movie watchers place their phones in a bowl in the center of the room. The first one to grab their phone has to refill everyone's drinks and snacks for the rest of the night.
 One of the best things about watching a movie at home is the added comfort. Put on your comfiest lounge wear, and bring extra blankets and pillows for an super cozy feel.If you are enjoying your movie with others, ask them to bring extra blankets and pillows. You can never have too many!

, To avoid untimely spills in the middle of your flick, choose bottled drinks. This is especially important if you are watching with spill-prone kids.For an environmentally-friendly alternative to disposable plastic bottles, pour drinks into refillable bottles and sip away.
 Finger foods are easy to eat while lounging on the couch. Popcorn is classic movie snack. Pretzels, candy, and chips with dip are other movie-friendly options.Try spicing up regular popcorn. Add seasoning, like cayenne pepper, or drizzle your popcorn with caramel for a sweeter snack.
If you’re looking for a healthier finger food option, try fresh fruit!

, If your movie is especially long or you are watching with antsy kids, scheduling a brief intermission is probably a good idea. Pause the movie at the halfway point so everyone can take a bathroom break and grab extra drinks and snacks.