 Reservations for a seat in the audience are free and can be made by phone or online. Do not send in multiple requests to be on the show. Wait for a member of the audience department to contact you regarding tickets.


To make a reservation by phone, call: 1-323-461-PHIL (7445) or use the show's TTY number is: 1-323-956-3390
You can also make a reservation online.Under "Advance Reservations," click on the season you wish to reserve a seat or seats for. You will be redirected to the appropriate form. Include your name, birthday, e-mail address, mailing address, and phone number. In the message field, indicate which filming date you wish to place a reservation for.
Admission to the show is on a first-come, first-serve basis. Even if you get tickets to the show, it is not guaranteed that you will get to see the taping. Get there as early as possible.
If you are trying to get on the show with 10 or more people, you will need to fill out a different form.The show tapes in Hollywood, California at Paramount Studios on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays. You will need to arrive between 8:00 and 8:15 am and be done around 1:00 pm.
The show usually tapes from August to the middle of December and from January to the beginning of May., If you want to talk to Dr. Phil as a guest on his show, you can send your story in via his website. If Dr. Phil and his producers are interested in it, they may invite you to be on the show. Dr. Phil gets many request to be on the show, and he may not be able to respond to your email personally.You will need to go online and look at the list of upcoming topics. Once you have found a topic that applies to you, click on it to be redirected to the appropriate online form.Once you navigate to the correct form, you will need to explain your story in the "Message" field. You will also be required to provide your first name, last name, birthday, e-mail address, street address, city, state, zip code, country, and daytime phone number. If you have a photograph or document connected to the topic, you can also upload it via the same form.
If you are under the age of 18, a parent or guardian will need to fill out the form for you.
Please be careful with the information that you send in. Your material can be used on the show or the website without contacting you first.
 To increase your chances of getting on the show, submit a story about a topic that the Dr. Phil show is currently working on. His website maintains a list of upcoming topics with specific questions you should answer as part of your submission.Your chances of making it on the show are slim because the show receives thousands of submissions every day.


You can submit a story that is not being covered in an upcoming show, but you may not hear back from the show.
Make your submission clear and concise because you only have 250 words to tell your story. State your problem and avoid unnecessary background information. You are allowed to upload a photo with your submission as well.
Tell the most important parts of your story that are directly related to the topic. For example, if the topic is about a crazy ex, your story should highlight the specific crazy actions of your ex. You would not give background information about how your ex was nice at the beginning of the relationship or where you met your ex.
Always tell the truth in your submissions. Do not exaggerate or lie to make your story more compelling. The show staff conducts a lot of background research before guests appear on the show.

