 To create a fresh-looking face, you need to apply your makeup as lightly as possible. Doing your makeup in sunlight, such as by a window, can help you see how much you're applying and what looks heavy-handed., If you put on too much foundation, it can backfire, making your skin appear thick and leathery. Try applying a light layer of liquid foundation. In fact, you can also mix it with your moisturizer to lighten it up even more.Another option is a tinted lotion, as it helps smooth out your skin without adding too much weight., Using a brush to apply powder helps keep it light. A sponge can cake the powder on, making you look older.Try one that absorbs oils, which can keep your skin from looking shiny., Blush can help make your cheeks look rosy, but if you apply it too heavily, it can make you look like a doll instead of a person. Apply a light dusting of a faint pink to give yourself a nice glow without making you look like a clown.In addition, use bronzer along the bottom of your cheekbones to add shadow and shape., That is, you don't want to pick an eyeliner that's too dark if you are fair skinned, while a black liner will be perfect if you have darker skin. Choose a brown if you have lighter skin. Also, apply it thinly, as being too heavy-handed can make the liner look unnatural. Picking a gel eyeliner can make it easier to apply in a thin line., Lipstick can look like, well, makeup. Balms, on the other hand, can help keep your face looking fresh. Pick a sheer color, so that it picks up your skin tones underneath it while adding a hint of pink., When choosing an eye shadow, make sure to pick one in a brown shade that's a bit darker than your skin tone. By using it in the creases of your eyelids, as well as just under your eyelashes, you can brighten up your eyes, but it won't actually look like you're wearing eye shadow.You can also use bronzer in place of eye shadow for a similar effect., The simple act of smiling can make you appear younger, according to one study. Participants underestimated the age more often of those who smile than those who didn't. Therefore, if you want to appear fresh and young, don't forget to add a smile.