 Communicate confidence by keeping your head up. Don’t look down or try to hide yourself from others. Remove your hat or hoodie, push your hair out of your face and allow yourself to be seen., Stand up straight and don’t stoop or slouch. Practice the following to get good, confident posture:


Relax and pull back your shoulders.
Gently pull in your stomach.
Keep your weight balanced on both feet.
Allow your hands to hang loosely by your side.
Keep your head straight.
Relax your knees., Take off your sunglasses and look people in the eye when talking or listening to them. Break eye contact every few seconds to avoid coming across as aggressive instead of confident., Walk comfortably but with a sense of purpose. Keep your head up and your shoulders relaxed, allowing your arms to swing naturally by your sides.You’ll be surprised at how confident you come across when you walk with a sense of purpose.
 Communicate your confidence by smiling at people when appropriate. Avoid showing too many teeth because this might give the impression that you’re seeking approval from others.Direct your smile to people who return it and avoid smiling at people who give off a negative vibe.
 Look in the mirror to determine your body type, dominant skin tone, and any unique characteristics you would like to highlight or minimize. Knowing your body shape will help you find clothes and patterns that look best on you. Knowing your dominant skin tone will help you find and choose color combinations that you like and make you feel confident.
 Observe people whose fashion you admire. Look in magazines, on TV, in films, and in real life. Look closely to see how they’ve chosen their outfits. Make notes about what you like and don’t like.
 Separate your clothing, shoes, and accessories into three separate categories: love it, not sure, hate it. Get rid of everything in the ‘hate it’ pile. Get rid of items of clothing that you haven’t worn in a long time. Ask yourself whether you feel confident in the clothing that remains and get rid of any items you’re not sure about., Create a list of items you want before you go shopping. Set yourself a budget and pay with cash to avoid impulse purchases. Only purchase clothing that fits your style needs and makes you feel confident the instant you put it on. Search for fashion deals at discount shops if you are on a budget., Try something different with your look and don’t be afraid to make your own rules. Create your own sense of style if you don’t feel that standard fashion trends offer you what you need. Don’t limit yourself to what other people consider acceptable and remember that there’s more than one way to wear something.You’ll be far more confident developing a sense of style that works for you rather than imitating the look of someone else.
 Trust your instincts on style and don’t overthink it. Listen to your inner voice because it knows what is right and wrong for you. Being confident starts with having a positive self image. Don’t try to change into something you’re not just because other people are doing it., Listen to a person when they give you a compliment. Accept the compliment and allow it to make you feel good about yourself. Thank the person for their compliment and make sure you don’t respond with a negative statement that puts yourself down and challenges the compliment. Remember the compliment for the times when you don’t feel so confident., Ignoring an insult doesn’t mean refusing to listen to another person. Think about what the person said and consider whether it’s constructive or not. Consider whether the person deserves to be listened to and how true their insult might be.Ignore any insults that are meant to demean you and make you feel less confident. Nothing will help sink your confidence faster than a nasty and spiteful insult.
 Take a small risk. Try doing something less than perfect and see what happens. The odds are good that the world won’t end if you’re not perfect. Worrying about being perfect will definitely make you less confident.
 Seek out people who make you feel good about yourself. Spend time with them and make them your friends. Get rid of people who are negative influences and who add stress to your life. Find positive and confident role models.You’ll find that these people’s behavior will soon rub off on you and make you more confident.
 Work on your self-esteem by identifying negative thoughts and challenging them. Replace them with constructive thoughts that make you feel confident and good. Although it’s important to consider your physical appearance and style when building confidence, true confidence comes from within.