 Any of the 200+ law schools accredited by the American Bar Association will qualify you to sit for the bar exam in all states.

However, choosing a school with a strong concentration in Human Rights and International Law will help you hone your interests, gain experience, and make connections for your future career., Most law schools have an application fee of $20 to $50. Because of this expense, you need to prioritize your resources and select schools that match your interests, credentials (GPA/LSAT scores), financial resources,and acceptance rates.Since a career in human rights law can take you anywhere in the world, where you go to school is less important than a good fit.
 A J.D. degree is award after successful completion of a three-year law school program. Your school will have its own requirements for number of credits and GPA. Most students take three years, but most schools offer part-time programs for working students and accelerated options for graduation in 2 1/2 years.


Join student organizations interested in civil and human rights. The International Law Students Association is a good place to meet like-minded classmates.Take full advantage of law school programs. Participate in clinics and programs with civil rights and human rights activities.
Seek out summer internships with civil rights organizations. Even if you go to school in an area that doesn't have an international presence, you can gain experience with organizations that work for civil rights, voting rights, domestic violence, and economic justice.
 This is an excellent chance for you to work on your language skills, expand your cultural experiences, and make contacts for your future career.
 Once you graduate with your law degree, you are eligible to sit for the bar exam. The examination is given twice per year and is required to practice law in the United States.Bar admission includes a background check to see if the applicant exhibits the necessary character and fitness for the practice of law.
Students from international law schools may be able to seek admission to practice in the United States. Contact the state bar examiner for instructions.The bar exam varies somewhat from state to state, but is general two to three days and includes the multi-state skills exam,the essay exam,and the multi-state ethics exam.Upon successful passing of the bar examination, you will take the lawyer's oath and be ready to practice law.