 Be prepared when you network by bringing resumes, business cards, and a cell phone (in silent mode) when you attend functions and meetings. This will enable you to leave your contact information with potential business contacts and leave them with a reminder of meeting you, or take names and phone numbers of people you meet.
 Networking effectively is all about making a good first impression so people will want to stay in contact with you. Dress well, look sharp, and conduct yourself respectfully. Avoid drinking too much or discussing controversial or offensive topics. Presenting yourself as someone appealing, helpful, and worth knowing will help you achieve your networking goals much more effectively.
 Community functions, like job fairs and local festivals, can be a great way to meet people and get your name, or the name of your business, recognized by the community. Attend local functions and shake hands with as many people as possible.


At these events, hand out your business cards liberally. You never know when that card will find its way to the desk of someone important.
 Other professionals, or professionals in related fields, are likely to share some of your interests. Pursuing a hobby, like a sport, painting, or collecting, can create strong connections founded on similar interest.Having a diverse set of hobbies will increase your chances of meeting a useful network connection. Some good networking hobbies include:

Blogging or journaling
Acting/improvisation
Photography
Computer repair/maintenance
Event planning
Bargain shopping, Try to remember one detail or topic that you discuss with each new person you meet. This will give you something to talk about the next time you see them to help establish a familiar connection.


If you've exchanged cards with a new contact, when you part ways, jot down a fact or two about this person on his or her card. When you're done networking for the day, sit down and review the names and details of these people.
 In a business setting you should focus on business goals. Not everyone you meet, including some people you might want as friends outside of work, will be a worthy time investment while networking. When evaluating a contact, ask yourself, "How can we help each other?" Mutually beneficial relationships often form a strong foundation for future business., Professional organizations related to your business or field of employment can offer great networking opportunities. Join a professional organization or the alumni organization from your college. Participating in these kind of social functions will open your network more broadly to people in related fields or businesses.