 The most important way to reduce the risk of gout in patients suffering from focal segment glomerulosclerosis is through a proper diet.


Remember that most of the purine in the body comes from the food we eat. Limiting purine consumption limits the uric acid in the body which decreases the risk of gout.
Another factor to consider is that due to FSGS the uric in the body is not excreted. Since purine it not excreted, limiting high purine food is necessary to prevent the accumulation of uric acid in the body.
 Animal proteins are high in purine. These foods include organ meat (liver, kidney, and brains), lamb, beef, pork, chicken, anchovies, sardines, mackerel and scallops.


Other seafood such as tuna, shrimp and lobsters also contain purines. Decreasing consumption of animal protein will help you prevent gout.
Limit meat, poultry or fish to 113 to 170 grams per day.
 Saturated fat is also bad for those who are at high risks for gout. High saturated fat in the body may lead to obesity. Being overweight or obese increases the risk of having hyperuricemia.


Saturated fats also decrease the elimination of uric acid in the body. Food high in saturated fats include deep fried food, high fat cuts of meat, chicken with skin, butter, ice cream, lard, palm and coconut oil.
 Opting for healthier alternatives that the foods listed above may help to decrease the saturated fat in your body. Instead of using oil that is high in saturated fat choose oil that contains monounsaturated fats.


Olive oil, Canola oil, Sunflower oil, and peanut oil are examples of oil that are monounsaturated fats. Replace butter or margarine with healthier options such as peanut butter
When preparing a meal with meat, remove the fat from the meat or the skin from the chicken. This will limit the saturated fat that gets into your body.
 Studies have shown that beer is linked with gout. Beer interferes with the elimination of uric acid in the body.


A better option instead of beer is wine. Studies have shown that one to two five ounces of wine a day do not increase the risk of gout.
When drinking wine, just remember that too much wine may still cause gout. Limiting your intake to 2 glasses is recommended.
 Fructose is also known to increase uric acid. This is because the metabolism of fructose in the liver drives increases the production of uric acid.


Foods that are high in fructose are table sugar, corn syrup, honey, molasses, maple syrup, fruits and fruit juices. You are advised against consuming more than 32 g (8 tsp.) of sugar based or fructose based foods daily in order to reduce the risk of gout.
Instead of using the syrups and sugar stated above, use applesauce as a healthier alternative. Fruits such as watermelon, strawberry, avocado and kiwi have a low fructose content.

