 The easiest and cheapest way to improve the learning environment for students who are visually impaired or blind is to record all lessons. This way students can listen to the instructions or lesson multiple times in order to make sure they completely understand what is expected.

Students can record lessons using smartphone apps that can be easily downloaded for free.
For better sound quality the school could invest in a microphone and recorder that could then upload the audio file to the student’s personal computer.
 As soon as you discover that you will have a visually impaired or blind student in your class, you should order all class textbooks in braille. You can also have all of your course materials and handouts transferred into braille by using braille translation software.This software can be purchased online and costs approximately $600.
This process can take quite some time, so be sure to plan well in advance.
 Students who are visually impaired or blind can benefit from the use of smart scanners and readers. These technological devices will easily convert documents such as books and handouts into speech. This way students who can not see the material presented on a written document can still access the information. The machine will actually read aloud the materials.These devices range in price from approximately $150 to $1000 and can be ordered online.
You can also download a reader application such as the KNFB Reader which will convert printed text into speech. This app costs around $100., Page magnifiers can be used by students with visual impairments, to help enlarge images and text presented in any book or handout. This will assist students with visual impairments in reading all course material. These devices are relatively easy to use and range in cost and effectiveness.Handheld magnifying glasses enlarge the image approximately 2.5 times the regular size and cost approximately $10 to $20.
Electronic page magnifiers can enlarge an image 10-15 times the regular size and range in price from $200 to $1000

, Many students who are visually impaired will need written material to be presented in high contrast in order for them to read. It is best to write using a dark black marker on a whiteboard. Always write using large images and letters to help assist with reading. If your classroom has a blackboard, you should always use white chalk.Avoid using colours. Colour should only be used sparingly for large images, such as titles.

