 Getting work as a proofreader is quite competitive. You should start your job search by seeking out any professional connections to ask about possible job openings.Many proofreaders and editors find work through online bulletin boards, such as Craigslist, Elance, or Upwork.
As you build your reputation as a specialist in a particular field, you'll be able to network with more confidence.
Make sure to ask each client for permission to share their positive feedback with new or potential clients.
 Once you've begun proofreading, you may wish to post advertisements for your work among prospective clients. Posting your advertisements on online bulletin boards, such as Craigslist, is encouraged.You can also post in journals geared towards writers and publishers, such as Poets and Writers, Writers Digest, or Writers Chronicle.
If you're proofreading in a specialized field, seek out the publications of that field to promote your work.
 In the United States, the Editorial Freelancers Association (EFA) is the best organization for a prospective proofreader to join. Membership in the EFA allows you to network with other proofreaders and potential clients, as well as In the UK, the Society for Editors & Proofreaders (SfEP) is the standard proofreaders organization.
Through joining other professionals, you're more likely to be kept alerted to changes in the proofreading field, new software options, courses to further your skills, etc.
 There are advantages to working for yourself, including schedule flexibility and the opportunity to get to work immediately. There are far more employment opportunities for someone getting started as a proofreader if you're willing to freelance.The downside of freelance proofreading is that there isn't a guaranteed income. While you may charge upwards of $20 per hour, depending on the job, you can't predict when you'll be busy. You may find yourself working through weekend and holidays.
Being a freelance proofreader doesn't require any additional business licensing or sales tax. However, you will have to pay income tax on your wages.
Being self-employed means that you'll have to be able to keep track of your income, your hours, and be attentive to deadlines.
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, proofreaders had an average hourly wage of $17.78 (May 2014) in the United States. If you're just starting out, you may want to charge less than this. If you're working in a specialized field, you may be able to charge much more.The best way to set a price for your proofreading work will be to compare it to what other freelancers are charging.
The wages for proofreading are likely to vary by region. The best way to set your rates will be to confer with other proofreaders through the EFA or the SfEP.

