 Minecraft fans have created tools that analyze your seed or save game and locate the villages for you. You can then take these coordinates and use them to find the village in your game. Note that these finder tools are usually about 66% accurate, as one-third of villages do not spawn as they should.


One of the most popular village finders is Chunkbase's. You can access it at chunkbase.com/apps/village-finder. Use an up-to-date browser like Chrome to access all of the features of the finder.
There is currently no village finder tool that works for Minecraft PE.
 The quickest way to load your world is to enter your current seed. If you're playing on PC, you can load your level.dat file from %appdata%\.minecraft\saves.


To find the seed for your current game, type /seed into the chat window. If you're playing a multiplayer game, you'll need to ask one of the admins for the seed.
 After loading the seed, the grid below will be populated by brown dots representing villages. If you're too zoomed in, you may not see any dots at first. Zoom out by scrolling the mouse wheel down until you see some dots.
 As you move your mouse cursor over the map, you'll see the coordinates change at the bottom. Move your cursor over one of the dots to see the coordinates of the village in the game. Because the map shows all possible villages, you'll want to make a note of several in case a few didn't get generated correctly.
 Once you're playing, you can look up your coordinates to help you find the village. You can also use the teleport command to move directly to them without having to explore.


On PC, press F3 to find your coordinates. If you're playing Minecraft PE, you'll need to use a third-party tool to find your coordinates. On the console versions, you can see your coordinates when you use a map. See Find Your Coordinates in Minecraft for more details.
To teleport to a specific location, type /tp name X Y Z when cheats are enabled. For Minecraft PE you'll need to use an inventory editor app to teleport. In the console versions, you can only teleport to other players. See Teleport in Minecraft for more details.
 The village finder will display all possible villages, but the game will only generate about 2/3 of them. This means you have a good chance of coming across a non-existent village at the location you picked. If this happens, just move on to the next coordinates you noted.


The console editions of Minecraft exhibit odd behavior for villages, and you may come across many that are only a well with no buildings. The village finder tool can also miss villages for the console versions. This can make finding a valid village more difficult in the console versions.

