 A floor grinder is a tool that uses an abrasive surface to remove paint and dirt while polishing a large area. To remove epoxy paint or coatings from a concrete floor, consider renting a floor grinder at your local home improvement store. A bladed diamond grinder attachment or a diamond cup wheel can help scuff up a concrete surface and remove epoxy., Shot blasting can help remove epoxy paint from a concrete floor, and it can help prep the surface if you are planning to repaint it. This method removes the paint by chipping it away using tiny steel balls that rebound off the floor at high pressure. The grooves and surface texture that this leaves behind can be polished afterward.Home restoration professionals and industrial flooring companies offer these services. You can also rent these devices at home restoration and hardware stores.
 Sand-blasting is another form of abrasive blasting that can help remove epoxy on concrete or hardwood floors.Compressed air or steam shoots a stream of sand particles over a surface at high speeds to remove the surface coating.You can rent portable sand-blasting equipment at your local hardware store, or you can hire a home improvement professional.
 With any blast-removal method, it is important to wear protective earmuffs while working as these machines can produce a lot of noise. In addition, the area must be well-ventilated to prevent any toxic particles or chemicals from entering your lungs as you work., Remove the dust and particles from the surface after blasting by using a wet-dry vacuum.These can be purchased at home improvement stores and range between $30 to $130., After vacuuming, run your finger along the floor. If you lift up white residue, then the vacuum did not clean the surface entirely. Vacuum the surface again or pressure wash the floor to thorough clean the surface.If there is a large amount of white residue, mix ½ cup of trisodium phosphate, or TSP, with two gallons of water. TSP is a cleaning agent that can be purchased at hardware stores.Gently scrub the floor with the mixture, or use a push broom to move the mixture along the surface. Use a pressure washer or hose to rinse the surface.