 If the spider is non-venomous, there are a number of ways to get it out of your home. If the spider in your house is already close to a window or door, you can find ways to encourage the spider out. You will first want to open the door or window to show the spider the way out of the house. Try to step around the spider and open the door or window slowly. If you scare the spider, it may run and hide somewhere, and you won’t be able to get it outside as easily.;
, Find an object like a notebook, folder, or book that you can move around the spider if it tries to go in a direction that’s not the open door or window. Anything that is tall and flat will work., Take the notebook or folder and gently give the spider a nudge toward the door. The spider will be scared and start moving. If the spider veers away from the door, take the notebook and put it next to the spider to create a wall so that the spider won’t be able to run in that direction anymore. Keep doing this until the spider starts running in the right direction., The spider may hesitate on the threshold as it is running toward the door. If the spider lingers on the threshold, brush it out using your hand or the notebook or folder. You also could flick it with your finger.
 When you are using the folder to guide the spider out of the door, the spider may start crawling on the folder instead of running. If the spider crawls onto the folder, toss the folder out the door, so that both the spider and the folder are outside. The spider will eventually crawl off the folder, and you can go and retrieve the folder later.


You may not feel comfortable throwing the folder out of the door or window, especially if you live in a communal space like an apartment complex. If the spider crawls on the folder, instead of throwing it you can go outside with the folder and either brush the spider off with your hand, or wipe the folder on a bush or the windowsill until the spider falls off.
 Now that the spider’s gone, you don’t want it to come back! Make sure that you close the door or window so the spider or other bugs can’t come in.

