 If you think you may have a nightmare disorder, you should make an appointment with your doctor. Your primary care physician may refer you to a psychologist or mental health professional because anxiety often accompanies nightmare disorder., Another way to diagnose nightmare disorder is to see a sleep physician. Unlike a general physician or mental health specialist, a doctor who specializes in sleep disorders will be trained to specifically diagnose and recognize different sleep problems, including nightmare disorder.A sleep physician will do a thorough exam to make sure you don’t have any other sleep disorder that may be causing nightmares or that may be confused with nightmare disorder.
Make sure to see a board-certified sleep physician.
 When you visit your doctor, you will need to talk about your nightmares. You should be a specific as possible. This includes any details about the nightmares, such as scenes you remember, topics of the nightmares, dialogue from them, or any images.You should also tell your doctor how often the nightmares happen, along with when you first started having the nightmares.
 During the diagnostic process, your doctor will ask you for a complete medical history. This medical history will help your doctor rule out any other conditions or decide if the nightmares are a symptom or result of other underlying issues. You should make sure to tell your doctor about any other sleep disorders you have and any family history of sleep disorders.You should tell your doctor which medications you take. You should also share any experience with recreational drug use.
 Your doctor or sleep specialist may ask you to keep a sleep diary to help diagnose nightmare disorder. Usually, you will be asked to keep a diary for two weeks. This helps your doctor analyze your sleep patterns and diagnose any disorder.A sleep diary can help your doctor look at stressors or things that may be causing anxiety. It can also give your doctor important information that can help diagnose your condition.
 Nightmare disorders have varying severities. You may have a mild or severe disorder. A mild nightmare disorder occurs when you only have one nightmare a week. A moderate nightmare disorder occurs when you have nightmares multiple times a week. A severe case occurs when you have nightmares every night.The duration of the nightmares and disorder will also be diagnosed. An acute disorder is when you’ve had nightmares for a month or less. Subacute means you’ve had nightmares between one to six months. Persistent disorder means you’ve been having nightmares for over six months.
 Your doctor will make sure that you have nightmare disorder and not another sleep disorder. Nightmare disorder interferes with your daily life by disrupting your sleep and causing anxiety.Nightmare disorder should not be confused with sleep terrors, where a person moves around, screams, talks, or gets violent due to the nightmare.
Your doctor will also make sure you don’t have REM sleep behavior disorder, where you physically act out your dreams.

