 Clinical Geneticists are MD physicians who are trained in diagnosing and educating families in genetic conditions. They have spent 4 years in college, 4 years in medical school, at least 1 year doing a general residency in a field like Internal Medicine or Pediatrics, and another 2 years doing a fellowship in Medical Genetics.. Genetic Counselors are trained individuals who help families cope with genetic disorders. They have completed 4 years of college and at least 2 years of masters degree in genetic counseling.
 Genetic counselors are not medical doctors; rather, they hold Master of Science degrees in genetic counseling.Their services are meant to supplement – not take the place of – the advice of your obstetrician or primary care physician. They offer information and support, not direct medical care.


If you do see a genetic counselor and he or she identifies specific potential problems, you will likely be referred to a medical geneticist, a medical doctor with advanced training in genetics.This person will be qualified to offer medical care.
 In general, genetic counselors will help you assess your risk of genetic disorders, weigh the pros and cons of genetic testing, and understand the results of those tests, if you take them. They will also help gather information about your family history of disease. Using whatever information they can gather, they will explain and help you evaluate all of your reproductive options. They will also offer support as you navigate these options.


Genetic counselors will frequently be unable to tell you for certain whether your child will have a genetic disorder or birth defect. They are often able only to give you a better sense of the probability.
Genetic counselors will not tell you which reproductive options you should choose. They will not say, for example, that you should not start a family (or that you should), and they will not tell you to have an abortion (or advise against one). They will simply make sure you have as much information as possible so that you can make those decisions yourself.

