 Real skaters are going to talk about frontside and backside tricks. They are going to use basic skateboard terms like “pop” and “kickflip.” Listen for one of the most basic terms of all – ollie. An ollie is the backbone of every single trick that a skater does and the word comes up in skateboard conversations constantly.


Other basic skateboard terms to listen for: slappy, fakie, kickflip, vert, tweak, stall, shifty, kickturn and mob.You could try asking something like, "So, have you mastered a kickflip on a vert ramp yet?" or "Have you seen Robert do kickflips? He has huge pop."
Also listen to how they refer to the anatomy of their board. You should hear words like deck, nose, trucks, rail, grip tape and wheelbase.
Try asking, "So, do you hold your board by the trucks or deck? Do you think it matters?";
, This is a question any real skater can answer without hesitation, but a poser will probably look confused and/or not have an answer. The terms refer to your natural stance when you stand on a skateboard, and it’s one of the first things you must figure out as a skater.Say, "I strictly ride regular. Do you ride goofyfoot?"
Regular is the most common stance when riding a skateboard – with your left foot forward, towards the nose, and your right foot near the tail.
Goofy is the opposite of regular – your right foot is forward, near the nose, and your left foot is back near the tail.
 Ask them what brand it is, how long they’ve had it and what it looks like. These are simple questions, but a real skater knows their deck intimately and can answer any questions about it easily. Also try asking them if they use a complete (fully assembled) board or if they have any experience custom building skateboards.Ask questions like, "What material is your deck made out of?" and "Did you have to tighten or loosen your trucks when you got your board?" and "What kind of art do you have on your deck?"
Often, seasoned skateboarders will choose to assemble their own boards with custom parts so that it’s absolutely perfect for them.
Even if they’ve never done it, a real skater will be excited to talk about aspects of custom building a board.
 Real skaters are going to have their favorite pro skaters, and they will know more pro names than just Tony Hawk, Bam, and Ryan Sheckler. Style is important in skateboard culture, so a real skater will have definite opinions on at least a few name brands. Even if it’s a negative opinion, it’s still knowledge.


When they tell you which pros and skate brands they like (or dislike), ask them why they feel that way.
A real skater can easily give you details at length about their opinions, likes and dislikes.

