 Prepare a roasting pan by lining it with a large sheet of aluminum foil.


The foil needs to be at least three times as large as the bottom of your roasting pan. You will need enough foil to wrap completely and securely around the brisket, so if necessary, you can test the amount by wrapping it around your brisket before you use it the line the pan.
 Sit the beef brisket directly in the center of the foil lining your roasting pan.


Do not open the seasoning packet yet. This packet will be used a little later in the process.
 Pour enough water into the roasting pan to reach the top edge of the brisket.


You only need enough water to help braise the meat. It does not need to cover the brisket completely.
 Distribute the seasoning packet over the top surface of the brisket and into the surrounding water.


By getting some seasoning packet into the water and on top of the beef brisket itself, you can distribute the flavor more evenly throughout the cut of meat. Otherwise, the majority of the flavor would be concentrated on the top of the brisket alone.
 Tightly wrap the aluminum foil around the brisket, creating a seal so none of the liquid can escape as the corned beef brisket cooks.


By wrapping the brisket, you seal the liquid in and keep that liquid in full contact with the meat. This leads to a more even, more rapid, and more flavorful cooking process.
 After the 3-hour mark, check the brisket every 30 to 40 minutes to check its internal temperature and tenderness.


Do not unwrap the brisket during the cooking process unless you are checking for doneness. Unwrapping the meat can cause some liquid to be lost, which can upset the cooking time and lead to a brisket that is drier than ideal.
You should also watch the brisket to make sure that liquid is not leaking out from the corners of the foil. If liquid does seep out, carefully refold the corners of the foil down using oven mitts to prevent additional liquid loss.
Check the internal temperature of the brisket with a meat thermometer. The temperature should be between 190 and 200 degrees Fahrenheit (88 to 93 degrees Celsius) when safe and tender enough to eat, and the meat should be easy to pull apart.
 Remove the corned beef brisket from the oven and let rest 20 to 30 minutes before carving and serving it.


Slice the brisket across the grain to produce more tender slices of corned beef.
You can also serve the brisket with its cooking juices for a more intense flavor. Skin the fat from the surface of the cooking liquid using a spoon before ladling the liquid over carved slices of meat.
