 Hallucinations are common for someone on acid.Someone who is using LSD may report seeing things that are not there, hearing things that are not producing sound, or smelling things that are not producing any odor. The person may also see things with his or her eyes closed.Watch the person to see if he or she seems to be interacting with things that are not there, such as staring at a wall, talking to him or herself, or grasping at the air.
These hallucinations can be frightening for the user and can become dangerous or deadly if the user is unaware of reality for too long.;
, Blended sensory experiences are common for users of hallucinogens such as LSD. This is when a person’s senses are swapped and the result can be quite scary. This shift in perception is also known as synesthesia, and it can cause a person to “hear” colors or “see” sounds.Pay attention to what the person says to determine if he or she might be having blended sensory experiences. For example, if the person says something like, "That tree sounds beautiful," or "I can see the music," then these are good indications that he or she may be on LSD.
Synesthesia alone is not a sign that someone is using LSD. A small percent of the population experiences synesthesia naturally, so don't get confused and think they are using LSD.
 Sometimes LSD users experience distortions of size, time, depth and speed, believing that an object is much larger than it actually is or that an object is moving much more quickly than it actually is. Someone who is using LSD can also experience an altered sense of time.Try asking the person questions, such as:


How far away is that tree?
How big is that house?
How long have we been sitting here?
What time is it?

, A person going through an LSD trip may experience heightened senses, causing them to see, smell, touch, hear, and taste things more powerfully. This is part of what is considered the psychedelic experience: the ability to see colors more vividly and feel things more deeply.A user will be unable to conceal their intense sensations and these signs should be easy to spot.


Try offering the person something to drink, or play some music, or put on a movie and see if he or she responds in a way that seems normal. If the person seems more impressed than usual or overwhelmed by the sensory experience, then it is possible that the person is using LSD.
 LSD can cause a person to develop insomnia, making it almost impossible for him or her to fall asleep or sleep for long periods of time. If you notice someone barely getting any sleep at all, this may be a sign that the person is a frequent LSD user., LSD can cause a reduction in appetite, making the person’s desire for food nonexistent. Watch out for a complete change in someone’s eating habits to spot this sign of LSD use.For example, if the person goes from eating regular meals to not eating at all, then this is a strong sign that he or she may be using LSD.
 Many times users of LSD are unable to complete simple tasks such as driving or operating machinery. Be aware of these signs as they may indicate that the person has taken acid.Other signs might include having trouble operating the remote control for the television, being confused by simple instructions, or struggling to find the right key to open his or her door.
 When on acid, some people may enter a totally dissociated state, often causing severe panic and fear. Some people experience delusions and can have terrifying thoughts and feelings.Pay attention to the person’s behavior. Some possible indicators that the person might be using LSD may include seeming agitated for no reason, sharing concerns that someone is after him or her, or seeming confused about his or her surroundings.
Someone who is on LSD may also ramble or make bizarre and unusual comments. This incoherent speech is often a sign that the person has used LSD.