 There are apprenticeship programs available for individuals who want to work their way up from entry-level positions to qualified positions quickly. This is a great option if you are hard-working and career-driven, but have no experience working at sea.Check Seafarer's International Union and Workboat Academy for opportunities. You may be able to find other organizations that offer apprenticeship programs as well.
 Once you have the proper credentials, you might want to consider joining one of the many shipping unions in the United States. Your union can help you with job placement, and can also be a great way to network with other people in your industry.You do not need to be a member of a union to get a job on a container ship. If you encounter long waiting lists, you may be better off looking for a non-union job.
 If you decide not to do an apprenticeship or join a union, look for your first job on a container ship by searching through online job boards and classified ads. Apply for positions by submitting a resume that outlines your skills and experience, as well as a cover letter that explains why you would be a good fit for the job.


With a quick online search you will find a variety of job boards that are devoted to maritime positions.Also check major job boards like Monster and CareerBuilder.
You should also visit the websites of all of the shipping companies you can think of. They may have job openings posted on their websites that you did not see on job boards.
 If you are in a busy port city, you might be able to find a job simply by visiting the ports and asking captains if they have any job openings. Have your credentials with you in case one of them says yes.
 Once you have a job on a container ship, you will need to decide if you want to advance in your maritime career. If you enjoy the work and would like increased responsibilities, you will need to gain experience and fulfill the necessary requirements to obtain additional licenses and endorsements to your credentials.The precise requirements for licensing and endorsement will depend on the kind of job you want to hold. Check with the U.S. Coast Guard to find out what examinations and other requirements you will have to fulfill in order to meet your career goals.

