 This is very important, otherwise the sweaters will not felt. Animal fiber includes alpaca, cashmere, and wool.Choose colors and patterns that go well together.
 Begin by cutting the arms off of each sweater. Next, cut along the side seams on the sweater bodies. Finally, cut along the arm seams as well. You should get four, flat pieces from each sweater., Wash the sweaters in a washing machine using hot water and a little bit of detergent. The combination of heat, agitation, and detergent will cause the fibers to felt together.Try to wash like colors with like colors to prevent bleeding and staining.
 Use a hot temperature for this as well. This will help further felt and shrink the fibers. If the sweaters did not felt at all, they likely did not contain enough animal fiber; check the label again., Cut them in different sizes, about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) larger than you want them to be; this will allow for seam allowances. You need to cut enough squares and rectangles to cover the front and back of your pillow.

If you want just the front of your pillow to be patchwork, then cut a larger, solid square for the back.
If you don't have a pillow to use as a base, then make a template that's about 25½ inches (65 centimeters) and 33½ (85 centimeters) square.
 Test your design against your pillow to make sure that you get the shape and dimensions correct; it needs to be about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) bigger on all sides. If anything sticks out, trim it off., Make sure that you are sewing them right-sides together, and that you are using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowances. Work one section at a time, removing the pins as you sew. Do not sew the front and back panels together just yet, however.Iron the panels, if needed using the wool setting on your iron.
 Pin the panels together with the right sides facing in. Sew around them using a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) seam allowance. Back stitch at the start and end of your sewing.If you want to stuff the pillow with fiberfill, leave a small gap in one of the sides.
If you want to use a pillow, do not sew one side. Instead, sew a zipper to that side.
 Reach through the gap you left in the side of the pillow and grab one of the corners. Pull the pillowcase out through the gap. If you need to, use a pen, pencil, or knitting needle to push out the corners., If you used polyester fiberfill, sew the gap shut using a yarn needle and a piece of yarn. If you used a pillow, then zip the pillow shut.