 Fill a bowl that’s large enough to contain your jade piece with warm water. Add two or three drops of mild, alcohol-free dish or hand soap, then mix until the soap has dissolved completely.Warm, soapy water is your safest option. Avoid alcohol and harsh chemicals.;
, Place your jade piece in the solution-filled bowl and let it soak for up to one minute. Scrub the piece gently with a soft brush or microfiber towel. Use small, circular motions and avoid pressing too hard., If you’re cleaning a ring or other piece of jewelry with tight spaces, you can use a toothbrush to clean out nooks and crannies. Dip the brush in the cleaning solution and gently scrub around the setting.Be sure to use a soft-bristled brush or you could risk scratching the stone.
 After you’ve washed your jade, rinse off any soap residue under warm, running water. Try to keep the running water around the same temperature as the cleaning solution.When cleaning jewelry at home, you should avoid sudden radical temperature changes.
 Dilute a small amount of ammonia in your solution if you need to remove more stubborn grime. Combine eight parts water, one part soap, and one part ammonia, then mix the solution until it’s fully dissolved.If you’re cleaning a piece of jewelry, make sure ammonia won’t harm its other gems or metals.
 Use your soft brush or microfiber towel to gently scrub your jade piece. Remember to use small, circular motions. Rinse your piece under warm water after scrubbing if you’ve successfully removed the grime., Sometimes debris or mineral deposits can accumulate in small crevices. If you have trouble flushing them out with a cleaning solution or toothbrush, try to carefully pick them out using a toothpick. Go slowly and take care not to damage any settings or prongs., After rinsing, shake or blow off any excess water. Use a dry microfiber towel or other soft, lint-free cloth to dry the piece completely. Avoid harsh cloths or rags, and don’t press too hard as you hand dry your piece., Drying a ring or necklace in maple wood chips will prevent liquid stains on its metal setting. Cover the piece in a bed of dry maple wood chips, then blow them away once the piece is completely dry.This drying method works best for jewelry pieces with large stones.
 Once your piece is completely dry, you can polish it with a store-bought jewelry polishing cloth.Alternatively, you can dab a bit of canola oil on a lint-free cloth and rub the stone with it. Let the oil sit for five to ten minutes, then wipe it off with a clean, dry cloth.