 Before using an electric steamer, it's important that you read the instructions that came with your steamer. Taking proper safety precautions can help prevent injuries and fires/burns.Never submerge the cord, plug, or base unit in water.
Only use electric steamers indoors and on a stable surface, like a kitchen counter.
Only use the steamer while water is in the reservoir. Running a steamer dry may overheat the steamer, which can damage the equipment and may cause a fire.
Use caution when opening the steamer. There will be hot condensation on the inside of the lid, and opening it too quickly could result in accidental scalding.
Unplug the steamer when you're not using it.
Let the steamer cool off before adding, removing, or cleaning any part of it, and make sure it's turned off and unplugged before attempting to do so.;
, Before you can steam vegetables in your electric steamer, you'll need to assemble all the pieces.Different steamers may be slightly different, but in general, you should have the following basic components:


the base unit (which should contain the water reservoir)
a diffuser plate
one to three baskets, which you'll arrange your vegetables on when ready
a lid with vents and a handle

, Once the rest of the steamer is assembled, you're ready to add fresh, cool water to the reservoir. Your steamer may come with specific instructions on how much water to use, and you should follow those instructions. If your steamer does not have instructions, you can simply fill the reservoir up to the maximum fill line (but never exceed that line).Once you've added water to the reservoir, make sure the diffuser tray (if your steamer included one) is properly in place.
 Make sure your vegetables are uniformly cut into equal-sized pieces. Arrange them loosely in the baskets so that the steam can travel between and around each piece of vegetable. Try to limit your basket(s) to a single layer of vegetables. When your veggies are in the basket(s), cover up your steamer with the lid.
 Once everything is ready, plug in your steamer. Then set the timer (depending on your steamer, as well as the type and quantity of vegetables you're steaming) and press the "cook" button or its equivalent. Follow the instructions that came with your steamer for proper cook times and preparation tips. When the timer goes off, you'll have freshly-steamed vegetables that are ready to be served.