 You may use any melon with a firm, hard rind, and no noticeable bruising or soft spots. Watermelons are often used for this purpose due to their size, but any large, hard melon will work.;
, Use the sharpest knife you have, for best control over the carving. Begin by using the knife to cut a small section on one end of the melon, so it will remain in one position. You may stand the melon vertically, or lie an elongated melons on its side for a longer bowl.


A stainless steel or bronze knife may work best, as it is unlikely to discolor the fruit., Use a fine permanent market to trace a pattern onto the melon, such as the silhouette of a swan head and wings. You may draw a pattern freehand, but many people prefer to cut out a paper stencil and trace it. You may find these stencils in craft store booklets or online.


While designs specifically for melon carving may be difficult to find online, many sites are devoted to pumpkin carving templates, which may be easily adapted to a melon.
Position your pattern so it won't cover most of the top surface of the melon, which is typically removed to create a bowl shape.
 Insert the knife into the rind anywhere on the permanent marker lines, and methodically cut through the entire pattern. Depending on the hardness of the rind and the sharpness of the knife, you may slice along the pattern, or use a back-and-forth sawing motion. Be sure to cut through the entire rind, into the flesh underneath.
 Once the whole pattern is cut out, the portions of the rind that won't stay on the melon can be removed. If necessary, make an additional round or oblong cut around the top of the melon, in order to open it up into a bowl shape. Carefully pull these portions off the melon, wiggling or cutting if necessary to detach it from the melon flesh inside.
 Use a melon baller to remove all the flesh from the melon. Scrape the inside surfaces so only the rind remains, or a thin layer of flesh if you enjoy the variation in color.
 Fruit salad is probably the most common filling for a melon bowl. Serve this on-theme dessert immediately, or store it in the refrigerator. Alternatively, use the bowl to hold snacks, a trifle, or any other filling. Melon bowls are rarely used to hold non-food items, since the rind will eventually decay.


Optionally, drain the liquid from the fruit salad before serving by puncturing a couple holes at the base of the bowl and keeping it in a pan.If the contents are falling through large holes at the lower surface of the melon, consider lining the bowl with parchment paper or another material.
 If the top portion of the melon you removed came off intact, you may carve a pattern in it. This can be placed on top of the melon bowl for an attractive lid. This is entirely optional, and most commonly used for abstract designs. If your pattern is more realist, such as the popular swan silhouette, a lid may detract from the design or make it harder to distinguish.

