 Regardless of whether your hummus is homemade or from a store, you’ll need to freeze it in an airtight container.Use a spoon or a spatula to scrape all of the hummus from the bowl or package that it’s in. Press the hummus down into the corners of the airtight container to maximize the amount of hummus you can store.


Most types of Tupperware will seal airtight, as will generic brands of plastic food-storage containers.
Avoid freezing your hummus in a plastic bag (i.e. a Ziploc), as the hummus could be crushed or jostled. Also avoid freezing hummus in a glass jar, as this could shatter if dropped from the freezer.;
, Don’t completely pack the hummus to the top of the container you’ll be freezing it in. Due to the water content in the hummus, as it freezes, the dip will expand.If you were to fill each container completely, the freezing hummus would lift the lid off.


For example, if you have enough hummus to completely fill two large plastic Tupperware, instead use three of the containers and leave an inch of space at the top of each., A thin coating of olive oil over the top of your hummus will help the dip retain its moisture and not dry out during freezing. You can pour the olive oil straight from the bottle. Alternately, if you’re concerned about pouring too much, you could pour from a measuring cup. You don’t need to measure the olive oil though, just pour enough for a thin layer of oil to form over the hummus.If your hummus were to dry out in the freezer, its consistency would become grainy and the hummus would taste badly freezer-burned.
 In order to avoid wasting any hummus, freeze the hummus in small batches. This will also make it easier to defrost the hummus when you need it; you’ll be able to defrost an appropriate amount, rather than thawing a large container of hummus all at once.To freeze in small batches, opt for smaller plastic containers to store the hummus in.
 Whatever containers you end up freezing your hummus in, you’ll need to use a permanent marker to label the containers. Be sure to write the word “hummus” and also the date, month, and year on which you placed it in the freezer. This will help you keep track of how long the hummus has been frozen, and how much longer you can leave it in the freezer.If you have stored your hummus in a plastic container, but would like to be able to reuse the container once the hummus has been eaten, you can place a strip of scotch tape along the top of the container. Write the label on the tape, and once you’ve eaten the hummus, tear the tape off and discard it.
 If you leave the hummus in the freezer for over a month, it may become freezer-burned or lose the majority of its taste. Plan to eat all of the frozen hummus before 6 months run out. Otherwise, you’ll likely end up throwing some away.If you doubt that you’ll be able to eat all of your frozen hummus within 6–8 months, ask friends and family members if they’d like any. Also plan better in the future by not buying or making more hummus than you can eat in 6 months.
 This will let the hummus thaw slowly and evenly, rather than the quick, uneven defrosting that would result from the use of a microwave. Giving your hummus time to thaw in the fridge will allow it soften slowly and to mostly retain its natural flavor and texture.Once the hummus has fully thawed, you’ll need to stir it with a spoon in case the texture isn’t even throughout. There may also still be some olive oil on top of the hummus.
 Due to the water in the hummus expanding when it freezes, you may notice that your hummus is slightly grainier after having been frozen. The taste and overall consistency of the hummus can also change as a result of having been frozen.The longer that you leave your hummus in the freezer, the more pronounced the changes in consistency and taste will become.
 If you find that the new taste of the thawed hummus is slightly disagreeable (or just not as pleasant as the taste prior to freezing), you can add new flavors with spices. Try sprinkling some paprika, cumin, or black pepper over the top of your hummus to add fresh flavor.You can also finely chop an onion, a bell pepper, or even a clove of garlic and add these flavorful ingredients to your thawed hummus.
All of these spices will be available at your local grocery store. You can also check a health-food store or a shop that specializes in spices for more variety, and for fresher spices.

