 You will usually take 9 hours of classes a semester for 2-3 years in order to complete your coursework requirements. These courses are generally divided between colloquiums (emphasizing reading and analysis) and seminars (emphasizing the creation of a full-length research product).Your progress through coursework will be evaluated on a semester or yearly basis by the Director of Graduate Studies along with your advisor and other faculty members. This is standard practice.Be aware that a “A” or “A-“ are generally the only acceptable grades in doctoral history programs. A “B+” in a class is generally a warning sign.Some schools work as consortiums, meaning that you may be able to take classes at other universities and count them toward your doctoral coursework. This often allows for a wider range of topics and more flexible scheduling., Drop by their office frequently or make formal appointments. Attend any events that they are involved in. Respond to all email or phone requests promptly and professionally. Put some serious effort into forming this relationship as it will become enormously important to you both professionally and personally.


Your advisor’s research interests will often match your own, so they can guide you through the field. They will also oversee your qualifying exams, your dissertation research, and your defense. They are generally a full-time faculty member who has the time to devote to mentoring students.You can come into your program with a mentor in mind. However, you usually wait a few months into coursework before formally approaching the professor and asking them to serve in this capacity.
 These are also called your qualifying exams. They take place following the conclusion of your coursework and are meant to test your knowledge of your primary and secondary fields of history. They are usually a combination of written and oral exams with the writing portion usually coming first. You must pass these exams to move on to your dissertation research.This is also usually the point where you have to pass a foreign language test as well. This is especially important if your subject area requires a language outside of your primary one.
From when you conclude your exams you usually have six years in which to complete the program and graduate with your Ph.D.
 As soon as you finish your comps, you can begin devoting the majority of your time to researching. Start by creating a dissertation proposal that contains a basic outline of your research plan. Once your proposal is approved you are released to work on your project with less direct faculty oversight, in most cases.


Now you are called “ABD” or “All But Dissertation.” You’ve completed all requirements except for the dissertation.
This is the period where you will travel, if necessary, and visit archives. You will possibly spend some time away from the department while still registering for research hours.
 Once your research is finished, or during the process itself, you’ll begin the writing stage. Your advisor may request your drafts as you finish them or may just want to see the final project in rough form. You will also want to share your writing progress with your now-established dissertation committee., When you’ve finished the final draft you will meet with your committee in a public event setting to discuss and defend your project. Your defense can last hours depending on the whims of the committee members. This is a daunting time, but also an opportunity to share your enthusiasm and pride for your work.


You will generally either be approved, approved pending revisions, approved with a delay, or rejected. Each program comes up with versions of this ranking. If revisions are required, you make them and then submit the properly formatted copy to the university system as directed. If your dissertation is rejected, this is generally a final decision and will result in your removal from the program.
 Getting a Ph.D. in history isn’t just about passing the classes and writing the book. You also need to be a solid, reliable departmental citizen. If your department or university puts on a lecture, go to it. If they meet for a volunteer activity, join in and participate.Aside from contributing to your overall well-being, from a pragmatic standpoint attending these events puts you in an even better position to receive positive reference letters during the pending job search., Be prepared to turn in tons of paperwork during you time as a graduate student. It is part of the professional journey. Pay attention to all departmental calendars and timelines. Ask your department secretary, advisor, or other faculty members for assistance if you need it.
 This is quite an accomplishment and should be celebrated with fanfare. You are now considered an expert in the study of history.

