 Depending on your interests, you may be able to have a lot of fun keeping up with the news on the internet. Ultimately, thanks to the variety of websites and perspectives on the internet, you’ll certainly be able to find a news outlet that peak your interest and fit your worldview.


Keep up with politics. Visit websites like the Hill, Politico, Mother Jones, the Daily Caller, the National Review, and more.
Read about sports. You might find that you become addicted to espn.com or other sports websites.
Keep up to date with science and environmental news at websites like National Geographic, Space.com, and more., Stumbleupon is a website that allows you to choose topics that interest you. The website then “randomly” directs you to other websites that fit the criteria you’ve selected.


Sign up with your Facebook or Google account.
Select at least 10 categories that interest you. For example, categories include: science, movies, celebrities, technology, and more.
Hit “Stumble.”
Read the result. If you don’t like it, continue to click “stumble” until you find something that does interest you., Wiki sites are websites that rely on collaboration among users to generate content. There are many wiki websites on the internet today. While many of these focus on providing broad-range information, some of them are very specific. Visit:


Wikipedia. Wikipedia is a free encyclopedia with millions of articles. Feel free to explore the “featured article” section or the “on this day” section of the website. You’ll likely find interesting things and may spend countless hours reading about new things.
wikiHow, which focuses on providing step-by-step information about how to teach people to do just about anything. wikiHow also has a featured article section in which you’ll be able to view articles that might interest you.
Various wikis on specific subjects such as movies, video games, and more. For instance, if you’re a Game of Thrones fan, visit the Game of Thrones wiki at: http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Game_of_Thrones_Wiki