 Spray an indoor insecticide on your carpet. Wait until it dries before vacuuming. Vacuum every few days for up to two weeks. The insecticides kill adult fleas, but not the eggs—vacuuming will help manage the infestation. Wait a few weeks before applying another treatment.If you are using an insecticide, do not allow your pet into the treated area before it is safe to do so. Insecticides are poisonous, and you could end up with some very tragic results. Refer to the manufacturer's instructions on the label. Some insecticides require you to wait several hours before entering the treated area., Focus on areas that your pet likes to spend time in, as well as near doorways, around baseboards, and under furniture. Spread the borax or salt over the carpet, making sure that it settles into the fibers. If you are using borax, let the powder sit in the carpet overnight before vacuuming it up the next day. If you are using salt, wait for 24 to 48 hours before vacuuming. Do not let your pet enter the treated area until you have vacuumed the salt or borax up.If you are using borax, make sure that your pets and children do not wander into the treated areas.
If you are using salt, make sure that it is very fine-grained.
 Pour one part vinegar and one part water into a spray bottle. Close the spray bottle and shake it to mix everything up. You can use white vinegar or apple cider vinegar. Spray your carpet with the vinegar-water. Be sure to focus on areas that your pet likes to spend time in, as well as around baseboards, near entryways, and under furniture.Fleas dislike the smell of vinegar. The vinegar may also aid in killing the adult fleas.
 Cut one to three lemons into thin slices. Pour 2 cups (473.176 milliliters) of water into a pot. Place the lemon slices into the pot and boil them. Once the water begins to boil, take the pot off the burner and turn the stove off. Let the lemons sit in the water overnight. The next day, take the lemon slices out and pour the lemon water into a spray bottle. Spray your carpet with this solution, focusing on areas that your pet likes to spend time in, as well as around baseboards, near entryways, and under furniture.


Fleas dislike the smell of vinegar, so you may see some results by spraying your carpet with this solution., If you do not know where the fleas are in your carpet, you can corral them into a single area by using a flea trap. Fill a small bowl with water. Add a few drops of dish soap and stir to combine everything. Place the bowl on the floor, close to a wall, and put a lamp next to it. At night, turn the lamp on. The fleas will hop towards the light and land in the water. The soap in the water will prevent them from hopping back out. The next morning, turn the lamp off and pour the water out.If you have pets, be sure to block the room off. If this is not possible, try to put something over the bowl so that the pet cannot get to it—but leave enough space for the fleas.
You can also try using a bright nightlight instead.
 These companies will treat your house for fleas and commit to taking care of the problem.

