 Sometimes, we are more likely to believe something if someone else tells it to us. If you have a friend or family member that you trust to talk with about your anxiety, try asking them to tell you one or two things that they really like about you.When they tell you, resist the urge to disregard their compliment. For example, if your friend says, “Well, one thing that I really admire about you is your creativity,” don’t respond with, “Oh, I’m not more creative than anyone else” or something like that. You can simply say, “Thank you” and try to remember it. Write it down in your strength journal if you are keeping one.;
, Often, when we try to think about things we do well, we tend to focus on qualities related to we tend to focus on personality traits. However, there are a lot of other ways to think about strengths. Spend time thinking about the things at work or school that you do well. Don’t diminish your strengths just because it doesn’t seem like it’s that important.For example, at work, maybe everyone comes to you when the copy machine is broken because you always know how to fix it, or maybe your boss is always impressed by how well-prepared you are.
At school, maybe you do really well at math or at writing. Maybe you are a really good dodgeball player.
 Often, the things that we enjoy doing are things that we are good at. Thus, considering activities you enjoy can help you identify your strengths. This doesn’t necessarily mean that you need to do anything specific with that information unless you want to. It is simply one way to help identify your strengths.For example, let's say that you love playing chess. This could mean that you are good at thinking logically and seeing the big picture. This is a great strength that not everybody has.
 If you are caught in a pattern of thinking of all of the negative things about yourself, the first thing you’ll want to do is spend some time brainstorming. This doesn’t have to be a formal exercise. Just find a few free minutes and write down as many positive things about yourself as you can. Don’t think too hard about it, and resist the temptation to fall into a negative thinking pattern. This may feel silly at first, but it is a good way to practice getting into the habit of thinking about your strengths.For example, you might say to yourself, “I am a really friendly and outgoing person,” but the negative voice in your head might try to diminish that by saying, “Yeah, and that means you are constantly talking too much and getting on everyone’s nerves.” Ignore that voice and just focus on the good part. With practice, you’ll train the negativity to keep quiet.
It is good to do this when you are just getting started with trying out this method, but it is also good to do it as often as you can, especially if you are feeling down. For example, jot down positive things (or just list them in your head) while you are riding the bus, or sitting in traffic. The more you can get into a habit of focusing on strengths, the easier it will be.
 One great way to get into the habit of focusing on strengths is to keep a journal where you jot down anything that comes to mind about your strengths. Carry it around with you in your bag everywhere you go. When you think of something positive, write it down. If you are having a hard time shutting that critical voice down, pull out your journal and have a look at all your strengths.You can write whatever you like in your strengths journal, as long as it is positive. For example, you can write down quotations that make you happy, or you can write down social encounters that you really did well in. You can also write down any compliments you might receive.
For example, you could write, “Sarah at work told me today that she was really impressed with my ability to explain complicated ideas in a simple way so that everyone can understand.” It’s easy to focus on the bad things we think and forget about anything positive we hear about ourselves, so writing it down is a good way to remind yourself.
It may seem silly at first, but remember that the mind is a powerful tool. It is your mind that has the power to make you feel worthless, but your mind also has the power to make you feel more positive.
 When you’re first starting out with this process, you may find that you aren’t able to catch your negative thoughts very easily. However, with time and practice, you’ll become more aware of them. Try to remember that you have likely had years of practice coming up with negative thoughts, so you’ll need to make a concentrated effort to change that way of thinking.Sometimes, you may not recognize your negative thoughts for what they are, and that is OK. The best you can do is practice becoming aware of a critical thought as often as possible. When you do notice that critical thought, remind yourself that there is no truth in that statement, and move on with your day.
 Remember that trying to focus on your strengths means that you are essentially trying to change the way your brain works. This is very difficult to do, and it won’t happen overnight. You might do really well for a day or two, and then have another day where you just can’t ignore the negative voice in your head. On these days, just do the best you can, and remember that it is a process.Don’t beat yourself up every time you think something negative. This is counterproductive and only serves to reinforce your negative thought pattern. Instead, try simply being aware that a negative thought popped into your head. Then, try to counter that negative thought by thinking about two or three positive thoughts.
For example, a negative thought about your last social interaction might come into your head. You might think, “Oh, I bet what I said made me sound really arrogant. She’s probably thinking that I’m so full of myself.” When you become aware of that negative thought, try thinking about a few good things. For example, “I am good at speaking eloquently” and “Remember when Sarah complimented my speaking abilities?”

, Social anxiety can be difficult to deal with because it works in a cycle that doesn’t stop whether you are aware that your thoughts are irrational or not. You get caught up in thinking that you didn’t say the right thing or act the right way, and you may often over-estimate the degree of danger in a social situation. You might withdraw from the situation and feel even more isolated. This creates a cycle where your thoughts affect your behavior, and the resultant behavior only seems to confirm your initial thought.Negative thoughts might pop into your head seemingly out of nowhere. Unfortunately, this is just how your brain has “learned” to respond. Continually practicing positive thinking and focusing on your strengths can retrain your brain in order to get outside of this way of thinking.
Ask yourself what might happen in a given social situation. For example, you might think, "Others won't like me." Write down these thoughts as they occur to you.
Then, ask yourself whether your thoughts are based on facts or on guesses. You could ask yourself: "Am I 100% sure that others won't like me? What is the evidence that supports my thought?"

, One of the worst things about this disorder is the cycle of negative thinking that it creates. You may feel that you have no one to blame but yourself, but blaming yourself is not healthy. You may even realize that your thinking is completely irrational, but you still have the constant worry and critical thoughts anyway.Accept that it's okay to feel anxious and imperfect - it's part of human nature. Don't fight yourself for having a condition that amplifies these aspects. Instead, just focus on positive and realistic thinking., In some cases, a person’s social anxiety might be so severe that it keeps them from living the life they would like to live. If you feel that this fits your situation, and you haven’t been able to manage the disorder on your own, consider getting help from a trained mental health professional. They can help you learn to change your thought process and cope with your anxiety so that it doesn’t impact your life so greatly.Cognitive-behavioral therapy is one type of therapy shown to help those suffering from social anxiety disorder change their thought patterns.