 As a student, you enjoy the same First Amendment rights as everyone else in the United States. That means that you can speak, print, draw, sing and generally express your opinions in a school setting. However, this does not mean that you can say anything. You cannot threaten someone or defame them - say things that are untrue. You also do not have a right to express obscenities. School officials can also censor your right to expression if they can demonstrate a reasonable educational justification for doing so.First Amendment guarantees only apply to public schools. Private schools do not fall under this jurisdiction, unless state law or school policy state otherwise.
Depending on what state you live in, your right to free expression in school may be different. Check with your local ACLU about your First Amendment rights.
Some states, such as Arkansas, California, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Oregon and Massachusetts, have granted students strengthened students’ rights against censorship.;
, Although the First Amendment would appear to protect your right to wear whatever you wanted, most schools have the legal right to enforce dress codes. Dress codes can vary from school to school and state to state. However, your school must make its dress code public and available for everyone to read.This also applies to your hair and makeup.
Be sure to check your school’s dress code to make sure that you meet the standards. If you wear clothing the school considers inappropriate, you may be sent home.
These rules do not apply to private schools unless stated otherwise by a state legislature or school charter.
 Under the First Amendment, you also have a right to express your religious beliefs, or lack thereof. The First Amendment also prohibits public schools from endorsing, promoting or requiring participation in a specific religion or religious activity. In fact, religious activities can only occur at public schools if they are led by students. As a student, you can express your beliefs without a fear of punishment.Private schools have the right to promote a certain religious viewpoint unless stated otherwise by a state legislature or school charter.
 If a teacher or other school official has “reasonable suspicion” that you are violating the law or a school code, they can search you and your belongings. Unfortunately, there is no good definition of what constitutes “reasonable suspicion” and most cases are left to the discretion of school officials. It is more difficult for police officers, who need “probable cause” and a search warrant to perform a search.Without any proof that you’ve done something wrong, you do not have to consent to a search by the police or school officials. However, if you agree to be searched, any subsequent searches are considered legal.
You cannot be strip searched by school officials.

