 Oil pulling is an Ayurvedic remedy in which you swish oil in your mouth to remove harmful germs and bacteria from your mouth. Use organic, cold-pressed oil like vegetable, sesame, olive, or coconut oil. Take a spoonful of oil and swish it in your mouth for one minute to gain the benefits. If you can, try to swish the oil for 15-20 minutes. To make sure the oil absorbs and detoxifies as much bacteria as possible, aim to do this with an empty stomach. Spit it out and rinse your mouth with lukewarm water.These contain lipids that absorb toxins and pull them out of saliva. They also stop cavity-causing bacteria from sticking to the walls of your teeth. This is a natural moisturizer that also helps prevent dehydration in the throat and mouth, which can ease the symptoms of a cough.;
, Elderberry is commonly used to treat coughs, sore throats and respiratory illnesses because of its anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties. It also stimulates the immune system. You can buy Elderberry extract as a syrup, lozenge or dietary capsule supplement at most nutrition or drug stores. Or, you can steep 3-5 grams of dried elder flower in a cup of boiling water for ten to fifteen minutes. Then, drink it as a herbal tea, up to 3 times per day. Consider the following precautions:It's better to take elderberry every 2 to 3 days, since prolonged use isn't recommended.
Elderberry is a blood thinner and may not be recommended for people with low blood pressure.
Do not use unripe or uncooked elderberries since they may be poisonous.
Speak to your doctor before taking elderberry, since it may have some side effects for pregnant women, people with autoimmune disease, and people taking diabetic medication, laxatives, chemotherapy drugs, or immunosuppressants.
 You can buy peppermint in the form of lozenges, extracts used in dietary supplements, herbal teas, essential oils and a fresh herb. Don't forget that you can use the fresh leaves as a garnish or flavouring in everyday meals. You can also make and drink your own teak up to 3 times a day by steeping one tea bag (approx. 3-4 grams or 1 ½ teaspoon) of dried peppermint leaves in a cup of hot water (80–85°C).Peppermint contains menthol, which can help soothe sore throats and dry coughs. It's also a decongestant that can thin mucus and help break up phlegm.
Don't use peppermint or menthol with infants. Also, don't take peppermint oil orally. Instead, it's usually used in aromatherapy or as a rub.
 You can buy eucalyptus as lozenges, cough syrups, and vapor baths at most drug stores to help soothe sore throats. Try applying topical eucalyptus ointments to your nose and chest to relieve congestion and loosen phlegm. It's generally safe for adults to apply eucalyptus to the skin. Or, you make eucalyptus tea to drink up to 3 times a day by steeping 2–4 grams of dried eucalyptus leaves in a cup of hot water for 10–15 minutes.Eucalyptus’ active ingredient is a compound called cineole, which works as an expectorant to fight respiratory infections and alleviate coughs. Eucalyptus also has antioxidant properties that protect against free radicals, molecules that can damage and infect cells.
You can also gargle eucalyptus water after meals to reduce bad breath and sooth your throat. Do this up to 3 or 4 times a day by steeping 2–4 grams of dried leaves in one cup warm water (40°C) for 5-10 minutes.
 You've probably heard that tea sweetened with honey can help a sore throat, but eating pure honey can actually stop a cough. Eat 2 teaspoons of honey during a bad coughing spell or right before bed. Studies have shown that consuming honey before sleeping can actually improve sleep quality.Never give honey to a child under 2 years old. It can cause botulism, a type of food poisoning that is potentially life-threatening in small children., Ginger can help you produce mucous and relieve coughing. You can steep fresh ginger in hot water to make a tea, chew on crystallized ginger, or add a few teaspoons of ground powdered ginger to 1 tablespoon of honey and eat it.Ginger can also calm any upset stomach or nausea you may also have. Repeat any of these treatments several times throughout the day to prevent coughing fits and ease symptoms.
 Thyme is used to treat bronchitis and coughing. It's also gentle enough that it's safe for small children to use.For a great combination of remedies, make a honey thyme tea. Steep 3 springs of fresh thyme and 2 tablespoons of honey in 1 cup of hot water for 10 minutes. Strain and drink to stop coughing.Never eat or drink thyme oil, which is toxic when taken orally.If you are currently taking blood-thinners, talk to your doctor before taking thyme, since it could increase the risk of bleeding., While many home remedies have been backed up by studies showing their effectiveness at treating coughs, many still lack scientific support. You might give them a try, but understand that some may be more effective for you than others. These include traditional remedies that are commonly known for their helpful healing properties:Marshmallow (Althea officinalis)
Slippery elm (Ulmus fulva)
Licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra)
Mullein (Verbascum densiflorum)
Sundew (Drosera spp.)
Stinging nettle (Urtica dioica)

