 The first stage is when the cervix readies for the delivery of your child. The second stage is the actual delivery of the child and the third stage is when the placenta is delivered.

First stage: Early labor starts at 0 centimeters (0.0 in) dilation and ends at 3 centimeters (1.2 in). This is when the cervix softens and thins out. This is also called effacing or effacement. Contractions will probably be mild and last 30 seconds. Active labor, also known as the transition phase, is when the cervix continues to open in preparation for delivering the baby during the second stage of labor. The cervix dilation is at 10 centimeters (3.9 in) at the end of active labor. During active labor the contractions may last up to 60 seconds. Active labor usually lasts 8 hours for first time mothers.



 


Second stage: The cervix is fully effaced and the baby is delivered. During this stage the woman will feel the need to push. The baby will move downward usually making a few steps forward and then moving back during this process. Eventually a small portion of the baby's scalp will be seen. During the final stage the woman may feel extreme pressure and an urge to bear down. The baby's head will crown and leading to the rest of the delivery.






Third stage: The placenta is delivered during this stage. Any suturing will be done after the placenta is delivered.





;
, An Apgar score is usually done at 1 minute and 5 minutes after birth. The Apgar score rates the newborn's status based on skin color, pulse, reflexes, muscle tone and breathing.
,, The class will teach you breathing exercises and other techniques to manage the stages of childbirth.
, This plan will let your medical caregivers know the desired birthing process you would like to have.
 This may include tennis balls, a rolling pin, comfy socks and any other allowed comfort items allowed by your medical provider.
 Be sure to include a toothbrush, toothpaste, deodorant, shampoo, sanitary supplies, hairbrush and comb. Include a comfortable robe, comfortable clothes to wear home and a nursing bra, if you plan to breastfeed.
 Be sure to include a receiving blanket to help cover up baby if it's chilly outside.
 Make sure the infant car seat is installed correctly in the vehicle before the big event.
 When the day arrives you will be able to breeze through admissions and straight back to labor and delivery.
