 While it's always a good idea to cover up when you're in dry winter air, the way you cover up can affect how well you're able to protect your skin. For instance, you'll want to avoid any clothing that rubs against your skin in a way that leaves it chapped or irritated. Raw skin is vulnerable to further dehydration and irritation, so be sure to wear properly-fitted clothes and comfortable fabrics to prevent this.


Rough fabrics like wool are especially harmful — though wool is great for keeping you warm, it's also great for rubbing your skin red. If you're wearing wool, wear something under it to keep it from coming in contact directly with your skin. For instance, wool gloves are perfectly manageable if you wear thin, soft cotton gloves underneath them.
 Though it's sometimes quite tempting, itching almost always makes irritated skin worse, so try as hard as you can to avoid it. In addition to further irritating your skin, itching is a great way to cause infections by transferring bacteria from your hands to sore spots on the skin. If you do itch your skin (which isn't recommended), clean hands are a must to lessen (but not prevent) the risk of infection.


If you're suffering from itching, consider carrying some anti-itch cream (like hydrocortisone) for frequent applications to stave off the urge.
 Steaming hot water can feel great during the cold months of winter, but it can be murder on the skin if you aren't careful. Hot water strips the skin of its protective natural oils, making it much more likely to dry out, especially if the ambient air is dry as well. To avoid this, use warm (not hot) water, and try to limit your showers to about 10 minutes or less. Taking cooler, shorter showers will go a long way towards keeping your skin healthy during the winter (in addition to helping with flaky skin conditions like dandruff).
 Just like harsh soaps and cleaning solutions, some fragrances and perfumes (especially alcohol-based ones) can strip the skin's natural moisturizing oils away. In addition, the chemicals in many common fragrances can cause rashes or allergic reactions if applied to already-irritated skin. The solution is simple: use mild, weaker scents and try to limit use only to the parts of the body where odor is strongest, like the underarms, groin, and feet.

