 Start house training the moment you bring the puppy home. After the journey, take pup out to your chosen toilet spot and let her sniff around. If she happens to pee or poop, give her a reward. Regularly take the pup to the toilet spot (every 20 minutes when possible) and when she happens to toilet give her lots of praise. Times when she is most likely to toilet are immediately after eating, and 20 minutes after eating. Pop her outside on both occasions and this increases your chances of her pooping in the toilet spot.
This early stage is all about happy coincidences and rewarding them. Don't worry if she doesn't "get it" at first, but never ever punish her for going indoors.
 Punishing your dog for peeing or pooping in the house will only scare her and make it harder for her to learn. Consistency is the best way to train your dog.
 Remove the food between meals. Regular feedings will lead to regular times when your dog needs to eliminate., A consistent schedule is the best way to avoid accidents. Very young puppies should be taken out every hour, as well as shortly after meals and naps. All puppies should be taken out first thing in the morning, just before you go to bed, and before they are confined or left alone.A puppy can usually hold her pee for the same number of hours as her age in months during the day.
Puppies can hold their pee longer at night. A 4 month old puppy should be able to make it through the night

, You don’t want your puppy to get in the habit of eliminating in the house, so whenever she is not confined, watch her closely. Pacing, whining, circling, sniffing, and leaving the room are all signs that your puppy needs to pee or poop. Get her outside as quickly as possible., Use a crate or a small room with the door closed or blocked off by a baby gate. As your puppy grows, you can gradually increase the size of the area, eventually letting her use multiple rooms. Especially when first increasing the size of the space, it’s a good idea to introduce your golden to the space just after she has eliminated outside., During house training, you should always go outside with your puppy. Take her to the same place each time, so the smells will encourage her to go. Rewards peeing or pooping outside with praise, treats, or play. , You don’t want to scare your puppy, and you definitely don’t want to rub her face in the mess. Clap sharply in order to startle her; this will usually cause her to stop. Then quickly run with her outside, encouraging her to follow you. If your golden finishes peeing or pooping outside, give a reward. If she has nothing left, don’t worry about it.