 The first class lounge is your first destination after the security check-point. It is a place where you can socialize with other people and share the destination you are going, and listen to others. You may be in the presence of high powered executives or even various celebrities.


There have been many stories where people have flown first class and have been befriended by a celebrity and invited to an upcoming party or VIP event.
The first class lounge is known to be rather quiet due to not many people flying in luxury.;
, You will most likely be assigned a host or concierge when you check into the lounge. These people are highly trained and equipped with well-esteemed communicating and facilitating skills. They will be able to help you each step of the way from checking in to boarding. Be courteous and respectful and avoid being too demanding when requesting various things.


It's seen to be a great quality if you are able to remember your concierge or host's name. They will remember yours, so show them your erudition by recalling theirs. There is a host or concierge in the luxury lounge and then a few while on the flight. Don't be to offended if you don't click with your initial attendant; however it is highly unlikely that you won't be taken aback with the service they want to lavish on you.
 It's important to be as poised as you can at all times. Show that you can be well-revered by practicing punctuality upon arrival and also when it's time to board. Understand that it will be relaxed in the luxury lounge, and your host or concierge will remind you prior to being escorted to your seat on the flight.


Avoid doing thing's like showering or ordering big meals only prior to boarding. If you have a big stop-over or waiting time, you may have adequate time to do these things. Fend to be ready to go at least 30-45 minutes before the expected boarding time.
Understand that holding up people when boarding is actually holding up the entire airline from Economy to First Class. Because you will be the first group boarding and settling in, it's important to show respect by being where you need to be at the right time so thing's run smoothly and you can get to your destination on-time.
 There is no need to rush, you have a verified seat on the plane, so show humility by letting other first class passengers board or seat before you. This is a sign of respect and implies that you are a person with a dignified nature.
 Before you depart on the next leg of your journey, it's important to say farewell and thank your host from the first class lounge, you may never see them again. If you feel so inclined, you could tip them for their service as a sign of your appreciation before they hand you over to your next porter.
 The flight hosts that will be serving you during the flight are hospitality veterans and seasoned professionals, not just flight attendants. Be very kind to these people and use your manners extensively. They will be doing everything they can for you, and it's simple protocol to treat them with reverence.
 It's most likely that you will be seated next to someone in most aircraft's. Although, you will have your own room and space to enjoy the flight, it's very respectful and kind of you to introduce yourself to people within reach. This could lead to some very interesting conversation that will will make time fly!


You can learn a lot from others, even more so the people that fly in first class due to their presumed success.
 Show that you are having a good time by smiling at service attendants and other passengers while you reside in the first class area. It's evident that most people in First Class will be very friendly and excited due to the relaxed environment.
 In most flights there is a private first class bar with a broad range of beverages. You will most likely have your own small range of alcohol in your little luxury pod; however it's important to stay modest and avoid getting sloshed. You want to be able to remember the experience and not ruin it by getting ridiculously intoxicated.
 Some people are rather reclusive and don't wish to mingle more than they have to. It's esteemed that you honor other peoples desires by not forcing them or pushing them to interact with you. If however you are a reclusive person and don't wish to mingle, respect others that want to. Be polite if you're introduced to someone, however it's fine if you tell someone that you would rather be left to your own devices.
 When talking with any strangers or new friends, it's important to tread lightly in conversation and avoid topics that require responses on political stances and things of that nature. Keep questions light as you get to know other people; you might ask why they are flying, and where they are visiting.
 It's very evident that you may be acquainted with a familiar face while you fly in complete luxury. When you meet the icon or are given the opportunity to speak with them, treat them like they were just another person. This is usually the way they wish to be treated.


By being down-to-earth and relaxed, you're on the same level as the other person and the atmosphere is far from elated.
Be you and be normal. Don't request the person to sing if they are a singer, or request any other strange activities for you to be able to remember. Understand that even though you might be on vacation, they are more than likely at work.
 The individual you meet and speak with have spoken to numerous people in their success. Just let them ask the questions and lead the conversation. If you have questions to ask them, be sure to keep them to a modest number and avoid plucking at topics and questions that are personal or not of your concern.
 Understand that the personage is probably tired, nervous or wanting a nice and laid back flight to their next destination. If you're the irritating fan or follower wanting them to sign every last item that you are carrying, you will come across as a goose and probably be removed from seeing the celebrity by in-flight security.


Fend to only request one autograph signing and if given the opportunity, one qualitative photo.
Refrain from asking the person to add or follow you on social networking if you do not know them personally or aren't at the same 'status' as them. If you are an executive or figure yourself, ask your publicist (if you have one) to go and ask theirs if you can sojourn with them for a while.
 First class flying has plenty of perks and one of them would be the opportunity to enjoy gourmet food over 35,000 feet (10,668.0 m) in the air. Aim to order what you know when it comes to dining though. There would be nothing worse than realizing that you are allergic to a certain ingredient while you want to experience first class flying in the best state you can.


Because the flight only has a trained nurse on-board, if something does unfortunately go wrong in relation to food, you may not have all the medical assistance you will require.
It's fine to save the opportunity to enjoy a delectable seafood dish at your hotel or restaurant on land. You could aim to eat things like salads, sandwiches, soups or a banquet of finger food to share with the Lady or Gentleman next to you if you feel so inclined.
 If there is something an airline knows what to do extensively, that would be food variety. Even economy has a few options in their section, but because you are in first class, take the opportunity to suit the food to your pallet or requirement(s). Remember to ask your concierge or flight host to check with recipes that they meet your dietary needs.


If you have allergies like an allergy to nut products, be sure to ask a host to see the in-flight chef if they can cook a dish that usually requires a nut ingredient, to be substituted. The chefs on-board are professionally picked, and it's their job to meet the demands of first class passengers.
 After you have treated your taste buds to some of the globes most gourmet dishes, it's a great idea to go and compliment the Chef face-to-face. This meek gesture will be well-revered by others around you, and you may even get a complimentary dessert or get to taste one of their new decadent creations.


Chefs in First Class are usually very friendly and laid back individuals who like a good gastronomic chat. If you know a thing or two about the culinary arena, or perhaps want to learn more, it's encouraged after the dining service, to meet and converse with the chef(s).
 At the end of your voyage you should strive to thank everyone who made your experience worth-while. Thank your flight host or concierge by name and wish them an enjoyable rest of their day. It's even more encouraged to let the flight hosts know what you really admired during the flight.


A gratified individual is highly revered and you will be remembered if in the unlikely case you get the same host or concierge on your journey home.
In some flights you are able to meet the pilot. It's encouraged to warmly shake his or her hand and thank them sincerely for such an enjoyable flight. You will make their day to know that what they love doing is ultimately bringing the world closer together.
 Remember to not leave anything behind except your smile and polite demeanor. Prior to landing and then again before exiting the aircraft, double-check under seats, arm rests etc. for any personal items that may be mislaid.
 It's most likely that the flight will have donation slips for a charity that they sponsor. If you don't have one in your arm-rest or seat pocket, you can ask for a spare one from your flight host. It's a sweet gesture and it will certainly not go unobserved.
 You can express your appreciation by visiting the airlines website or airline review websites and write about your experience to inspire others to fly First Class and provide insight for the carriers probable candidates.

