 First things first: to live the lifestyle, you need to start doing yoga. Consider joining a class at a gym, community center, or yoga studio, for example. Ease your way into the practice and prepare to feel better and more relaxed.


There are many reasons to start yoga. You will become better toned and flexible, enjoy more energy, and feel more relaxed. You may even lose weight.
Not many of us can afford a personal yoga trainer. However, you won’t break the bank by joining a class. The average cost of drop-in sessions is about $12. This price drops if you commit to a week or month-long program.A one-month unlimited plan at Yoga Tree in Toronto costs $160, for instance.While face-to-face time with an instructor is best, you can also make do with a good beginner’s yoga DVD , like Yoga for Beginners, Smart Start Yoga, or AM/PM Yoga for Beginners.;
, There are yoga poses that any beginner will have to know. These are basic and beginner’s level and include the Cat-Cow, the Half-Lord of the Fishes, and the Downward Dog. They are simple and easy to do.For the Cat-Cow, for example, start on your hands and knees with your spine flat. Then, inhale and drop your belly toward the floor and look up. Pull your spine upward, rounding your back, as you exhale. Repeat.Try the Downward Dog. Begin again on your hands and knees. As you inhale, push your hips upward, straighten your legs, and place your feet flat to the ground. Then, spread your fingers out and let your head hang down. Continue breathing in this pose.
It may take a while for you to catch on. Try sitting in the back of the class, so that you can easily see your classmates and follow their movements.
Don’t overdo it! Sit aside if you find a pose too challenging.
 You’ll need to learn how to breathe properly for yoga exercises, as well, especially when holding poses. The basic maneuver is a “three-part breath” called Dirga Pranayama. It involves breathing in and out of the nose into your belly and should be calming and relaxing.Dirga Pranayama is a continuous breath. Start by inhaling through the nose into your lower belly, then into your lower and upper chest. Your exhalation should start in the throat before moving down into your chest and abdomen.
If it helps, try resting your hand on each “station” as you breathe. Or, try isolating the movements while you learn. The breath should eventually feel like one continuous wave moving up and down your body., The aim of yoga is to quiet the mind and increase discernment, consciousness, and self-awareness. Try not to get stressed out if you have trouble in the beginning – if you find the exercises or meditation hard. After all, getting stressed out defeats the purpose of yoga. Yoga is not supposed to be easy, but it is supposed to enrich your life and center you.
The physical end of yoga – increased muscle and cardiovascular health – should also help you to feel physically and mentally relaxed.

