 It is often sold in the bulk section.;
, The latter is not parboiled and will take slightly longer to cook. Both have a chewy, nutty consistency.
 Bulgur can be used in place of couscous, quinoa and even oats.
 It comes in finer and larger grains. For example, you may see free keh, faro, organic, brown and fine-grained bulgur. Fine grain bulgur is also known as “Number 1.” It cooks faster than coarser grains.
Coarse bulgur will take longer to cook, but the texture will be firm enough to use as a side or in a salad or in soups and stews.
 Pour it into a bowl. The bowl should have a tight-fitting lid, or you can use a saucepan.


If you don’t have a lid, try to find a plate that will cover the top of the bowl.
 For larger batches, you will maintain a ratio of 1 part bulgur to 2 parts water.
 Unlike with other grains, you do not have to cook bulgur on the stove. Consider adding 1 tbsp. (15 ml) of butter or olive oil for extra flavor. ,, Allow it to sit for 7 to 20 minutes for the bulgur to absorb the water.


Fine grain bulgur should sit for 7 minutes.
Medium grain bulgur should sit for 20 to 25 minutes.
Coarse grain bulgur should sit for 30 minutes.
 Use a narrow opening between the lid and bowl or a strainer. The holes in the strainer should be very small so that the bulgur does not drain with the water.
 Season with salt, pepper, herbs and spices to taste.


To make a quick tabbouleh salad, add 2/3 cup (0.16 l) of chunky salsa, chopped fresh parsley and 1 tbsp. of olive oil. , (15 ml) olive oil or butter.
 If you want to make a 1-dish meal, you can add as many vegetables as you like. Sauté them until they soften.
 Cook for 1 minute or until the garlic is fragrant.
 Stir into the vegetables and scrape the bottom of the pan to loosen browned areas. You can use water in place of broth, if you choose. ,, Stir well until all the ingredients are combined.
 Place a lid over the top.
 This method is best when used with medium or coarse bulgur.
 Taste the result before you add seasonings, since broth may include salt and pepper.
 Pour off excess liquid as needed.

