 This basic step is essential for everyone, even as a common courtesy for others. I don't know what it has to do with being classy as much as simply taking care of your teeth. You could always get fake teeth.


New moms may have a really hard time fitting a shower into their day if they are trying to fit a million things into nap time, but try to make this a priority. You will feel fresher after a shower and that feeling will help you power through the rest of your mommy to-do list.






Wash your face with a drugstore cleanser like a Neutrogena brand cleanser, shampoo and condition with drugstore brand products like Pantene and shave your underarms.






Try to shave your legs and bikini area (unless you prefer natural) if you have the time. Don't worry if you only get to it once a week... that's better than letting it all go completely! Then again, some women do not believe in shaving ones legs and if that makes you feel classy then go for it!





;
, Women often have no choice but to give up their glamorous hair style when they get pregnant. Even though your glamorous messy-bun may have worked just fine in the past, try not to let yourself go completely. A salon cut and color are expensive and color is often considered a no-no when you have a bun in the oven (unless you don't care and are trying to evict (if you know what I mean)). Then, after 9 months of growing out your roots you simply just don't have the time or the money to keep up with a $200 style. For some women, keeping a short or buzzed haircut is also just as glamorous. Miley Cyrus basically shaved her head and she is on the cover of Elle magazine. Miley = glamour.


Try to convert your old style into a classy, mom-friendly do. If you are looking for 'class' and 'mom-friendly' just think of Kate Gosselin. That's classy, right?






If you like short hair, try a bob. If you like long hair, try long layers. You can easily put off a trim with these styles without anyone noticing.






If you have long hair, try a side part with a low ponytail and a clear elastic instead of the "gym ponytail." It's just as practical but you'll look more put together. You can always dye your hair back to its natural color so it saves you time and money in the long run, but sometimes it's fun to play with other colors either using home dyes or girly salon days. You can always wear a hat, too. Those can be fun.






If you like having thinner eyebrows, getting them waxed can do wonders for making you feel more put together. For a cheaper option there is always tweezing them at home. More time consuming and not as thorough, but some people look better with thicker brows.
 If you're well rested you might be able to get away with just concealer for any blemishes or under-eye circles. If you want to feel a little more fixed up, but don't have time to make a production of things, using eyeshadow (in whatever colors flatter your face), mascara, and maybe some eyeliner and lip balm or gloss can help you feel pretty without taking a lot of time if you're in a hurry.
 You need colors and styles that work for you. Don't let anyone tell you that because you're a mom you can't wear shorts and tank tops in the summer, or that you can't wear high heels and dangly earrings anymore. You can! Just be careful with longer earrings because little ones find them fascinating dangling from your ears. I usually save those for dates when my kid isn't there. You can wear anything the women without kids are wearing. If you're self-conscious from baby weight, exercise is great for your health and boosting your confidence and sense of happiness and well-being. Part of the struggle for mothers with maintaining the appearance they did before having kids is due to lack of time for themselves from taking care of everyone else, but also possibly in part to society's view that mothers have to throw on a sack and hide because they've born a child. Ridiculous. Whether you're a thin mom, a curvy mama, athletic, bigger, wear what you want. You will definitely feel better about yourself if you make an effort to look stylish and dress and accessorize in a way that feels like you.
 can really add flair to an outfit and make you feel more put together and confident. Also, sexy bras and underwear can help to make you feel beautiful and womanly. It's the little things. ],, If you have some time, you can do a mani & pedi at home for fairly cheap, or make a girls' day at the spa. The summertime is when your feet will be showing the most, so if you can only get pedis then, no worries. Nobody is yanking your boots off in the winter to examine your toes and judge you. Just trim them and keep them clean in the winter months.

Wear gloves while doing the dishes to avoid chipping your manicure. If you have too much trouble keeping your manicure looking fresh than avoid polishing your fingernails. A clean set of fingernails looks better than a set with chipped polish.
 It not only improves your health and appearance, it shuttles endorphins through you to make you feel happy and like you will get through motherhood because you got to do something for you. Even thirty minutes a few times a week is good. If you were active before having a baby, or have the okay from your doctor, you can work out for an hour several times a week. You can join a gym, use workout DVDs, take a fitness class, work out to videos on You-Tube, etc. There are so many options. Even taking your baby on a walk with you can make you feel good and burn some calories. When the baby is napping could be used for exercise, but sometimes you might need a nap, too, so you could do it early in the morning or at night. Don't beat yourself up if you can only exercise three or four times a week. That's still exercise and great for your health., These sites are great for helping you manage your diet. Counting calories can work for some people, especially if you have a specific goal like losing weight or gaining muscle, but be aware that some people become obsessed with it. Just be careful and keep things in perspective. The important thing is to eat mostly healthy and get a good variety of different types of nutritious foods. Allowing yourself a treat sometimes will make this easier to maintain and keep your diet from sucking the joy out of your life. Balance is important.
 Getting a teeth cleaning before whitening should improve results.
 There is a balance between abandoning loved ones and being their servant. Yes, take care of them, but you have to take care of yourself, too. Exercise, sleep, and time to yourself to relax, get pampered, etc. are vital for your sanity, happiness, and frankly theirs as well. When mama ain't happy, nobody's happy. Have date nights with your partner, a day out with friends, time alone, whatever gets you rejuvenated so you can be happy and treat your family in a way that makes them happy, too., Be the absolute best you can be for your little ones and partner, but never lose yourself or feel like you can't take a moment. If you're depressed, you won't be able to help them because you'll be too miserable. If you take care of you as well as them, you'll be an individual and a team with your family. You don't have to choose and you don't have to live in sweats. Even making it a goal to put on jeans instead of yoga pants on days you're at home and combing your hair can boost your mood and appearance dramatically.