 Durable toys tend to be made out of harder materials, like nylon or a hard rubber. However, durable does not always mean indestructible. Even some very durable toys can be torn apart, especially if you have a larger dog with a strong bite. Solid rubber dog toys are typically the toughest and most durable. You want to find a rubber that is hard but still has some flexibility to it.


Kong toys are very popular and come in a variety of sizes and shapes, and there are a number of other toy brands that are designed for use with dogs that love to chew.;
, Reinforced nylon is another material that makes toys more durable. Often, you’ll find toys that combine rubber with nylon fibers to make them even stronger.Check the tags of toys to see whether they use reinforced nylon in conjunction with rubber.


There are toys that are only made out of nylon, though these are often harder to find than toys that are made out of both rubber and nylon, or just rubber.
 Many dogs enjoy playing with rope toys, especially for games like tug of war. The fibrous materials of the rope, which are usually nylon or some other synthetic fiber, are strong enough to withstand a lot of chewing.Generally, rope toys with more threads are stronger.


Rope toys can also be cleaned fairly easily. The fibrous materials are also good for cleaning your dog’s teeth., Soft fabric toys are fine for less aggressive chewers, but are not durable enough for stronger dogs.Soft, plush toys are also filled with stuffing that can be harmful to your dog if they swallow it. Soft toys are not durable and will be easily destroyed by any dog who enjoys chewing.


Some soft toys are marketed as more durable, especially those that have multiple layers of fabric. However, they are still not as durable as rubber or nylon toys.
 One great way to make sure that you choose a toy that you’ll dog will love is to take them with you to the store. Most pet stores allow dogs, as long as they are on a leash, to come into the store with you. Take your pup with you to the store and show them a few different options. Let them choose which toy they’re most interested in. You can also ask the store's staff for their recommendations on durable toys that the store carries.


At the store, look for a few of the options on your list. Get them off the shelf and hold them out to your dog to sniff and inspect. Choose whichever one they seem the most interested in.
 It’s best to buy from name brands, especially those made in Europe or North America. These toys are more likely to be safer than toys that are imported in bulk from China or Mexico where safety standards aren’t as stringently regulated.While these toys might be more expensive, they are much higher in quality and are made of safer materials. Buying from brands that you already are familiar with is a good choice.


You can ask your veterinarian for toy recommendations. You can also ask friends or family members about the toys they use, especially if they have dogs roughly the same size as yours.
 Avoid any toys that are shaped like kid’s toys, shoes, and other household items. Your dog will come to associate the shape of their toy with the items in your household and see them as other toys. This encourages bad behaviors, like chewing on shoes.Your dog, especially if they are young, may not be able to differentiate their toy with your child’s toys so it’s easier to just avoid any similar shapes.
 Safety should be your top priority when it comes to choosing new toys. Many dogs that are vigorous chewers will become fixated on nibbling or ripping parts of their toys. Assume that any small or easily broken piece of a toy will be ripped off and swallowed.


The exception to this is a rope toy. Loose fibers that your dog might swallow are easily passed and don’t pose a health risk., This toy is going to be in your dog’s mouth frequently so it’s very important to make sure that the toy is made of a non-toxic material. Each dog toy should have a label that describes the material that the toy is made out of. Keep in mind that hard rubber and nylon are typically the most durable materials. The toy must also non-toxic.


Avoid toys made out of latex, since this material may also contain lead.
Keep an eye out for any toxic heavy metals, like cadmium, lead, or chromium. These can lead to serious health problems.Avoid any toys that are treated with fire retardants or stain guards, since these may contain formaldehyde., Many dogs love toys with squeakers in them since it appeals to their prey instincts. Unfortunately, some dogs become fixated on discovering the source of the squeaking and pull out the squeakers from their toys. Squeaky toys are usually not a good option for dogs that need durable chew toys. The squeaker can be swallowed or choked on, which is a serious health hazard., You want to find a toy that is the appropriate size for your dog. For instance, a tennis ball is too large for a Chihuahua while it is too small for a Great Dane. You want to find toys that your dog can fit in their mouths that do not pose a choking risk.Toys that are too small for your dog can be swallowed and pose a choking risk.
 Unfortunately, dog toys aren’t regulated like human toys are. That means that there aren’t any federal agencies that regulate how dog toys are made and whether they are safe. When there is a problem with a dog toy, it’s up to the manufacturer to issue a recall, which they may or may not do. Search online for reviews of specific dog toy brands to see whether other consumers have had problems with the toys.Many American toy manufacturers meet the Consumer Product Safety Commission’s guidelines for lead in children’s toys. Not all manufacturers meet these standards, but a CPSC seal can help you assess a toy’s safety.