 You do not need to sit them down and embark on a long lecture—let them experiment and find out how they feel. They may open up to you all on their own.


Leave around a few books with transgender characters.
When shopping for clothes and toys, let them wander between blue and pink sections. If they want to buy something different, compliment it ("That tutu is a great color on you!") and put it in the cart with the rest.
Ask if they want a haircut, and how they want it to look.
For older children, mention reading an article about a transgender kid. ("I heard a kid went on vacation and asked to pretend to be a girl during the trip. That's how the parents found out she actually was a girl instead of a boy. It's good they figured it out early.")
Your acceptance lets them know that you will support them if they come out to you.
 Stifling them with your opinion that they might be transgender will make them feel pressured.


Don't surround them with mentions of transgender people. If they are trans, they will latch onto those mentions, and you will not need to push it at them.
Give it time. If they are trans, they will come to you when they're ready.
In general, offer options, but don't push them towards one or the other.
 Sit them down one day and gently begin. Remind them of one of the transgender books, and ask if they have ever felt that way. Make it clear that it's okay either way, and that you love and accept them.


"Remember Sophie from the library book? I've noticed that you like long hair and feminine things. Have you ever felt like you are actually a girl instead of a boy?"
"It's okay if you're just a boy who likes feminine things. Some boys do, and that's normal. It doesn't necessarily make you a girl."
"Please know that I love you no matter what your gender is, and you are always welcome to talk to me about it."

, As a trans child, one of the biggest fears is not being accepted and possibly getting rejected by your family. Be very gentle and patient towards them, they might find it hard to come out, and since they may be nervous, they may find it hard to speak.


Use a patient and gentle tone, letting them pause to think as much as they need to.
Just because you feel you are close to the child doesn't mean that they feel safe telling you about gender. Remember that trans kids will often be kicked out of their house, so your child may have built up a fear of telling you.
 Chances are, they haven't figured everything out yet, so too many questions can confuse them and make them regret coming out. Stick with a few basic questions, such as these:


"So, what pronouns would you like me to call you?" (For younger children, ask if they are a boy, a girl, or something else.)
"Would you like to have a different name?"

, These can be more effective than questions, because it lets them know you're in this together and are willing to help them figure it out. (Your child probably doesn't have all the answers yet!)


Offer to check out baby name books to help them pick a new name (if desired).
Offer to buy them some new clothes.
Offer to take them to counseling. (Make it clear that this is to help them transition, not to suppress them or diagnose them.)
For older children/preteens, let them know that you'd be happy to take them to a doctor to get hormone blockers if they ever want some.

