 There are two basic types of shin guards. One type has attached ankle straps, which wrap under the foot and provides support and ankle protection. The other type simply slides under your socks and protect just your shins. For players under 12 the added ankle support is crucial for safety and comfort.Currently, there are some hybrid guards that come down to cover the ankle but don't actually wrap around it. These tend to be more expensive, however, as they need a very precise fit.;
, As players grow more serious about soccer, they tend to find the ankle-guards too bulky, as they can limit your foot's range of motion. By ages 10-12, many youth players switch to slide-ins, which you simply push under the socks. They do not cover your ankles. While slightly less protective, the added speed is essential for higher levels of competition.
 Shin guards come in the standard sizes from x-small all the way to XL, but just because you wear a large jersey doesn't mean you need a large guard. For the most part, let height be your guide:



Small: 0 - 5'2" (0 - 160cm)

Medium: 5'2" - 5'10" (160cm - 180cm)

Large: 5'10" - 6'4" (180cm - 195cm)

X-Large: 6'4" + (195cm and up), While the guide above is best for 90% of players, everyone is different. As a rule of thumb, you want the guard to cover from below the knee to right before your ankle bends.
 Professional players actually have guards that are custom-molded to their shins. While this is overkill for youth soccer, the basic idea is a good one -- you want snug, complete protection around your shins. When looking at your legs from the front, the shinguard should cover the entire width of your leg.


Most shin guards can be lightly bent with your fingers to curve them to your leg. Do not yank on them, however, as this can cause them to weaken., The best way to buy guards is to see what feels comfortable. When going to the store, bring a pair of long soccer socks with you. Slide the guards on and walk around a bit, even jogging if possible, and see if they stay snugly in place. They should be comfortable and cover the majority of your leg.

