 They should be approved by the American Dental Association (ADA) and shouldn't contain chlorine dioxide, which can actually damage your enamel. Whitening strips should be made of polyethylene and you can find them at your local drugstore or even a supermarket.


There will be two strips: one for your lower teeth and one for your upper teeth. Each will be lined with a gel that will help the strips adhere to your teeth.
The average cost of whitening strips is about $30.;
, This will help remove any build-up that will prevent your teeth from being whitened, and it will also help to maintain the results of whitening your teeth for longer. Flossing your teeth will remove plaque in between your teeth and will ensure that this area is whitened as well. Also be sure to get your gums, too.
 Each package of whitening gel is slightly different, so check out the instructions to see how to apply the strips, how long to leave them on, and how often they should be used. Most strips are used for about half an hour twice daily. Some have to be thrown out after they're used while others will simply dissolve in your mouth.


Try to avoid swallowing while you are whitening your teeth to avoid ingesting the whitening chemicals.
 Apply the strips firmly over your teeth, running your fingers over the strips to help the gel stick to your teeth. Avoid moving your tongue too much or you'll get gel all over your mouth. This won't be harmful, but it can feel a little unpleasant. Leave the strips on your teeth for the given amount of time on the instructions.
 After the right amount of time passed, gently remove the strips from your teeth and throw them out. If they dissolve, you can skip this step.
 Rinse it thoroughly until you have removed the remaining gel from your mouth. Continue using the whitening strips for the amount of time that is recommended in the instructions, and wait to see the results.


You can also brush your teeth with a fluoride toothpaste after you finish the treatment. This will help to protect your tooth enamel.
If you use the right strips correctly, you'll be able to maintain the results for up to four months.

