 Maximizing family time only works if everyone is trying to increase the amount of time you spend together. Encourage your kids to limit their extracurriculars to one or two activities per semester. Ask your partner to improve their time-management and adopt the same measures that you do in order to maximize family time.Say to your kids, “Please keep your afterschool activities to one or two per school semester so that we have more family time.”
Say to your partner, “I’m reducing my screen time, organizing my things, and finding other ways to maximize my family time. I’d like to help you do the same. Let’s do it together.”

, Calendars or personal planners are great for organizing time in a structured way. Many people assume that because spending time with the family is not a formal obligation, it doesn’t need a spot on the calendar. However, if you don’t assign a specific time for hanging out with your family, you might let it slip through the cracks. To maximize your family time, set aside a few hours each day for them.Schedule specific family events as well as general “family time” when filling out your planner or calendar. Schedule date nights at specific venues and restaurants, and plan on going to specific baseball games or fairs with your kids.Use automatic reminders in your phone or email to stay on top of your scheduled family time.
Use vacation time to extend your holidays with your family., If you allow them to, kids will stay glued to their TV or computer. Set rules that limit the amount of recreational use your child makes of the TV and computer. One hour of TV and an hour of web surfing each day should be enough.Explain to your kids that limiting TV and computer screen time not only provides more time for moving and playing outside, but also helps maximize the amount of time that you spend together as a family.
Simply say to your kids, “Please spend no more than one hour each day on your phone, computer, or in front of the television. That way, you’ll have more time to spend with your family.”

, Everyone gets together on holidays, but you should aim to spend at least one night each week with your family. For instance, set aside Friday nights for pizza and card games with your kids. Ensure everyone in the family is participating by forbidding phones and tablets during the designated family time. Other traditions your family might enjoy include:Dining out at a new restaurant together
Seeing a new movie together
Going for a family bike ride
Having a Sunday brunch together

