 Choose a table that's big enough for everyone to sit around comfortably. Next, find a deck of cards and an empty cup. Place the cup in the center of the table and spread the deck of cards around it in a wreath. Make sure there are no gaps between the cards.The cup in the center of the table is called the "King's Cup".
Remove any Jokers from the deck before playing this game.;
, Ask your players to sit around the table in a circle. Make sure each person has enough room to move their arms. Additionally, each person should have a full drink.You need 3-15 players to play this game. If you play with too many people, it may be hard to keep track of whose turn it is.
You can use any drink you prefer. However, beer is the most popular drink with which to play this game.
 New players will be unfamiliar with how this game is played. Therefore, you need to briefly explain the actions associated with each card. When each person draws a card, they will need to complete a particular action.For example, if someone draws a 3, they have to take a swig of their drink.
If necessary, write the card meanings on a sheet of paper. New players can look at this paper whenever they need help.
 Select someone randomly or let the group decide who gets to play first. Next, ask this person to draw a card from the card wreath around the cup.


Don't let them peek at the cards before choosing.
 Examine the card to determine what action the person needs to take. Some cards require the entire group to participate, while others only need one person.


For example, if the person draws a 6, all of the men at the table have to take a drink.
If the person draws a 4, all of the women at the table have to take a drink.
 After the necessary actions are completed, discard the card. Do so by placing the card face-up on the table. You can spread them out or place them in a pile. However, make sure discarded cards are kept away from the playing cards to avoid confusion., Going clockwise, each person draws a card, completes an action, and discards the card. If someone runs out of their drink, pause the game to allow them to get a refill., Throughout the game, various drinks will be poured into the King's Cup. The game will continue until the very last king card is drawn. The person who draws this card will have to chug all of the liquid in the King's cup, no matter how disgusting it looks.


Some people like to chant "Chug! Chug! Chug!" while the unlucky person drinks to motivate them.
 This rule applies to any two of any suit from the deck. Once you draw this card, you get to choose a person to take a drink. Repeating the phrase "Two is Choose" will help you remember this rule.You can only choose one person.
The person you choose has to be playing the game.
 This action applies to any three from any suit in the deck. If you draw a three, you must take a drink. To help you remember this rule, repeat "Three is Me."

, If you draw a four of any suit, all the ladies at the table must take a drink. If the person who drew the card is a woman, they also have to take a drink.However, if a man drew the card, they can choose whether or not they want to drink.
 If you pick up a five of any suit, you become the Thumb Master.At any time during the game, subtly place the thumb of your right hand against the edge of the table. The rest of the group must follow suit. The last person to place their thumb on the table has to take a drink.


Your reign as Thumb Master continues until another five is drawn and a new Thumb Master is chosen.
 If you draw a six card of any suit, all of the men at the table have to take a drink. If the person who drew the card is a male, this includes them as well. However, if a lady draws this card, she can choose whether or not she wants to participate.
 This rule applies if a seven of any suit is drawn. Upon seeing the card, the person who draws the seven must throw both their hands up into the air. Everyone around the table must follow suit. The last person to raise their hands in the air must take a drink.To help you remember this rule, repeat the mantra "Seven is Heaven."
Sometimes the person who draws the card is the last person to raise their hands. If this is the case, they lose and have to take a drink.
 If you draw an eight of any suit, you can choose a drinking partner. This partner must drink with you every time you have to drink. However, you will also drink when your drinking partner has to take a drink. For example:If you're a woman and your drinking partner is a male, you must drink every time all men are required to drink.
If your drinking partner loses when playing "Seven is Heaven," you must also take a drink.
 This rule applies to any nine of any suit. Once you draw a nine, you begin the rhyme game. You will begin the game by yelling out any word you choose. Moving clockwise, each person around the table will have to yell out a word that rhymes. The first person to hesitate or choose a non-rhyming word loses and has to take a drink.


An example of an easy rhyming word is "hat." There are many, many words that rhyme with hat.
An example of a difficult rhyming word is "area." There are only a few rhyming words.
 If you choose a ten of any suit, you get to begin the Categories game. First, choose a category. This can be anything from liquor types to colors. Next, each player has to name off a word that fits in that category. The first person to repeat a word or hesitate for too long loses. For example:


Liquor types would include rum, tequila, vodka, and whisky.
Colors would include simple colors such as blue and red as well as difficult colors such as aquamarine.
 If you draw a Jack of any suit, you get to invent a new rule. This rule can be anything you'd like. However, try to choose a rule that is fun to do and easy to enforce. For example:


Add a "nose goes" rule. Every time you touch your nose, everyone must touch their own noses. The last person to do so must take a drink.
Double the drinking. If you lose a mini-game such as Categories or Thumb Master, you must take two drinks instead of one.
 If you draw a Queen, you become the Question Master. Every time you ask someone a question, they must answer with another question. If they don't, they lose and have to take a drink. Your reign as Question Master lasts until another Queen is drawn and a new Question Master is crowned.Examples of tricky questions include:


"Hey, can you pass me another beer?"
"Whose turn is it?"
"What time is it?"

, If a King is drawn, the person who drew the card must pour a little bit of their drink into the King's Cup. The King's Cup is sitting at the center of the table with the cards spread around it. However, if the fourth King is drawn, that person has to chug the contents of the King's Cup.When the King's Cup is drunk, the game is over.
If everyone at the table has different kinds of drinks, the King's Cup will be a gross mix of wine, liquor, and beer. This can make the game more fun!

, If you pick up an Ace of any suit, you get to begin the Waterfall game. Begin by tipping your drink into your mouth. Everyone must follow suit and begin chugging their own drinks. You can stop drinking whenever you want. However, the person to your left can only stop once you've stopped, and so on.Each person must keep drinking until the person to their right puts down their drink. The person at the end of the rotation will be drinking longest.
After this step, many people will need to get fresh drinks.

