 As a starter, it would be best to let your child feel the excitement that comes from biking by letting them be your little passenger.


While installing a bike seat would seem simple enough, it is important to keep in mind that there will be added weight on your bicycle and hence for starters, you should practice taking them around for a shorter period of time so you will get used to it.
This would be a good start as these seats are well equipped with straps not only to keep their bodies in place but even for their feet so that they would not get injured by getting into contact with the bike chains.;
, Bike seats are installed either at the front of the bike and are attached to its “stem” or headset, or it could be attached at the rear, sitting on top of a bike rack.


Front bike seats are connected to the stem, which connects your handlebars to the front fork of your bike.There should be at least a distance of 20 inches (50.8 cm) from your seat tube to the handlebars of the bike to allow sufficient space for the bike seat and the biker’s legs.
You must also have ample space in your bike’s head tube for the installation of the seat. The seat is often recommended for threaded headsets but if your bike has an adjustable thread-less one, it would do as well.
Due to the nature of the attachment of the seat, you can place lighter children – preferably between 9 months and 3 years – in front bike seats.
 You should also take into consideration whether your state laws allow this type of child bike seats to be installed. There are some states in the US that do not allow children to be seated at the front of a bike.
 Rear child bike seats on the other hand are installed either directly on to the seat tube or at the top of a bike rack.


Most of these bike seats come with their own installation instructions which can be easily done by a parent. This type of seat is recommended for children older than 3 years who are still light enough for the seat.
Various companies have additional features to their bike seats such as windshields, foot straps, handlebars, seat buckles, head support, and seat buckles to provide comfort and safety to your child.
 If your child has a fear of being seated up on the bike due to the height, a bike trailer is a great idea to get them on board and involved in your outing. Being able to pull along the two wheeler which is not only more comfortable for your child but also many of the trailers are able to remain upright should the bicycle tip over, giving a less risk of injury as compared to the seat, where your child would fall with you.
 Bike trailers resemble a stroller that is connected to the back of the bike. They are more comfortable and safer for children due to their wider and enclosed seating space.


They can also often accommodate up to two children, which is a great advantage if you have two younger tots. Although they are attached at the back of the bike, they can protect children from mud or stones that are thrown up by the rear wheels because of their front and side mesh screens.
They also protect from mosquitoes and other bugs which are very common when you are biking in forested areas. Bike trailers are often attached to your bike using an aluminum tow-bar which is angled to keep the trailer centered at the rear of the bike.
 Another viable option to consider, especially for a confident and adventurous toddler, is to have a tandem bike.


Installing a tandem bike will let your little one pedal along with your bicycle, letting them learn the appropriate bike riding skills and get comfortable with cycling, before they graduate on to having a bike of their own.
 You can either buy a pre-fabricated tandem bike or make one on your own using your own child’s bike.


If you opt for the pre-fab tandem bike, the way for you to do this would be to attach a kidback at the stoker side of the bike or the one at the rear. A kidback is a mechanism that provides a higher pedal at the back which allows your kid to “stoke” the bike while you maneuver it at the front.
If you want to create your own tandem bike, you can choose from the various types of braces and connecting rods that are available at bike stores to connect the front wheel of your kid’s bike to the rear wheel of your bike.
 With your toddler still being physically weak, it is important to remind yourself to never omit a helmet at any stage or time when you are out on the bike outing, be it even for a short ride in the house or playground. This should never be taken lightly as omitting the use of a helmet could lead to serious brain injuries.
 Before heading out to bike, you should also explain to your child that riding a bike comes with its own risks if they do things wrong.


It is important to instruct your children to not to try to get out of the straps or buckles of the bike seat or trailer. If you find your child to be trying to move around a lot and is somewhat distracting you, help them stay focused on their surroundings by pointing out important landmarks or beautiful plants along the way.
Tell them to keep their hands on the handlebars or sleep rolls and to try not to snatch things along the way. A good and snug harness or seat belt can often eliminate this from happening.
 You can also encourage your child to behave during the bike ride by promising them a reward. This can either be a treat or extra TV time if they do well along the way.


However, this may not be necessary as your child gets used to riding a bike and begins to appreciate the beautiful views that he comes across during the travel.
 As a final thought, it is important to note that your bike outings should be limited to a bike path instead of any other terrain when you have a little one with you. This minimizes the risk of accidents and helps to keep your toddler safe.
 Sure, the bike outing is a family activity but at this moment, your toddler is the biggest concern. To keep the outing fun for everyone, let the toddler help decide where you are going or how long you will be riding.


Know your child’s limits and honor them. There will always be time for other bike rides. No one is going to enjoy biking with a sobbing toddler who just wants to get out of the seat he is stuck in.
 Some toddlers are happy with an open ended bike ride that just meanders around a quiet park or the neighborhood. Some are happier when there is a destination in mind.


You could ride your bike to the park to see the ducks in the little pond. You could ride to the little ice cream place for treats after dinner.
These could quickly become specific requests from your toddler.
 Start with short trips, letting your child get used to the seat or trailer and the sensation of wearing the helmet and then work up to slightly longer trips as your child gets more comfortable with the idea.


Accept that some children will never love the bike seat or the trailer if that is the case.
Eventually your toddler will become an older child who can ride his own bike with the family and you can plan these outings then.

