 Obviously, don't be snarky to authority figures - that's just asking to get in trouble! However, being slightly aggressive and displaying a "don't mess with me" attitude will get the message across. Don't be arrogant, but act as though most people in general are below you, and as though your friends are the exception to that.


Don't be rude to people who don't know you - you shouldn't call someone an idiot just because they approached you and asked for directions. If the person is a stranger or barely an acquaintance, aim for being polite, but distant.
Common ways of showing an edge are to be sarcastic and being rude in a backhanded way.
 A common trait among many tsunderes is that in an attempt to hide their feelings towards their love interest, they act even harsher towards them. They may play hard-to-get, which is a very common trait of tsunderes, and have a constant back-and-forth love-hate relationship. Imitate this! Give your crush some attitude (but not so much that they dislike you), and swap back and forth between love and hate. It's a classic trait of tsunderes.


If your crush likes someone else or has a partner, be especially harsh towards that person. Insulting them subtly is a great way of getting across your feelings without really revealing it.
If your friends ask you if you like that person, give them a harsh reprimand (e.g. "Idiot! As if I'd like !").
 Whether you're with your crush or your friends, when there aren't others around, drop the attitude a bit and show your kinder, softer side. Don't totally drop the attitude, of course, but definitely tone it down a notch (or two, or three). Show them your sweet side - that's a side of you that they'll be wanting to see. Be nice in these moments, and they'll be wanting even more.


If your friends or your crush are sensitive and don't like your cold side, take these private moments to apologize to them. Be sure to let them know that while you do actually care about them, you have a different approach to getting that across. Let them know that they have merit in your eyes, but be subtle (if not a bit backhanded).
 Tsunderes are well-known for managing to take on a snarky attitude towards anything at all, whether it's something small or big. Being passive-aggressive and seeming like everything is merely a minor annoyance is a good way to act tsundere. Backhanded compliments and snarky remarks are the way to go.


Classic passive-aggressive lines dropped by tsunderes are "It's not like I you or anything...", "I didn't do this for you! I did this because I wanted to!", "Idiot!", and "It's not like that!".
If you give someone a gift, a good comment to make is, "I suppose I should give you something... But I guess you deserve it".
 If you're upset about anything, play it off as anger or frustration, or take an aloof, I-don't-care kind of attitude. Outwardly, blame it on someone else (e.g. "That teacher is so stupid."), and don't talk about how you feel to strangers. Remember, tsunderes are usually very barricaded by their rough, harsh exterior; you don't want to be an open book of emotions to people.


Of course, it's okay to have emotions; you're allowed to feel what you feel. Tsunderes just don't often show their vulnerable, more emotional side to strangers. If you need to cry, go to a close friend that you trust.
For your own emotional health, don't actually blame someone else for something or refuse to ever talk about your emotions. If you know you're in the wrong, own up to it, and find someone you can vent to.
 Remember, if tsunderes don't show a kind side over time, they're no better than jerks. Tsunderes also really do value the people they feel deserve their time, so be nicer to people who spend a lot of time around you, such as your friendly acquaintances and your crush. It'll show them that you really do care about them, and that your attitude is nothing more than a façade or defense mechanism.
 When tsunderes are provoked, they really take the bait, and react with a vengeance. If somebody bumps into you, a "Hey, watch where you're going, you idiot!" and fuming can have a great effect. And if somebody is rude to you or bullies you, react to it strongly - you're a tsundere, after all. Take it up a notch further than you already have!



Never physically attack someone. The constant hitting and attacking that you'd see in anime and manga would land you in police custody. A light slap on the upper arm might work with some people, though, as long as they don't mind play-punching.
 You're trying to be a tsundere, not verbally abusive towards anyone who says a word to you. Remember, tsunderes don't want to actually hurt people - they just want to take on an "I can do this without you, better than you" attitude. Don't bully or verbally attack people, especially if there's no justification for it. If you do, you'll just end up driving people away from you.



Never intentionally target someone's weak spots. If you know your friend or crush is sensitive about the fact that they're bad at socializing, don't attack their social skills. This can cause a serious hit to their self-esteem and will most likely drive them away from you. After all, who wants to be friends with a bully?

, An often-overlooked fact is that tsunderes do cause emotional pain at times, or overstep boundaries and attack things that others are sensitive about. In the real world, people will be much more vocal about you hurting their feelings than they will in anime or manga. If you do end up hurting someone, apologize immediately and back off. It's likely that all eyes will be on you, and you don't want to end up friendless. Tsunderes are capable of admitting they're in the wrong and being kind. After all, being a tsundere is all about revealing your kinder side to people.

