 Enter your account information and click "Sign up for Twitter." You will want to provide an attractive description of your event or business and upload a picture or icon.;
, Consistency is essential on Twitter because it is constantly being updated. Make sure the person understands how to navigate and communicate via Twitter.


Users type the "@" symbol to directly message other users. This can be useful if someone has commented on a post. It is usually used to create and continue conversations between users and to pass on links.
Users type the "#," or hash symbol to follow trending topics on the site. For example, "#london" would be called a "hashtag" and it would be used in a tweet to talk about something going on in London, England. You can click on a hashtag to find out all of the tweets that discuss this topic.
 Most people choose to get updates about who follows them on Twitter. Each person who you follow may in turn choose to follow you and receive your updates.
 Many people use these words daily to look up deals and save money. Other sites aggregate all the tweets that include those hashtags in the post.


Popular aggregation sites include CheapTweet, DealUniversity and Dealyzer.
 Use a trending topic whenever it applies to your event or business. It will show up to people who are searching using that hashtag, and it will help you to gain followers and promotion for your business.


Try to avoid using political or news-related hashtags that have nothing to do with your business to increase sales. Although this is not outlawed, it is seen as a somewhat corrupt approach to Twitter hashtag marketing. For example, Kenneth Cole used the hashtag "#Cairo," during the Cairo riots in 2011 to promote its spring line of clothing, which resulted in both increased sales and bad press.
 The term should be short and easy to remember, such as "#DylanLive," to promote a series of concerts by Bob Dylan. Create your term months or weeks in advance so that you can include it on all of your promotional materials.


Begin using your new hashtag on Twitter, while you include it in press releases, on tickets, or on websites. Encourage other employees to announce it on stage. Ask promotional partners to use it on all of their marketing materials.
Continue using the hashtag in daily tweets. You can also respond to people, using the "@" symbol, who use your hashtag to give positive updates on your event or promotion.
If done properly and consistently, a hashtag promotion can effectively employ other people as promoters of your work. Their followers will see the hashtag and may choose to follow you or the promotion as it unfolds.
 Promote the competition in your store, and ask users to follow your company's Twitter handle as a precondition for participating. You'll get more followers, increase interest in your cupcakes, and create a trending Twitter hashtag.


For example, let's say you own a bakery called Cupcakes Delight. You can ask your customers to tweet the best picture of them enjoying a cupcake in a unique location with the hashtag #TravelingwithCupcakeDelight. The best picture/caption combination will receive a year's worth of free cupcakes.

