 Punk hair is often identified by loud or unnatural colors, such as blue, green, red, pink or black, among others. You definitely don't have to dye your hair to make it punk; some punks choose to keep their hair as unkempt as possible, and that includes eschewing hair dye. However, a new color can add another anti-mainstream facet to your overall look.;
, Colored hair can be high maintenance. In addition to pulling off the initial dye job, you might need to do touch-ups. Further, most bright-colored dyes are semi-permanent, meaning that they will eventually fade out after a certain number of washes. To mitigate this effect, you might want to invest in a shampoo and conditioner specifically formulated to protect colored hair, as well as setting up a schedule in which you only wash your hair once or twice a week.
 Usually punk style thrives on a do-it-yourself attitude, and this includes hair cuts and colors. However, if this is your first time dying your hair, you might consider going to a professional colorist at your local salon. Once you see how the process is done, it will be easier to dye your hair yourself.
 You'll be able to find a wide range of colors at a beauty supply store. If there isn't one close to your house, try ordering online. Note that if you already have brown to black hair and you want to dye it a bright color, you'll need to use bleach first. Purchase a bleach kit at the same time as your dye, and bleach your hair first by following the instructions. (To minimize damage to your hair, wait a few days after bleaching to add the next color.) While you're ordering your dye, purchase a cheap dye brush to make the process go faster.


Beware of cheap colored dyes. Some beauty supply stores sell small aerosol dyes for special occasions, such as green for St. Patrick's day. This can be a good way to try out your intended color, but don't buy these products for a long-term dye - they wash out quickly and wreak havoc on your hair.
 To dye your hair, you'll need hair dye, a small glass or metal bowl, a comb, rubber or latex gloves, an old T-shirt, petroleum jelly and a hand mirror. Strips of aluminum foil are optional if you're planning on adding streaks or highlights.
 Work in front of the bathroom mirror and assemble your tools on the counter. Put on the old T-shirt, and wipe the petroleum jelly on your skin near your hairline (this will keep the dye from getting onto your skin and staining it.). Err on the side of using too much jelly over too little. Then, put on your rubber gloves and squeeze the dye into the bowl.
 This step is especially important if you're doing highlights or streaks.
 Dip the dye brush into the hair color. Grab a section of hair and, starting at your roots, brush the dye onto it in strokes until you reach the end of the hair. Repeat on all the parts of hair you wish to dye. Check your work with the hand mirror.


If you're doing streaks or highlights, use foils. Tear a strip of aluminium foil that's slightly wider than the section of hair you wish to dye. Clip any hair above the lock so that it's out of the way, and pull the hair so that's at a 90-degree angle from your head. Put the foil strip underneath, then bring the hair back down. Brush on the dye with the hair over the foil, then fold up the foil - first in half, then by closing the sides with small folds. Repeat as necessary. Start streaks or highlights at the top of your head and work down and back.
If you're doing an all-over dye job for the first time, ask a friend to help you. He or she can check for pieces that you've missed and help you reach the back of your head.
 This can range from 20 minutes to an hour or two. Try to err on the side of washing too early - you can always add more dye later, but growing back any hair you might fry off will take significantly longer.
 Stand under a cold shower until the water runs clear. Dry hair with an old towel and allow it to air dry. Subsequently wash your hair in water that is as cold as you can stand - the dye will last longer.


If you get dye on your skin, go at it with a baby wipe that contains alcohol. You could also use conditioner or nail polish remover but those require a lot more scrubbing.

