 Start by using the Exfoliating Cleanser to wash and clear your skin of dirt and dead skin cells. The cleanser will make your skin look soft, smooth and younger. The second step is to add the Retinol 0.5% cream. The Retinol 0.5% product gradually releases the retinol throughout the day to help you skin become brighter and to reduce the signs of aging. The end result is that your skin will look smoother and clearer. The third step is to add the HydraFactor Broad Spectrum SPF 30 sunscreen. This sunscreen contains both a moisturizer and a sunscreen and will keep your skin both hydrated and protected from the sun.This product is designed for all skin types.
This product is designed for younger patients.
As an alternative, you can also choose the Retinol 1.0% product. With double the retinol content, the 1.0% solution helps to minimize fine lines, reduce wrinkles, refine your skin’s complexion, and smooth your skin’s texture.
 System for acne-prone skin. The CLENZlderm M.D. System is designed specifically for people with normal to oily skin who also suffer from acne. The system starts with the Daily Care Foaming Cleanser, which contains 2% salicylic acid. The cleanser is to be used twice daily (morning and night) and unclogs pores in order to leave skin feeling fresh. The second step in the system is the Pore Therapy, which also contains 2% salicylic acid. Pore Therapy is designed to prepare your skin for step 3, which is the Therapeutic Lotion. The Therapeutic Lotion contains 5% BPO which also helps to clean up acne.In addition to these three products, you can also get the Therapeutic Moisturizer, which contains 20% glycerin. This product leaves you skin moisturized and keeps it soothed during the full acne treatment.
BPO is benzoyl peroxide.
 This system is designed specifically for people with sensitive skin. The first step is the Soothing Cleanser which will cleanse your skin while soothing it at the same time. The second step is the Skin Calming Cream which hydrates your skin and helps eliminate the signs of aging. The third step is the Fortified Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 with Vitamin C which works to protect your skin from sun damage. The Fortified Sunscreen contains 10% L-ascorbic acid, which is also known as Vitamin C. The fourth step is the Advanced Night Repair cream which helps keep your skin moisturized while you sleep.The Fortified Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 with Vitamin C only needs to be used during your morning routine.
The Advanced Night Repair cream only needs to be used during your nighttime routine.
As an alternative to the Skin Calming Cream you can choose the Skin Calming Lotion. The lotion is a lighter version which will help soothe your sensitive skin and keep it hydrated.
You can also add the Skin Rejuvenation Serum to your routine. This serum works with your skin’s natural rejuvenation abilities to help speed up the healing process of prematurely aged skin.
As an alternative to the Fortified Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 with Vitamin C you can choose the Ultra-Light Repair SPF 30 Sunscreen Cream. In addition to being a sunscreen, this cream helps to repair your skin and reduce the signs of early aging.
You can also add the Ultra-Rich Eye Hydrating Cream to your routine. This cream is specifically designed to repair the damage to the skin around your eyes.
 This system is designed to help reduce the early signs of aging that may have been caused by sun damage. The first step is the C-Cleansing Gel which helps to remove oil, grime, and makeup from your face and prepares your skin for the remaining steps. If you have normal to oily skin your second step will be the C-Balancing Toner which will help balance your skin’s pH levels. If you have normal to dry skin, the C-Clarifying Serum will be your second step; if you have normal to oil skin, it’ll be your third step. The Serum helps to smooth out the dark spots on your skin. If you have normal to dry skin, the next step is the C-Exfoliating Day Lotion. This lotion is a light moisturizer that both hydrates and exfoliates your skin to leave it fresh and healthy. The next step for all skin types is the Sun Shield Broad Spectrum SPF 50 which contains both UVA and UVB protection to help keep your skin safe against the sun. The final step for all skin types is the C-Therapy Night Cream which helps keep your skin hydrated and protected while you sleep.The C-Clarifying Serum is available only by prescription.
The Sun Shield Broad Spectrum SPF 50 only needs to be used during your morning routine.
The C-Therapy Night Cream only needs to be used during your nighttime routine. It is only available by prescription.

