 Start by standing straight up, with both feet flat on the ground, hip-width apart. Keep your back, upper body, and head straight. Use your abdominal muscles to keep your back stable.To add some extra strength training to this type of lunge, hold a medicine ball in your hands directly in front of you. A medicine ball is heavier than a regular ball and comes in different weights. Select a weight that works for you.
If you do not yet want to add the extra weight, use a regular ball instead. It is still helpful to hold something in your hands as you do the twist portion of the exercise.
 Start by lifting your right foot straight off the ground by bending at the knee. Pause in this position until you feel balanced. Keep your back and upper body straight by using your abdominal muscles.
 Move your right leg forward and place your right foot on the ground starting with your right heel. Shift your upper body forward so your right knee bends. Your lower leg should be perpendicular to the floor while your upper leg should be parallel to the floor. Do not lean too far forward such that your knee moves beyond your right foot. You may need to lean forward slightly from your hips, but keep your back straight.
 While you’re in the forward lunge position, with your right leg forward and your right foot on the ground, twist your upper body to the right. Keep the medicine ball in both of your hands in front of you as you twist. Once you are facing to the right, twist back to your starting position.
 As this is a walking lunge, the next step is not to move back into the starting position, but rather to continue moving forward. Straighten up and pull the left leg forward, balancing on the right leg, and step the left leg forward into next lunge.
 Shift your body forwards while placing your left foot on the ground, heel first. Continue to shift your weight until your left upper leg is parallel to the ground and your left lower leg is perpendicular to the ground. Do not lean too far forward such that your left knee moves forward over toes. You may need to lean slightly forward at the hips, but keep your upper body and back straight.
 Using the same twist movements, with your medicine ball in your hands in front of you, complete a twist to the left.
 Repeat the movements with your right and left leg as you continue to lunge forward twist, and lunge forward again. Continue moving forward until you’ve run out of space. You can then turn around and continue the walking lunges in the opposite direction.







