 Don't pop your pimple unless it has come to a firm white head. If you try to pop it too soon, it could further damage your skin.


If it appears your pimple is about to burst and you've decided to pop it, take the necessary precautions. Wrap your fingers in toilet paper. Get a cotton ball and put some rubbing alcohol on it. Now squeeze around the edges of the pimple, not on the white head itself. If the pimple does not pop easily, don't force it. If it does pop, then wipe up the puss with an alcohol covered cotton ball. The rubbing alcohol will sterilize the pimple, stopping other bacteria from getting into the open pimple and causing further inflammation. Once the white head is removed, do not keep squeezing the pimple.;
, There are many pimple creams on the market, but make sure to find one with either benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid. Both ingredients kill acne causing bacteria in your skin. Both have the added benefit of stripping off layers of skin, which may have built up because of the pimple, leaving a smoother layer of skin behind.Be careful with benzoyl peroxide. It may bleach clothing, if left in contact for extended periods of time.
 Do this for approximately 1-2 minutes. Do not make the cloth too hot. You don’t want to scald yourself. This will increase the blood flow to the spot, which will speed up the healing process.
 Aloe vera is antibacterial as well as an anti-inflammatory. It will help your skin heal faster., Many dermatologists agree that it can help. Make sure to use toothpaste with no whitening agents or harsh dyes. If you do use them, you could end up dying your pimple a funny color. The baking soda in the toothpaste is a natural drying agent and will absorb much of the moisture from the pimple if used overnight.


You can just use baking soda mixed with a little water instead of toothpaste. Mix until you have a paste and then apply with a Q-Tip.There is some debate over how well toothpaste works on pimples., Half the battle is reducing the size of your pimple. To do this you need to remove as much of the oil as possible. Take a tablespoon of sea salt and add a couple drops of warm water. Mix and apply immediately to problem area. Leave overnight., These oils have antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties, which will help kill the bacteria causing your pimple and reduce redness. , Astringents are designed to reduce the size of your pores and many store-bought astringents have anti-bactierial agents to help fight the pimple-causing germs.


There are several natural astringents you can use. Most are made with acidic fruits like lemons or oranges. Others use witch hazel, vinegar, or green tea., The fastest way to heal a pimple overnight is to get to a dermatologist and have them inject the pimple with cortisone. This reduces the inflammation. However, this is a rather extreme measure because there's a possibility it will cause the spot to cave inwards looking like a reverse pimple.


Follow the dermatologist's orders. Most likely, a dermatologist will prescribe cremes, antibiotics, and soaps for your skin type. Follow their instructions exactly. Do not use more than what the doctor prescribes. Once the medication has cleared up your acne, don’t stop taking it abruptly. Give your skin time to get used to life without medications.