 Dogs that have not been spayed or neutered may be more likely to fight with other dogs. If your dogs have not been spayed or neutered, doing so may lessen the appearance of aggressive behavior. Talk to you vet about having this procedure done on your animals.The cost of neutering a dog will usually range from $45 to $135, depending on the weight of the dog.
The cost of spaying a dog--which is a more complicated procedure--can range from $50 to $175.
 You can help prevent aggressive behavior in your dogs by making sure they are adequately socialized. Dogs are most easily socialized between 3 and 12 months. If your adult dog exhibits serious behavioral issues around other people or other dogs, consider seeking help from an animal behaviorist or veterinarian. You can socialize your dog by exposing it to a variety of experiences, including:


Different kinds of people.
Children.
Other dogs (both large and small).
Other animals (like cats).
Noises.
Travel.
 Although puppies may have fun wrestling with a group of other puppies, most adult dogs will find situations with large groups of dogs (such as a dog park) to be a bit stressful. You can work on each of your dog's dog-to-dog socialization, by doing it gradually, and with just one dog at a time.Invite a friend to bring their easy-going dog on a walk with you and one of your dogs.
Allow a polite distance between the dogs.
If both dogs are calm, allow them to sniff one another.
If both dogs seem relaxed and their tails are wagging, allow them to play together off their leashes.
Repeat this process until your dog feels more comfortable around other dogs.
 Dogfights are usually the result of stress. Dogs can be very sensitive to their environments, and can become quite stressed—and thereby aggressive—over seemingly simple things. If you are aware of your dogs’ stressors, you can better prevent a fight.Some common stress factors can include:


Bad weather (especially thunder).
Food or a treat present.
People arguing or being emotional.
Changes to their routine.
Not getting enough exercise.
Loud noises (such as fireworks).
 In addition to stress factors, each dog may have specific triggers that can cause undue aggression. Triggers can make your dog uncomfortable and/or defensive, but knowing what they are can help you prevent fights. Pay attention to the way your dog behaves under different circumstances.Some triggers can include:


Injury or pain – If a dog is in pain, it may feel threatened by another dog.
Protection – If your dog thinks you are in danger, it may act out to protect you.
Unclear hierarchy – If one dog refuses to defer to another, they may fight to determine their places.

