 Truly "new" looks don't really happen. Unless you want to wrap yourself in space blankets and wear undertaker make-up, it'll be hard to break new ground in the fashion department. The better and quicker way to spice up your cool style is to pick a cool muse, icon, or idol to borrow tips from. Actors, musicians, and even older siblings or locals can all make great style icons. Some classics might include:


Paul Newman in Cool Hand Luke. Sometimes nothing is a real cool hand. Work shirts and banjos never looked cooler than on Newman in this classic flick. Study his icy gaze and his witty come-backs as you cultivate your style. Bonus: being familiar with this oldie flick will make you stand out among the Transformers-obsessed. See also: Steve McQueen in Bullitt, Peter Fonda in Easy Rider, and live clips of Johnny Cash.
Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany's. Hepburn's bootleg brand of glamor made her a style icon in the 60s. Striking sophistication and manic weirdness can go hand-in-hand, she taught us. Also check out Brigitte Bardot in any film, Anna Karina in Band of Outsiders (obscure French film bonus points!), and Nancy Sinatra clips on YouTube.
Vintage Fashion photography. Check out Mae West, Betty Page, and issues of Vogue from the mid-50s to the 70s. There's a whole wealth of cool going unnoticed at the local library. Need a fresh breath of style in your life? Go back to the source.
 Buy clothes that make you look good and make you feel cool. Cool clothes are less about a particular style and more about giving you the confidence and the verve to put out the cool vibes. You want to make sure the clothes fit you and flatter your body shape, so you feel hip and confident.


Some trends like skinny jeans and high-waisted pants may not look great on everyone. It's not cool if it doesn't look good. Find something that you like to wear.
Wear sunglasses for classic cool. There's one constant in the cool-fashion universe: sunglasses look awesome on everyone. Get some cool shades, prescription if you wear glasses, and rock them when you're outside. Keeping them on indoors is lame.
 Look at old videos of Johnny Cash being interviewed, or Meryl Streep. They give off the impression that they know something you don't, that they're relaxed in their experience of the world. That's cool. Above all, the most important part of acting cool? Being relaxed. You want to give off the impression of feeling comfortable as you, as if you're at ease in the world you inhabit.


Try not to tap your feet anxiously, or chew your fingernails, even when you're just sitting. Sit quietly and contemplatively. Anxiety makes everyone anxious. Quiet dignity? That's cool.
 It's hard to be more than one kind of cool when it comes to style. You know yourself the best and you know what you think is cool, so if you want to commit to a cool style that'll have others awed by your awesomeness, it's important to pick a thing and stick to it. Are you a rocker? A jock? A nerd? Every subculture comes with it's own lexicon of cool. When you decide what kind of cool you want to pursue, throw yourself into it.

