 If you suspect that your guinea pig is pregnant, then it's imperative that you consult a vet. You will not be able to tell for sure until the guinea pig is examined and assessed by a skilled veterinary professional.


If you need to transport your guinea pig, never pick her up by her stomach as it can harm the unborn guinea pigs and the mother herself. You'll need to encourage her into a transport cage through treats or her favourite vegetables/fruit.
 A veterinarian will be able to feel around your guinea pig's stomach and differentiate between the different lumps and bumps, something that you may not be able to do effectively on your own. Your vet should be able to tell whether or not your guinea pig is pregnant through a physical examination, but may also recommend additional testing, such as an ultrasound (see below).You vet may also be able to hear the piglets' heartbeats in the sow's abdomen., An ultrasound scan is the gold standard for pregnancy diagnosis among guinea pigs. Unlike in other species, the stress of taking blood can adversely affect the health of pregnant guinea pigs. Moreover, there is no commercial pregnancy test available for guinea pigs.An ultrasound scan can visualize exactly what the bumps are and confirm a pregnancy.
The ultrasound exam involves involves clipping a small square of fur and applying gel to the exposed skin. Then, the ultrasound probe is placed on skin and emits a high-frequency sound that is inaudible to human ears. The probe records the echoes as the sound waves bounce back in order to determine the size, shape, and consistency of internal tissues and organs. This information is then translated into an image. In other words, you will be provided with a visual of your guinea pig's abdomen and the doctor can then confirm or disconfirm a pregnancy.
Ultrasounds are non-invasive and do not require sedation.
 If the vet confirms that your pig pregnant, then it is important that you make sure you know how to properly care for her. A pregnancy puts stress on the sow's organs and circulation system. Moreover, any rodent that is pregnant carries a one in five chance of dying as a direct result of complications during or after pregnancy or birth.