 Lists are awesome. Obviously, you know where you are going, how long you'll be gone, and which activities you expect to fill your weekend. As you go on with your day (before you pack), write down all the essentials you need or go through it in your head. Write down all of the things that you will need: clothing, toiletries, electronics, money, identification. When you can't think of anything else, read over the list. Consider which items are nonessential, which items require accessories (e.g. phone and phone charger, contacts and contact case, toothbrush and toothpaste), and what, if anything, you may have forgotten.;
, If you will only be gone for a weekend, you should be able to fit everything you need into a backpack or a small carry-on suitcase. Put your books, electronics, and immediate necessities into a small backpack for easy access. Pack clothing and other space-intensive items into a light bag or suitcase. Choose your luggage before you pack so that the available space can help you with the decision process.


Bring one or two bags, depending on your means of transportation. If you are flying, you might try to fit everything into one carry-on to avoid checked luggage fees; however, you may as well bring a few extra things if you are taking a road trip and you have plenty of space in your car.
Consider where you are going and how you plan to spend your money. If you think you'll buy clothes and other items, save space!
Keep a collapsible bag or day-pack in the front pocket of your suitcase. If your bag is too heavy, you can put some stuff into the extra bag. This is also a good place to put any souvenirs that you pick up.
 Are you traveling to a place with cell service? Will you actually spend any time on your computer if you bring it? Do you want to listen to music on the way there? Do you need a camera?


Make sure to bring chargers and extra batteries. If you will be doing a lot of driving, consider bringing a car charger.
If you’re going abroad and you don’t want to pay roaming charges on your phone, you may be able to leave it on airplane mode but connect to the local WiFi. This way, you’ll be able to access email and Internet if needed.
 Consider which information you will need to facilitate a smooth, safe trip. Make sure that you have this information written down or accessible from your phone. If you won't have access to the Internet, make sure to print out physical copies of permits, contact information, and directions. Consider the following documents and information:


Your passport, if you’re leaving the country.
A photo ID.
The name, phone number, and address of the hotel or home you’re staying in.
Emergency contact info for anyone at home.
 You want to make sure you know where everything is so you aren't scrambling to look for it later. For example: put all your clothes together in one spot of your bag, suitcase or whatever you're bringing to pack your items in. Make sure to put anything small, or that could get loose in your bag, into a small pocket or bag.

