 The most basic, and also most natural looking, dot eyeliner look is created with either brown or black eyeliner. Black is generally preferred if you want to create a doll-like appearance, which is often the aim of this trend.To make sure your look stays put, use a waterproof eyeliner.Start with brown eyeliner if black feels too dramatic for you.
Liquid and pencil formulas both work great, although a liquid liner will provide the most control and precision.;
, Along with using waterproof formulas, prepping your eye area with concealer first will help keep your look long lasting and smudge proof. Apply a creamy concealer directly beneath both eyes, taking care to work it all the way up to your lash line. Blend it in so that it looks natural, then dust the area with translucent powder to set the concealer.
 For the most natural look, create the two dots close to the bottom lash lines. If you want a little more impact, draw the dots a few millimeters away from the lash line. The further you stray from the lash line, the more dramatic and noticeable the results are. The size of the dot is up to you. Draw pinpoints for a bohemian flair; go bigger to create more drama.








Make sure you line up the dots with your pupils so that everything appears symmetrical.Don’t go any larger than the width of a pencil eraser. Anything larger will have a clown-like effect.
 Dot eyeliner enjoyed immense popularity in the 60s because of the model Twiggy, who used the makeup trick to emphasize her lashes and create a wide-eyed, demure look. Apply the dots, then brush several coats of mascara onto your top lashes.









Normally you’d want to avoid clumps of lashes getting stuck together, but this look is emphasized even more by dramatic “clumps” of top lashes.
 To avoid looking theatrical (unless that’s what you’re going for!), keep the rest of your makeup simple and fresh-looking. Use foundation or BB cream to even out your skin tone and put on a small amount of blush to give your cheeks a healthy glow. Apply cream eyeshadow in a neutral shade, then shape your eyebrows so that they frame your face in a natural-looking way.








A bright lip is sometimes worn with this look, or you can go for a nude lip so that all of the emphasis is on your eyes.

