 Take note of the spider's primary color - usually a shade of brown (like the mouse spider), black (like the cobweb spider), or grey. Also look for color variations (as with the jumping spider), subtle or not so subtle, that will give you a clue as to what type of spider you're looking at.


Does the spider have spots, or coloration in a striking shape like the brown widow’s hourglass marking or the brown recluse's classic violin?
Are the legs the same color as the body?
Note that many species of spider have similar coloring, so looking at this characteristic alone won't be enough to give you a definitive answer.
 If possible, examine the spider’s eight legs a bit more closely. Look at the size of the legs in proportion to the body. Some spiders have long, thin legs (like the yellow sac), while others have stocky, thick legs (like the wolf spider). Some spiders (such as the lynx spider) have tiny hairs on their legs, while others have spikes (such as the funnel spider) or fur.
 The number and location of eyes varies widely among different spider species.If you can, get close enough to look at the spider's eye size, count and arrangement. It’s often easiest to take a picture of the spider, then zoom in to see the eye count and pattern.


While the spitting spider is one of the exceptions, most spiders have eight eyes, sometimes equal in size (like the nursery web spider), but other times with two (like the portia) or four of the eight much more prominent; the eyes can also be arranged in many different patterns.
 If you're insistent on figuring out exactly what species of spider you've spotted, take a picture of it. If possible, try to capture a picture of the spider's underside as well as the top. Since so many spiders look alike, it's impossible to know for sure what you're seeing until you compare the spider's image to those of other spiders that have been definitively classified by scientists.
 Some spiders are aggressive (like the Brazilian wanderer), and will start moving toward you when they notice your presence. Others hide (like the crab spider), and still others stay put instead of moving. Pay attention to any other behaviors you notice that could help you figure out what type of spider it is., If you have a moment after taking note of the spider's appearance and habits, you can use the World Spider Catalog,the online Journal of Arachnology,and other resources put together by experts to look up the spider and compare it to pictures of different species.


WikiHow is also a handy source for spider info — check out the identification guides on, for instance: Garden Spider; Barn Spider; Redback Spider; Tarantula


