 Even a change of 10° from the prescribed range can cause damage to the repaired ACL. There are certain angles of movement that are prohibited because these might re-injure the surgically repaired knee.Your doctor will give you guidelines to follow regarding the dial settings that govern your range of movement.
 You can take your brace off to do this. Your knee will swell up after you surgery and ice can help to reduce that swelling. Ice can also help to reduce pain. Ice your knee for 20 minutes every hour.


Make sure that there is some sort of barrier, like a cloth or towel, between your skin and the ice to prevent frostbite.
 While your brace is meant to protect your knee, during the first week after surgery, your knee will need extra support. Generally, patients who undergo ACL surgery will remain on crutches for a week or more following their surgery. It is very important that you know the proper way to use crutches, otherwise you may cause more harm to your knee or other parts of your body (i.e., hips, ankles and low back).


Generally, a physical therapist will visit you to demonstrate the proper technique for using crutches and assist you while you learn. However, you can also click here to read about how to use crutches.
 No matter what your career, you will need to take at least a few days off work. The type of work you perform will influence the amount of time you will remain on medical leave. For example, if your position does not require heavy lifting or physical activities, you may be able to return to work within a week of your surgery. On the other hand, if you are a construction worker, chances are you will remain off work or working part-time at a modified, less physical position until you complete a certain number of physical therapy sessions for your knee.


While you may find it difficult to remain off work for an extended period, these stipulations are in place for your protection. You need to give your knee enough time to recover from your ACL surgery. Your surgeon will determine when you are healthy enough to resume your typical work-related duties.
 You will most likely be told to sleep with the brace on for the first two to four weeks after your surgery. Sleeping with the brace on will speed up your recovery process and will keep any injuries from happening to your ACL while you sleep. For the maximum effect:


Place a pillow under your ankle to help the brace do its job of reducing any swelling that occurs and keeping your leg straight.

Never put a pillow under your recovering knee, as this will slow down the rehabilitation process.
 You should not attempt to drive until you are able to stand fully on the foot attached to your injured knee without assistance from anyone. This could take up to six weeks after your surgery, so make arrangements if you need to get somewhere via car.
 Wrap the brace in plastic wrap and ensure that there are no spots where water could get in, as you should avoid getting your brace wet as much as possible. It may also help to place a stool that you can sit on in the shower while you wash yourself.Remove the plastic wrap as soon as you get out of the shower to avoid excess moisture from seeping into your brace.
 Moist skin that remains damp is a good breeding ground for bacteria so it is best to wipe your skin off with a towel. Replace the knee brace as soon as your skin is dry.
 During the first two weeks after surgery, your brace will most likely be set to full straight leg mode. This should not keep you from walking. In fact, one of the main purposes of the brace is to encourage you to start moving again as soon as possible after your surgery.


Before going on long walks or trips, make sure that the brace straps are tight so that your brace can give you the support it is meant for.
 During rehabilitation sessions, your physical therapist will most likely ask you to remove your brace for at least part of the session. If, however, your physical therapist does not advise you to remove your brace, do not remove it.
 Your brace should only really act as a support for the first few weeks after your surgery, so it should be thought of as a temporary aid. Surgery can disrupt your brain’s awareness of your knee, so to regain this awareness you should start rehabilitation as soon as possible.Talk to your physical therapist about a game plan for your recovery so that you can start recovering the function of your knee and depend less on your brace.

