 Use a quality whey protein or other protein additive. Verify that your protein additive has all essential amino acids. Amino acids help your body maintain blood and organ functions. They also help boost your metabolism.


Ensure that your protein has low levels of cholesterol, which is not a necessary addition to healthy protein options.
Determine if the additive contains natural proteins. Artificially produced proteins aren't as effective in building muscles as natural proteins. This should be apparent on the label — if not, ask a sales representative.
 Generally, aim to have a 2:1 or 3:1 ratio of carbohydrates to protein, especially after a workout.Plan this in advance by reading nutrition labels on your shake ingredients. It may help to write down what you are putting in your shake, and include how many grams of carbs and protein your ingredients contain. That way you can tweak your recipe to get the desired ratio.
 Unlike the natural carbohydrates found in grains and seeds, processed carbs are not good for your body. Starch and extra sugar is added to many foods, like cereal, snack bars, frozen and prepackaged meals, and energy drinks.Check nutrition labels and don’t add anything to your shake that contains high fructose corn syrup and other sugary, processed ingredients.
 Although it’s best to snack on fruits, veggies, and whole grains to get carbs, you can also add carbohydrate supplements to a shake before, during, or after your workout. These “high glycemic” carbs — dextrose, glucose, and maltodextrin — require little digestion and give you a quick blood sugar spike.This helps your body absorb protein and repair muscle better.Waxy maize is another complex carb supplement that helps your body refuel by replenishing its sugar stores (called glycogen)., Start the blender at a slow speed and turn it up to medium. Shut the blender off, and pour your blended shake into a glass or travel mug. Make sure the texture is smooth and there are no sharp chunks in your shake before you enjoy it.

