 Body builders looking to bulk up quickly might choose egg powder unless they have egg white allergies. Eggs have a biological value (BV) of 0.93, which means that they are essentially the perfect protein. Eggs contain all of the essential amino acids needed to help you maintain your muscle mass and are the most complete set of amino acids other than human milk. It can also help your muscles to recover after an intense workout.


In addition to helping you maintain your muscle mass, egg protein powder can help to make you feel full, which makes it an ideal protein powder if you are trying to lose weight.
Egg proteins are free of lactose and hence suitable for lactose intolerant people.
Egg proteins are the most bioavailable since they are bound to essential fats in the form of lipo-proteins.
 Milk protein powder can help you to lower your body mass and is thought to be able to help you lower your blood pressure. It can help your muscles to recover after a hard workout, and helps your body to synthesize new muscle protein.


Milk protein is generally consumed after a workout, as it helps your muscles to recover and retain their mass.
Do not use milk protein if you are allergic to lactose as it will have the same effect as drinking milk.
 Whey is the watery substance that is made when milk is made into cheese. Whey protein synthesizes new muscle protein more effectively than regular milk protein powders, which makes it the ideal protein powder if you are looking to bulk up with resistance training. The body can absorb whey protein quickly. However, this protein may cause you some gastrointestinal distress if you are lactose intolerant.


There are three different levels of whey protein: whey protein, whey protein isolate, and advance whey protein isolate. these levels are based on the filtering process each powder has gone through. The more a powder is filtered, the easier it will be for you to take if you are lactose intolerant. This means that if you are lactose intolerant, you would have the least gastrointestinal distress when using advanced whey protein isolate.
However, these advanced powders can be very expensive.

