 Choosing the right hospital can make all the difference. Do your research before you need to go to the emergency room so you will know exactly where to go when an emergency happens.


If you have insurance, make sure you know which hospitals are considered in-network and which are considered out-of-network. Your bill will likely be much lower if you choose an in-network facility.
If you do not have insurance, contact the hospitals in your area to see if any of them offer discounts to uninsured patients. You may even be able to find a facility that offers up-front cash prices, so there won't be any surprises.;
, Even if you have insurance, your copayment and deductible may be very high for an emergency room visit. If possible, set aside some money for emergencies little by little.


If you have access to a flexible spending account through work, this is a great way to pay for medical expenses. You can generally deposit up to $2500/year into your account, and you won't have to pay income taxes on this money.If you don't have access to a flexible spending account, consider opening a savings account at your bank to use as an emergency fund. Setting up automatic transfers from your checking account to you savings account might make it easier to get in the habit of putting money away.
 You should never avoid going to the emergency room for financial reasons during a true emergency. Depending on the situation, however, the emergency room might not be the best choice. Choosing a doctor's office or urgent care facility over an emergency room for appropriate conditions can save you thousands.If you do not need immediate treatment for your condition, consider scheduling an appointment with a doctor.
If you need immediate care, but your condition is not serious or life-threatening, consider an urgent care facility.
If there is any danger whatsoever that your condition may be serious, it is best to visit the emergency room.
 If you end up going to the emergency room, verify that the hospital is included in your insurance plan if possible. You may want to call your insurance company's service center if you are not sure if the hospital is in-network.


Provide your insurance information during the emergency room visit. If you have insurance, your policy will be billed. Whether you are insured or lack coverage, usually you won't be asked to pay anything upfront. Bills arrive later.
Confirm that the hospital will not charge you anything upfront. Most hospitals will not deny you help because of your inability to pay.

