 This means they are slightly under-ripe.


Make sure the bananas have no brown spots or blemishes. Bruises and punctures leave the banana exposed to air, which speeds up the ripening process.
Do not choose bananas that are already yellow. Bananas ripen at a rapid pace and their shelf-life is very short.For this reason, you want to make sure you buy bananas that are on the greener side; this will give you more time to properly store your bananas before the ripening process occurs.;
, Avoid exposing them to heat as this will speed up the ripening process.


Do not place bananas in the fridge before they are ripe. This can actually have a reverse effect and turn your banana peels brown faster. This occurs because the cold causes the cell walls to break down prematurely, which allows the production of melanin, turning bananas completely black. Contra-intuitively, the inside of the banana will still not be ripe since the cold inhibits the ripening process of the fruit., This prevents them from getting bruised and becoming exposed to air. You can also seal the stem of the banana bunch with plastic wrap.This limits the amount of oxygen the stem receives and can keep bananas fresh for another week.
 Fruits and vegetables give off a gas that speeds ripening.


Storing produce together can speed up the ripening process. Plants naturally produce a gas called ethylene, which causes them to ripen. Fruits or vegetables that are already brown give off more ethylene than normal, causing nearby fresh produce to ripen faster.
Do not store bananas in sealed bags. This will cause the bananas to turn brown faster because the ethylene hormone will be unable to escape from the air surrounding the bananas.
 Now that the ripening process has begun, you can safely delay it with the application of cold temperature.


To stop ripening, you need to slow down the chemical reaction. Cold temperatures will slow down the reaction, delaying the banana fruit from ripening.
Do not be alarmed if your banana peel turns completely black, which it most likely will. This is due to the pigment of the peel turning black and does not have anything to do with the actual freshness of the banana. The banana should still taste flavorful and remain slightly firm.

