 Do this first so it is hot enough when you begin soldering. Make sure the tip of the iron is not touching anything, and that it is safely out of the way so you do not accidentally bump into it.;
,,


If the cable is too big to fit in one of the gauge holes on a wire cutter, use the sharp edge at the base of the cutters or a pair of scissors.






Apply light pressure with the cutting tool and spin the cable around until you cut all the way through the outer jacket. Be careful to avoid cutting the conductor wires.
 Many cables have 4 conductors. If this is the case, just twist the common colors together.
 Applying a small amount of solder to the twisted ends keeps them together and it easier to connect them to the RCA end.


Heat up the wire and hold the solder on the opposite the iron touching the wire. The heated conductor wire should provide a high enough temperature for the solder to melt and apply an even coat.
 If you plan on making multiple cables for a stereo application, use a different colored shrink wrap for the left and right channel.


Cut a shrink wrap tube about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long. Slide the shrink wrap over the the conductor wires onto the cable itself. Let the end of the shrink wrap hang slightly over the end of the cable, but not past the conductor wire tips.






Heat the shrink wrap with a blow dryer.
, This is necessary in order to be able to screw the end together once you've soldered it.
 Find the U-shaped piece that runs in line with the center pin. Insert the tinned conductor end into the "U" and apply the soldering iron to the wire. This will heat up the solder and connect it to the center pin. If necessary, apply a small amount of solder over the top of the wire to assure a solid connection.
 Find the long tab that extends out of the RCA end and has a hole in the center. Insert the tinned ground connector into the hole and apply the soldering iron to the conductor wire. This should be adequate enough to make a solid connection. If needed, apply a small amount of solder on top.
