 Choose a regular time to talk to your friend so that they know there is a space for them to air their concerns and receive support. It doesn’t have to be daily, but it ensures your friend has a consistent space for support.


During your scheduled talk time, focus on the conversation. Don’t accept interruptions such as calls or texts unless absolutely necessary. They might make it seem as though you are not focused on your friend. Agree to set phones and other distractions in another area until you finish.
Have specific times to not talk about the disorder. It is important to give your friend a safe space to talk about anorexia, but dwelling on the subject for too long can be harmful. A study in the Journal of Abnormal Psychology suggests that ruminating thoughts can increase the desire to abstain from food. Take 10 or 15 minutes each conversation to talk about subjects your friend enjoys. Keep that time free of eating disorder discussions.;
, Encourage your friend to set guidelines for your talk time that let them feel safe sharing. These could include:


Agreeing to not share their struggles with others
Ensuring that you are not in a place where your conversation can be overheard
Avoiding certain words or phrases that may cause them anxiety
Avoiding certain actions such as snacking while you talk

, Direct the conversation away from matters of weight and beauty as general points of conversation.


If your friend wants to talk about weight or body image, encourage them to look at why they feel the way they do. Instead of saying “but you look great,” try “you seem to anxious when you avoid food. What causes that anxiety?”
Find shared interests to discuss. If talking about emotions causes distress, make sure you have some safe conversation topics to help your friend refocus. Talk about a book, show, or hobby you both enjoy.
 Your friend is going through a hard time where they may be working to gain weight, and focusing how good they look at a particular stage may cause resistance moving forward. Instead, focus on why your friend is a wonderful person.Make sure you highlight the good points of your friend’s personality. Encourage them with things like “I like talking to you because you are so funny and intelligent,” or “you always impress me with how positive and upbeat you are.”
Celebrate your friend’s accomplishments. If they do well at work, make a good grade on an exam, or simply do something they are particularly proud of, congratulate their success and acknowledge how hard they worked.
Make sure your friend knows that you believe in them. There are many ways to express support for someone, but nothing beats hearing “I know how strong you are and I believe in you.”

