 Before you make any major changes to your puppy’s feeding routine, it is important to consult your vet. Bring your puppy in for a wellness visit to allow your vet to assess your dog’s current health and its overall needs.Ask your vet specific questions like, “Should I put my puppy on a specific type of dog food?” and “How many times a day do I need to feed my puppy? How much should they eat each feeding?”
If you have concerns about your puppy’s weight, whether you believe they need to gain or lose weight, always consult your vet about the best method to implement a weight change program.;
, Your dog’s age and size play an important role in determining their feeding schedule. Puppies under five months should generally be fed in smaller portions three times a day, while older puppies can be fed slightly larger portions twice a day.Your dog’s size, generally determined by weight, lets you know how much you should be feeding your pet. For example, a toy breed like a Pomeranian might only eat 3/4 of a cup of food a day, while a large breed such as a German Shepard can eat up to 2 cups.
Since calorie count varies between brands of dog food, it’s best to consult your vet or the food manufacturer’s recommendations to determine how much your dog should eat every day.
 An important part of creating a feeding schedule for your dog is picking food that will give them the nutrients they need between feedings. Look for foods that minimize fillers such as corn and that have a high ratio of proteins such as beef or chicken.Puppies have different nutritional needs than adult dogs. Look for foods formulated specifically for puppies to ensure that your puppy has their nutritional needs met.
Keep your dog on puppy food until they are at least one year old. Consult your vet before transitioning them from puppy food to adult dog food.
 Remember that while you are feeding your dog at certain pre-determined times, clean, fresh water should be made available to them all day. Place the water bowl somewhere accessible and refill it whenever it is empty.


Clean the water dish with soap and hot water every day to two days to keep the water clean and drinkable for your dog.
 Creating a healthy eating routine for your puppy is most readily done when you establish a consistent schedule. While some variation is inevitable, try your best to find consistent times each day when you can feed your dog.Make sure you feed your puppy during times when you can consistently monitor them. Do not, for example, place food down and then immediately leave for work, as you will not be able to monitor your dog’s food intake.
Try to avoid feeding your dog right before bed or nap time. The ideal time to feed your puppy is generally when you eat breakfast and dinner, or immediately thereafter.
 When feeding time comes, fill the food dish with fresh dog food and put it down for your dog. Leave the food down for an hour or so and see how much your dog eats. This can help you adjust your portions accordingly.For very young puppies who are just past weaning, it is ok to leave the dry food down for them to pick at intermittently.
Remember that manufacturer portion sizes are suggestions. If you notice your dog eating a little less or craving a little more than what the package recommends, adjust your portions to fit.
If your dog is eating substantially less or craving much more than the recommended serving, consult your vet as soon as possible for recommendations to adjust their feeding.
 Part of keeping your puppy on a healthy eating schedule is planning out treats and excess calories accordingly. Plan to give food-based treats sparingly between feedings for specific behaviors or occasions, such as during obedience training.The number of treats you can reasonably give depends upon the nutritional value of each treat. In general, treats should account for no more than ten percent of your puppy's’ caloric intake.
Supplement food-based treats with other rewards such as positive physical and verbal reinforcement.
 If you have previously allowed your dogs to free-feed, you might find that they make noise or beg in between feedings. Consult your vet to make sure your dogs are getting enough food, and if they are, ignore their pleading. It may take time, but eventually they will adjust to the new schedule.


Watch your dogs to make sure they are still healthy and active. If they appear to be lethargic, they may be letting you know they need more food.
 Most puppies should transition to an adult dog food and feeding routine when they are between one and two. However, it is important to talk to your vet and make sure your puppy is healthy and developmentally on track before transitioning food.Take your puppy in for a wellness check at one year and ask your vet, “Is my puppy ready to transition to adult dog food?”
Work with your vet to establish a timeframe and method for transitioning the food.
 If your puppy is still on a three meal feeding routine when you are getting ready to transition them to adult food, start by adjusting them to a two meal a day routine. Feed your puppy the same overall amount of food, but divided between one morning and one evening meal, rather than three meals.Scheduling an afternoon treat may help your dog with the transition in the beginning, as does leaving the morning food bowl down for a bit longer if your dog does not eat the whole thing.
 Transition your puppy to a nutrient-rich adult food gradually. Start by mixing one part adult food and three parts puppy food to get your puppy acclimated. Then, transition one part at a time every two to three days until your puppy is eating a full bowl of adult food.Expect that even a gradual transition may cause your puppy gastrointestinal distress. Be prepared for more frequent bathroom breaks or make training pads available.

