 A bird's nest arrangement will only work if you're remaining close, or you're able to be in town when it's your turn for custody of the kids.;
, A bird's nest arrangement is about ensuring that the kids are the least disrupted, while the adults, who are theoretically more able to cope with the disruption, bear the brunt of the changes.


Consider the value of the bird's nest arrangement with respect to the custody arrangement. If you have custody of the kids most of the time and your spouse only gets an occasional weekend or week here and there, the bird's nest arrangement isn't worthwhile. If, however, you both have joint or fairly equal custody, the bird's nest arrangement makes good sense.
The bird's nest arrangement should be accounted for as part of the custody agreement.
 You'll need to be able to afford a separate residence away from the family home, and so will your spouse. This means that three residences are being maintained. While the external residences don't need to be anything large, they will need to be somewhere you can keep your belongings and personal needs that sustain you when you're away from the family home. An one-bedroom apartment, studio or even a shared condo or house might work fine.
 The bird's nest arrangement will work only where the two of you are still amicable and able to confer easily about continuing household arrangements and the kids' needs.


Both of you will need to be prepared to maintain consistency of purpose, discipline, and child-raising techniques to make it work well; this means being able to discuss things clearly rather than taking each discussion as an opportunity to argue.
 Be frank and honest, while at the same time reassuring them that they'll keep the routine, continuity, and permanency that they're used to, while they'll also continue to have a new type of continuity with the parenting.
 This includes parenting rules and also the usual routine of home maintenance, etc.


Work out payments of rates, electricity, and other utilities, etc. Develop a house account, and have limits on spending.
Work out what will happen on special occasions such as birthdays, school outings, etc.
Consider having household and house maintenance arrangements drawn up as a contract. That way, everything is clear.