 Approach all difficulties by acting like a team. Make decisions based not on what will benefit an individual partner, but on what will benefit the team as a whole. Since life is constantly in flux, try to think of the word team as an active, dynamic verb instead of a static noun.This means you should both be adaptable and open to different positions within the team. Encourage each other rather than compete. One partner having a higher income, for instance, should be a source of esteem and value for your relationship instead of a field of competition between the two of you.
For example, if children enter the picture, your roles will change. Try to shift your roles based on what’s best for the family as a whole, like choosing a primary caregiver or stay-at-home parent based on your incomes instead of based on societal expectations, like gender.
 View your resources and obstacles as shared, rather than only belonging to one partner. Designate a regular time, whether once a day or once a week, to build strategies for solving specific problems.Examples could include financial dilemmas, scheduling conflicts, or personal disagreements. During your brainstorm sessions, identify a problem, brief the other about it, and discuss practical solutions.
For example, suppose your company has offered you a travel opportunity and your partner is concerned about the financial and personal strains it will introduce. Give them the opportunity to voice their concerns, then relate to them how the opportunity is vital for your career goals.
Work together to identify ways of addressing the financial issues, like how you can decrease your own cost of living while you’re away, asking your company for a higher relocation allowance, and choosing which non-essentials your partner can cut to decrease the financial strain.
Talk about how to stay in close communication, like video chatting regularly, deciding how often you can talk on the phone, or finding ways to make visiting each other affordable. Finally, discuss ways that you can make comparable future sacrifices that will benefit your partner’s career goals.
 When both partners have their own careers and professional goals, household management can become a source of constant conflict. To avoid disagreements about who does the cleaning or who cooks dinner, designate chores and duties for each partner to complete on specific days. Be open to switching up the schedule if necessary, like if your partner can’t cook dinner on their designated night due to a work event.For example, you cook dinner on alternating days, and whoever doesn’t cook cleans up and does the dishes. Try developing an alternating chore roster elsewhere, like you clean the bathrooms one week and your partner cleans them the next.
Try not to come down too hard on each other if one of you doesn’t puts off a household chore. Try to have realistic expectations of each other and to be empathetic when it comes to household labor instead of being each other’s bosses., Your careers are obviously individual priorities, but do your best to find common principles that deepen your relationship. Examples could include character traits, a genre of art or literature, religious faith, music, or health and fitness. Try to remind yourselves of the things you have in common rather than focus solely on the conflicts your divergent careers generate.Once you’ve identified those values, be sure to take time away from work to pursue them together. If you both value cooking, take a cooking class together. If you both love being outdoors, hike a different trail every Saturday.

