 When pressed, this can keep you from making wrong decisions, because you internally know you shouldn't do it, but if you actually thought about it, you just might do it. Start off small, like putting what you need for work in a certain place immediately after arriving home.;
, If something isn't working for you, don't put yourself in the position to do it. That could be something like shopping, gaming, spending money, etc.
 They are what is getting you into trouble. Stop and think...and then think some more. It is something like picking up something at the store, and walking around with it for a while before purchasing it. You will often find yourself deciding you don't need it.
 If you are that tired, then sleep. Fighting the 'sleep monster' does no one any good.
 Don't wait until later in the day when you might forget about it or simply be too tired to deal with it.
 Try eating energy rich foods more often; a little at a time.
, There is something positive in just about everything...even the worst things. Look for it and find it.
 They aren't going to be in your front room waving their arms in front of the TV. You are going to have to do some searching. It could be days, week, or even months.
 We are our own worst enemy and you need to stop it. Teach yourself to be strong and to believe in yourself.
, Whether or not you created the problems, they are your problems. If you lost your job because the factory went out of business or the economy made your position unnecessary, consider that an opportunity to go in a different direction.
 Get out of the rut you are in and consider new paths.
 Some things are:


Go to school to improve your education and skill set
Consider your hobbies or find some new ones. Maybe you can incorporate that into your new life.
 Critical advice is great, but there is a limit to everything. Even good things can be overdone.


Being very lonely may keep you in a negative friendship. It may seem like the lesser of two evils, but in the end it will only make things much harder for you. Be brave and withdraw from negative people, and try to find more positive and supportive friends. It may take some time, but it will be helpful to your journey.
 When anything is too rigid, it will break. (Think earthquake fault lines)

