 Look into attending local yoga classes. Yoga should be effortless when performed correctly. Learning common phrases and poses will help you better understand the practice.


You can do this by watching online videos or conducting online research.;
, You want to practice yoga in a quiet environment where there are no distractions. Make sure you have plenty of space to move around. You can use a yoga mat, or towel, or you can use your bed to do yoga.


Perform the poses near a wall (a wall is required for one of the poses).
Play music or light a candle to help you better relax.
 Plan to spend between 10-40 minutes doing yoga, depending on if you choose to complete all the suggested poses. Make sure all your electronics are both silent or turned off and you are focusing on yourself.
 The formal practice of breathing is called Pranayama. You want to focus on inhaling and exhaling deeply in a balanced manner. By focusing your breathing you are allowing yourself to relax and tune into your body.
 You want to cross your legs so your feet are below the knees. Rest your hands on your knees and sit up tall, lengthening your spine. Focus on your breath as you release any distractions in your mind. Hold for 2-5 minutes or until you are relaxed.


This pose is a basic seated posture that helps calms your mind and helps relieve stress and anxiety.Variation: If you are having trouble and your hips feel tight prop yourself up on a blanket, pillow, or yoga block.
 Remain in the seated position, with your legs crossed, and reach your arms above your head on inhalation. Slowly bow forward, with your arms still extended, on exhalation. Rest your arms and forehead on the mat. Hold for 2-5 minutes.


This pose builds on the basic seated posture, Easy Pose. By adding a forward fold the pose becomes soothing and restorative. A forward fold will help restore balance while centering the mind. Variation: If you are having trouble and your hips feel tight prop yourself up on a blanket, pillow, or yoga block. Make sure to also prop your head if you choose to modify the pose.
 Remain in the seated position with your legs still crossed. Place your right hand on your left knee as you inhale. Support yourself by placing your left hand behind you. Focus on your breathing as you twist your body. Hold for 1 minute, then switch sides.


This posture is believed to help regulate nervous energy and help maintain balance. , Reach your arms above your head on inhalation. Slowly bow forward with your arms extended on exhalation. Hold on to your shins, ankles, or feet (as flexibility allows). Hold for 1 minute.


This pose promotes relief from stress, reduced anxiety, a calmer mind and stimulates/balances multiple organs. Make sure to bend from the hip joint and not the waist.

Variation: If your hamstrings are tight you can bend your knees or place a yoga block or rolled up blanket under your knees. A belt or yoga band can also be used to wrap around the soles of your feet and be held with both hands.
 Raise your left leg vertical as you inhale, using your hands to clasp the back of your thigh. Keep your foot flexed and hold for 1 minute. Lower your left leg and repeat with the right leg.


This pose helps develop patience, relaxation, and surrender while opening the hips and reducing lower back pain. Variation: If this pose is difficult you can bend the lower leg so that the foot is flat on the mat. A pillow or yoga block can also be used to raise the heel of the lower leg.
 Place your feet directly below your knees at a hip-width apart. Lift your pelvis as you inhale, using your hands for support. Relax your arms next to you, or use them to support your back. Hold for 1 minute.


This pose can be rejuvenating for those who spend a lot of time sitting or driving. Since it is a mild inversion it helps provide relief from stress, anxiety and fatigue. Variation: If you are having a hard time keeping your hips lifted, you can use a yoga block or pillows to rest under your tail bone.
 Bring your knees to your chest and extend your arms to your side to make a T with your body. Turn your knees to the right and your head to the left as you exhale. Hold for 1-3 minutes then repeat on the other side.


A twist helps squeeze out the anxiety of frustration of your day. It strengthens your abdominal muscles and helps to remove toxins. , Align your buttocks with the wall. Lift your legs in the air and set them against the wall. Rest your arms to your side with palms facing upwards. Close your eyes and hold for 3-5 minutes


This inverted pose brings the body into a state of relaxation and renewal. Variation: If your neck needs greater support you can place a pillow underneath.
 Let your arms and legs relax. Allow yourself to breathe naturally and allow your body to feel heavy. Relax your face. Hold for 3-5 minutes, or use it to drift off into sleep.