 If you decide to build a serious brick Barbecue pit, you will need some good plans and plenty of time and material. You will need to use mortar to fix the bricks or blocks you use, so be sure you are comfortable taking this on. Once you build a fixed aboveground Barbecue pit, it’s not so easy to knock it down again.
 These pits require quite a lot more equipment, expense and technical skills to construct. You will a shovel, mortar mix, cement mix, bricks or cinderblocks, a fire tray (depending on the height of your Barbecue), a grill, as well as a spirit level, water and hand tamps. You will also need metal braces to attach you grill to the bricks.
 A big brick Barbecue is a heavy thing that needs good foundations to support it. It is possible to use a base of stone and sand like the more simple versions, but it is recommended that for a large fixed pit, you prepare you solid foundations. To do this, you will need to dig down around four inches inside the area where you are building the Barbecue, and pour in concrete.








You will need to leave for around 48 hours to set.
It’s also a good idea to have a slight slope so rainwater will run off the concrete rather than collecting on top of it., When the foundations are set, you need to start building up the bricks around the sides using the mortar, trowel, and hand tamper. Take time over this, and keep it nice and neat. Mortar dries relatively quickly, so be sure to have all your bricks or cinderblocks to hand before you start.









Put bricks in the corners first, and work out from there, removing the excess mortar that is squeezed out from between bricks as you go.Fill any gaps with excess mortar.
Each new layer of bricks should begin with a layer of mortar on top of the previous layer on bricks, which the new bricks are placed onto.
Be sure to look at a brick laying tutorial first, if you haven’t done this before., Once you have got your bricks up to the height you want, add one more layer of mortar and affix the metal braces at the appropriate places on the top layer of bricks.This should set fairly quickly, but don’t walk off and leave it. Once it is set attach the grill across the top.
