 Even a friendly cat often panics in a trap. Wear heavy gloves when near the cat, and have a thick towel or blanket ready to throw over the cat if it tries to attack you. Avoid picking it up whenever possible; even if you avoid bites and scratches, the cat may resent the person who handles it.

If absolutely necessary, transfer the cat to a carrier as follows:
1. Set the carrier on its end, with the door at the top.
2. Get behind the cat and scruff it firmly at the neck with your dominant hand.
3. Push down on the cat's back immediately with your other hand, until you can get hold of both back legs.
4. Stretch your arms apart as far as you can, lift the cat, and put it rear-end-first into a carrier.
5. Quickly close the door on top of the cat. Hold the door down with one hand and brace the carrier between your legs until you have latched the door securely.
 Ideally, the room should be escape-proof, quiet, unused, easily cleaned, and almost completely empty. Spare bathrooms and fully-enclosed porches work well.Keep the following in this room:


A comfortable seat for you to sit in quietly while the cat becomes used to you.
A comfortable hiding place where the cat has a good view of the room. A cat carrier on a high shelf works well.
Water
Litter
You can include a scratching post, toys, and a (closed) window, but the cat may be too stressed to use them.
 Wear gloves and position the trap or carrier away from you when you let the cat out. Most cats will scurry right into the hiding spot, but some will attempt escape.


Keep the door closed. Cats can move very quick and may jump over you to reach the exit.
 Your safe room should have zero access to the other animals in your household, including being able to smell each other under doors, as disease can pass this way. Change your shoes and clothing and wash your hands and other exposed skin whenever you leave the safe room, to prevent transferring disease to other animals.


Cats can transmit diseases to humans as well. If the cat bites you, wash the wound with soap and water and ask your doctor immediately about the risk of rabies, which is fatal without a prompt vaccine. If the cat scratches you, wash with soap and water and visit the doctor if the area becomes red or swollen, or if you get swollen lymph nodes, a headache, fever, or exhaustion., Once it has calmed down a bit, enter the room quietly, bringing food and a camera. Try to get a good look at the cat, and ideally a good photo, so you can immediately begin to search for an owner.


Aggression is not likely, but leave immediately if you notice these warning signs: flat ears; visible eye whites or extra-wide pupils; a crouched, tensed appearance; or slow movement toward you with the head down.
Hissing and low growling with no other warning signs means the cat is afraid.Don't approach, but don't be scared of an attack either.
 Start searching for the cat's owners as soon as possible. If the cat doesn't have tags, try these methods:


Tell your neighbors.
Have a vet scan for a microchip ID.
Call local shelters and ask if anyone has called in a lost cat matching this one's description.
Put up flyers with the word FOUND in large font over a photo of the cat's face.
Check the Lost section of local newspapers. You may be able to place a Found ad for free.
Avoid sharing identifying details beyond the cat's color or pictures of the face.
 If someone calls you in response to your efforts, quiz them on the cat's sex or markings to confirm the owner's identity. If the cat has no telltale identifying markers, ask for a vaccination or medical record that includes a description of the cat, or for the contact details of the veterinarian. Although unlikely, there is a chance that an unethical caller will pretend to be the owner so they can sell the cat or adopt it for free.


If the cat has not been vaccinated or neutered/spayed (and escaped at an age when it should have been), consider notifying a shelter about the situation. The shelter may be willing to accept the cat and require the owners to have these medical procedures done before returning the animal.
 Always bring the food in personally and, if the cat will allow, sit in the room while the cat eats. Food is your best tool to earn trust. Allow it to eat alone if it will not eat in your presence, but be sure it sees that you provide the food.


A predictable routine will allow the cat to anticipate your visits, making your entry much less frightening and helping associate you with food.
Sit in your chair and read quietly for a few minutes, at least a few times a day. Try to be as non-threatening as possible: move slowly, stay as 'small' as you can by hunching over, do not make eye contact, close your eyes and pretend to sleep, and speak quietly or not at all.
 It may take two or three weeks of several brief, daily interactions before the cat acts calm and eats well around you. Once you're at this point, slowly extend your hand to place an extra-tasty treat near the cat. Get the treat as close to the cat as you can before it cringes, growls, or otherwise acts threatened. Do not throw the treat or extend your fingers. Repeat, bringing your hand closer as the cat allows. Eventually, you may be able to bring your hand near enough that the cat will smell it. Allow this, then retract your hand. If the cat approaches, try slowly petting the shoulder blades, or whichever area the cat rubs against you. Go slowly, as the cat may have a sensitive injury.



Pay attention to the cat's body language. Most strays will allow you to touch them once they've calmed down, and virtually all will give a warning signal if they are uncomfortable. (You may be able to ignore a brief hiss as long as it doesn't continue or escalate into a growl.)
There is a significant risk of injury if the cat is actually feral. If the cat has no collar and it has not meowed or approached you, check for signs of a feral.
 If you have made a reasonable effort to find the owner (required by law in some areas), and no one has responded after a month, you could adopt the cat or give it to a shelter. If you decide to let the cat join your household permanently, follow these steps:


Have a veterinarian perform a physical check up, test for feline leukemia, FIV, feline distemper, rabies, and worms, and vaccinate or treat as needed. Do not allow the cat to contact other pets in your house until this is done, not even by touching the same clothing.If the cat is not fixed, have it spayed or neutered to improve its health and behavior. Look for low-cost spay/neuter clinics if the cost is a burden.
Gradually introduce the cat to the rest of the house and its members, one room or animal at a time.

