 You will need a matchbox full of matches and any tape of your choice. It can be masking, duct, or electrical tape and it should preferably be a new roll of tape as you'll be using quite a bit of it. This particular matchbox bomb explodes and engulfs the entire box and its contents. It also needs more force set off compared to other versions of the matchbox bomb, like the flaming fireball and explosive fireball.


Glue and scissors are optional.;
, For most matchboxes, the striking strip will be another layer of material on top of the box that can be easily ripped off. Be sure to keep the structure of the box intact.









If you decide to cut the strip off or accidentally rip open the box, don't worry. You'll be taping up the box quite excessively later. Ripping the striking strip off is just done out of convenience.
 Measure it against the top of your matchbox, or where the tips of your matchsticks touch.









Alternatively, you can fold the the striking strip to fit.
 The striking side should face or touch the matchstick heads. When friction is applied, such as you throwing the matchbox against a surface, the striking strip will light all the matchsticks at once.









If you're concerned that the strip will not hold its place, you can glue or tape the non-striking side onto the top of the inside of the matchbox.
Make sure your matches are all facing the right way (with the match heads facing the inserted striking strip). Align them by tapping the box on a surface.
 Close the matchbox and tape the box in all directions; horizontally, vertically, and diagonally. Tape it until the corners are rounded or when the box feels cushioned.









Tape it tight or almost air-tight. This will ensure the matches stay in place and maximize its combustion effect.
You should hear no rattling once you're done taping.
For a bigger explosion, use duct tape or electrical tape. It's stronger and will help make the box more airtight.
For a more prolonged, flaming effect, masking tape or any paper-based tape will increase the flammability of the bomb.
 You can also set it off by hitting it with a tennis racket or bat. The matchbox will go off after a one second delay.









The match heads will rub against the striking strip and ignite. The gases from the flame will need to escape and since the box is almost airtight, a small scale explosion will follow to allow it to escape.Have a fire extinguisher or any other fire safety measures at ready in case an accident happens.

