 There are people that care about you. They will help to support you through this time. Trust that they may have advice about what you're feeling, and the rejection you've faced. You are not alone. Being with people that you care about will uplift your spirits.You may feel as though you want to be alone all of the time, but make an effort to interact and socialize with other people. While wanting to be alone is a natural response, you'll feel better in the long term if you keep socializing with other people.
Don't be afraid to let out your emotions in front of the people you trust. It's okay to cry and be sad.
If you are feeling like hurting yourself, talk with them about if they have been depressed about a loss before or had thoughts of suicide before. See if your friend can stay with you until those thoughts of suicide subside.
 We all have been sad, afraid, lonely, frustrated, and annoyed at one point or another. Difficult times happen, and it’s about what you do when they occur. Taking control of your life and your emotions often means being willing to ask for help.


Asking for help can mean a lot of different things. It’s not just about someone to talk with.
Be with others when you’re feeling down. Ask them to visit or if it’s okay to visit them.
Ask for time off or help with chores so you can focus on your own needs. Be with people you trust when you need some time off. See if others can help with chores while you focus on self-care.
 Finding a support system during tough times is key. If you have been disconnected with friends or family after this break-up or recent rejection, then find ways to reconnect with those other important people in your life.Hang out more with your good friends or family on the weekend.
Talk with close family members. Do things that you both enjoy.
Avoid unsupportive, judgmental, or toxic people during this time.
Consider finding new people to develop friendships with. Maybe someone who has been going through the same thing as you.
 While a recent break-up or rejection may feel like the end of the world, give yourself some time to heal. It's okay to be sad, but know that you can and will find other things or people that can make you happy again. Your worth is not based on one relationship or one person.Love yourself. You are worthwhile, and have many things to offer.
Make a list of all of your best qualities. Keep them positive. Do you make other people laugh? Do you have any special talents?
Remind yourself of how important you are to other people. If you are struggling with this, ask your friends and family for their input.
 Suicide eliminates hope. And there is hope. By creating a safety plan if you have suicidal thoughts, then you will be more in control of your feelings. Here is an example of a safety plan, from the first to last plans of action:Create or read through a list of positives about yourself. Address the positive things in your life that you have to live for.
Use various distractions to avoid suicidal thoughts.
Get a good night's sleep.
Delay any attempt for suicide. Wait 48 hours and continue with your safety plan.
Have at least three people to call when feeling depressed. Call a friend/family member you trust. Call another person that you trust. Call your therapist or healthcare provider. Call the National Suicide Prevention Helpline if still in crisis: 1-800-273-8255.
Go to a place where you feel safe.
Call an ambulance or go to an Emergency Room.

