 The ASPCA has a specific hotline for those dealing with the difficult decision of euthanizing a pet. The line gives you someone to talk to who will understand your grief throughout the process, as well as information about your dog’s quality of life at this stage and whether or not euthanasia may be the most humane option.


You can reach the ASPCA hotline at 1-877-GRIEF-10.
 Though it hurts to do and it always feels too soon, you’ll have to make an appointment for the vet to euthanize him when you know your dog is at the end of life. Your vet is likely to suggest this option if your dog’s condition has significantly deteriorated and the vet believes the dog is in pain.
 You’ll want to surround your dog with a few of his favorite things at the end. A favorite blanket and a soft toy are very common items that you may choose to bring with to help comfort him as he passes.Favorite blankets or a dog bed will also be much more comfortable for your dog than the exam table, especially if he’s already in discomfort.
 When you sign in for the appointment, you’ll also have a few forms to fill out, including a consent form signaling that you know what is about to happen. While filling out forms is the last thing you want to focus on, it is a necessary part of the process.
 If your dog is experiencing any pain or discomfort from a medical condition, ask the veterinarian about giving him a sedative. This will make your dog more comfortable, and it will give you the peace of mind later knowing that your dog passed without any pain., Once you’ve been taken back to the private room and placed your dog down on his blankets with any other items, focus all your energy on spending quality final moments with him. The veterinarian will have to finish setting up the necessary items, so use this time to offer soft praise to your dog. Tell him you love him and pet him in his favorite spots.
 Your vet will ensure you’re ready and then begin injecting the solution to euthanize your dog. Many people choose to hug their dog during these moments because the process is fairly quick. Between six and twelve seconds after the solution is delivered, your dog will take a deep breath and then appear to fall into a deep sleep before taking a few more final breaths.Some pet owners also prefer not to be in the room for the actual injection and passing.The veterinarian’s office is used to people who need to cope and grieve in their own ways. Ultimately decide what is right for you.
 Do not be embarrassed to cry in front of the vet or other employees at the clinic. They all understand what you’re going through. After your dog has passed away, your veterinarian will give you the option to spend some additional one-on-one time with your dog. Some owners take this opportunity to say a few last words to their dog while others choose to pass on this option.
 After giving you the time you need, your vet will discuss options concerning what to do with your dog’s remains. This may include releasing them to you for burial or cremating them, which the vet can take care of. You can choose cremation either with the intent to take the cremains with you or not.In some places, it is against the law for the vet to return your pet's body to you for burial.

