 Click on the “Numbers & Cards” tab on the top of the page and select “Social Security Number & Card.”, Print the Application for a Social Security Card. This is the same form you fill out to apply for a Social Security card the first time. Use 8.5”x11” (or A4) paper to print the form.You can also get the necessary form from your local Social Security office. You can locate your local office at their website.
 Read all of the instructions on page 3 of the application before completing the form.


Use the full 4-digit year (XXXX) to state your year of birth.
You are not required to provide race and ethnicity information to obtain a Social Security card.
You must sign the form yourself if you are 18 or older and are physically and mentally able to read and fill in the form. If you are not able to sign the form, you may have a legal guardian, parent, or close relative sign for you. If you cannot sign your name, you may sign the form with an “X” marking and have two other people sign the form as witnesses.
 You must bring documents that establish your identity with you when you apply for your replacement card. Documents issued in the United States are preferred. These documents must be unexpired. They should show your legal name, provide biographical information, and/or physical information (e.g., photograph or physical description).Preferred proof of identity documents include:

a valid U.S. driver’s license
a U.S. passport
a U.S. state-issued non-driver identity card


If you don’t have one of these documents, or can’t get a replacement within 10 working days, the Social Security office may accept other documents, such as:

a U.S. military identity card
employee identity card
health insurance or Medicaid card
school identity card


Birth certificates, Social Security card stubs, and Social Security records are not accepted as proof of identity.
 If you were born outside of the United States, you will need to bring additional documents with you to show your citizenship or immigration status.If you are a U.S. citizen but were born outside the United States, you will need to show evidence of your U.S. citizenship. Acceptable documents include:A U.S. passport
A Consular report of birth
A Certificate of Citizenship
A Certificate of Naturalization


If you are not a U.S. citizen, you must show proof of immigration status or work eligibility. Bring your original (not copies of) your visa or green card. You should also bring your foreign passport.
 You can apply for your replacement card one of two ways. You can apply in person at a local Social Security office. You can find your local office online at the Social Security website. Bring the completed application and required documents with you.You can also mail your original documents and your completed application to your local Social Security office. They will return the documents to you when they have completed the application process.
You may also call Social Security toll-free at 1-800-772-1213 to locate your nearest office.
 In most cases, you will receive your replacement card by mail within 7-14 days. If you applied in a Social Security office, they will tell you how long you can expect to wait to receive your card.

