 Survivors of physical abuse can find professional therapy and counseling helpful. Talking to a mental health professional can help you deal with feelings of anger, grief, depression, and fear due to the physical abuse. Look for a therapist who has worked with physical abuse victims in the past and who has experience in this area.Ask your primary care doctor to refer you to a therapist. You can also search for a therapist online.
Note that you do not have to wait until you have left the relationship before you seek counseling. Your therapist can support you as you prepare to leave and help you develop a safe action plan.
 Start by arranging a consultation with the therapist or the counselor. Meet with them and see if you feel comfortable speaking to them about the physical abuse. Discuss treatments you might try to address the physical abuse. Ask the therapist what they can offer you as you recover from this trauma.For example, they may suggest that you attend a support group for survivors of abuse. They may also suggest role play therapy and play therapy, especially if you are a child who has experienced abuse.
 Try to have scheduled sessions with the therapist or counselor. Try to have the sessions at the the same time every week. Stick to a regular schedule for the sessions so you are motivated to go to them and can feel you are progressing.You may start by going to therapy once a week (or more) or twice a month. Your therapist will suggest a schedule for you to help you deal with your experiences of physical abuse.
Feel free to take notes during your session and be sure to do any reading or "homework" your therapist suggests.
 Going to therapy can help you deal with the lasting effects of physical abuse, which can include trust issues, anxiety, low self-esteem, relationship issues, substance abuse, and anger issues. Speaking to a therapist or counselor on a regular basis can give you the tools necessary to address these issues and move past them.


Therapy can also help you identify any patterns of abuse that you may not be aware of, such as from family members or previous partners.
Your therapist may suggest certain treatments to help you deal specifically with these issues. Over time, you may feel you have taken control of the lingering effects of physical abuse with the help of your therapist.

