 The intro to "Someone Like You" only uses four chords: A, A/G#, F#m, and D. These four chords simply repeat over and over in a 4-bar line, with each chord receiving four beats. Basically, each of these chords is played as a whole note at a tempo of about 68-70 BPM. Practice this simple chord sequence until you have it memorized. It shouldn't take too long.









Since the intro part to this song is played the same as the verse, you can even sing over it! "I heard that you're settled down..."
A/G# may look intimidating, but it's not - it's simply an A major chord, except that the root note is a G# instead of an A. Just move the lowest note in the chord down one half-step and you're playing an A/G#!

, In the intro, Dan Wilson doesn't ever play the entire chord at once. Rather, he plays single notes with his left hand and plays arpeggios with his right hand. To learn the intro, first practice simply playing the root notes of the chords with your left hand. At a tempo of 68-70 BPM, play each note for four beats (in other words, play it as a whole note.).









As a reminder, the root notes of the chords are: A, G#, F#, and D. Start two A's below Middle C.
When you're confident with this bass line, you don't simply have to play each note as a whole note. Make subtle changes in the rhythm to spice up your playing. For example, try holding each root note for three beats, then hitting the note again on beat "four" of each measure.
 With your right hand, practice "arpeggiating" each of the chords in the chord sequence you memorized in step 1 of this section. Arpeggiating something simply means playing the tones in the chord as separate notes, not all together at once. For the A and A/G# chords, you'll play the root, third, fifth, then third of each chord - fairly simple. However, for the F#m chord, you'll play the root, fifth, octave, and fifth, and for the D chord, you'll play the fifth, root, third, and root - in other words, you'll play like the first too chords, but with the notes in a different order. Play this sequence 4 times per measure (in other words, each note should be a sixteenth note at about 68-70 BPM). See below for the notes you should play for the chords (repeat each four times):










A: A C# E C#.

A/G#: G# C# E C#

F#m: F# (low) C# F# (high) C#

D: A D F# D (note: the A in this arpeggio is the exact same note as the root note in the A chord.)

, Now, you've learned the parts for both of your hands. Next, practice playing both of these parts simultaneously. Unless you're already an experienced player, it may be difficult for you to play the parts together at full speed at first - this is O.K. Don't be afraid to begin at half-time and slowly increase the tempo until you can play the intro comfortably at about 68-70 BPM.
 One of the things that makes the intro to "Someone Like You" so beautiful is that Wilson plays it with dynamics. This means that he doesn't play every note exactly the same, like a robot. Instead, some notes are played louder than others and some notes are played quieter than others. In the intro to this song, the dynamics are pretty subtle, but if you listen to the record, you can still hear them. Listen for how Wilson lingers on certain notes and plays certain note a little louder than others. These small, barely-noticeable changes take the music from ordinary to beautiful.









For instance, listen to how Wilson plays the high notes in each arpeggio (in other words, the fifths.). He plays these notes slightly louder than the rest of the notes in the arpeggio. This accents the notes, basically making them ring out clearer and sound more "important" in the arpeggio.

