 Remove debris like leaves and algae from the bottom of the pool once the water is drained. Then place your water hose at the deep-end side of the pool. Position it near the ledge so that the water will run over the tile when you turn it on., Because the acid solution emits noxious fumes and is harmful if it gets onto your skin and body, rubber boots, safety gloves and goggles, and a respirator with an acid approved filter are necessary. For extra precaution, wear a protective suit that is chemical-resistant., You can use a plastic bucket. Make sure to slowly add the acid to the water and not the other way around. Because the acid will fizz and emit fumes when you pour it into the water, make sure you are wearing your respirator, goggles, gloves, and protective clothing.You can purchase muriatic acid and acid-resistant cleaning tools from your local pool maintenance store or online.
 Starting at the deep end of the pool, work the solution into the grout with the brush. Working on small sections at a time, scrub the tile with an acid-resistant scrub brush. Once the calcium silicate scaling is removed, rinse the tile with water using the hose.Alternatively, fill a watering can with the solution and use the can to pour it onto the tiles. Then use the acid-resistant scrub brush to clean the tile.
Repeat this process until all the tiles are cleaned.
 Add 2 pounds (.9 kilograms) of soda ash for every gallon of acid. Do this once you are done cleaning all of the tiles. The soda ash neutralizes the acid so it can be safely removed from your pool., Do this using a water pump. Once the acid is pumped out, rinse the pool with the hose. Then proceed to pump this water out of the pool as well. When the pool is completely rinsed and cleaned, refill it with water.When rinsing the pool, make sure to rinse your boots, gloves, goggles, and protective clothing with water as well. Rinse until all the acid is completely gone.
Discard any unused acid at your local hazardous waste disposal.

