 The widespread adoption of smartphones, tablets, and other mobile technology has resulted in an explosion in the number of applications available for download. Hundreds if not thousands of these are medication reminder apps.A 2013 research study tested and ranked 160 medication adherence apps, and chose three “best bets” based on features and functionality.Without endorsing any one product, one of the most popular apps, MyMedSchedule (http://www.mymedschedule.com/), offers email and/or text reminders, health tracking capabilities, printable schedules (to take to the doctor’s office, for instance), and many other features.
When choosing an app, look for features that appeal to you, but make sure that the actual medication reminder feature is particularly suited to your needs.;
, Wearable technology has become more popular recently, but some people may be intimidated by or not interested in multi-function devices that they deem too complicated. There are, however, simplified smart watches and similar devices that are designed and marketed specifically for medication management.Such devices are advertised as simple to program and use, even for technophobes, the elderly, and those with memory problems. They can be programmed with vibrating alarms and messages indicating when and which medication(s) to take.If you or the person requiring assistance is more comfortable with single-function technology, these watches may be a better alternative than a full-function smart watch.
 If the person who would benefit from medication reminders does not have a smartphone or is generally less tech-savvy, you have the option of utilizing traditional landline or simple cell phones to provide set reminders as well. Multiple companies provide internet-based phone reminder services that will provide personalized calls at the correct time.Say, for instance, that you sign up for one of these programs in order to remind your mother-in-law to take her heart pills. You can record personalized messages that will play when she picks up the phone at the designated time(s). Also, if she does not pick up the phone when called, you will be notified., Even people with good memory skills can lose track of which bottles they’ve opened and pills they’ve taken when on multiple medications. Simple multi-compartment pill dispensers, or dosing schedule-based blister packaging prepared by your pharmacy, can be smart options. For even more assistance, however, automatic pill dispensers may be the right choice.You (or someone else) pre-load the automated dispenser with your medications based on your dosing schedule. When it is time to take your pill(s), the dispenser will open, alert you with an alarm or similar notification, and provide only the correct pills.

