 The size of your home will have an impact on how large your deck can be, as well as its shape. In most cases, your deck will also be required to support a greater load than the floors in your home.









Your home owner's insurance policy may not cover an accident that occurs on your deck if you didn't build your decking to comply with the building codes in your area.;
, Check with your local government agency regarding the need for a permit before building your deck, as well as any inspections that will be required during construction.
 The frost line is the depth to which the ground freezes in winter, taken over an average of a number of years. Some building codes require that when you build a deck, the support posts be sunk to a depth below the frost line. Even if it isn't required, sinking the support posts to this depth will keep the deck from buckling when the ground expands and swells when the water in it freezes.
 Your deck can either be free-standing or attached to the house. Although some building codes may be more relaxed on free-standing decks, most people find it more convenient to have their decks attached to the house.









If you build your deck onto the house, you'll want to know where the rim joists and wall studs are located so you can secure the deck's ledger board, the support beam that attaches it to the house, to either of them.
The size of your deck will determine the number of footings and posts you'll need to support the joists and deck boards, as well as the size and spacing of the joists and the size of the deck boards. Joists can be spaced 12, 16 or 24 inches (30, 40 or 60 centimeters) apart, however a spacing of 24 inches is most common; common sizes for joists and deck boards are listed under "Things You'll Need."
The height at which you build your deck determines whether you need to include railings, posts and steps. You won't need them for a deck built just above the ground, but you will if it is higher than that.
Making a preliminary sketch of what you have in mind will help you in lining up materials and construction advice.
 There are a number of hardwoods and composite materials from which you can build your deck. Materials for deck boards range from the tropical Hardwood Ipe and plastic to the more traditional redwood, cedar and pine. The framing, columns and posts, however, should be pressure-treated or otherwise decay-resistant wood as required by code.








