 Being knowledgeable about the company will demonstrate your interest in wanting to join the Comcast workforce team and may increase your chances of obtaining a job position.


Visit the Comcast website featured in the Sources section of this article to read all about Comcast's products, press releases, current events, and more.
Read and review product overviews and company web pages from the links provided in the toolbar at the top of Comcast's website, or scroll down to the bottom of the website to access links to Comcast's blog and press releases.;
,


Click on the Comcast website link provided to you in the Sources section of this article, then click on the "Search for a Job" link located on the right side of your session.
Enter job search criteria into the fields provided. You can either enter specific keywords, choose a job category, or indicate the location in which you want to work for Comcast.
Click on the "Search" button after you have entered job search criteria to view a list of positions available that match the criteria you specified.



Click on the link for any job title that interests you. You will then be taken to a job summary that includes the tasks, duties, skills, and requirements involved with performing the Comcast position.
Read all the information provided about the job to determine if you qualify for the position. If you meet all, or some of the criteria specified, you may want to apply for the position.



Click on the "Apply Now" button at the bottom of any job description page to apply for that specific position. You will then be taken to a new webpage that may provide duplicate details about the position.
Click on the "Apply" button located at the top of your session to access the online Application Wizard. You will be prompted for your name and email address before you can proceed to the application process.
 The wizard will guide you through each step of the application process; and will prompt you for information that includes your educational background, work experience, qualifications, a questionnaire about your skills, a resume, and a cover letter.


Enter your personal and professional data into the fields provided by the wizard, then click on the arrow at the top or bottom of each webpage to proceed to each successive page of the application.
 After you have submitted your application using the online wizard, your resume and professional information will be reviewed by Comcast. If Comcast considers you for a position, you may be contacted via email or by telephone for an interview.



Find Comcast job fairs or events by reading your local newspapers or by visiting the Comcast website featured in the Sources section of this article. Any upcoming job events will be featured on the "Career Events" webpage, the link to which is provided on the left side of your session.
Bring copies of your resume and wear business attire to the job fair to demonstrate your professionalism and to make a good first impression on the Comcast representative.
Speak to the Comcast representative about your interest in a position with Comcast. You may want to demonstrate that you have performed research on Comcast by asking specific questions about the position you are interested in.

