 Some phone plans may automatically come with international calling. If you’re not sure if yours does, contact your phone company and let them know you plan to call France. Find out what the rates are on your current plan, and inquire about plans that could make it less expensive.If you don’t have a UK mobile phone, you may also be charged roaming fees for making calls out of your plan’s range.
If calling internationally would be prohibitively expensive, you may want to purchase a prepaid phone or phone card to make calls instead.
 Sim cards are small cards that are inserted into a cell phone and allow that phone to connect to a mobile network. Many phones come with SIM cards, but for some phones, they must be purchased separately. SIM cards can be purchased at stores that sell mobile phones and wireless technologies.There are different sizes of SIM card (full size, micro, and nano). Make sure you’re purchasing the right size for your phone.
Buying an international SIM card, or a SIM card local to the UK can greatly reduce the cost of international calls.
 If you’re not from the UK, and have a phone that you bought abroad, you may want to buy or rent a phone local to the UK. This can make calls to France significantly less expensive. You’ll avoid roaming charges and can purchase or rent a phone with a plan designed for international calls.If you aren’t planning to be in the UK long you can purchase a prepaid phone with no contract.
If you live in the UK or will be there for an extended period, you’ll probably want to buy a phone with a monthly plan that allows for inexpensive international calls.
 When you see phone numbers for other countries written out, you’ll probably see a “+” sign in front of the string of numbers. That “+” sign indicates that you need to dial the exit code of the country you’re currently in.In the UK, the exit code is 00.
With some phones, you may be able to simply type “+” instead of the exit code.
 Each country in the world has a country code. After dialing the exit code of the country you’re in, you dial the country code of the country you’re trying to call. France’s country code is 33., Once you’ve dialed the exit code and the country code, you can now dial the phone number. Phone numbers in France have ten digits. The first two digits tell you which region of the country the number is located in. For example:01 denotes Île-de-France
02 denotes Northwest France
03 denotes Northeast France
04 denotes Southeast France
05 denotes Southwest France
06 and 07 denotes mobile phone services

