 Most high schools have orientation sessions the week before school starts that introduce new students to the school. Before you attend the orientation, you want to make sure that you know what you have questions about so you can ask them at your orientation if necessary.For instance, you could have questions about how long the break is between classes, or if you need to bring in your summer reading books on the first day.;
, Even if your high school is in the same building as your middle school was in, it’s still incredibly valuable to go to the orientation so you have a better idea of what to expect the first day. Make sure that the orientation addresses all the questions you may have.If you still have questions when the orientation is over, you can talk to the teacher or councilor leading the orientation. If you don’t want to ask in front of the group, you can talk to them separately.
If your school does not hold an orientation, tell your parents that you have questions about the first day. They will help you to find a phone number or email address of someone in the school you can contact to get these questions answered.
 If you are in the same school system as your middle school, you will already know a lot of your fellow classmates. Talk with friends, and try to talk to a couple people that you have met but don’t know as well. Starting to expand your social circle will make high school a lot easier.If you are new to your school district, try to talk to at least a couple people. You can also try to figure out who else is new and talk to them!
Ask your classmates what they did over the summer, and how they feel to be starting high school. Many of them are probably feeling just as nervous as you!

, You have probably already received a schedule that has your classes listed, along with the classrooms they’re in. Make sure that either during the orientation or sometime in the week before school starts you look around the high school and figure out where your classes take place and where your locker is.


You can even make notes on your schedule next to your classes that say things like, “Room 113, first floor across from the wood shop.”

, Talk to someone who already went through their freshman year at your school. This could be an older sibling, a friend’s sibling, or someone like the child of a family friend. If you can, try and talk to a girl, because it will relate more to your experience of being a girl starting high school. Ask them any questions that you have. You can also ask them what the best and worst part of starting high school was for them, and how high school was different than what they expected before they started.
Ask them what advice they have for someone starting at your high school. Their advice can be valuable since they've already gone through freshman year!
Their answers can give you valuable information about what to expect, which is a huge part of feeling less nervous on the first day.
 Your friends are probably feeling nervous too! Just to talk about your anxieties about the first day can relieve some of the stress of starting high school. If you and your friends are all feeling nervous, you can agree to be by each others’ side and help each other through the first day.


You can try to meet up with your friends, or you can call them on the phone to talk and make plans.
If you don’t know anyone that is going to your high school, talk with your parents or your friends. Even though they are not starting high school with you, they probably know exactly what you are feeling and can offer advice about the first day.

