 When hunting, sharks are more likely to single out lone, isolated individuals for attacks than they are to go after a large group.While sharks are unlikely to go after humans in general, swimming in a group can improve your chances even further. Don't let yourself drift away from the people you're swimming with — stay a few paddle's reach away from each other at all times.


This general rule isn't just a smart idea for deterring shark attacks — it's also a very important beach safety rule in general. Any swimmer, no matter how strong, may be vulnerable to drowning if he or she encounters unexpected currents or conditions. Swimming in groups (with at least one person on the shore at all times watching the swimmers) can save lives., As noted above, sharks don't naturally hunt for humans as a food source, opting instead for local fish and other underwater wildlife.However, in rare cases, sharks may mistake human swimmers for animals that they naturally prey on, like fish, seals, and sea lions. Luckily, by being careful about what you wear, it's possible to avoid this confusion. See below:


Sharks are thought to be attracted to some colors more than others. Bright colors seem to attract tropical sharks. Yellow is particularly attractive (some divers even call it "yum yum yellow").. It is thought that wearing mainly darker colors that don't contrast greatly with the underwater surroundings can help prevent shark attacks. This is true for fins as well.
Don't wear shiny objects. Before swimming, take off any jewelry, watches, chains, gear, etc. that is metallic, shiny, reflective or glowing. It is thought that these can attract sharks by resembling the shiny scales of a fish.
If possible, avoid surfboards. It is thought that sharks can confuse their streamlined shapes for a large fish or seal.
 Sharks have very strong senses of smell (though not as strong as movies and TV may have made you believe.) Some sharks have such a powerful nose that they can detect a single drop of certain chemicals in an olympic swimming pool.For this reason, you will want to avoid swimming in the open water when you are likely to "leak" any bodily fluids that the shark may be able to detect. See below:


Stay out of the water if you have an open wound, especially one that is actively bleeding. Menstruating women should use caution.
Don’t urinate, defecate, or vomit in the ocean. Stay out of the water if your are likely to need to do these things (for instance, if you are sick.)

, While hunting, sharks are on the lookout for weak or wounded prey — the easier they are to catch, the better. To a shark, a human who is wildly splashing around in the water can look a little like a wounded animal. For this reason, especially when you're in deeper waters, you'll want to avoid frequent, animated splashing on the surface. If you're under the water, try to avoid violent, struggling movements as well, even if you're joking — this can also make you look like you're in distress.

