 Ritual and predictability help toddlers feel safe as their sense of their world expands. You may need to recite the day's events to your child each morning. Establishing mealtime and bedtime routines will provide important benchmarks for your child's day. A sense of security in everyday life will give your child a strong foundation for developing his own sense of independence.


Needing a special blanket or stuffed animal at nap and bedtime isn't just fussiness -- these tools provide an important sense of security. Respect your child's need for this structure., Toddlers sometimes experience separation anxiety. Even a child who was happy to be held by others as a baby may become clingy during her toddler years. Encourage your child's independence using incremental steps:


Keep your toddler posted. If you're heading into the next room, tell her. If Daddy is going to work, Daddy should be sure to say good-bye and mention where he's going.
Substitute voice contact. When a little voice starts demanding your attention through the shower door, respond -- but keep showering.
Provide "long-distance" help. If your child is struggling with a toy, for example, provide verbal encouragement from across the room, but don't immediately intervene. Give her the opportunity to solve her problem on her own., Grandparents, aunts, uncles, and family friends may all provide wonderful influences and help your child grow in independence. Invite others into your child's life so he learns that other people provide help and care, too. A child who understands "safe" relationships will feel loved and secure, and will be able to discern when a person or situation feels "unsafe.", A baby is, of course, dependent. A toddler who demands to do something "by my-SELF!" is asserting independence. Aim to help your child gain a third step toward maturity: interdependence. An interdependent child has the drive to accomplish tasks by herself, but the wisdom to ask for help to do it better. Interdependence means you and your child rely upon each other to bring out the best in each other. After all, you won't be able to parent your child well if he isn't capable of challenging you to help him as he grows.


Monitor your child's play. Give him the opportunity to play alone, but be willing to join in when he asks.
Remain alert for signs your child is trying to make space between you. This is a normal and healthy part of child development as her imagination grows and develops.