 Like any auction, the more crowded it is, the more competition you may have. A big crowd could drive the bidding prices up or cause you to lose out on a bid for a vehicle. Look for auctions that are situated in less populated areas or tend to fly under the radar.You can search for police auctions in certain areas online. Focus on auctions outside of a major city, if possible, or in a smaller town or city, as these may be less crowded than auctions held in larger cities or known areas.;
, Most auctions will list the vehicles that will be available at the auction a few days before the auction date. Look over each listing and identify which vehicles you are interested in bidding on. You should try to choose at least one to two vehicles in the event you lose out on a bid so you have a backup vehicle you can still bid on.If you have your eye on a Mercedes-Benz CLK listed online, for example, you should note the details listed for the car. Then, you should research the market value of a used Mercedes-Benz CLK and determine how much you would be willing to bid for the car. Make sure you are clear on the maximum you would be willing to spend on the car as this can prevent you from overbidding in the chaos of the auction.
 Police auctions will only take payment in cash or proof of an approved loan for the winning bid. If you are planning to pay with an approved loan from your bank, you will need to be able to cover a minimum deposit for the full cost of the vehicle.You will also need to cover the cost of taxes, title, and registration fees. Cars sold at auction do not come with a warranty and are considered “as is” so you will likely need to purchase insurance and a warranty for the car once you buy it.
You will also need enough money to cover the cost of towing the car from the auction and the cost of cutting new keys for the vehicle if it is sold without keys.
 You will not be able to drive the vehicles before you bid on them so inspecting the car beforehand with tools, car oil, and an air pressure gauge can help to ensure the car is in working order., The vehicles at a police auction are often shown in a set order so get to the auction early and check in with the auction. You can get a copy of the showing list at check in and have a chance to inspect the vehicles you are interested in before the auction starts., Use your set of tools to do a quick inspection of the vehicles you plan to bid on. The vehicles appear at the auction untouched, which means they are in the exact state they were in when they were confiscated by the police. Be prepared for the vehicles to be filthy, damaged, or full of someone else’s stuff.Do not be put off by surface level dirt or strong smells, as these can be cleaned out as long the vehicle’s parts are in good shape.Lift the hood of the vehicle and give it a good inspection. Look at the brakes, the shocks, and the quality of the tires on the vehicle. This will help you determine if the vehicle is worth bidding on and how much you should bid for the vehicle.
 It can be easy to get caught up in the chaos of bidding wars and quick sales at the auction, so focus on staying calm and not bidding more than you can afford. Remember your predetermined limit you set for yourself as you bid on the vehicles you are interested in and try not to overbid in an attempt to outbid someone else.


Avoid making quick, in the heat of the moment decisions and really be certain you want a vehicle before you start bidding on it. You don’t want to end up having to pay more for a vehicle than you can afford or than it’s worth because you got caught up in a bidding war.
 Depending on the condition of the car you bought at the auction, it may be drivable or it may require a tow to your home or to a car mechanic for a tune up. Most police auctions attract towing companies who know they will have customers who need their services. Look for a tow truck parked outside of the auction or ask the auction for a referral to a towing company located nearby.Some auctions allow you to store your purchased vehicle, for a fee, if you cannot pay for a tow or are planning to do maintenance on the car another time.
 Most auctions also attract locksmiths who can cut keys on site for cars that are sold without keys. Look for an on site locksmith or ask the auction to refer you to a locksmith nearby, as you will not be able to drive your new vehicle without a set of keys., Though you may have done a quick inspection on the vehicle before the auction began, you may not realize certain issues with the vehicle until you pay for it and get a closer look at it. Depending on the state of the car, you may want to have it towed to the nearest car garage, where you can get a full inspection and tune up on the car before driving it. This will ensure the car is safe and ready for the road.