 If your FiOS router has an Ethernet cable connected to its WAN/Internet port and the port's lights are on, you're all set. If it doesn't, you'll need to connect an Ethernet cable between the ONT and router.
 Locate the ONT (the box where the incoming fiber optic cable plugs in) and run an Ethernet cable from its Ethernet port to the Verizon router's WAN/Internet port. If this is impossible for whatever reason, you'll need to keep the Verizon router and follow the "Make Changes to your NEW Router" or "Make Changes to your Verizon Router" procedure below to set up your own router behind it., You'll need to do this if you just ran an Ethernet cable from your ONT to the router. Verizon can do this remotely, and it will only take about 10 minutes for the whole call., A MoCA adapter allows your cable boxes to connect to the internet and download guide and Video on Demand data when a third-party router is used. Normally, they connect through a Verizon router's Coaxial cable connection, which a third-party router does not have. Disconnect the Coaxial cable from your Verizon router and connect it to the Coax In port on the MoCA adapter, and connect an Ethernet cable between the MoCA adapter's Ethernet port and the router. Make sure everything works before proceeding further. The ideal MoCA adapter can be purchased here: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B013J7OBUU/
, From a location where you have physical access to the Verizon router, navigate to it (typically http://192.168.1.1) and log in. Go to "My Network", "Network Connections", "Broadband Connection", then "Settings". Locate the "DHCP Lease" line and press the Release button. As soon as it goes through, power off or unplugs the Verizon router., Unplug the Ethernet cables from the Verizon router and connect them to yours. Make sure the cable that was plugged into the Verizon router's WAN/Internet port is connected to the WAN/Internet port on your router. There should be no coaxial cable involved. If you have FiOS TV service, it should already be connected to a MoCA adapter. If you only have the Internet, it's not necessary., Log in to it as instructed in its guide, and go to its internet connection settings. Its internet connection type needs to be set to DHCP or Dynamic IP. It should automatically get an IP address, after which you'll be able to connect to the internet through it. If it doesn't, call Verizon and have them manually release and renew the IP.