 One of the hardest aspects of being confident at work is feeling like you’re not measuring up. Observe co-workers at your level, and take note of what they’re doing. Ask yourself if you’re putting similar care and effort into your own tasks.


If you are, reassure yourself that you’re doing what you need to do to contribute to the success of your organization.
If you fear that you are not putting in enough effort, select a role model or mentor among your colleagues, and model your work performance after theirs. Ask them for advice, if they are open to it.
 Most supervisors don’t give praise freely. If they’re giving you accolades for your work, don’t doubt that they feel you deserve it. Be sure not to diminish what you’ve accomplished by giving credit to someone else or saying that the task “wasn’t that difficult.”

, Writing down the things at which you excel will remind you why you were offered your job in the first place. This will also help you remember what you have to offer your colleagues. Being armed with this knowledge will make it easier for you to interact with them as co-contributors to the mission of your company.


Make a point of celebrating your successes. It doesn’t have to be anything elaborate. You could treat yourself to a drink with friends or a nice dessert after work, or just mark the occasion with a positive note in your journal or calendar.
 It’s just as important to be humble about how you can improve as it is to recognize your capabilities. If you’re aware of the tasks and skills that you find challenging, you can address them with a sense of calm preparedness. If your co-workers see that you’re self-aware about your faults, they’ll be more likely to share constructive feedback with you -- and to elicit it so they can improve themselves as well!


Talk to your coworkers about the goals you are setting for yourself. You might even ask them for feedback about your progress.
 Over the course of your career, it’s almost inevitable that you’ll make a mistake or have a bad day. Rather than dwelling on these mistakes, add them to your list of future spots for improvement, and view them as learning opportunities.

