 Take a quick trip to the craft store to gather a few basic items for creating your own earrings. There are a few standard tools you'll need to create the earrings themselves, but you can be as creative as you like when it comes to decorating the earrings. Here are the things you'll need:


Earring hooks
Cleaning alcohol
Glue, or a hot glue-gun
Toothpicks
Thin wire
Small pliers
Aluminum foil
Anything else you'd like to use to dress up your earrings, such as paint, stickers, small bows, glitter, or jewels;
, Carefully wipe down the hooks with the disinfectant. You'll need to take this precaution before you begin to wear the earrings.
 Use the foil to create a small and visually appealing shape for your earrings. The ball works best and is the easiest to make. Use only a small square of foil about the size of your palm to make these balls. If they're too big, the earrings may be too heavy and can hurt your ears.
 You can decorate the earrings any way you like. You can roll them in glue and them roll them in glitter. You can also put tiny stickers or sticky jewels on them. You can use glue to stick other small decorations on them, such as tiny fuzzy balls. You can also cover the earrings with paint and then add decorations, or just leave them painted a nice, appealing color.


If you're using glue to decorate the earrings, give them time to dry before moving on to the next step.
 Use a toothpick or a long pin to make a hole right through the center of each earring. Just position it at the top center of the earring and gently push it down until it goes all the way through.
 Use pliers or wire cutters to cut two pieces of wire for your earrings. This wire will hang off the earring hooks and will attach to your earrings, so you can make each piece as long as you want. For dangly earrings, you can cut the wire even longer. If you want the earrings to hang close to your earlobes, then cut the pieces a bit shorter.


Gently curl up one end of each piece of wire until it curves back into itself. You'll need this shape to hold up the earring.
 Hold the curled part of the wire and push the straight part through the hole you've created in the earring. Once you've pushed it all the way through, curl it around the small hole at the base of the earring hook so that it attaches to the earring hook while firmly holding the earring in place.
 Simply repeat the steps you took to connect the earring, wire, and hook in the previous step until you have two perfect earrings.
 If you don't want to wear the earrings right away, you can store them in a box to use them later, or to present them to a friend. You can even make your own hand-made box to continue the home-made theme.

