 If you find that she is regularly rejecting a new and unfamiliar food without tasting it, you can try to put her at ease by making the new food appear similar to one of her favourites. For example, if she is big fan of mashed potatoes, but doesn't like the look of sweet potato, try mashing it up so it has the same consistency.


Try to ease her in with small portions that you gradually increase over time.Introducing new foods gradually, and not trying to force anything on her, will help her develop her tastes gradually.
A completely new food can be a very strange sensation for a baby.
 You can try to increase the amount she eats throughout the day by offering her small amounts of finger food between meals. Soft cooked vegetables are good choices for finger foods, as are washed and peeled fruits. If your baby is more than six months old, you can also try dry food such as graham crackers and melba toast. Noodles are also a good finger food.


Don't offer food that may cause choking. Avoid apple chunks, grapes, popcorn, hot dogs, nuts, or hard chunks of uncooked vegetables.
Avoid salty or sugary foods.
If your baby is around 6-8 months and is teething, toast strips, teething biscuits, and unsalted crackers can make good finger foods.
 Your baby will copy a lot of what you do, so eating together can encourage her. She will watch you carefully and learn from what you are doing. If she turns away from the spoon, eat it yourself to show her how tasty it is. Talk to her when you feed her, and include her in family mealtimes. Having regular mealtimes can help your baby learn what time is food time.


You should expect some mess, and make sure you keep mealtimes fun.
Be sure to allow plenty of time for eating, and be patient. Go at your baby's pace, and don't try to rush or force her to eat something.Don't leave the table until she has finished eating too., Sometimes bringing in more people to a mealtime can encourage your baby to eat more. This can work well if you have an adult friend or family member who she likes. Get your friend along for dinner and your baby will often eat happily for someone who isn't mum or dad.


If she has some friends that are good eaters, inviting them round for dinner can also have the same effect., It's important to provide plenty of variety so she has a healthy balanced diet, and gets introduced to all sorts of different foods at a young age.Generally, once babies get used to new foods they will learn to like them. Give your baby a good range of healthy foods at a young age to help her grow and develop, as well as get into good dietary habits. Giving her foods and drinks with added sugar, salt, or fat, will increase the chances of her wanting these in the future.


Providing a variety of foods, and allowing her to choose what to eat for a particular meal, can help her get used to a new foods.
Babies like to choose foods themselves, so try to give her a choice every now and again.