 Assembling a personalized gift basket for the couple is a practical, meaningful, and inexpensive gift. There are so many different types of baskets that you can make. Simply pick a theme and then fill a basket with items to reflect that theme. For example, you could help the couple stock up on household supplies by placing different cleaners, tea towels, glassware, recipes, and small items in a laundry basket. You could also fill a picnic basket with a blanket, plastic plates and glasses and a bottle of wine so that the couple can go on a summer date.Other options include stocking their pantry with a variety of food items. This is ideal if the couple is moving into a new home.
You could also create an at home date night. Fill a basket with items to make a pasta dinner, a dvd to watch later in the night, candles, chocolates and popcorn.
Be creative and personalize the basket to the interests and needs of each particular couple.;
, Some of the most memorable wedding gifts are those that are not found on the registry. If you are on a tight budget and can not afford to give an expensive gift, try for something thoughtful. One great idea is to give the couple a framed gift, such as a copy of the wedding invitation. Simply purchase a shadow box and place the invitation inside.You can decorate the shadow box with flowers, ribbons, bows, and a photograph of the couple on their wedding day. Try and match the colours to those used at the wedding.
You could also give them a framed map of their love story. Print out a map and cut heart shapes around the location of their first date, the location of where they got engaged, the location of their wedding, and the location of their current home., Cooking meals together as a couple is an excellent way to bond and enjoy a date night at home. Help the newlyweds gather some family-favourite recipes by creating an easy do-it-yourself recipe book. Ask family members from both families to share some of their favourite recipes with the happy couple. You can also add in a few of your own personal favourites as well as some recipes from close friends.Be sure to write the name of the person who shared the recipe on each recipe card.
Organize the recipes into family categories. For example, “Smith Family Recipes,” “Au Family Recipes,” “Recipes from Friends.”
You could also use a more traditional organizational structure such as, "Starters," "Sides," "Mains," "Soups and Salads," and "Desserts."

