 You'll need to choose a natural oil since your dry skin will easily absorb it. Try to choose an organic oil that hasn't been produced using any chemicals. Place 6 tablespoons of an oil of your choice into a mixing bowl. Consider using:








Coconut oil: a light oil with antibacterial properties
Jojoba oil: a light oil that's quickly absorbed by the skin
Shea butter: a thick cream for very dry skin
Argan oil: a light oil that fights inflammation;
, Measure out 1 tablespoon of aloe vera gel into the mixing bowl with the oil. If you want to use aloe vera gel directly from the plant, score a piece of aloe vera using a knife. Peel away the sides to reveal the cool gel in the middle of the piece. Squeeze or scrape this into your measuring spoon. Or, buy an aloe very gel that contains few additives.








Some early studies show that aloe vera may be effective in treating dry skin., If you want to add a nice fragrance to your natural moisturizer, add 4 to 5 drops of essential oil to your mixing bowl. Essential oils won't necessarily add moisture to your face, but many have antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, and antifungal properties which could help clear up skin irritation. Essential oils with benefits to the skin include:Lavender oil
Geranium oil
Lemongrass oil
Tea tree oil
Chamomile oil

, Once your carrier oil, your aloe vera gel, and your essential oils are in your bowl, whisk the mixture. The moisturizer should be completely smooth and combined so that no oil sits on the top.








You can also use a handheld electric mixer to combine your moisturizer.
 Pour your moisturizer into a clean and sterilized glass jar with an airtight lid. Screw the top on and refrigerate the moisturizer. Since there are no preservatives in the moisturizer, you'll need to use it within a few days.









If you find that you don't go through very much moisturizer, consider making half of the recipe so you aren't throwing it out after several days.
 Scoop out a pea-sized amount of your natural moisturizer using your fingertips. Dot the moisturizer around your face and then use your fingertips to gently rub the moisturizer into your skin.








Try to moisturize after cleansing your face so that your face retains the most moisture.
 Grind a few tablespoons of oatmeal in a blender until you have a powder. In a separate bowl, steep 1 tablespoon of fennel seeds in 1/2 cup of boiling water for 10 minutes. Strain and discard the fennel seeds. Mix together 1 tablespoon of the cooled fennel tea with 1 tablespoon of the ground oatmeal powder and 1 tablespoon of honey.Fennel is great for preventing wrinkles and moisturizing normal skin. Oatmeal can help slough off dry dead skin.
 Mash up half of a ripe avocado in a bowl until it's completely smooth. Stir in 1 tablespoon of plain yogurt and 1 tablespoon of pure honey until they're completely combined with the avocado. The mixture should be a pasty consistency.The natural oils in the avocado can replenish your skin's oils and hydrate your face.
 Take one of your face masks and scoop out a large dollop of the moisturizing mixture. Spread the mixture on your clean face. You can either use your fingers or a clean makeup brush to evenly coat your face with the mask.


Avoid applying a face mask to your eye area and avoid covering your lips.
 Depending on what natural ingredients you used, your mask may begin to dry out quickly or will remain wet and lotion-like. If you're using the oatmeal-fennel mask, leave the mask on your face for 20 minutes. If you're using the avocado mask, let it set for 10 to 15 minutes.Most moisturizing masks won't dry out as much as facial masks designed for oily skin. If your skin seems irritated or begins to dry out, remove the mask immediately.
 Use tepid water to gently wash off the mask using your fingertips. If you're having trouble getting the mask to wash off, you can use a very soft clean cloth that's moistened with warm water. Once you've gotten most of the mask off, rinse your face will cool water.You can apply a moisturizing mask a few times a week to keep your face hydrated.
 If you wake up to dry skin because you live in a dry climate, your skin may need extra moisture in the air. Try running a humidifier that releases moist air into your room at night.While moist air can hydrate your skin, you should avoid hot steamy showers. The hot water can remove your skin's oils and dry out your skin even more.
 Since you can easily control what oils you use when you make your own moisturizers, you can adjust your moisturizer as the season's change. If you find that your natural moisturizer isn't keeping your skin hydrated through a very dry winter, try swapping the oil you're using for a thicker one (like shea or cocoa butter).Remember to switch back to a lighter oil when the seasons change and the temperatures rise.
 Carry an herbal spritzer to spray on your face whenever your skin feels dry. To make a spritzer, mix a few drops of your favorite essential oil into a spray bottle filled with distilled water. Screw on the nozzle and shake to combine the oil.Try using rose, sandalwood or bergamot essential oils which can keep your skin hydrated.
 To keep your skin hydrated, you need to be drinking at least 6 to 8 eight-ounce glasses of water every day. This will help improve the look of your skin and keep it from drying out. Remember that you can also get water from eating fresh fruits and vegetables.If you struggle to remember to drink water, you can also drink herbal teas, juices, and milk.

