 Having the right stationary e.g. notebooks, highlighters, sticky notes, pens, pencils...etc. Can help you take notes as each writing implement can offer a different technique. For example: highlighting a particular word or phrase emphasizes it making it stand out from the rest, therefore giving it meaning. (The meaning can depend on you, it could be: a word you need to know the definition of, a formula, feature... whatever you like.);
, It is an absolute necessity that you actively engage in class lectures. Your role as a note taker is to record all the information you deem crucial, regardless of where that information came from. This means the questions and concerns brought up by your instructor, as well as your classmates, should be recorded to ensure your success as a note taker.
 Considering how fast-paced learning environments tend to be, it may be difficult for you as a student to record all the information presented by your professor. The information you are bypassing can sometimes be crucial and hold severe repercussions towards your success. As a note taker it is imperative towards your success that you do not leave out any essential information, regardless of how small it is. Similar to slang, shorthand allows you to abbreviate words and phrases to make it easier for you to record. Not only is this type of writing faster, but it can also be a lot easier as well. While this may be grammatically incorrect, the point of note taker is to record information in the most effective manner, regardless of grammar.
 If you do not know what your notes are about when you come to revise from them it will not make sense at all, thereby being pointless as it could be talking about anything at all. So, before your teacher/ professor begins teaching, write down the topic and title. It's a bonus if you decide to give sub-headings throughout. This will help for when surprise tests come along.
 Instead of trying to write down everything that's on the board or what the teacher is saying, try to find the really important facts. So, try skim reading the board or listen carefully to what is being said. If you have a teacher who writes notes on the board, that's a bonus: You can copy them down. If not, Does your history teacher mention the date of a key conference? Does your English teacher give examples of Shakespeare's use of dramatic irony and techniques? Does your math teacher go over a particular formula? Write it down straight away!

, As previously mentioned do not right down everything as most of it will be useless and your unfortunate and will be cramping terribly. A little tip is to come up with an abbreviation system, for instance 'respiration' will be 'resp.' for short. However, make sure you know it because if not, you'll be trying to crack the De Vinci Code.
 Don't be afraid to ask the teacher to repeat something you missed. Chances are your classmates will be relieved to hear the information again if your teacher is covering a difficult topic or just going to fast. However, if you don't like the idea of asking within class-time, see your teacher afterward. It's much easier than wondering if you got the notes right as you study. Also this will help you get a stronger bond with your teacher.
 Going over your notes with a friend and comparing what the two of you put down can help reinforce what you're learning alongside, seeing if they have any key information that you missed. It also can help you remember information when it's time for the test. And going over your notes will alert you and your friend to any errors.
 Depending on how neat your handwriting is you may want to recopy your notes when you get home. If you've taken notes in a hurry, you're more likely to figure out an unreadable word or sentence on the day of the lesson than you are weeks later when you look back over your notes in preparation for a test. This may be either in another notebook or on the computer. Just in case of any computer troubles, always back it up!

, This may be in a drawer, binder or shelf. Some people combine the copying technique with organization by using just one notebook for class notes and then copying these notes into a notebook for each subject when they get back home. Make sure you do it regularly if you don't your notes will be all over the place and things will get totally crazed when it's time to study for the test.
 This is a method in which you would write and/or underline particular words or phrases in another colour to represent either: a date, formula, case study...etc.

