 Most middle and high school coaches are also teachers at the school. To become a teacher, you will need a Bachelor’s degree and teaching certification. If you want to focus particularly on sports and exercise, getting a degree in Physical Education might be a good choice for you. This would set you up to coach and to teach any of the health courses your school might have., It doesn't have to be a sport you're especially good at, but it should definitely be a sport you are very passionate about. You need to have a strong command of the techniques necessary to succeed in the sport, the rules of the game, and a capacity to design drills and exercises that can help your team advance.
 Most sports have a governing body that will issue certifications to coaches. Check on the sport or sports of your choice to see what the specifics are. All certifications, however, will include a background check, questions about your experience playing or coaching your sport or sports, and knowledge of the sport or sports., It's best to become an assistant coach before you do the real thing, so that you will have experience and know what to expect as a coach. Try to volunteer for the sport and the level that you hope to coach. As school budgets decline, many schools are in desperate need of volunteer coaches and assistants., Observe coaches around you to see what their technique is. Learn the best ways to model and explain how you want your players to perform. Work on your responses to typical player issues, including technique, performance anxiety, or teamwork. Consider supplementing what you already know with online courses from the National Federation of State High School Associations, which offers classes specifically for coaches here: http://nfhslearn.com/


How do you want to talk to and treat your team to get them to perform their best?
What kinds of drills work best to get your team to play the way you want them to?
Think about a coach that has inspired you. How did he or she act to inspire you to be a better player?
Are you going to be a hands-on coach, and model the techniques you want, or will you be on the sidelines, explaining what you want to your team?
What is your philosophy of coaching?

, Hopefully you will be able to get a job as a teacher and be able to coach the team of your choice. Keep in mind, however, that it might take a while. You could end up with a teaching job and no coaching job. This would mean that you should continue to volunteer to keep up your coaching skills.

