 First, preheat your oven to 425°F (218°C). While that heats up, wash all twelve potatoes with running water to remove any dirt or chemicals from the skins.Dry them with paper towels or a clean cloth when finished. Then poke each one with a fork a few times along one side.Poking holes through the skin and flesh enables the oven’s heat to reach the insides quicker. This helps cook the whole potato more evenly.;
, Coat them lightly with olive oil by spraying, drizzling, and/or rubbing it into the skins.Set them in a baking pan and place them in the oven. Set a timer for about 45 minutes. Bake until the flesh is tender, returning the pan to the oven for an additional ten to twenty minutes if needed.A longer baking time helps ensure that the flesh will be tender enough for you to scoop it out easily. Since you will be baking these twice, however, you can try removing them after 25 minutes or so if you’re pressed for time.If you are going to include bacon in your pulp, use this time to cook ½ pound (227 g) in a pan on the stovetop. Then chop or crumble the slices once they are cooked.
 Once the potatoes’ skins have grown a little crisp and the flesh tender, remove from heat. Let them sit for ten minutes or so. Allow them to cool down.You’re going to be handling them with your fingers next, so test them with your fingertip before moving on. Make sure they’ve cooled enough for you to hold without burning yourself.
Remember: you’re going to be baking these a second time once you’ve made your filling, so keep the oven on.
 While the potatoes are cooling, combine your other ingredients in a large mixing bowl. For a simple recipe with few ingredients, add ¾ cup (85 g) of shredded cheese, ½ cup (115 g) of sour cream, ⅓ cup of fresh minced chives (16 g), 1 tablespoon of Dijon mustard, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 1 teaspoon of smoked paprika. Stir them together until evenly mixed.If you’d like a more complex flavor, combine 1 cup (113 g) shredded cheese, ½ cup (115 g) of sour cream, 3 ounces (85 g) of cream cheese, ⅓ cup (53 g) of chopped scallions, 1 teaspoon of dried basil, 1 minced clove of garlic, ½ teaspoon of salt, ¼ to ½ teaspoon of pepper.Monterey Jack cheese is perhaps used the most often for twice-baked potatoes, but feel free to use provolone, Swiss, cheddar, or whatever else you have around or like the most.
 First, slice each one in half once they have all cooled off. Then use a spoon or melon baller to scoop out the insides. Add the scooped up flesh to your mixing bowl.Don’t scoop all of the flesh out of your potatoes, however. Leave enough in each half to form a bowl that is strong enough to stand on its own.
If one or more potatoes seem too small to split into two substantial halves, serve it “whole” instead. Choose one side to be the top and only slice enough off that so you can still scoop out the inside., Use a potato masher to combine the scooped-out flesh with the other ingredients in your mixing bowl. Alternately, you could use an electric mixer, but set the speed to “low” since the potatoes are pretty thick. A higher speed may fling chunks of potato right out of the bowl.If you’re making the bacon recipe, add your bacon bits and stir them in once you have combined the other ingredients., Now that your filling is done, spoon it back into your potato halves. Fill each one evenly, doming the top. If the potato halves are too rounded on the bottom to stand up straight, slice a little bit of the bottom off so it has a flatter base.When slicing off the bottom, be careful not to slice so much off that you cut away all the flesh, leaving an open hole at the bottom of your bowl. That said, it’s not the end of the world if this happens.
 If you shut the oven off, heat it back up to 425°F (218°C). Otherwise, place your potato halves back in your baking pan (or split them between two pans if you don’t have one large enough to fit them all). Set a timer for 15 minutes. Bake until the potatoes and filling turn light brown, leaving them in for another five minutes of so if needed., Once they’ve baked, crisscross the top of each half with more shreds of cheese if you’d like to dress it up a bit. Put them back in the oven for a couple more minutes to melt the new cheese. Then dust each half with more chives or scallions. Or, simply serve them up as is, straight out of the oven, and dig in!

,