 If you regularly add table salt to your breakfasts, lunches, and dinners, simply replace the table salt with sea salt. You can purchase the sea salt in bulk and then add it to an empty salt shaker. Whenever you use salt in a recipe, grab the shaker with the sea salt.


If you are using small amounts of salt such as a quarter teaspoon or less, you can use the same amount of sea salt as you would normally use table salt.If you are replacing table salt with a coarse sea salt, you can use the same amount of sea salt as you would table salt.If you are replacing table salt with a finely ground sea salt, you will want to consult a conversion chart.You can find a useful conversion chart at the Morton Salt website: http://www.mortonsalt.com/article/salt-conversion-chart/


, This recipe uses Hawaiian sea salt at the marinade and the plating stages. It serves two people and uses two tuna nuggets. However, you can adjust the recipe for more people by simply adding more tuna nuggets and making a larger marinade. Start by marinating the tuna nuggets or chopped tuna steaks in a sea salt marinade, and use the following steps to complete the recipe:


To make the marinade, combine 1 teaspoon (5 g) of Hawaiian sea salt with 4 tablespoons (60 milliliters) of soy sauce, the juice of half a lemon and the tuna nuggets. Let the tuna nuggets marinade for at least half an hour in the fridge.
Put the grill on medium heat.
Grill the steaks for two minutes on each of the four sides or for eight minutes total.
Plate the tuna nuggets and sprinkle an additional 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 g) of Hawaiian sea salt on top., Start by preheating the oven to 400° F (200° C). Then, use the following steps to complete the recipe:


Chop your vegetables into one and a half inch slices, including 2 cups (300 g) of butternut squash, 2 cups of (300 g) sweet potatoes, 2 cups (300 g) of red sweet potatoes, and 4 cups (600 g) of Yukon Gold potatoes. You can chop 2 cups (300 g) of red onion into 1/2 inch wedges and two granny smith apples into eight pieces.
Toss the vegetables in a mixing bowl with a 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) olive oil, 3/4 of a teaspoon (4 g) of sea salt, a dash of thyme and 1 teaspoon (5 g) of red pepper flakes.
Bake the vegetables for 30 minutes, then add the apples and bake for another 30. Stir the vegetables and bake for another 20 minutes.
 These caramel and sea salt apples are a perfect dessert for the fall season. Start by gathering your ingredients, including medium sized apples, eight sticks for holding the apples, a 114 oz (400 g) package of caramels, 2 tablespoons of water, and coarse sea salt for sprinkling on top. To make the apples, follow these steps:Wash apples.
Place some parchment paper on a sheet to store the apples. You will need this at the end of the recipe.
Melt the caramels in the water in a medium size sauce pan on medium heat. Let the caramels melt in the water.
Dip the apples in the caramel.
Sprinkle sea salt on top.
Place the caramel sea salt apples on the parchment paper and store them in the fridge for a few hours. Once they have cooled off in the fridge, they are ready to eat.
 If you are having oatmeal or another hot breakfast cereal in the morning, try grinding some fresh sea salt onto it at the end. Grind a touch of sea salt, and then taste the cereal. If it doesn't have enough salt, grind a bit more sea salt until it is right for you.
 Add a pinch of sea salt to one of your favorite breakfast smoothies. You will have to experiment to get the right amount, since too much sea salt will overpower and too little will fail to enhance the flavors.Start by adding just a small pinch and work your way up until you get the correct flavor.

