 Circle skirts are known for their flowy appearance, so it is best to choose a material that isn’t too heavy or stiff(we recommend flounced garments). The waistband is made from exposed elastic, so choose an elastic in a width and color that you like. A wide waistband measuring 3 inches (7.6 cm) or more is a fun way to top off your skirt.
 Use a soft measuring tape around your hips where you would like the skirt to sit, typically the widest part. Because this is a circle skirt, a bit of geometry is necessary to find the measurements. To find the radius of the skirt, take your hip measurement and add two inches. Then, divide this number by 6.28; the answer is the radius of your circle.



For example, if your hips measure 30 inches (76.2 cm), add two additional inches and divide by 6.28 (32 / 6.28). This will give you a radius of about 5.1 inches (13.0 cm).
Measure the elastic by adding one inch for a seam allowance to your total hip measurement. If your hips measure in at 30 inches (76.2 cm), your elastic should be measured and cut to 31 inches (78.7 cm).
Measure the length of the skirt by using a soft measuring tape to find the distance from your hips to your desired end point. Add an extra inch of length for seam allowance.
 You will only need to create a paper cut for ¼ of the skirt, so choose a piece of paper large enough to occupy a sketch of that size. Use your measuring tape and place your pencil in the hole at the end. Find the measurement for your radius (or as close as you can) and hold this spot on the measuring tape to the bottom left corner piece of your paper. As you hold the tape with your left hand. use the pencil in the hole to swivel from edge to edge of the paper with your right hand. You should be left with a quarter of a circle, with the corner being the center point.
 Choose the length you would like for your skirt. Use your measuring tape to mark this distance from the line you just made for your hip radius in another ¼ circle. Draw from edge to edge of the paper, with the starting point of the distance being the line for your hip measurement. You should be left with a rainbow shaped ¼ circle strip from edge to edge of your paper.
 Cut out your paper along both of the lines you created, making a curved band. Fold your fabric in half and then in half again, leaving you 4 folded sections. Place the paper pattern over the corner where all the fabric is connected, and cut out along the outside of the paper. When you unfold the fabric, you should have a large ring or donut shaped piece of material.
 To finish the waistband section of fabric, you will need to press and serge the edges. This will keep the raw edges from unraveling through wearing and washing. Fold down a section of fabric ¼ inch from the top of the skirt and use an iron to flatten it out. Then use a serger (if you have one available) or use a zig-zag stitch to finish the seam.
 The elastic is a bit smaller that the fabric around the waist to allow give when you put the skirt on. Because of that, the two ends must be sewn together first before being added to the skirt. Fold the elastic in half, and use a straight stitch to sew the pieces together with a ½ inch seam allowance. Then, fan the edges out away from each other and sew them flat back onto the elastic, so that there isn’t a bump on the seam when the skirt is worn.
 Your skirt should gather slightly around the elastic because of the enlarged size. Place the waistband along the top edge of the elastic, and pin the skirt evenly around. Use as many or as few of the pins as you need in order to get an even gather around the entirety of the waist.
 With your elastic pinned to the fabric, begin to sew around the edge with the elastic on the outside of the skirt. As you sew, stretch the elastic so that there are no loose sections where the fabric and elastic are not attached. You can use a straight or a zigzag stitch for this.
 Fold over the bottom ¼ inch of the edge of the skirt and use an iron to flatten it out. Then fold this section over again, and use a straight or zigzag stitch to hem it all the way around the edge.








