 Pitch and pronunciation go a long way in conveying different gender presentation. Although it is common sense that a lower voice denotes masculinity, research shows that it has more to do with two things: the pronunciation of your "s," and the presence of a "vocal fry."If you have a high-pitch voice, do not strain yourself to speak in a baritone. Instead, aim for a slightly lower, more monotone version of your natural voice.


The presence of any lisp or softness in the "s" is a marker of female speech patterns.Vocal fry refers to the creaky, deepened, elongation of vowels at the end of your sentence. This is also a marker of female speech patterns and is best to be avoided if you want to self-present as a boy or man.
 For example, crossing your legs, batting your eyelids, and playing with your hair.


If your male look includes long hair, don't toss your hair over your shoulder, or spend too much time touching your neck.
When sitting, lean back and allow your legs to be slightly apart.
Don't hold your wrist limply or expose your wrist too often. For example when women smoke cigarettes they sometimes hold their hand with the wrist turned out and visible.Men are more likely to turn the wrist down or hold the arm by their side.
One safe posture is to put your hands in your pockets as this is far more common among men than women.
 Although it is socially common for men to hug, it is perhaps more prevalent to greet with different variations of hand shakes and high-fives.


When shaking someone's hand, grip firmly (though not attempting to harm them), and maintain eye contact to give a confident, friendly impression.
When going to do a high-five, aim for the elbow to prevent missed connections that lead to awkward moments.
 Research shows that women often speak with the intention of creating connection and community, whereas men speak more to transfer information and determine status.


If this is a struggle for you, consider taking an assertiveness class, as this is an attribute respected among men.
 In the process of self-presenting as a man, we can get hung up in the socially conditioned notions of "how to be a man." However, the truth is there is no one right way. And a great way to find out how you can comfortably present as one yourself, is the hang around individual men or boys and observe their personalities and behavior.


If you have any close male friends you are comfortable discussing it with, talk to them about your attempts to self-present as male and see what solutions you can come up with together.

