 Seville oranges are the classic marmalade orange, with a thin but bitter peel and a sharply sweet inside that makes a decadent combination. However, many cooks have success with navel, sweet, or whatever you can find in the grocery store.Note that, while the ratios here are roughly correct, you can add more sugar later on if the oranges aren't quite as sweet as you'd like.;
, Cut the ends off first and set aside. Then, using a sharp knife of a kitchen mandoline, slice the oranges into as thin slices as you can get. They should be close to 1/8" thickness. Discard the seeds as you go.


Citrus rinds naturally contain pectin, the agent that causes "jelly-ing." This makes the recipe remarkably simple, though you can make it without the rinds if you prefer.
 The smaller the pieces, the easier it will be to extract the juice and make your marmalade.
 If you want softer, more evenly consistent marmalade, you'll want to break up the rinds. Simply slice them off first, cut into pieces and add to the fruit.
 You'll need a big, 8-quart pot to fit everything, with plenty of room on top. Don't fill up a small pot to the brim -- you have a lot more to add, and the mixture will bubble up over the top., Simply grate the lemon skin in, then cut it in half and juice it into the pot with the oranges and water. Make sure you don't add any seeds!


While the lemon is a great addition for the final flavor, it is not strictly necessary, and can be replaced with another small orange if desired., Turn the heat on high and let the pot rise to a nice rolling boil. You don't actually need to boil everything for very long, but you do need to get the water up to this temperature., Stir every few minutes as you do. A rapid simmer is when lots of small bubbles rise and break the surface, but you don't have the "rolling" water of a full boil.
 Don't let the mixture sit for long or the sugar might burn -- keep it moving.
 If you have a candy thermometer, set it to 222F, as this is the temperature needed to finish cooking. It will slowly darken in color as the sugar dissolves and cooks.


Note -- if you plan to eat all of the marmalade in the next few days you do not need to can it.
 The following test is perfect after 12 minutes or so, letting you know how it all came out. If it is ready, let the pot sit for 10 minutes to cool before proceeding. You'll know if the marmalade is done with a simple and easy "plate test:"


Before boiling, place a small plate in the freezer.
Place a small dollop of marmalade on the cold plate
Wait 30 seconds.
Tilt the plate -- it should be a slow-moving gel, barely moving down the plate.
Add more water if it is too hard. Keep cooking if it is too soft and wet.