 If you know what set of MtG you will be drafting, go online and take a look at the cards on a site like Mythicspoiler.com, which has Magic cards archived by set. This screen shows the newest released set: Shadows over Innistrad (SOI), which will be used as an example in this guide.


From here, you can view the set in its entirety and read the cards and their effects, and look for bombs, or threats that can win games.;
, Once you give the set an initial look over, start identifying color combinations that are supported by the cards in the set. Magic has 5 different colors of mana, white, blue, black, red, and green; these different colors of mana are used to cast different colors cards. In a drafting environment, players are will usually not be able to obtain enough playable cards in a single color. In most cases, draft decks will consist of 2, or even 3 color combinations of cards, so is important to know what colors work well together in the Set. In order to do this, there are 2 simple ways to identify what colors are designed to work together in a set: non-basic land cards and gold, or multi-colored, cards within the set.


Above you see a gold card: Olivia, Mobilized for War, and a matching non-basic land: Foreboding Ruins. From the information on these cards, you can see that red and black is a supported color combination in SOI, since there is a card that requires both those colors, as well as a land that can produce both those colors in the set.
 Once you identify your color pair, you can expand further into the archetypes of the set. Archetypes are important, because certain cards that fit in the same archetypes are designed to have synergy. When 2 cards with synergy are put in a a deck together, the deck becomes more powerful than just a sum of its individual parts. If you read deeper into Olivia, Mobilized for War, you can see that she is a vampire, and has a mechanic that allows you to discard cards.


Looking at the black and red cards in the set, you can see other vampires, as well a mechanic called madness in the cards such as Falkenrath Gorger. Madness allows you to cast spells for cheaper, or with an extra effect when you discard the card, which work perfectly with Olivia's effect. The enchantment, Call the Bloodline, is another way to enable madness as well as create more vampires, while lightning axe provides cheap removal on top of allowing you to discard cards. From these cards, you have identified your archetype: Red/Black madness vampires. There are multiple archetypes in each of the different colors for any draft format. Since drafting packs has a high level of randomness, its good to take a look at a few archetypes, in case you never see any of the cards you planned on using for your original plan.
 Once you identify your archetype, you must consider deck composition. Every functional deck needs to follow 5 basic principles to succeed on a fundamental level: card advantage, removal, creature count, mana base, and mana curve.


Mana base is referring to your lands, such as the Foreboding Ruins you saw earlier, as well as mana accelerants. Picking these up will help prevent you from not being able to cast the spells you want to.
Mana curve refers to picking up cards that are costed differently. This allows you to potentially drop spells on every turn, a 1-drop on turn 1, and 2-drop on turn-2 etc. also known as curving out.
The most important card type in any draft are generally creatures. These cards are the ones that will protect your life total, as well as knock down your opponents' life totals and allow you to win. Making sure to pick up efficient creatures at different mana costs is instrumental to building a good draft deck.
Removal refers to cards that can remove you opponents creatures. Removal is important to answer your opponents bombs, as being unable to deal with your opponents' big creatures can easily result in a loss. Different colors remove creatures in different ways. For example, red generally uses damage to outright kill creatures, as seen in your Lightning Axe card from earlier.
Card advantage refers to ways to draw cards. Having access to more cards means you can keep casting spells. Once you run out of cards, its difficult to keep up with your opponents moves, so keeping hand count up is crucial to closing out games.
Now that you know what card you need, look at the set and try to find cards that fulfill your needs as well as fit into your archetype. Corrupted Grafstone is a mana accelerant that works off your graveyard, which works well with discarding cards. Insolent Neonate and Asylum Visitor are vampire creatures that are 1 and 2-drops respectively, which can lets you drop them early and then curve into Olivia on turn 3 in an ideal situation. Tormented Voice is an excellent card that fills the dual purpose of refilling your hand, while also allowing you to discard for madness.
 Another important factor to deck building is composition.


In general draft decks are built from a minimum for 40 cards, are comprised of:

15-17 Creatures
6-9 Non-creature spells: sorceries, instants, enchantments, artifacts
16-17 Lands


Depending on your archetype, these numbers may differ slightly, but this serves as a good base.
 The mechanics of drafting boil down to 2 things, picking and passing. From each pack, players will pick one card and then pass that pack. The process for passing packs is pass to left for pack 1, pass to the right for pack 2, and then pass to the left again for pack 3.
 In every pack of magic cards, there is a spread of 1 rare, 3 uncommons, and 11 commons with a chance for an extra foil card. When evaluating a pack, the first card you want to consider is the rare. Cards at the rare level are often stronger in comparison to lower cards, and there are less of them in the draft since there is only 1 per pack. In some cases however, you will want to forsake the rare in favor of another pick, such as when the rare only functions in very specific situations or niche decks.


When evaluating cards, there are 2 factors to take into consideration: power and versatility. Some cards are extremely powerful, but require you to have other cards, or to build your deck in a certain way in order to function. Other cards have high versatility, and can function in a variety of situations, but sacrifice raw power. For creatures, a good test of strength is seeing power and toughness vs mana cost. creatures that pass the test have power and toughness equal to their cost, for example, a 4/4 for 4 mana. Another thing to consider is synergy with your previous picks. Sometimes, taking picks with high raw power early constrains you to make certain picks later in order to keep your deck balanced.



The first pack in the draft can set the stage for entire deck, depending on what kind of pick you take first. Take this pack for example; in this pack, you are extremely lucky to have pulled 2 rares, because your pack contained a foil rare. On the left you have Sorin, Grim Nemesis who is an extremely powerful pick from this set. On the left, you have Tamiyo's Journal which isnt quite as strong, but is still an excellent rare in the draft, and provides card advantage which is a core function that every deck needs. When comparing the 2, Sorin is a winner in terms of power, but Tamiyo's Journal leaves you with all options open. Since this is the first pick of the draft, taking Sorin here will heavily influence you into taking black and white cards to build around him, where as the journal allows you to go in any direction you want based on the next few picks.
 Say you take Sorin as your first pick. Sorin is a 6 drop, which is pretty high, so you must find picks that will allow you to survive the early game and play your Sorin later. In drafting, 6 mana cost is fine to top out a curve, and you don't want to get too many high cost spells, lest you are unable to play any of your very expensive cards. Now what you need is some 1-5 drops so you have some plays in the early turns, and your opponents don't form an insurmountable lead before you can play you bomb (Sorin).
 Now that you know your own game plan, what are the other players around the table doing? this question can be answered be paying attention to what kinds of cards are being passed to you. Is there a good rare in a certain color passed to you on turn 2-3? Chances are the players on the side passing to you are not building those colors. Inversely, what is missing from the pack? If you never see any red or black cards, chance are there is high competition around the table to pick those colors.


Identifying what your opponents are doing can help you build a better deck by going into an archetype that not many players are drafting, which will let you pick up more pieces of the deck and build a deck that has more synergy.
 Sometimes, you have to abandon your first pick and change your plans completely. In the example, you were extremely lucky with the rares you opened, however, this might not be the case. Maybe instead of opening that game-winning bomb in your first pick, you open it in your second pack, after a whole round of drafting has already occurred. In this case, it might be worth it to abandon some of your earlier picks than to pass along a strong card just because it didn't fit into your original plan.


Splashing is a less extreme way to alter your plans. Say you were planning to build our R/B madness vampires but picked Sorin pack 1 pick 1. Sorin is Black and White, while the deck you are trying to build is black and red. However, due to Sorin's high power, you want to try and run him in your deck. Splashing refers to running Sorin in our Red/Black deck and including a couple white mana sources in order to accommodate him. These 2 dual lands allows you to tap for one of your mains colors (black/red) as well as providing a white source to cast Sorin.
 As you enter the late stages of the draft, look at the cards you have accumulated. Think back to when you were thinking about balancing a deck and deck composition and ask yourself some questions.


How is your curve looking?
What are your different spell counts?
Do you have the basic principles needed to make your deck function?
What cards have you already picked?
Based on the answers to these question, fill in the holes in your deck and really round it out.
 There are times, especially when you get down to the last picks in a pack, when you get passed a pack that has no good choices for you. In this situation, use information on what your opponents are doing. If you have identified what kinds of colors your opponents are in, you can take cards that they might need so you don't have to deal with those cards.
 Once you have drafted your entire pool, its time to put your deck together. The first thing you want to do is get organized, so take all your playable picks and layout your curve. Laying out your curve refers to sorting out your cards by mana cost. 1-mana cards together, 2-mana cards together, etc. Once you lay out your curve, count out how many cards you have. Your deck should aim to have 23-24 non-land cards, so you will have to make some cuts to get it down to size.
 Making cuts is based on a few criteria.


First and foremost is power. Some cards are simply more powerful than others, and demand a spot in a deck. With cards on either extreme of the power spectrum, you can easily decide what you definitely want to keep and what you want to cut. However, power alone is generally not enough to make all the cuts you need to make.
Next you will consider your ideal curve, and try to make your deck conform to that. In general, a deck's curve should roughly resemble a bell curve, with low counts of cards that are extremely expensive or too cheap, and higher quantities in the mid range(2-4 mana) If you have too many cards in at any one cost, look to make cuts there.
Finally is redundancy. If you have multiple cards that fulfill the same purpose within the deck, or even multiple copies of some commons, this is where you will make your final cuts.
 Once you have your cuts, its time to fill in your 16-17 land slots. This is done by counting up your cards of different colors. The ratio of basic lands should roughly match the ratio of the colors you are running. For example, if you are running 16 red cards and 8 black cards, your mana base should be approximately 10 mountains (red) and 6 swamps (black). This is also where you will utilize any lands that produce multiple colors that you picked up form the draft, in general you should look to replace the higher count lands with your dual lands.

