 If your dog’s diarrhea is the result of an infection or disease, rather than snacking on something he shouldn't, then medical treatment may be needed. Your veterinarian will recommend the best course of treatment for your dog based on their diagnosis.It is important to treat the underlying cause of chronic diarrhea rather than just the diarrheal symptoms.Never give your dog over the counter medicine unless you have spoken to your veterinarian. These medicines, while they may work for acute diarrhea, could aggravate your dog’s underlying condition and make them worse.
 One of the common underlying causes of diarrhea is the presence of intestinal parasites, like worms. If the fecal analysis shows the presence of worms, your veterinarian will recommend an oral medicine to kill the parasites and then an additional medicine to prevent future parasites.A single oral dose will get rid of the parasites present at that moment in time. It is wise to repeat the dose a month later.It is important to use preventative care when it comes to parasites in your dog. By using a preventative oral or topical medicine, you can lessen the chances that your dog will experience diarrhea from this condition., If a dietary allergy or food hypersensitivity is suspected, then removing the allergen from the diet will treat your dog’s diarrhea. Your vet will recommend a commercial prescription hypoallergenic diet for your dog.By changing your dog’s diet to remove this allergen, their diarrhea should stop.
Changing foods can also upset your dog's stomach, so you will need to gradually introduce this new food by mixing it with their old food.
 Some dogs with chronic diarrhea experience this condition because they have an enzyme deficiency. Injections of B vitamins will replace the enzymes that your dog isn’t naturally producing. This kind of treatment is usually seen in dogs that have pancreatic conditions.


Injections will be stopped once your dog’s enzyme levels are high enough and their chronic diarrhea stops.

