 Organic chemistry is all about learning chemical structures and reactions. There is also a lot of vocabulary that is specific to the subject. It is very difficult to understand the material if you don’t know what all of the words mean. Use flash cards to help you learn the vocabulary.Once you have mastered the vocabulary, make new flashcards for reactions and structures.
 Study groups are a great way to check your understanding and gain new insight into the material. When explaining a concept to others, you may realize that there is something you were missing. This can lead to a deeper understanding of the material itself. At the same time, other members of the group can help you learn concepts that are difficult for you.Choose study partners that learn at the same rate you do. If the group is too fast or too slow for you, it won’t be as beneficial.
 When using a pencil, it is easy to just write everything down, erase, and then keep writing more. When you use a pen, you have to think through the material critically before writing anything down to avoid having to scribble things out.While this may not work for everyone, it is good to try it out and see if it helps you think ideas through properly before writing them down.
 Studying for an hour or two each day is a much better use of your time than trying to study for 5+ hours all at once. With smaller, more frequent study sessions, you can focus on individual concepts and not burn yourself out trying to cram all of the information into your brain at once.Break up your studying into large and small blocks of time. If you only have ten minutes, flip through some flashcards. If you have an hour or two, do practice problems.
 This may seem obvious, but a lot of effort put into learning material is just about showing up to class. Paying attention in class and taking relevant notes is also necessary. Be strategic about note-taking. Don’t take notes just to take notes. Listen to what the professor is saying and then summarize the information in your notes.If something you wrote during class doesn’t make sense, attend office hours to ask for clarification.
 The key to success when studying any subject is to maintain your health.Getting the proper amount of sleep, exercising a few times a week, and keeping a nutritious diet are all necessary to keeping yourself healthy and ready for work. Doing these three things will help keep your energy up and help you maintain the information that you are learning.


Try to get at least 7-8 hours of sleep each night.
Make time for exercise, even if it’s just a walk with a friend.
Make an effort to eat more fruits and vegetables and stay away from sodas and excess caffeine.
 Choose a study space that works best for you. Do you get more done when there’s absolute silence or when there’s a little bit of background noise? A good study space has plenty of lighting, is a comfortable temperature, has minimal distractions, and is comfortable, but not too comfortable.Make sure you have plenty of space to spread out.
Keep your study space stocked with everything you will need (paper, calculator, scissors, snacks, etc.) so you won’t have to go hunting and get distracted.

