 If you live near the celebrity, find out where that celeb goes on a regular basis. Maybe it’s a certain fitness club, coffee shop, or grocery store. If you go to the same places as the celeb, you’re more likely to casually run into them and be able to strike up a conversation and eventually a friendship.


Even if you only see each other in passing for a while, the celeb will see you as a familiar face, and as someone who doesn’t get crazy or excited like a fan when you see them. Then, once you finally do talk to them, they might be more willing to treat you like a potential friend.
 One of the best ways to meet famous people is to become friends with people who already know them. That way, that friend can introduce you as a mutual friend, and you’ll be able to hang out in groups. The celeb will be less likely to see you as a fan and more likely to see you as a friend if you meet them through someone they already have a relationship with.Don’t bring up the celebrity right away when making friends with their friends. Their friends will probably know you’re just trying to meet the famous person, and they might not be so willing to hang out with you, or to introduce you. Give it some time before you bring it up, or let it happen naturally.
 Some celebrities have multiple venues they work in. For example, some actors might also be restaurant owners, or have their own fashion lines. Find out what other side ventures the famous person is into, and get involved in those. That might be a better way to meet and connect with them.If you meet the famous person through their side venture or business, you might have easier access to them, as this other venture might not have as big of a following as their main one.
 If you’re interested in making friends with actors, go to where they work. For example, many films and television shows are filmed in Los Angeles, but you could do a little searching online and find out more specifically where things are being or will be filmed and go to those places.


Stick with public places, rather than staking out sound stages and back slots at movie production properties. For example, if you know a certain show films in a small town, or will have a few filming days in a public location—like a certain city block in NYC, or a certain landmark—spend some time in that spot.
 One way to meet famous people and develop a relationship is by working in the same fields as they do. For example, if you want to meet actors, you might get a job or internship working for a production company, or television network. If you want to meet famous models, you might consider working for a modeling agency or fashion designer. If you happen to have any experience with the technical side of filmmaking or television production, you could try to get a job on the set of a movie or TV show. This will help you meet famous people naturally, and you’ll be able to spend a lot of time with them to build a relationship.

