 Legally changing your name is a serious decision, so you should make sure that you choose a name that you like enough to keep.


Before beginning the process of changing your name, practice signing it and have a few people close to you call you by that name, to make sure you like it.
You can change your first name, middle name, last name, or all of the above., The primary concern here is that your new name doesn't imply "fraudulent intent" (i.e. that you aren't trying to gain some benefit by misleading others about your identity),as this will prevent you from being able to legally change it. There are, however, several reasons why you might be denied a name change, including any of the following:You're avoiding bankruptcy by pretending to be someone else.
Your new name violates a trademark (e.g. trying to name yourself "Chuck E. Cheese" or "Adidas Batman").
The name uses numbers or symbols (except Roman numerals).
The name includes obscene words.
If you are having trouble determining if your name change is legal, or need legal assistance with this process, hire an attorney. Legal self-help centers are often available to help with name changes, and legal fees may be waived if sufficient financial need is demonstrated. Search online to see what legal aid resources are available in your community.
 Most states require you to fill out a petition explaining your reasons for wanting to change your name. Go to the courthouse or your state's courts website to obtain the proper forms and learn all the requirements in your jurisdiction.The petition will be submitted to a judge, so make sure it explains your reasoning completely and correctly.


For example, in California, you must fill out forms NC-100, NC-110, NC-120, and CM-010.Other states may have different requirements. For instance, in Florida, you must undergo fingerprinting and state and federal criminal background checks as well.If you're changing your name because of a divorce, contact your divorce lawyer. He or she may be able to help you expedite the process, since changing a name for this reason is quite common. Sometimes it can even be included in the divorce decree.If you're an immigrant, ex-convict, or attorney, you'll probably need an affidavit of service of notification to authorities in addition to your petition. This shows that any relevant authorities have been alerted to your proposed name change.For example, attorneys must be licensed under their legal names, so if an attorney changes his or her name, that license must reflect the change.
 Visit your local civil court in person to file the petition with a clerk, or file by mail if that is allowed in your state. Bring two copies of each form. The clerk will stamp both with a “Filed” stamp and return one copy to you for your records.The clerk will give you a court date, which you should make sure you can attend.


Check your local court's website to determine if your petition must be submitted in person, and to determine the hours that they are open for such business.
In some jurisdictions, you will need to have your petition notarized or signed by a court clerk before filing.Once you're finished filling it out, take it back to the courthouse to have it notarized or signed. You can also have it notarized at a bank or other notary public.
 Most states will also have filing fees involved with the petition process. In California, you can expect to pay a total of approximately $435.In Florida, as another example, the fees are estimated at $401., Some states require that you publish your new name for a number of weeks in approved general circulation newspapers.This gives any member of the public a chance to object to your name change if, for example, you owe debt under your current name.


The specific amount of time for which you must publish the notice varies by state. In California, applicants must publish for four consecutive weeks,whereas New Mexico only requires two consecutive weeks.Some states may not even have such a publication requirement.
Some states allow you to simply post in a public place such as a designated bulletin board at the courthouse.
 Most name-change hearings are fairly straightforward. If the judge asks you any questions about your reasons for changing your name, answer clearly and honestly. If you live in a state with a publication requirement, bring copies of the publication to prove you met the requirement.In some states you will be expected to present a prepared testimony explaining your name change.Arrive at your hearing 15 to 20 minutes early, just in case.If the judge denies your request, get a copy of the denial and try again.
If the judge approves your request, you'll be granted a name change court order, probably given to you by your local civil court clerk. Make a copy for your records.
 Take your court order to the Social Security Administration, or mail in a certified copy. Make sure you also have your birth certificate, photo ID (driver's license, passport, or state ID) and a completed application for a new Social Security card, available online.You should get your new card in the mail 10 days after your request was processed (either the date you visited SSA in person or the date listed on your receipt).
Once you've received your new Social Security card, take it to your local DMV, along with your court order and your old driver's license or state ID. They will issue you a new ID that reflects the name change.
 Here's a short list of what you might consider:Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases or mortgages
Car title
Voter registration
Medical offices
Post office boxes
Passport

, Introduce yourself with your new name and use it to sign checks and other documents.

