 E-Verify is an internet based verification system that allows employers to check the eligibility of their workers. The system is free to use so long as you enroll and agree to the terms of use. To enroll, you need to visit the enrollment website and agree to the terms of use.Once you have read the information, click "Begin E-Verify Enrollment" to start the process.


Start by answering questions that will help determine which access method is right for you. Once you complete the questionnaire, review your answers and confirm the access method that is right for you.
You will then need to select your organization designation, which will help E-Verify set you up with the proper verification system. Some employers have to complete unique requirements. For example, if you are a federal contractor, you will be required to answer more questions.
Review your company's obligations, which are set out in a memorandum of understanding (MOU). If you agree to the the terms of the MOU, click "Agree" and sign the bottom of the page.
At this point you will need to provide E-Verify with information about your business and who will administer the E-Verify process. When you are done you can review the information and print the signed MOU., Even if you are using the E-Verify system, you will still need the employee to fill out Section 1 of Form I-9 (or at least provide the necessary information to you). Remember, you will need to have the employee's Social Security number to use the E-Verify system. Using the required information, you will create a case no later than three days after the employee is hired., Once you enter the required information and start a case, you might be prompted to match photos if one is available. If your employee provided you with a passport, Form I-551 Permanent Resident Card, or a Form I-766 Employment Authorization Document, you will automatically be prompted to compare the photo on the document to the photo that pops up on the screen., After the employee's information is correctly entered into the E-Verify system, a case result is provided. In some instances, your initial response may be interim. Interim case results occur when E-Verify needs more information before making a final determination about an employee's eligibility to work. For example, interim case results often occur when:The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or the Social Security Administration (SSA) tentatively nonconfirms the employee. This means that information provided did not match available records and more information is needed.
I-9 information is missing or incorrectly input. When this happens, you will need to go back and fix the inputting errors.
DHS needs more time to verify. When this happens, you do not need to take any action. Most of these cases are finalized within 24 hours but some take up to three days.
Your case is in a continuance. When this happens it means an employee has visited an SSA or DHS office. No action is required on your part. It simply means SSA or DHS needs more time to verify eligibility.
 The E-Verify process is not complete until you receive a final case result and close your case. Closing a case is easy and you will be walked through the process after you receive a final case result. Final case results take one of four forms:Employment authorized, which means the employee is eligible to work.
DHS or SSA final nonconfirmation, which E-Verify cannot verify the employee's eligibility to work.
DHS no-show, which means the employee did not contact DHS within the required time period.
Error, which means you must close the case and resubmit it.

