 These are an excellent way for you to gain insight into the human struggles of everyday life in Japan. Some notable films on Japanese culture and expatriate experiences are:



Jiro Dreams of Sushi (2011)

The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013)

Hafu: The Mixed-Race Experience in Japan (2013)

Brakeless (2014)

Kokoyakyu: High School Baseball (2006)

The Invention of Dr. Nakamats (2009)

, Even if you don't plan on getting your degree in Japanese language or culture, learning the historical reason for contemporary culture can clear misconceptions and minimize out-of-context assumptions. Weeaboos are perceived as doing just this. Fixation on aspects of Japanese without the cultural framework necessary for accurate interpretation can lead to warped perspective. As an added bonus, your knowledge of Asiatic history and culture will improve your ability to make sense of future encounters with Japanese culture.If a college course is out of the question, you can contact your local Japanese Cultural Center or embassy to see if there are activities you can join. Popular traditional arts you can ask about:

Taiko (太鼓) drum classes
Kendo (剣道, Japanese fencing)
Shodou (書道, Japanese calligraphy)
Sadou (茶道, Japanese tea ceremony).
 A frequent criticism of the weeaboo subculture is that its members only consume overly dramatized mass media. Reading on a variety of topics will help you to achieve a more complete picture of the intricacies of the Japanese way of life.
 Language and culture are closely linked.Many foreign languages contain words or concepts that simply don't exist in your native tongue, and learning these can equip you with tools necessary to pin down foreign perspectives.In the same way, exposing yourself to other cultures promotes broader cultural awareness.You don't need to study Japanese have the advantages that accompany bilingualism. If there is a community nearby that speaks a language different than your own, immersing yourself in that community can promote acquisition.