 This yoga pose is great to do in the water. Although difficult on land, the buoyancy of the water makes it easier to hold this pose for longer time periods.To do warrior three in the pool, start in the shallow end. The water should be about waist deep. Since you lunge your body downwards, you don't want to end up under water for this.
Step your right leg out about 3 feet. You should almost be in a lunge-like position.
Keep your right foot pointed forward, while your back left foot should be angled out away from your body at a 45 degree angle.
Exhale and lower your body down so your right thigh is about parallel to the pool floor.
At the same time, lift your arms up so they are parallel to the pool floor. Hold this position for a few deep breaths and then alternate sides.;
, Tree pose is another great yoga pose to practice in the water. It can be a difficult pose if you're not great at balancing on one leg. The water makes this much easier to accomplish.


To start, stand in waist to chest high water. The lower the water level, the less assistance you're getting from the pool and the more difficult this pose is.
Inhale and stretch your arms up and over your head. Press your palms together over your head.
At the same time, lift your right foot up and rest it either on the inside of your left shin or the inside of your left thigh. Be careful not to rest your foot on your knee joint.
Press your left thigh together with the bottom of your right foot. Look up or straight ahead and hold this position for a few deep breaths. Release and switch sides.
 If you've practiced yoga before, you know that the cobra is a common yoga pose typically done on the floor. However, you can modify this pose so it works well in a pool.Stand about 2 feet from the wall of your pool. The water level should be about chest height - so don't get in the deep end of the pool.
Place your hands gently on the side of the pool wall. Press your forearms to the side of the pool - they will be underwater.
Arch your head backwards so that your back is curved and the top of your head comes into contact with the water.
Push yourself up onto your tip toes and press your lower back towards the pool wall. However, don't touch the pool wall with your stomach.
Hold this position for a few deep breaths. Then, slowly release and come back to the starting position.
 Triangle pose is another common yoga move that you may be surprised you can do in the water. Again, this is modified so your head doesn't go beneath the surface.Stand near the pool wall - about 3 feet away from the wall. Stand in water that is about waist deep. Do not do this pose in the deep end of the pool.
Stand with the pool wall to the right side of your body. Extend your right arm straight out and hold onto the side of the pool with your right hand. Your arm should be parallel to the water.
Position your legs so they are a little wider than shoulder width apart. Your right foot should be pointing out towards the wall and the left foot should be pointing forward.
Take a deep inhale breath and sweep your left arm up and over your head until the left side of your body is curving over towards the pool wall.
Keep your left foot firmly on the pool floor. You will feel a stretch along the left side of your body.
Hold this position for a few breaths and then release. Repeat this pose on the other side.
 Aqua yoga is great for savasana pose. This relaxing and ending pose works well when you have two pool noodles to help keep your body afloat and relaxed.To start, grab two to three pool noodles. Place one noodle under your knees and another noodle or two around your shoulders. Hold the ends of these pool noodles gently in your hands.
Recline backwards so you're almost floating on your back. Your buttocks should dip down a little lower than the rest of your body.
Let your head fall backwards and float in the water. Try to relax your whole body and float silently for a few minutes. You can stay in this position as long as you'd like or until you're ready to start your day.

