 Manage insulin resistance naturally by eating a diet low in sugar and fatty meats, and high in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Eat foods high in fiber like peas, beans, lentils, bran, oatmeal, and whole wheat.A dietitian can help you develop the best diet to manage your insulin resistance.

Stay away from sweets, including sugary sodas.Skip processed snack foods like chips and other “junk-food” aisle products.
Choose lean poultry and fish over red meat.
 Get aerobic exercise for at least thirty minutes, five days a week. Do anything that makes you sweat and raises your heart rate, like walking, biking, or swimming.Get creative – try dance, a sport, or an exercise class.

Talk to your doctor before starting a new exercise regime, especially if you’re diabetic. Ask your doctor how exercise affects your blood sugar, and what you need to do to manage it.
 Metformin is usually the first medicine prescribed for diabetes.It improves how your body uses the insulin you have. If you need further medical help to lower blood sugar, your doctor may try a medication like Avandiaor Actos– though these can have serious side effects.

Often a combination of medications with different effects on the body will be used to simultaneously increase the insulin you make, improve how you use insulin, and lower blood sugar other ways.
 Brown fat exists in small amounts in your body. In contrast to the white fat you think of when you think of weight gain, brown fat burns calories at a supercharged rate.It may be able to improve your body's sensitivity to insulin.Studies are still being done on brown fat, but the best ways to increase it seem to be:

Cool your body down for 2-3 hours a day by sitting in a cold room, taking cool baths or showers, or taking a long walk outside in a cool climate. Cold weather stimulates brown fat production.
Exercise regularly in a cool environment (mid-60’s F).
Get plenty of iron in your diet, and eat plant fats over animal fats (cook with olive oil instead of butter, for instance).

