 Card counters are notorious for playing blackjack for hours and hours, often without eating or enjoying the amenities available at the resort. Acting like a tourist just looking for a simple good time may take the suspicion off of you.


You want to blend in. Busting out your three-piece Armani suit is not what you want to do when starting your card counting career at your local casino. Leave the Italian suede at home and act like a regular Joe.
 Dealers are trained to shuffle the deck upon an unexplainable increase in the bet. For this reason, only up your bet in small increments and at seemingly random points in the game.


This may seem counter to making money, but if you get thrown out, you'll be making zero. No, card counting isn't illegal, but it is heavily frowned upon and you can be asked to never return.
 This is why we had you practicing with the TV, radio, and several messy, loud-mouthed children. If you are so busy counting your lips are practically moving, it's a dead giveaway. Go ahead, get a drink, make small talk. Enjoy yourself.


Counters have a reputation for being "zoned in" to the game. He will remain fixated on their cards while everyone else is looking at a gorgeous woman. Don't be that guy.
You need to be proficient enough at counting that you can carry on a conversation. Chat with the dealer about how their day is going. If the pit boss comes up, chat with him, too.
 Many dealers know how to count cards. A dealer that likes you will be more likely to wait before shuffling on a favorable deck and shuffle sooner on a bad one.


A dealer can help you or hurt you. Motivate the dealer to be for you. Same goes for the entire pit crew -- get them on your side, your not-so-heinous crime may slide under their radar.
 At any time, there are hundreds of cameras going on in the casino in addition to the eyes of the dealers, those in the pit (behind the tables), and the security staff. If they'll catch a waitress for serving a customer every 18.37 minutes, they'll definitely have the attention span to monitor you. Because of this, it's very important to be on your best behavior.


If a casino suspects you're counting, they probably won't come right out and say it. They may have someone start a conversation with you to distract you, assign you a high-speed dealer, shuffle spontaneously or change the betting rules.If any of these happen, back down slowly, but immediately.
 When you hit a table, stay there for a spell. Why would you leave? And when you make your moves at this table, take a second to think about it. Normal blackjack players haven't spent the past three months staring at this exact set up in black and white. Everything you do needs to be nonchalant and casual.


Do not jump from table to table every time the deck sours. This will bring you to the attention of the casino personnel fast. Make minimum bets until the deck is richer. Increase casually because you're doing well -- not because you know what's about to come.

