 Easter is not one holiday. There is a Holy Week which leads up to the celebration of the resurrection of Christ. Starting the Sunday before Easter, known as Palm Sunday, pause to reflect on the Biblical significance of such events. If your church holds special services on these days, attend if possible.From Palm Sunday to Holy Tuesday, there are Biblical stories surrounding Christ entering Jerusalem and entering the temples there. On Holy Wednesday, Judas decided to betray Jesus and the story of his persecution begins.
Maundy Thursday commemorates the Last Supper, which took place between Jesus and his disciples. Good Friday is the day of Jesus's death on the cross.
Holy Saturday and Sunday, or Easter, are the last two days of the holy week. During these days, Christ's resurrection is remembered and celebrated.
 Almost every Christian church will offer an Easter service on Easter Sunday. Exactly what the service will consist of will vary depending on your church. However, attending any Easter church service can be a good way to focus on the Christian messages that accompany the holiday. Make sure to attend church on Easter morning.If you have young children, see if there are special Sunday School classes offered on Easter Sunday. It can sometimes be difficult for children to understand the story of Christ's death due to the scary subject material. A qualified Sunday School teacher can help your child understand the meaning of Easter.
 Take some time over Easter weekend to read over the Easter story. This can be a good way to focus on the meaning behind the holiday. Reminding yourself why the holiday is celebrated can help you to engage more fully with your faith and its traditions. Much of the Easter story is found in the New Testament, covered in the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.If you have young children, see if you can find a children's Bible that details the story of Easter. This may explain Jesus's death and resurrection in terms they can easily understand.
 Easter is primarily a celebration of God sacrificing His only son for your sins. This is something to talk over with your family. On Easter morning, or Holy Saturday, have a talk about what God's sacrifice means to you. Why are you grateful for Jesus's sacrifices, death, and resurrection?One activity to help with this can be writing down times you've sinned on a piece of paper. Have everyone in the family do this on Holy Saturday and then gather the papers together.
On Easter Day, do something to destroy the papers. You can, for example, burn them in a fire place or feed them through a paper shredder. This represents Jesus saving you by erasing your sins. You can then express gratitude at Christ's sacrifice.
 Attending a church service or reading over the Easter story can both be great ways to focus on the meaning of the holiday. However, taking some time on your Easter Sunday to reflect on the personal meaning of the holiday can help you discover what it means to you.Think about your religion. How has it benefited your life? What have you learned from Christianity? How have Jesus's lessons affected your actions?
You may want to have your family answer these types of questions. For example, you could have everyone go around the table and share a time they acted in a certain way because of Christ's teachings.
 If you are religious, not everything you do on Easter has to be specifically related to your religion. Try doing things like having an Easter brunch or doing something fun with your family, like going on a hike. This can be particularly helpful if you have non-religious relatives who want to celebrate with you.

