 If you want to keep flies away from you and your room, then you should close your windows and doors, which can let in the flies. If you have a screen over your window or door, then you can leave that open, as long as it doesn't have any cracks or holes in it.


If a fly has buzzed into your room, then open your door or window until it flies out, and then shut it again.
 If you keep food in your room or in the kitchen, you should keep it covered to protect it from the flies -- flies love the smell or a sweet or hearty meal and will try to get close to your food as much as they can. Here are some ways to cover your food:Once you've cooked a meal, put away any extra cooking ingredients or extra servings before you start eating, or they will attract flies.
When you're done eating, wash your dishes right away to keep any food particles from attracting the flies.
If you're putting food away, make sure all of the containers are tightly sealed.
Obviously, fruit flies love fruit. Don't leave your fruit out in the open -- cover it with a muslin cloth bag.
 Flies especially love the smell of cooked meat. If you're cooking meat, make sure to put away any leftovers and to wash your dishes when you're done.If you need to leave the door open while you cook the meat, have a fan blowing at the open door -- this will scare the flies away.
If you're having an outdoor barbecue, make sure to keep your doors and windows closed.
 If you have a cat and the litter box is in your room or home, make sure to scoop it at least once a day and to throw out the remains in a dumpster or outdoor trash can to keep the flies from your home. If you have a dog, make sure to throw his poop out in a closed container, which is also preferably outside your home. If you have a yard, try to keep your dog from pooping in the yard, or that will attract more flies.
 Make sure the lids are firmly placed on the trash cans in your room, and that they have an outer bag to keep food or other particles from sticking to the inside of the trash can. This can help keep flies away from your environment.
 Flies love moisture, so make sure not to leave a puddle of water in your room after you take a shower, or to leave wet gym clothes lying in a heap on your floor. Don't leave open containers or water out and try to keep water from collecting in your room, or you and your room will attract more flies.

