 This simple and practical style is perfect for work or hot days when you want your hair off your face and neck. Take advantage of your full curls to create a high, oversize bun.


Make a high ponytail. Rather than using a brush, smooth curls and align any bumps with your fingers. Secure the ponytail with a hair elastic.
Pull your ponytail through a hair donut so that the donut sits at the base of the ponytail. If you don't have a hair donut, you can use an old (clean) sock: cut the toes off and roll the sock in on itself to create a donut shape. The donut/sock pads out your bun for added fullness.
Tilting your head forward, fan your ponytail around the donut and start twisting your hair around it. Make sure you've covered the donut completely.
Tuck the ends of your ponytail into the donut and secure with a few bobby pins. Spritz with hairspray if you want a little extra hold., This pretty style is incredibly easy, yet pretty enough to wear to formal occasions.


Place circular headband over your hair so that it sits about an inch (2.5 cm) behind your hairline.
Tuck your hair into the band at the base of your head, rolling the band under a few times until the hair is secure. Add a few bobby pins to hold the style in place., If you're looking to put your curls in a fancier style, this look is elegant yet fast to create. The face is framed by a Dutch braid, created by crossing strands under each other (as opposed to the French braid, where strands go over each other). At the base of the head, your hair gathers into twists that are pinned into place.


Create a deep side part.
Grasp a 1 inch (2.5 cm) section of hair where the part begins and divide the section in three.
Begin the braid by weaving the sections under each other (rather than over, as in a French braid).
Work your way along the hairline (towards the ear farther from the part), adding small sections from your hairline to the braid as you go. Continue until you reach your ear.
When you reach your ear, finish the braid without adding any more hair to it. Secure with an elastic (a clear one is preferable).
Twist the braid into a bun behind your ear and secure with pins.
Finally, twist sections of the remaining hair into knots around the braid bun, using pins to secure them. The sections should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) so that the resulting knots are all roughly the same size as the braid bun., Ponytails are a perfect fix when you need to get your hair off your face. That said, you might get tired of wearing the same style day in, day out. Try variations on the theme:


Make a roll ponytail. With rolled-in sides, this is a graceful take on the classic.
Create a french ponytail, a cascade of half-ponytails joined together.
You can also try putting the whole ponytail into ringlets. Pull the hair back when still wet, divide the ponytail into 1 inch (2.5 cm) sections, and twist them around your finger. Add a small dollop of gel to shape and hold the ringlets. Let it dry naturally or use a hair dryer with a diffuser attachment., These are great for curly hair because they only require twisting, and the hair doesn't develop bumps or need to be separated as with a normal braid. Pigtails, a single braid, or a half-up style looks great.

