 Crash-diet. Think it through simply: all foods turn into sugar (glucose); that is: When the body needs energy but when you have eaten very little. Expect your body's Krebs Cycle (cellular level chemistry) to change fat and protein to sugar, if you eat very little -- or sugar to fat, if you overeat? It will... that's its job., The various sugars and starches, refined or raw, and complex carbs (about like 2 sugar molecules joined together), plus fats and proteins all turn to energy, sugar -- while your body burns some of your stored fat or some muscle protein so: eat that protein.Caution: Avoid burning your muscle! If you get too thin or too lean, there would be no more fat to burn. Stay strong.
): But, Don't do it -- for too long! See, an apple may be 5 bites, but is less than 100 calories. 10 bites of apple per day is starvation, a pure and simple food fact. The same "no-no" is true for 10 big bites of lettuce or any other low nutrient food. On the other hand, 10 bites of banana or cooked beans is not such starvation, but that, also, is not balanced!



Be proud of handling planned hunger between meals: it is clearly a healthy thing to do as long as overall caloric intake stays high enough to maintain a healthy weight. You'll enjoy your food much more if you are somewhat hungry when you do eat.
 Ask him why "surgery and crash-diet" is better than just a crash-diet while saving thousands of dollars and not suffering a life of tiny meals from then on!

, (about his radical, restricted diet). Research his "Five Bites Diet", such as:


Fill-up with coffee or tea for breakfast (decaf for calm nerves?) -- your "daily clear liquid-diet" -- like phase 1, each morning. Drink about 1⁄2 gallon (1.9 L) of watery fluids (calorie-free beverages) each day (that's eight 8 oz. glasses).






Eat 5 bites of food twice per day. Limit, eat ten bites each day, "Yes, 10." (He said 12 bites will work, also).
The first 2 days are the hardest, but you get to choose to have any food you crave to help prevent feelings of deprivation that could cause you to quit your diet.
Drink liquids between meals. Drinking too much liquid with your meals can leave you feeling overly full on 5 tiny bites and prevent you from eating enough nutrient-rich foods (eat big bites!).
 Eat level or rounded tablespoon-sized bites (heaping tablespoon bites are okay -- but less effective, for rapid weight loss...).
A crash 5-bite-dieter can take 5 large, satisfying bites, for example:



Eat a burger diet: 3 Bites of burger and 2 bites of fries.







Try tacos: 2 bites of taco and 1 of guacamole and 1 of beans and 1 of rice.







Veg-out: 3 large Brussels sprouts, 1 bite of ice cream and 1 of protein...







Roll up:Fruity-tutti soft-taco. Try a burrito: Use beans (protein). Fruit roll up: Ripe mangoes or stewed apples as a taco.







Pop-5: 1 of bread, a chunk of fruit, a Brussels sprout, 1ounce of meat or cheese, a mini-piece of candy, or as you like.Bingo! We have a winner ! -- a 5-bite-loser.
 Why -- because that may be satisfying and astonishing, as you may loss up to 20 or 30 pounds, in 2 or 3 weeks. A Snicker of 1.86 ounce (52.7 grams) has 250 calories, 12 grams of fat, 27 grams sugar, 4g protein, a little less than 10% protein, by weight (data from wrapper).
