 The most common type of psoriasis that causes issues for your scalp is plaque psoriasis, also known as psoriasis vulgare. This is a common form of psoriasis that causes reddened plaques covered with thick, silvery scaly skin that develop as patches on your scalp.


Scalp psoriasis can be very mild, but it can also be severe. In these cases, very thick patches of skin may be very crusted and cover your entire scalp. It can also extend beyond your scalp onto your forehead, neck, and around the ears.
These patches may also form on the outsides of your elbows and knees, your tailbone, on your buttocks, on your genitals, around the nails, eyebrows, belly button, and anal areas., There are some risk factors for psoriasis that you can look out for. These risk factors include a personal history or family history of psoriasis. Having lighter skin is also a risk factor. You may also develop psoriasis if you have a compromised immune system. This can occur if you have viral or bacteria infections or are under too much stress.Age is not really a risk because psoriasis can occur at any age. It often develops between the ages of 15 and 35, but 10 to 15 percent of those with psoriasis develop the disorder before the age of 10., There are some environmental factors that can cause a psoriasis flare up. These should be avoided if possible when you have been diagnosed with psoriasis. These triggers include:


Any injury, such as a cut, bump or bruise
Sunburn
Infections such as HIV or strep
Certain medication, such as beta-blockers, chloroquine, lithium, ACE inhibitors, indomethacin, terbinafine, and interferon-alfa
Obesity
Emotional stress
Alcohol or tobacco use, There are many different medical treatments for psoriasis, which all depend on what type you have and how severe it is. In most cases, there are three basic medical treatments for psoriasis. These include:


Topical creams and lotions that may contain coal tar, anthralin, corticosteroids, vitamin D3 synthetic derivatives, calcineurin inhibitors, or tazarotene
Oral medications, such as methotrexate, retinoids, immunosuppressants, biologics
Ultraviolet (UV) therapyA combination of these therapies

