 You know your stuff. Even if you’re nervous, remember that you’ve worked hard to be where you are. Smile, stand up straight, and look people in the eyes. Acting confident can actually make you feel more confident, so fake it ‘til you make it!, Smiling will stretch your face and engage your audience (whether it’s big or just one person) right off the bat. Speak loudly and clearly right away. You can moderate your voice if it sounds too loud, but it’ll be better to start off in a way that lets everyone hear you.Getting a good start may help you feel more confident. The first few words will be the hardest.
If you don’t have a good start, don’t allow that to make you upset or more nervous! Take a sip of water and a deep breath, smile again, and keep going. You’re gonna make it through this.
 You probably want to rush through this speech or conversation to finish it as quickly as you can. Resist the urge! If you move too fast, you’ll lose people’s attention because they won’t be able to understand you.Some people in your audience may be taking notes, and they won’t mind if you speak extra slowly.
 Think about your voice and breathing exercises and project your voice so that it’s loud and clear. Shakiness comes from shallow breaths and nervousness. If you’re taking deep breaths to make your voice loud enough to let everyone in the audience hear you, it should naturally be less shaky.A strong and loud voice will also automatically make you sound more confident, even if there is a slight shake. Remember that the most important thing is for your audience to be able to hear and understand you.
 Don’t look down at your notes more than you absolutely need to in order to remember what you’re saying. Keep your eyes on your audience. This will make you look more confident, and it’ll help you keep your rib cage open for good breathing.If you need to, focus on people’s foreheads rather than their eyes. They won’t be able to tell the difference., This might be tough, because you’ll probably start getting super tired toward the end. You’ve been working so hard to keep your voice strong and steady! Push through to the end and go out with a bang., If you’re feeling nervous, speaking too fast, or are worried the shake is coming back, stop. It’s normal for people to pause during speeches or conversations. Cover it up with a sip of water, breathe, and keep going from there., Everyone (no, really, everyone) makes mistakes. No one is going to judge you if you slip or stumble over a word, or if your voice does start to shake. It may actually make people relate to you, because they’ve been there. Remind yourself that everyone in your audience has been in your position, and keep on going.