 Sorting your clothes by type might help you find what you are looking for faster. It will also make your closet or wardrobe look neater and more organized. You can do this by dividing up your closet or wardrobe into different sections, and hanging your clothes in those sections. Examples of sections include: shirts, skirts, pants, dresses, and coats.


If you have created a section for shirts, consider dividing that section further into short-sleeved shirts and long-sleeved shirts.
For a more organized look, you can make little tags out of paper and hanging them between the different sections. You can then label the tags to remind you what section is what.
 You can create a more coordinated look in your closet or wardrobe by hanging all of the different colors together. This means that you hang all of the reds together and all of the blues together.


Try organizing your clothes first by type, and then by color. For example, you can hang all of the blue shirts together, and then all of the red shirts together.
 Closets and wardrobes don't have to be just for hanging clothes; you can install shelves to store folded items such as pants and shirts, and bulky items such as shoes and accessories. The shelves can be installed directly into your closet, or they can be a simple bookshelf wedged in a corner or beneath the shorter hanging items (such as shirts).If you do not have room in your closet or wardrobe for a shelve, consider adding in a hanging shelf instead. Hanging shelves are shelves made from fabric, canvas, or plastic cloth. They can be folded up when not in use, or they can be hung from the rod on which the rest of your clothes hand. They can be used to store hats, scarves, shoes, and other accessories., Just because you don't have space for a dresser does not mean that you can't store items in drawers. Buy a plastic storage unit with drawers and keep clothing that can be folded inside. If the unit is tall, keep it in the corner of your closet or wardrobe. If the unit is short, store it beneath the shorter hanging clothes, such as shirts.


Try getting a drawer unit with clear or frosted drawers that will let you see what you have inside. You might be more likely to wear something you can see as opposed to something you can't see.Try getting a drawer unit with wheels. This will make it easier to move around.
 If you don't have a dresser, you can keep small items, such as undergarments and socks, in colorful boxes or baskets. Keep these boxes and baskets on shelves.


Buy boxes or baskets that are all one color to create a more unified look.
If you are storing your boxes or baskets on a shelf, consider using a contrasting color. For example, if your shelf is white, use boxes or baskets that are black or a bright color, such as neon green or pink.
 Keeping your shoes in one place can help you get ready faster in the mornings. It will also make your closet look neater. There are many different options for storing shoes:


Plastic or cardboard shoe boxes can store special-occasion or out-of-season shoes when you are not wearing them. Store these boxes on a higher shelf.
A handing shelf made from canvas, fabric, or plastic cloth can be used to store larger shoes such as boots.
An over-the-door shoe caddy can be hung over the door of a wardrobe or on a hook in your closet. It works best for slender shoes, such as flats and loafers.
Shelves and cubbies can be used to store all sorts of shoes, from flats to heels to boots. Consider organizing your shoes based on type: all of the flats go on one side of the unit, and all of the heels go on the other side.
A wooden thread spool rack can also be used to store shoes. Hang each shoe by the heel over the pegs. This works best for flats, sneakers, and loafers., If your closet is large enough, and if you own a dresser, you can save space by moving the dresser into the closet. If the dresser is low enough, you might be able to hang shorter items, such as shirts, above the dresser. This keeps all your clothes in one place, which may help you get ready faster in the morning.

