 Cookies are a cost-effective choice whether you bake or buy them, but baking is certainly the cheaper of the two options. If you or your fiancée enjoy baking and want to add a very personal touch to your wedding favors, baking your own cookies may be the way to go. If you prefer to buy them, you can purchase store-bought cookies or hire a baker to do custom cookies for you., If you’re short on time or money, this approach may be ideal for your wedding. Buy different brands that come in a variety of colors and shapes to make an eye-catching blend. You could also group together the cookies that reflect your wedding colors and assemble them as favors.For example, you could buy an array of macaroons that match your wedding colors and give those out. If you want something simpler, buy all-white macaroons.Ask your fiancée if they have a favorite cookie brand from childhood, or think about cookies that the two of you love eating together. Using cookies that have sentimental value will make it feel more special.
 Adapt these cookies for your wedding by including custom “fortunes” inside. You can hand write or print out romantic lines of poetry, or make up your own romantic “fortunes.” The cookies are quite easy to make at home, and then you just slip the fortunes in after they’ve cooled. The size of the fortunes will vary somewhat depending on your cookies, but in general they should be about six inches long and ½ inch wide.You can make vanilla or chocolate fortune cookies (or both), depending on your preference. They can also be purchased in a rainbow of colors.If you don’t want to make them yourself, you can order fortune cookies online from vendors who will insert custom fortunes for you.
These are usually packaged up with two cookies per favor.
 Sugar cookies are easy to make and decorate yourself using icing, but you can also hire a baker to create this classic look. You can do any color of icing under the sun, so have the cookies match your wedding colors or do something different altogether.Package two iced cookies back to back, wrap them in cellophane and then tie off the ends with matching ribbon for a simple and classic wedding favor., Another wedding classic, these are usually sugar or molasses cookies that are iced to look like mini wedding gowns and tuxedos. Square cookies will work for the tuxes, and a simple dress shape can be used for the gowns. You can ice them as elaborately or as simply as you like. You can do these yourself, or hire a baker to do them.These are packaged up with two cookies -- one gown cookie and one tux cookie -- per favor.
 This will vary slightly depending on the size of your cookies and what presentation you want to go with, but in general, aim for somewhere between two and five. Large cookies are usually packaged as pairs, whereas medium and small cookies are usually packaged anywhere from three to five per favor.Ultimately, it's up to you, but two is generally considered the minimum.
 This is by far the easiest (and most popular) method, since it can be done at home and costs very little. There are many different ways to customize the presentation, such as using colorful cellophane and getting creative with the ribbons or other materials used to tie off the ends of each favor.Customize them even more by writing or printing out special messages and tucking them inside before sealing the favor.
If you don't want to use cellophane, consider using tiny organza bags, or wrapping them in taffeta or some other special material.
 Mini glass cookie jars can be purchased online and add a charming quality to your wedding favors. These jars are small enough to fit in the palm of your hand, so the cookies you put in them will have to also be small. Mini cookie jars are a great way to dress up store-bought cookies. Once your guests have consumed the cookies, they can reuse the jars.Add personal touches and embellishments to make the jars even more special. For instance, dress up the jars with ribbon-tied tags, or print out homemade labels to affix to the jars.
 Tiny boxes made of sturdy paper can be purchased at craft stores and customized in any way you want. You could stamp them with your initials or add embellishments like ribbons, custom labels and tags. Stack between two and four cookies inside the box and secure it with ribbon or burlap.For a personal touch, you could include little cards inside with hand written or printed messages.
 You’ll need three sugar cookies in one size to form the base, three slightly smaller ones to form the next layer, and two even smaller ones to form the top layer of the “wedding cake.” Package them in small glassine boxes so the cute cakes are visible. Tie a ribbon around the box as a final touch.You can buy small glassine boxes at most craft stores or online. If you’re having a very large wedding, you may want to order online so you can get discounted bulk pricing on the boxes.
 If you plan to give one favor per guest, place a favor at each place setting. You could also create a centerpiece of favors at each table and allow your guests to choose the one they want. If your guests have assigned seats, you can customize the favors with their names.For a special touch, incorporate the favors into the table decorations.
 You’ll be speaking to everyone at the reception at some point or another, so this is a good opportunity to greet your guests, hand them a wedding favor and thank them for coming. If you have too many guests for this to be feasible, instruct the wait staff to present the favors at each table during the dessert course.For an extra special touch, have the wait staff present the favors on silver lined trays.
 If you want to do something really different, or if you want to avoid packaging favors yourself, set up a cookie buffet at your reception. Offer five or six different cookie varieties and display them in large glass jars on the “buffet” table. Set out tongs, glassine-lined bags and seals for packaging and let your guests choose their favorites.Get custom-printed glassine bags and seals for a personal touch and to tie in your wedding theme/colors.

