 It may seem second nature to you, but children need to be taught about the fuel their body needs to stay strong and healthy.


With your child, visit http://www.choosemyplate.gov/MyPlate-Daily-Checklist. This interactive Web site hosted by the U.S. Department of Agriculture provides daily nutritional checklists based on your child’s age and calorie range.
The federal recommendations for all Americans, including children, stress a diet full of fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat protein and dairy choices.
Work with your child to make a list of healthy foods they already enjoy. You can try to incorporate them into your meals more often.
 Whole fruits and a variety of vegetables should fill half of your child’s plate at each meal. These high-fiber, low-calorie foods can fill them up and prevent them from eating less healthy choices. Try to “eat the rainbow” each day. Make a game out of trying to eat a fruit or vegetable representing each color of the rainbow every day. See which family member reaches this goal first each day. This will encourage your child to eat a variety of fresh produce in a fun way. Go to a local farmer’s market or farm stand. These venues provide a fun opportunity to try new foods and may encourage your child to seek out other healthy choices.
 Even healthy foods can cause weight gain if you eat too much of them.


A serving size of fruit or vegetables is about the size of your fist.
For snacks like pretzels or crackers, a serving size is roughly a handful of the item.
 Many kids love to be around you when you’re in the kitchen, so why not put them to work? Your child may be more inclined to try new, healthier foods if they have a hand in preparing them.


They can help measure ingredients, like rice or pasta, or rinse produce.
If your child is a little older, they can help chop vegetables (while supervised) or shred cheese.
They can also help you look through cookbooks and select healthy meal options.
 If sodas and cookies are not within easy reach, your child will be less likely to eat these high-calorie options.


Be sure not to completely forbid sugar and other low-nutrient (or "junk") food, because that will only make them more tempting. Allow kids a reasonable amount of junk food each day. This will keep them from feeling deprived and also from fixating on a "banned" food.Try to limit servings of desserts or junk food to around 150 calories.If they say they're still hungry after their 150-calorie portion of cookies, tell them, "I know you enjoyed your snack, now here are some apple slices to help fill you up."

