 To rag roll your hair, you will need lots of rags. You can create rags by cutting up some of your old socks in half length-wise (from toe to top) or you can also cut up some old towels or t-shirts into strips.Don't make the strips too short or too thin; you will be using them to tie off small sections of your hair.;
, Start with hair that is clean and damp, but not soaking wet. If your hair is still dripping wet, blot it with a soft towel to soak up any moisture. You may also want to run a wide-toothed comb through your hair as well to get out all of the tangles.If you have thick hair, then you may want to blow dry it to get it almost dry. Otherwise, your hair may not dry all of the way overnight and the rag rolls will not work., If your hair doesn't hold a curl well, then using some gel or mousse can help to create the curls. Using gel or mousse will also help make the style last longer.Try using a product that will help to create curls, such as a curling mousse.
Use a generous amount if you use mousse.
 Start by parting your hair down the middle, then divide each half into two smaller sections. This will make your hair easier to work with.


You may also want to clip up the top section of your hair so you can work on one section at a time.
 Take a thin section of hair, and start wrapping it around the middle of a sock piece. Hold the end of the hair section under the rag, and start wrapping your hair around the rag. Keep wrapping until you reach your scalp.If you wrap smaller sections of your hair, then you will get tighter curls.
If you wrap larger sections, then you will get looser curls.
 Bring the two ends of the rag together, and tie them into a tight knot. You may need to double-knot the rag if your hair is very thick.


You can also use a bobby pin to help hold the hair in place if you are having trouble keeping it secured.
 Keep wrapping your hair around the rags until you have no hair left to wrap. Try to keep the sections as even as possible, but don’t worry about making them perfect.
 This could take a few hours for your hair to dry or you may have to leave your hair in the rags overnight. Don't take the rags out too early, or your curls may go limp.


Try taking out one rag to check. If your hair is dry and forms a natural looking curl, then it is probably okay to remove the other rags.
Don’t worry if a rag falls out during the night. You can always use a curling iron to curl any sections that did not get curled., When you take the rags out, your curls may be very tight. You can leave them this way, or you can fluff them up by running your fingers through them.


Spray on a little hairspray to help keep your curls in place.
If you prefer more of a gentle, old-fashioned wavy curl, then you can also run a brush through your hair.