 Many maternity stores carry special bras and other undergarments to help support you as your body changes and as your breasts grow. Be sure that these undergarments are strong and supportive without being too tight. A good, supportive maternity bra will give you better posture and will reduce the frequency of back pains. A supportive bra will also make all of your other clothing look and fit better. However, a bra that is too tight might be uncomfortable or hurt your circulation.Talk to a clerk at a reputable maternity shop if you require assistance finding a well-fitting bra. They should be able to measure you so you can get the support you need.
Some women like wearing a sports bra after they have outgrown their regular bras but before they are ready for a maternity bra., Most maternity clothing is designed for feminine women. However, there are new companies emerging with comfortable pregnancy wear for women who identify as butch or masculine, for androgynous people, and for transmen.Do not let the limitations of traditional maternity wear limit yourself: true grace is being yourself at all times.
 Tight clothing and accessories are not recommended for pregnant women. They can lead to discomfort and to a poor fit as the pregnancy continues. Moreover, pregnant women are more at risk of unsightly and potentially dangerous varicose veins, which are exacerbated by tight clothing. Make sure you buy clothing that is loose and flowing. Stay away from tight clothes, belts, socks, and undergarments. Do not wear any slimming undergarments such as girdles or control-top pantyhose.
 As your pregnancy continues, there will be no way to hide your growing bust and belly. Nor should you: your body is something to embrace and enjoy. While your clothing will need to be loose and stretchy enough to be comfortable, there is no need for you to wear tents or muumuus. Try to find clothes that show your figure without cutting off your circulation.This could include:


Dresses made out of stretch jersey that fall below the knee
V-neck shirts and sweaters
Shift dresses that show off your curves
Skinny jeans with a maternity waist

, There are a number of clothing items that are loose or stretchy enough to be worn during pregnancy as well as in your day-to-day life after your pregnancy. Most of these items can be purchased at any clothing store--not just in maternity shops. This can give you more freedom to buy clothes you like and can enjoy instead of limiting yourself to traditional maternity options. By being creative and flexible in your "maternity" wear, you can be more fashionable and find clothing to suit your own personal style.Such items can include:


Leggings. Just make sure you buy a larger size and that you roll the waist below your baby bump!Anything with an empire waist. Empire waists are a great way to stay comfortable while pregnant, or to disguise the early stages of a pregnancy if you do not want to call attention to it.High-waisted tunics.Maxi dresses. Be sure that you buy one in a comfortable fabric, such as a stretch jersey.Wrap dresses and wrap shirts. Because you tie these yourself, you can adjust the waist as necessary as your pregnancy develops.Yoga pants. These provide you with a comfortable waist. Many women who have C-sections enjoy these pants because they do not aggravate the healing incision.Many of these items can be made yourself if you are an experienced sewer.
 Maternity bands allow women to wear the pants, skirts, and shirts they already own during pregnancy. By wearing the maternity band and leaving your pants or skirts partially unzipped, you can give your waist the room it needs while wearing your most beloved items of clothing. These bands can also help provide support to your belly as it grows, leaving you more comfortable.It is also possible for you to make your own maternity bands in order to create your own maternity wear.
 If you wish to appear slimmer during pregnancy, it is a good idea to avoid large patterns, horizontal stripes, or light colors. Wearing the same shade from head to toe in a dark color makes you appear more streamlined, even with a baby bump.If you are a fan of stripes, make sure they are vertical, not horizontal, stripes. That will help your body appear longer and leaner.If you like wearing patterned clothing, try to keep the pattern smaller and more contained. A floral cardigan might look quite nice, for example, but a paisley maxi dress will likely look garish and overwhelming., You can use accessories to draw attention to features of your body that you like, and to draw attention away from parts of your body with which you are less comfortable. In general, some tips for accessorizing in a fashionable, graceful way include:


Wear bright scarves. Many maternity clothes come in dark, non-patterned colors. A scarf or shawl is a great way to get some color and patterning in to your wardrobe. Scarves also do a good job at hiding extra cleavage as your breasts grow in size.Take off your rings. Many women experience swollen fingers during pregnancy. Take off any non-adjustable rings if you notice your fingers begin to get bigger: you do not want to have to cut off your rings to maintain your circulation.Wear shorter necklaces. Long necklaces and pendants might fit awkwardly over your growing bust and belly. Look for shorter necklaces that call attention to your face and neck instead., Many pregnant women are warmer than usual and may even experience hot flashes during pregnancy.Keep yourself cool by wearing loose, natural fabrics that breathe. This will keep you comfortable and also prevent you from sweating or becoming red and flushed.


Layering your clothing during pregnancy is also a great idea: you can always remove a layer of clothing if you begin to get too warm.
 Pregnancy can be tough on your body and self-image. Spend extra time pampering yourself with a new haircut, a spa day, or with scented lotions. Keep yourself feeling happy and relaxed: the most important part of looking good is feeling good. Do whatever it takes to keep yourself healthy and confident.

