 If you don't, go to the Apple store and buy the iLife package; which consists of iPhoto, iWeb, GarageBand, and iMovie. Remember! iMovie '09 comes with tools to do this!;
, Go to the Download Page. The download should start automatically.
 You should have a file called "Masks & Compositing Demo 1.1". The demo comes with two free plug-ins for iMovie, "Blend" and "Blue Screen." The blue screen plug-in is all we need in this case. i

, Inside that folder, there should be two folders called OS9 and called OSX. If your mac is an OS9, then open the OS9 folder. Otherwise, open the OSX folder. If you are not sure whether you are on a OSX computer or OS9, go to "Finder." Then on the top left of your computer screen, you should see an Apple. Click it, and then click "About this mac". It should say at the top if it is an OSX or an OS9.
 Put that file on your desktop.
 Otherwise, skip below.


Quit iMovie, if it's still open.
Find The iMovie Folder.
Open the Resources folder.
Open the Plugins folder.
Create a new folder inside the Plugins folder. Name the new folder something like "Stupendous" (without the quotes).
Drag the "SS Masks & Compositing folder" into the "Stupendous" folder.
Restart your computer.



Quit iMovie, if it's open.
On your Mac OSX hard disc, open the library folder inside your home folder.
If no iMovie folder exists already, then create a new folder inside the library folder. Name the new folder something like "iMovie".
Open the iMovie Folder.
If no Plug-ins folder (note spelling) already exists inside the iMovie folder create one. Be sure to name it Plug-ins.
Drag the SS Masks & Compositing Document which should be on your desktop into the Plug-ins folder.
Restart your computer.
 Since we only have the blue screen plug-In, we are making a Blue Screen. You can either build one yourself, or find one for cheap online. Blue screens can range from a DIY model at $20 to professional sets that cost thousands of dollars. However, with the right equipment, you can make your own blue screen that works fine. First, you either have to find a pure blue cloth or some blue paint to use. You can nail, tape, or stand up your cloth.
 Make sure the camera can only see the blue screen. Remember! Light your screen and subject evenly, so that iMovie can easily remove the blue. Shadows are never your friend.
,,,,, Select "Blue Screen, Smooth".
 Now Adjust the Outside Fill, Inside Fill, and Choke until you are satisfied with the look of the video. And finally, click Accept!

,, Add titles, sound effects, video transitions, or even more video effects!

, on the top of the screen there should be a drop-down menu called, "Share". Click it. then click QuickTime. Then another window should come up, choose full quality.
 Show it to the world and keep practicing to create that perfect effect.

