 In most societies, women are thought to be more naturally graceful than men. There are always exceptions, of course, and it is totally up to you whether you choose gracefulness to express of your femininity. Generally, however, many women appear more feminine when they make smooth movements, rather than jerky, powerful ones. And, of course, consider the context. You might want to be fierce on the volleyball court or shooting range and svelte at a bar or in the bedroom. There's no rule saying you have to be graceful (or feminine) all the time.


To be graceful, wear cute shoes that are comfortable for you to walk in so you don't trip or walk in a way that looks unnatural. If you want to master walking in heels, but don't quite know how, practice at home or in front of a mirror before you take your new look out into the world.
 Dancing is an extension of your body and through dance you can find ways to emphasize your femininity. Belly dancing, for example, accentuates the natural curves of a woman's form. A partner dance, like salsa or the waltz, can also help you feel more feminine because such dances are built upon the traditional differences between men and women — the man guides, while the woman follows and makes more fluid, extravagant movements.
 Let's ditch the whole idea that being feminine means being perfect and ethereal. For those times when grace is lacking and you fall flat on your face in the middle of a room, the true test of your femininity is your ability to laugh it off! Think about it: taking life too seriously isn't very feminine in most people's estimation, nor is it very healthy overall. So, smile a lot, flirt, tease and play. Have fun! Ultimately, being feminine is about feeling at ease with yourself and you can't feel at ease if you're too stiff, somber and serious, so be the opposite: lighthearted and playful.


Flirting is a part of being a woman. Don't think that you're not allowed to flirt just because you're trying to be feminine.
 Having confidence will not only make you look and feel more feminine, it will help you to be more independent and outstanding. Never give up on yourself, ever.


Part of being confident means mastering the body language of a confident person. Walk with your head high, smile and look straight ahead of you, not down at the floor.
Being confident doesn't mean being arrogant. You don't have to brag about your accomplishments to make people see how confident you are.
 If you want to have a more feminine walk, then you should work on walking more with your hips than your shoulders, taking lighter steps instead of stomping, and taking your time to move from place to place. To be truly feminine, you should be gliding gracefully on your way and not look like you're rushing off to your next location. If you have to rush, try to look composed as you take quicker short steps to reach your destination.
 If you want to be feminine, then you have to know how to take care of someone, whether your boyfriend has gotten sick, your dog has gotten injured or your best friend just needs a shoulder to cry on. Be prepared to serve chicken soup, take a person's temperature or tell a person to lie down and make him or her feel more comfortable and cared for. A feminine woman helps, when she sees who clearly needs her help. She should spring into action when someone needs to be nurtured.


This doesn't mean that you should focus your energies to taking care of other people. It just means that when the time comes to be a caretaker, you should be prepared.
 If you want to be feminine, then you must have good manners at table and in all other aspects of your life. Manners mean not eating with your elbows on the table, greeting a person kindly even if you're having a bad day, not slouching or sneezing into your hands instead of a tissue and generally acting in a way that can serve as a model for others. Here are some other things to consider as you refine your manners:


If you're eating dinner in a group setting, make sure you say, "Please pass the chicken," instead of reaching and invading another person's personal space.
Find a nice way to give negative feedback. Instead of saying, "Will you shut up already?" say, "Would you mind lowering your voice?"
Avoid burping in public. Once you reach a certain age, burping in public is not funny anymore. If it happens by accident, just say "Excuse me," or "Pardon me."
Avoid rolling your eyes or generally being rude when someone is saying something you don't really want to hear.

