 Older calves need to be kept in a secure pen for the first few weeks to allow them to settle into their new home. If you let them out into a pasture, the chances of them escaping are quite high.


Make sure you have feed and water ready for them when they arrive.
 Bottle calves should be fed twice a day (or ever 12 hours) with two quarts of milk replacer formula per feeding. That means one four-pint bottle should be used per feeding. The milk replacer powder-to-water ratio should be higher for young calves (see the bag for directions), and much lower for calves close to weaning.


It is recommended to feed calf-starter along with the milk replacer as it will limit bacterial growth that may feed off the milk replacer.It will also help give the calf's rumen the kick-start it needs to start growing and reaching full maturity and functionality.
For weaned calves, feed hay when the bale you have given them is low or has been cleaned up. Ideally, you should get them to clean up after themselves so you minimize the amount of waste they may have caused before you give them another bale to eat. Hay must be fed ad libitum or free-choice. Grain must be limited to only around three to five pounds per calf per feeding. Dairy calves tend to require more grain than beef calves, so feel free to increase their ration, but not so much that they will bloat on it.

Hay should not be "horse-quality" hay. Horse-quality hay is primarily 100% grass; it's recommended to feed calves hay that has a legume content equal to or higher than grass content so that the calves are getting the protein and calcium nutrients needed for their growth. Test the hay for quality and remember: the higher the fibre content, the lower the quality.
Alternative high-protein sources to grain (corn, oats, barley, wheat, etc.) include beet pulp, soybean meal, canola meal, cottonseed meal, protein blocks, etc. Avoid any high-protein feeds with animal by-product due to concerns for BSE (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, better known as "Mad Cow Disease").


Along with water, make sure you provide a mineral and salt source, ideally loose over block form. Feed alone will not give a calf all the nutrients it needs.
 If a calf is getting thin, you may need to separate it and increase the energy/protein it is getting. If a calf is getting too fat, you may want to cut back on the grain you're feeding it.


A bovine's body condition can be affected by illness. Usually thinness is merely a symptom of something more serious, and should be taken note of if other symptoms signalling that you may have a sick calf on your hands raise their ugly heads.
 Hygiene is just as important to calves as it is to humans. This means keeping their living area as clean as possible, involving such practices as putting out new bedding, or separating their eating space from their resting space. Though washing calves is not commonly practiced nor necessary, if they have excessive "tag" (poop on the hide) then it may be a good idea to do so.


Remember, the tamer and calmer the calf, the less stress it is to wash them. Also remember, wash only if it's necessary, not when you want to. Rain for the older calves can give them a good bathing too.
Clean the barn or bedding area is not fun, but somebody has to do it. All you have to have is a pitchfork ($12 to $20/ prices vary), shovel ($10 to $20/prices may vary), wheelbarrow ($60 to $230/prices may vary), old work clothes (coveralls, jeans, old T-shirt are ideal), and rubber boots ($30 to $40/prices may vary).
 It's not a matter of if your calves will get sick, but when. Unusual behavior is the best indicator for illness in a calf.


Symptoms such as coughing, ragged breathing, scouring (diarrhea), constipated, foaming/frothing at the mouth (usually not an indicator of rabies), refusing to get up, runny or snotty nose, appearing lame, generally looks more interested in resting and sleeping (listless) than actively playing, among other possibilities, are all indicators that mean you should call your veterinarian right away.
If your calves develop a scaly, hairless circular pattern on its skin, this is the start of what is called "ringworm." It is not a sickness by any means, but merely a fungal infection of the skin that does nothing for the calf except make him particularly itchy. Ringworm is contagious to humans, so be careful when handling the affected calf.

Ringworm only comes around in the cold, dry parts of the year, and soon disappears in a few months. Iodine solution, though, will help clear up the skin affliction.
 Your calf will grow into an adult animal eventually, and horns can be quite dangerous even if the animal doesn't mean to hurt you. One flick of the bovine's head and you could end up in hospital or worse. Please consider your own safety--and even the other animals on the farm--if you think that dehorning is "too cruel" to perform on a calf.


You can usually tell if there are some buds growing on either side of the top of the calf's head or poll (near the ears) by the way the hair is growing. Catching the calf to have a feel can give you a good indication that the calf you have is horned. If there are no buds present, this means that you have a hornless or polled calf--this is nothing to be worried about, as it is completely natural for cattle to have no horns. There are several options to removing horns available:


Burning: You can use a branding iron or an electric dehorner to take off the small horns. All you have to do is hold the calf down and burn the horns down to a nub to where they can't grow anymore. (You may need someone to help you hold the calf down, because the burning can be painful for the calf and the calf will put up a huge struggle to get away.)

Note: burning is best for calves who have the start of hard horns, not soft buds. If the calf has soft buds, caustic paste is best.



Dehorning paste: Dehorning or caustic paste is a highly corrosive substance that essentially "burns" the buds off by a chemical reaction between the skin of the horn buds and the paste itself. Though effective, it can be irritating for the calf as it may get the calf to start itching at the buds at its head. Make sure you get the paste only on the horns buds and not anywhere else on the calf. The calf will need to be restrained during the process.

Cutting: A dehorning "scooper" is a tool that is used to cut the horns right out of the base of the calf's head. This method is a bit more gory and bloody than the other two above, so proper restraint and possibly local anaesthesia may need to be considered before using this dehorning method.
 Branding really is not necessary if you do not have problems with cattle theft in your area, if you are not mixing your calves with other producers' cattle, and if you're just keeping your calves on your farm. Thus it's recommended to avoid branding especially if it's not necessary.
 This is important because nothing is worse and more dangerous than a bull that has been bottle-raised and made into a pet. Calves that grow as steers tend to be safer to handle than testerone-hyped bulls.


The best method for young calves is using a rubber band via elastrator. Make sure you have two testicles in the scrotum before you release the band. Cutting is not ideal if you do not know how to properly do it. See the wikiHow article How to Castrate Bulls and Bull Calves for more information.
 Talk to your veterinarian for the kind of vaccinations are necessary for your calves according to your area. You may need to vaccinate for such things as Blackleg, Bovine Viral Diarrhea, Viruses, Bovine Respiratory Disease, Infectious Bovine Rhinotracheitis, Parainfluenza-3, Anthrax, Listeriosis, Red Water Disease and many others.
 Calves, although young, innocent and full of mischief, must know and learn that you are the dominant one at all times. Certain behaviors that seem cute now will not be cute when the calf is older. Make sure that calf knows you don't tolerate any bad behaviors that can potentially hurt you when it's older.
 Raising calves can be a lot of hard work and fun as well. Make it less of a chore and more of something to enjoy and look forward to doing every day.
 You will have to let these calves go at some point, either at the point of sale, at the time of slaughter, or when one or more dies unexpectedly on you. If the latter occurs, don't be too shocked and disheartened about it. It is sad, indeed, but it's something that you have to expect when you raise livestock. Not every animal can be saved when they get sick, but you should make sure you do everything you can to save the animal before you let it go to the other side.

