 Your teacher has worked hard to create rules for his or her classroom, and nothing is more annoying than a student who undermines them. Acting completely oblivious of the rules is just downright annoying. Here are some ways to really get under your teacher's skin:


Waste class time by asking your teacher things that he clearly told you several times. This works best if you ask him something that is clearly written on the board or on the syllabus.
If you missed class, instead of looking at the syllabus or asking a classmate, ask your teacher, "What did I miss?"

If you really want to annoy your teacher, say, "Did I miss anything?"


When your teacher reprimands you for doing something you were instructed not to do, act really oblivious. Say, "I'm sorry, my last teacher said that was okay!"

, Absolutely nothing is more annoying than a student who not only doesn't pay attention, but also creates a disturbance and distracts the teacher as well as other students. Here are some ways to create a racket:


Show up late--loudly. Run into the classroom loudly and pant, "Sorry I'm late!" Huff and puff and drop your things everywhere, creating a noisy mess. When you finally take your seat, repeat your favorite phrase, "Did I miss anything?"
Talk to other students. Actively talk to other students while the teacher is talking, even if they don't want to talk to you. This is especially annoying if you are asking them a question that you should just ask the teacher.

If you want to reach astronomic levels of annoying-ness, ask your teacher a question, and then talk to your classmates while he or she tries to earnestly answer you. That will go over really well!


Use your cell phone throughout class. Let it sit on your desk and vibrate repeatedly. Don't bother putting it on silent. Or you can have an incredibly loud and obnoxious ring tone. Let it ring while your phone is buried deep in your bag so it'll take forever to turn it off. This will surely disrupt the class and will make your classmates crack up! Your teacher will love it.
 All teachers love a student who thinks he knows more than they do. This works particularly well if your teacher is a true expert on a subject and you know absolutely nothing about it. Here are some ways to be a true know-it-all:


After everything your teacher says, say, "How can you be so sure?" If your teacher plays along and tries to explain to you why something is true, grunt or say, "I guess that makes sense," but look obviously unconvinced.
If your teacher reprimands you, roll your eyes and sigh. That will work wonders!
Constantly reference your other teachers, your parents, or even your friends as true expert. After everything your teacher says, say, "But my dad says..."
Let your teacher know if you think you deserved a higher grade on a mediocre assignment. That will earn you lost of brownie points.

