 One way to lower your heating bill is by simply using less heat. Turning down your thermostat by even small amount for short periods of time can help you save on heating.


One option is to turn the heat down by about three degrees whenever you use your heat. For every degree or so you turn your heat down, you are looking at between two and three percent savings on your monthly bill.Another option is to turn your heat down when you’re not around. A seven to ten degree reduction in heat for eight hours a day can save you up to ten percent on your monthly bill. Turn your heat down when you are at work or out of the house to help save.Bundle up in warm clothes and blankets when you turn down the temperature to help keep you warm even when it is a bit colder in your home.;
, Exhaust fans actively pull the hot air that rises to the ceiling out of the house. Use kitchen and bathroom exhaust fans sparingly. Shut them off immediately after use.For moments when exhaust fans are necessary, try not to run more than one at once.
Use exhaust fans for the minimal amount of time it takes to ventilate the space. Do not leave them running for extended periods of time. Switch to regular fans or other forms of moving air as soon as possible.
 Heat rises, so an open damper allows the heated air to escape from the house. Keep the damper closed unless you have an active fire to prevent unnecessary drafts.Remember to extinguish a fire completely and let the smoke dissipate before closing the damper.
Open the damper immediately before you light a fire in your fireplace. Forgetting to do so may cause smoke to build up in your home.
 Vents blocked by rugs or furniture prevent the heated air from circulating through the house. Remove any obstacles around heating vents, as well as those around radiators or baseboard heaters.Avoid putting large pieces of furniture in front of vents, as well as on top of them. This may still diminish the flow of warm air around the room.
 Since heat rises, the air around the ceilings in your home is warmer than the air closer to the floors. Set the ceiling fan to low so it gently pushes the hot air back down. If you run the fan too high, the air will cool as it circulates.If possible, put your fan in reverse mode to give it a clockwise rotation. This is a manufacturer-installed setting on some fans. Running your fan in reverse help push the warm air down from the ceiling and draw up cool air from the floor.
 Uncover your windows in your home during the day so the sun can warm your house. Close your curtains, blinds, or drapes at night to help prevent warm air from escaping.If you do not currently have window coverings, you can make temporary ones for the winter by hanging a blanket or sheet up in front of your window.

