 If you want a totally smooth look without wearing a thong or skipping the panties altogether, consider wearing shapewear under your clothes. These undergarments typically extend to your mid thigh, so there will not be a panty line. They also suck in unwanted bulges, and they're available in a variety of styles for different body types and different outfits.You can wear panties under your shapewear or not, depending on your personal preferences.
If you just want to smooth out your butt, upper thighs, and/or lower stomach, you can buy panty-style shapewear. For more coverage, you can opt for a pant-style that extends further down your legs or a bodysuit-style that covers your upper body (except your chest) as well.Shapewear should not be used to attempt to fit into a smaller size of clothing. If it feels overly restrictive or you begin to experience numbness or tingling, your shapewear is too tight., If shapewear isn't for you, you may be able to get the same benefits from a pair of tights or pantyhose. Wear a pair under your pants or with a skirt for a smooth look.As with shapewear, you do not need to wear underwear under your tights or pantyhose if you don't want to. The choice is up to you.
You can buy high-waisted styles if you want some coverage over your stomach, although tights will never give you as much control as shapewear.
 If you're wearing a skirt or dress, consider wearing a slip or half slip underneath. This old-school accessory can help you achieve the seamless look you want.A full slip covers your entire torso and the upper parts of your legs, and is meant to be worn with a dress. A half slip covers only your butt and upper legs, and is meant to be worn with a skirt.
Many slips contain some lycra, which helps shape your body and prevents the garment from bunching. If you are looking for a little extra control, you can also find shapewear in slip styles.Try to match the color of your slip to your dress or skirt as much as possible. This will make the slip less visible if it ever peeks out from under your clothes.
Make sure your slip is always shorter than any slits in your dress or skirt.Avoid slips with lace details, as this may show through your clothing.To avoid static cling between your slip and your garment, try gently pulling each item through a wire hanger before you put it on.

