 Really relax, not just in front of a device or screen. Tai chi, for example, is a physical practice with a mind-body connection that truly help you to relax and cope with your anxiety.Relaxation can’t completely take away your anxiety but it will help you deal with it better.;
, It’s a portable tool that you can use anytime, anywhere, and no one can see you do it. Deep breathing helps a major nerve running to your brain, called the vagus nerve, to send a message to relax and loosen up, so before your next exam or date, try this deep breathing exercise.Gently place a hand on your belly.
Breathe in slowly through your nose, to a count of 4, feeling the air inflate your belly, pushing your belly slightly against your hand.
Hold the breath for a count of 4 then slowly exhale for a count of 4, feeling your belly sink back. Repeat 3 times or until you feel calmer.
Practice it on TV commercials, at a red light in the car, between classes, anytime. The more you practice, the more natural and automatic this helpful response will be.
 Sometimes, the stress and anxiety we feel gets built up in our muscles and we don’t even realize it. By practicing what experts call progressive muscle relaxation, we release this built up tension and feel better prepared to cope.Headaches, stomach aches, and exhaustion can all be helped by doing tense and release exercises.
Focus on one muscle group at a time. People often start with their face and work down to their toes.
Take a slow, deep breath, then squeeze the muscles in your face (not so tightly that you hurt yourself) for 5 seconds.
Slowly relax the muscles you just tensed, rest 5 seconds, then move to another muscle group, doing each slowly and in turn until your whole body feels more relaxed.
This exercise works best in a quiet room where you have privacy and can fully relax but you can even use it in public to deal with an anxious situation. No one can see you squeezing your toes in your runners while you’re in class! Just try to practice it at home in your room so that it will come more naturally when you’re out in public.
 Yoga practitioners have known for hundreds of years that doing yoga leaves you feel more calm and mentally ready to face the day’s challenges. Yoga helps regulate your body’s stress response.Doing yoga helps you practice controlled breathing, another anxiety busting tools.

Laughter yoga is a really fun way to get some stress relief. Get some friends on board and sign up for a session – check your local community centre for classes.

