 It is hard to gauge how timely the renewal process is. Once in a while, the process backs up and it takes months and months. This isn't often, but it's best to take precaution.


You may also want to renew your green card if it's been lost or stolen (if stolen, contact the emergency department), damaged, your information has changed, you have turned 14, or you have taken up commuter status.;
, This form is available at the United States Citizenship and Immigration services website. Or, alternatively, you can file it on paper. The USCIS requires the form to be filled in completely. Processing will not begin until this is done.


The I-90 form can either be filed electronically (the fee may be paid simultaneously) or you can use the U.S. Postal Service. If you would like to receive one by mail, call the form orders line at 1-800-870-3676., Check their website for more information.
 Currently, that fee is $540.00 and is subject to change. It includes an $85 fee for biometrics -- fancy talk for taking your fingerprints, taking your photo, and the electronically capturing your signature. This should be done online with your e-filing or included with your form when mailed in. They accept American Express, Mastercard, Visa, and Discover cards.


If you are filing on paper, send in your application and fee to the following address:

USCIS
Attention: I-90
PO BOX 21262
Phoenix, AZ 85036Pay the fee with a personal or cashier's check or money order drawn on a U.S. bank payable in U.S. dollars to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Do not use the initials DHS or USDHS or USCIS when writing checks. Do not send cash or traveler's checks.


Once payment is received, you will receive a receipt. On this receipt will be the address to which you send the supporting documents. Additionally, if biometrics services are required, they will send you notification of your scheduled appointment time and place.
 This will come either in the form of an email (if you filed online) or as a letter. File this in your records as proof you began the process.


The USCIS will mail you a Form I-797C, or Notice of Action. This is the notice you should use as evidence that you filed this application. Again, this is the notice that lists the information you need for your subsequent appointment.
 Bring your appointment letter with you in addition to some form of photo identification. The biometrics appointment consists of fingerprinting and taking your photo for your green card. It is nothing to worry about unless you have a new and improved criminal record.


If you need proof of documentation while the USCIS is reviewing your status, say so at your appointment. They will stamp your passport to indicate that you have filed for a new card. It will enable you to exit the U.S. and reenter., Once more, wait for notification from the United States Immigration Service concerning further appointments. Otherwise, the next step is receiving your card.


There may be an in-person interview you will have to attend at a regional location. It's just as likely you may not have any additional appointments to attend and will receive your new green card in the mail.

