 Let your doctor know of any pain that you are currently experiencing. They may be able to prescribe a medication or recommend a pain killer. Furthermore, they will inform you about any medications that might interfere with your current treatment.
 You can easily buy over-the-counter medicines to manage your daily pain.These OTC medications include Acetaminophen (Tylenol) as well as NSAIDs, a popular class of anti-inflammatory drugs that help block the pain receptors in your brain from receiving pain signals.


NSAIDs are usually recommended for bone or muscle pain, because they reduce the inflammation and swelling that can put pressure on the affected body part.NSAIDs are available in tablets, injections, liquids, suppositories, and topical creams.
NSAIDs include Ibuprofen (Advil) and Sodium Naproxen (Aleve).
Do not take NSAIDs if you suffer from a gastrointestinal disorder, peptic ulcers, or are taking blood thinners unless directed to do so by your doctor.
 Opioid painkillers such as Codeine and Tramadol can help to manage moderate pain, but something stronger like Morphine may be necessary for severe pain. Your oncologist is the only person who can determine what medicine is suitable to manage your pain, so don't try to self-prescribe.


Note that opioid pain medications often cause constipation as a side effect. Therefore, if your doctor begins you on these medications, he or she will likely also put you on an appropriate bowel regimen as well.It is easier to prevent bowel problems by treating them before they arise, rather than waiting until after the fact.
 Note that you will need to be monitored when using Morphine, because it has the potential for side effects.


Morphine is available in many dosage forms, such as:

Sustained release tablets, to be taken once or twice daily.
Immediate release tablets or liquid, to be taken every 2 to 4 hours.
Injections to be given directly or through a drip in a hospital.
Subcutaneous injections.
Dissolved tablets under the tongue.
Patches stuck directly to the skin.


Morphine can cause constipation, dry mouth, and itching or blurred vision.
 It is very important that you take all your medications as instructed by your doctor, even if you don't feel like you need them immediately. This is because skipping any of your doses can result in a sudden worsening of pain. Pain is best treated by getting to a level where you can prevent it before it becomes overwhelming.If you felt pain before your next scheduled dose of medication, ask your doctor to increase your dose or to change the dosage form you’re taking.
If you have sudden breakthrough pain, take a breakthrough painkiller pill (your doctor will instruct you which ones to take in such situations).
 These medications can also be useful in treating the depression that may accompany your fight against cancer.


Examples of antidepressants include Fluoxetine (Prozac) and Sertraline (Lustral). Side effects can include dry mouth or drowsiness.
 Anti-convulsants such as Gabapentin (Neurontin) can also be used to treat nerve-related pain. This requires a prescription from your doctor., Local anesthetics can be useful in certain cases of localized pain, such as mouth ulcers. Local anesthetics are commonly found as gel formulas, such as Orabase. These gels form a protective layer on the ulcer that insulates it from painful sensations.


Getting an epidural anesthetic can treat severe back pain by directly injecting medication into your spine.
 For instance, many people who have incurable cancer (such as men with prostate cancer that has metastasized to the bones) continue to receive treatment (in this case, that shrinks the size of their bone metastases). This, in turn, decreases the amount of pain they feel (in this case, it reduces bone pain).


It can wind up being one of the most effective strategies of pain management, even though the treatment itself is aimed at the symptoms rather than being aimed at actually curing the cancer.

