 When people see that you're happy about life and about yourself, they admire and look up to you and want to be around you. So first off, forget about your looks. Never base your self-confidence on looks. What if one day you wake up with a big giant zit on your nose? You will feel ugly. Rather, think about your best bodily features: your arms, legs, feet, eyes, lips, ears, whatever, and learn to accentuate them (without showing too much). Anything you're insecure about? That's only because society thinks it's bad. You will embrace your faults as "quirks" and carry them off with confidence.


Think about your strengths. Do you have great grades, teachers love you, you play a sport well, or an instrument? Work on that and constantly remind yourself about your strengths. Try new things like an art class, driving a stick shift, or babysitting, and you'll find some more things you're good at!;
, When you smile at people, it shows that you're outgoing, friendly, happy, and a great person. And that's what you want to be known as, right? So show those pearly whites! Brush your teeth too; it improves the look of your smile and you are not as subconscious to show it.


If you don't smile because you're ashamed of your teeth, get whitening strips, braces, a retainer--anything that will make you feel better about yourself.
 What next? Introduce yourself! Don't forget that person's name! Lodge it in your memory as soon as they say it.


Next time you see them, in class, or lunch, or a football game, go over and say "hi." Sit next to them if they invite you to; one of their friends could be your new best friend!
Be interested. Ask the person questions about themselves, like what grade they're in, where they were born, hobbies, favorite TV shows, movies, etc. If you show people you are interested in them, they'll feel valued and important, and they'll definitely say hi to you in the hall. If you don't know what to say when starting a conversation, brush up on current events! MTV News, CNN, or whatever, just as long as it's interesting. Also read blogs, magazines, books, and watch TV to get conversation starters.
 For shy people, that's hard. You might think that people are judging you on how you look, how wrong you're doing something, and may feel like the whole world is Simon Cowell from American Idol. It's not true! People are dealing with their own insecurities and battles, and if you reach out to them and stop focusing on how you look, people will like you and treat you like a friend.
 Stop lounging in front of the TV or computer and get out of the house! Get involved in clubs, sports, and volunteer. You'll meet people with the same interests as you, and that's all you need to make a friend! Remember, a stranger is a friend you haven't met yet.
 Complimenting is an awesome way to start a conversation and make people like you. So if you see a girl or guy with great hair, shoes or a cool outfit, speak up! You'll be known as a nice person, and they'll eventually return the favor.
 Remember, there's someone wonderful inside of you that's crawling to come out. All you need is courage. If you want to raise your hand in class to ask a question, go for it! Remember: the only stupid question is the one not asked! If you want to sit with a group that you admire or a girl that seems interesting, go for it. People are just as friendly as you are. If they reject you, then there's something wrong with the person, not you.
 All men and women are created equal, and are entitled to equal rights. You cannot let these louder people crowd you out. You have to notice yourself, then people will notice you.

