 You will need:


1-5/8in deck screws (x36)
2-1/4in deck screws (x8)
a small can of weatherproofing stain. A half-pint of semitransparent stain and a small disposable foam brush works fine. Deck screws are made for this material, and work much better and last longer than cheaper alternatives like drywall screws.;
, You will need:


8ft 2x4 cedar (really 1-1/2in by 3-1/2in) (x4)
8 feet (2.4 m) 5-1/2in x 5/4in cedar deck boards (x3). Cedar lasts well outside, and these dimensions because they were easily and cheaply available. Have the lumber center cut the 8 feet (2.4 m) deck boards in half (4ft lengths) for you. You will use 5 of the 6 pieces.
 Of course, you should always read, understand, and follow all the safety rules that come with your power tools. Be aware that pressure-treated boards can contain dangerous chemicals. Breathing in sawdust during cutting operations of any wood can be hazardous to your health. Take a firm grip, check your balance, and watch all sharp edges.
 Tables have a frame under the top called the apron. Cut your apron pieces to length. From the 2x4s, cut two 40in lengths and two 24in lengths. Each piece will have a 45degree miter cut on each end, like a picture frame. The measurements are from tip to tip of the long side. Also square cut some small spacers from the 2x4, approximately 1-1/2in long. Assemble the apron sides and spacers on a flat surface (like the floor) with the spacers and clamp around it with the band clamp. Check for square with a framing square and/or measure diagonals. - The diagonals measurements will be equal if the assembly is square.
 Cut 4x 5in mitered braces to connect the apron corners. These should fit inside the apron corners as shown. Attach them using wood glue and 1-5/8in deck screws at the angle shown. Drill and countersink holes for the screws. A quick-change countersink bit for your drill is handy. There are several different kinds.
 From 2 of the 8 feet (2.4 m) 2x4s, cut 4x 29in legs. Try to find the most presentable lengths of wood for the legs, as these will show the most.
 A small taper on the legs relieves the "blocky" look and makes the table look less heavy. Cutting a taper on the legs is not difficult if you have a table saw. First, make a tapering jig (sled) to reliably carry the leg across the saw at a slight angle. The taper should end below the top 3-1/2in where the leg will connect to the apron. Cut the taper slowly and watch for the raised saw blade. Afterwards, sand the leg to remove saw marks. Do not try to slide the sled back across the saw after the cut is made while the saw is running - there is a high danger of kickback. Hold the sled after the cut and turn the saw off between cuts. Of course, one should always use a saw blade guard and an anti-kickback device when making through cuts on the table saw.
 Adding glue to mating surfaces, slide the legs into the slots created between the apron sides. The fit may be tight, so you may need to use a hammer to tap the leg into place. Use a small block when hammering to protect the leg itself. If tapered, the taper goes towards the inside of the table. When the leg is in place, clamp it and drive 2x 2-1/4in deck screws through the apron brace into the leg from the inside of the apron. Repeat for all 4 legs. Be sure the leg is vertical and flush to the floor before attaching. A small mistake here will make for a wobble, so it is worth double-checking. Use a wet rag to remove any extra glue squeeze-out.
 Cut the deck boards into approx 4 feet (1.2 m) lengths. Choose the best sides of 5 of the 6 4 feet (1.2 m) deck boards. Find the middle of each apron short side, and mark it. Measure 2-3/4 out on each side from the middle and mark that. These are where the edges of the middle board on the top will cross the apron frame. Align the board with the marks, leaving an even overhang on both ends (approx. 3in). Clamp into place. Measure 1-1/2 in from the side of each board down the middle of the apron side, and mark. Drill and countersink, then attach middle board with 4x 1-5/8in deck screws, 2 on each side.
 Add additional boards on each side of the middle board. Use a temporary 1/4 in spacer strip between boards to leave a space. This space allows rain to drain off and increases the overall width of the table. A speed square (orange) is handy for lining up the screws with previous ones. Line up the overhang as evenly as you can, but the boards may be slightly different lengths. This will be fixed in the following step. Notice that the final outside boards will be screwed down into the top of the legs. Check your screw spacing carefully so that you hit the leg. This is an important part of the leg support.
 Just as when building a deck, the ends of the top boards will be slightly uneven. Draw a straight, square line across the ends, saving as much of the overhang as possible while still allowing a cut with your saw. Clamp a straightedge on the table and run a circular saw along the line to square the ends. Use sandpaper to clean up the cut and remove splinters between the top boards.
 Using a foam or other brush, apply the weatherproofing stain on all sides of the piece, including between the top boards. Follow application directions. Wipe additional stain off of the piece with a rag, removing any puddles or runs. Allow to dry.
 The piece is small enough to move indoors for storage or to place on an apartment balcony, yet still seats four. Adjust the size of the aprons and top pieces or legs to make a longer or shorter table.

