 Press the “ON/OFF” button at the top of the camera. The camera will power on and the lens will come out.
 At the top of the camera is a switch. Bring it to the far-left mode. The icon for that is a camera.
 Press the “FUNC SET” button on the middle of the circular button at the back of the camera. This will bring out the toolbar on the screen. Go to the shooting mode or shooting scenes, and select “Smart Shutter.”

The icon for Smart Shutter is a camera with a smile.






The camera will enter Shooting Standby mode, with the Smart Shutter icon displayed at the top-right corner of the screen.
 The camera’s Smart Shutter mode has three submodes—Smile Detection, Wink Self-Timer, and Face Self-Timer. This can be changed by pressing the “DISP” button on the circular button at the back of the camera. Press this button once and select the third icon for Face Self-Timer. The camera is now in Face Self-Timer mode.
 You can input how many shots under this mode the camera will do. Press the up or down buttons while in the submode selection to set the number of shots. It can be between one and ten.


This is the number of continuous shots the camera will take once a smile is detected.
 Once done with the Smile Detection mode and the number of shots, press the “FUNC SET” button to finalize the setting.
 Focus, zoom, and compose your shot of your subjects.
 Once you’re good with your composition, press the shutter button halfway.
 Press the shutter button all the way down to have the camera enter the Shooting Standby mode. “Look straight at camera to start count down” will be displayed on the screen, and the camera will wait for a new face to enter its frame.


The lamp will blink as it waits.
 Join the group to be included in the picture. Face the camera so it will recognize the new face. After two seconds of detection, the camera will take the shots.


If the camera doesn’t detect a new face within 15 seconds, it will go ahead and take the shots.
 Press the play button at the back of the camera to view the pictures. Navigate through them by pressing the left and right keys from the circular button.