 Your regular doctor will be able to get you started. First, they will probably want to look at your risk factors – blood pressure, weight, snoring, daytime sleepiness, and others. Your doctor can then initiate a sleep study.Your doctor may well have you do a home sleep study before referring you to a sleep specialist. This is done with special equipment at your home. Some insurance companies also require it as a first step.
Follow your doctor’s instruction if you do a home sleep test. This might include not napping, not consuming caffeine, and following your normal routine as much as possible.
If a home test is abnormal, then you’ll need to move to the next steps of seeing a specialist or getting a hospital sleep evaluation.
 It is important that you find the right kind of specialist, and because of the seriousness of this disorder, make it a priority. A certified pulmonologist is the best doctor to see to test for sleep apnea, confirm a diagnosis and be treated by if you are diagnosed.

Your GP should be able to refer you to a suitable specialist.
You might also search WebMD or the internet in general to find a local pulmonologist or Sleep Unit, and review their profile to verify credentials and whether they specialize in testing for and treating sleep apnea.
 In this first appointment, the doctor will ask specific questions that will help identify if you experience any of the major symptoms. Almost certainly, the doctor will then set you up for a sleep study test and explain in detail what the sleep study is, how it is performed, what it will specifically be testing, and how to prepare for the sleep study.

Try taking notes during your appointment if you wish, or ask if there are leaflets you can take away with you to make sure you are completely prepared.
 You will be spending the night in a specialized medical center that has several rooms designed for comfort and tailored to make you feel like you're at home. Normally, you will be scheduled to report to the center in the evening of the study near a certain time for paperwork and the study and will be woken around 6 A.M the next morning. These are the general hours, with the goal that you get at least 6 hours of sleep, and cycle through 3 - 6 REM periods. When you've been awakened, you'll be sent home with a follow-up appointment scheduled before you leave. At the follow-up appointment, the doctor will inform you if you have been diagnosed with sleep apnea or not, and go over the results of the tests performed during the sleep study. The staff will all be professional and respectful. You don't need to worry about doing anything embarrassing in your sleep. They want you to be as relaxed and comfortable as possible.