 The majority of people who eat Creme Eggs do so by licking out the filling and eating the chocolate last.The trick to this method is biting a hole into the top of the egg first, which allows you to access the filling inside. To eat a Creme Egg using this method:


Use the tip of your front teeth to bite off the top half-inch (1.3 cm) from the Creme Egg’s pointed end.
Use the tip of your tongue to lick out the filling.
Bite off small pieces from the remaining shell and eat them.;
, This is a good method for people who like to lick out the filling but don’t like getting a sticky face. Bite off the top half-inch (1.3 cm) of the cream egg shell. Remove a spoonful of filling with a skinny spoon and eat it. Repeat until the shell is empty.


Once the filling has been removed, you can eat the shell., This method of eating a Creme Egg is similar to the method where you lick out the filling. The difference is that now you make a small hole in the chocolate shell and suck all the filling out. To eat a Creme Egg this way:


Use a thin, pointy object to poke a small hole in the top of the Creme Egg. You can use the tong of a fork, the end of a chopstick, or a skewer, for instance.
Place your lips over the hole and suck all the filling out of the egg through the hole.
Eat the empty chocolate shell in several small bites, or in two or three large bites.
 Eating a Creme Egg like this requires care and caution, because a whole Creme Egg is a choking hazard. Eating an egg in this way is simple: unwrap the egg, pop it in your mouth, and carefully chew the egg and filling until you can swallow the mouthful.If you're going to eat a Creme Egg like this, make sure there's somebody nearby in case you happen to choke.
 To eat a Creme Egg like this, take a small bite from anywhere on the egg, making sure you get a bit of filling as well. With each bite, increase the size of the hole in the egg, and continue until the entire thing is gone.The slow and steady method requires will power and patience, because it can be tempting to take a few small bites and then eat the rest whole.
 To start, break the egg in half by dividing it at the seam that seals the two halves of the chocolate shell together. You can do this by holding one half in each hand and pulling the two halves apart while you twist gently.


Once the egg is separated, slurp the filling from one half and eat the half-shell. Repeat with the other side., The best way to do this without making a sticky mess is to freeze the egg before you eat it. Place the Creme Egg in the freezer and let it chill for at least two hours. When the egg is frozen, eat away the chocolate shell, leaving the filling intact.


When you’ve eaten the shell, move on to the filling. You can eat it in small bites, pop the whole thing in your mouth, or wait for the filling to thaw and then eat it with a spoon.
 Bite off the top half-inch (1.3 cm) of the chocolate shell. Use your tongue to lick out the top layer of filling, until the filling is even with the top of the chocolate shell. Then, nibble away the top quarter-inch (0.6 cm) of the chocolate shell to expose more filling. Lick out the filling and repeat.


Continue nibbling away at the top section of shell to expose the filling below until you’ve eaten the entire egg.

