 One of the easiest ways to ensure your child gets into a good public school is to relocate to a good school district. Inter-district transfers are hard to come by, so often living in the same district as your desired school is usually necessary.Make sure the housing area is in your price range if you consider moving. Many homes in good school districts are more expensive than surrounding area.
Remember, to enroll your child in a public school proof of residence is often required. Move before the academic year starts so your child can enroll with no interruptions.
To find a good school district, look at factors such as class size, student to teacher ratio, test scores, the attendance rates, and what sort of extra support and services the district offers to encourage a holistic education.There are some school districts that are a bit more lenient with accepting students outside of their district if there is a family member or parent that works and/or volunteers for that district. Again this depends highly on the location (state, city, county) of where the school is situated.
 Charter schools are public schools with private oversight, common in many urban areas. Magnet schools are public schools with a special curricular focus such as STEM or the arts. Both often offer private school-level education as a part of the public school system.Both magnet and charter schools often require an application and testing for admission. Find a school that matches your child’s strengths to give them the best chance. Consider hiring a tutor or taking a practice test, if available.
Start early. Try getting your child into a charter school earlier on. Kindergarten is ideal, as slots in charter schools may be harder to come by in higher grades.
If charter schools in your area are assigned by lottery, apply to magnet schools that require portfolios or auditions, as well. This can help you beat chance., Some states and school districts offer special programs. These may cater to gifted students, or helping students from underprivileged backgrounds succeed academically.In elementary school, gifted and talented education (GATE) programs help engage and challenge students who already excel at their normal schoolwork.
Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate (IB) programs offer more rigorous courses and college credit for high school students. Note that not all colleges nation-wide accept all high school AP courses. Speak to your child about where they would like to go to college and then contact that college directly, especially if that college is out of state.

