 A good rule of thumb is that for every foot of tree, you should use 100 lights. So if you have a 5 foot tree, you will probably be using 500 lights. Of course you could use more or less depending on your budget and preference. The size of the bulb can also determine how many lights you use.The number of lights is really a personal preference. If you want a more subtle look, you may use a less lights or smaller bulbs. You may also use a combination of sizes for some variety.;
, Before you start hanging your lights, plug them in to make sure that all of them are working. Keep your lights plugged in as you hang them to get a sense of how your finished tree will look.Do not use lights that you cannot get to active within five minutes. Avoid any frustration of tinkering with lights for extended periods of time.
 Tags can be found on each string of lights and can be unsightly. Simply use scissors to remove all tags before hanging up your lights on your tree., This will be a built-in circuit breaker as well as make it more convenient to turn your lights on and off. Simply turn the power strip on and off to activate your lights., Find brown or green cords at your local hardware store to blend with your tree. Make sure that you can plug more than one plug into your extension cord. Add a splitter to an extension cord that only allows one plug.Place two power cords in your tree. First place the extension cord halfway up your tree trunk. A second cord should be placed at the top of taller trees. Use small cable ties or wind excess cord around the trunk to keep it in place and hide it from view.
Plug in a second extension cord into your main power strip if you are lighting a larger tree.
 Hide the wires by plugging in your lights to the extension cord that you have placed halfway up your tree. You want to maximize your light strand by not having to plug it into the wall outlet. Extend your lights and pull them to the top of your tree along the trunk., Hide wires and keep the emphasis on the lights by wrapping the lights around the branch, working outward to the tips. Avoid draping your lights on the front of your tree because this keeps the wires in plain view.Keep the lights loosely wrapped on each branch with about 12 lights to each branch, spreading them out in areas that they will be seen. You may reduce the amount of lights at the back of your tree if it is obstructed by a wall.
Avoid connecting together more than three strings of light because this may cause them to burn out. Use the extension cord that you placed at the middle of your tree to plug your fourth string lights into. Tie the plugs together to keep them secure. , If you are going for a natural look, string your lights through and around your tree randomly. Avoid patterns or spirals. You may also place some lights into the deeper branches of your tree with others at the front to create some depth.Move from the top to the bottom of your tree if you have a limited number of lights or a taller tree. This makes it easier to spread the lights out at the bottom of your tree. Install your lights from the top down so that you are always working towards the plug. Avoid hanging half a strand of lights at the top of your tree.
Green plugs that attach a string of lights to another create a dead zone. Push the green plugs deep into the tree branches to hide the green plugs.
 If your lights fall off branches or if you’re going for a specific design, use floral wire to keep them in place. Wrap the floral wire around the cord of your lights and bend the loose ends of the wire into the tree to prevent injury.Floral wire can be purchased at your local flower shop or arts and crafts store.

