 Meanwhile, season the veal brisket with salt and pepper on all sides.
 Add the oil to an oven-safe Dutch oven and heat over medium-high for a couple of minutes, letting it become thinner and easier to spread across the bottom of the Dutch oven.


Veal brisket is usually browned while beef brisket is often prepared without being browned. The flavor of veal is improved more dramatically on browning than the flavor of beef, at least as far as oven-cooked brisket is concerned.
 Add the veal brisket to the hot oil and sear on each side, turning with tongs as needed, until all sides are lightly browned. This should take about 3 to 5 minutes per side.


When done, remove the brisket from the Dutch oven and keep warm.
 Add these ingredients to the remaining oil in the Dutch oil and cook, stirring frequently, until the onions begin to wilt and turn golden and translucent. This should take another 4 minutes or so.


If there is little to no oil left in the Dutch oven when you add the vegetables, add another splash of oil so these ingredients can be sautéed in fat.
 Add the bay leaf, thyme, rosemary, parsley, and white wine to the Dutch oven. Simmer over medium-high heat for 2 to 3 minutes.


Stir the bottom of the Dutch oven, scraping up any stuck bits of veal or vegetables in the process. These small bits are packed with flavor, so you do not want to lose them.
If you want to remove the herbs before serving the veal brisket, place them inside a small satchel made of cheesecloth. This is not strictly necessary, though, since the bay leaf is the only one that really needs to be removed and it is usually easy enough to spot and remove on its own.
 Return the veal brisket to the Dutch oven and add the crushed tomatoes. Cover the pot.


Use the lid to your Dutch oven. If it does not have a lid, cover tightly with aluminum foil.
 This should take about 2 1/2 to 3 hours.Keep the Dutch oven covered for the duration of the cooking process, only removing the lid to check for doneness.


Check the internal temperature of the brisket with a meat thermometer. The temperature should be between 190 and 200 degrees Fahrenheit (88 to 93 degrees Celsius) when safe and tender enough to eat, and the meat should be easy to pull apart.
 Remove the veal brisket from the oven and let it rest for 20 minutes before carving and serving it.


Slice the brisket across the grain to produce more tender slices of veal.
You can also serve the brisket with its cooking juices for a more intense flavor. Skin the fat from the surface of the cooking liquid using a spoon before ladling the liquid over carved slices of meat.

