 In order to properly see the vibrant colors of your or someone else's aura, you need a neutral colored background. Find a white or neutral colored wall or backdrop.


If you are trying to read your own aura, you will also need a mirror.If you don't have a mirror, you can read the aura around your hand by placing it in front of a white surface or piece of paper.
Make sure you are in a comfortable, quiet environment. You need to be able to concentrate and focus on your subject without interruption.;
, You need soft light that isn't too light or too dark. You need to ensure that your eyes are comfortable with the level of light so your eyes will not have to strain or be overly stressed by the light.


Natural light is the best, but you can use candles or lamps to get the right concentration of light needed., If you're trying to read someone else's aura, make them comfortable in front of the white background and explain what you'll be doing. Have them wear clothes that aren't too patterned or distracting. If you are attempting to read your own aura, look at yourself in front of the mirror while standing or sitting against a white background.
 As you gaze at your subject, relax your eyes. Pick a spot to stare at, staring for 30 to 60 seconds. Focusing on the areas in your peripheral vision, let your eyes fall a little out of focus. You may start to see a haze around the edges. It might seem like a transparent or white light. After a short time, this can become the color of the aura.


When you first start, focus on a small area. On a subject, it may help to look for the aura around the subject's head, using their forehead as a focal point.
If you are trying to read your own aura, you can focus around your head or gaze at the tips of your fingers against white paper. In this case, use the fingernail as your focal point.
 If you start to see colors, they may be clear and bright, or cloudy and muddy. Some people, especially beginners, can only see one dominant color while others may see multiple colors.


The longer you work at reading auras, the more colors and variations it is possible to see. It just takes time and practice., Staring at the same spot will produce after-images that are the direct inverse of what you are actually gazing at. After-images are not auras. You'll know the difference because the after-image will appear for a short time in front of your eyes,no matter where you look.


After-images are typically color paired: black and white, red and turquoise, orange and blue, yellow and violet, and green and pink., Drawing a body outline and then shading in colors around it can be a fun way of recording what you see for later analysis. It's also something to show your subject so they can relate to what you're seeing.


Some colors seen in auras are hard to recreate in an artistic medium. Just get as close as you can, but describe any differences somewhere on the page.
 According to those who read auras, individuals with a red aura tend to be energetic, enthusiastic, adventurous, and temperamental. They can be strong, competitive, and good at sports. They are typically direct, forthright, and honest, but they typically need to be number one., As described by those who understand auras, people with a yellow aura seem to be intelligent, analytical, inventive, logical, overly critical of themselves and others, eccentric, and motivated, but might become workaholics. They often choose their friends carefully and are not prone to loneliness. They might be more likely to undergo depression and become withdrawn under certain pressures. They can be confident and handle themselves well in front of crowds., Those that read pink auras have described these individuals as generous, loving, caring, loyal, healthy, and romantic. Typically, once they find their mate, they remain loyal. They usually welcome family and friends into their homes and can be gracious hosts. They seem to have high morals and don't tend to stand for injustice in the world.
 Those who read auras describe people with blue auras as great communicators with the tendency to be intuitive, eloquent, charismatic, intelligent, organized, and inspirational. They might want a balance of their head and heart to make tough decisions.They tend to help alleviate anger in others and are peacemakers., These individuals, according to aura readers, can be extremely creative, hard working, determined, realistic, popular, prosperous, and respected. They might be perfectionists associated with practical beauty in the things around them, such as gardening and cooking., Those with an orange aura have been described as typically generous, social, honest, kind, good-hearted, empathetic, sensitive, and charming. They might also be impatient and quick to end relationships. They can be quick tempered but they also easily forgive and forget., Those said to have purple auras can be sensitive, mysterious, philosophical, intuitive, knowledgeable, admirable, and in tune with animals and nature. They might be selective with their friends and keep them close. They tend to be unlucky in love, but they are typically devoted once they find a match., If someone is described as having a gold aura, they might be lavish, obsessive, giving, social, proud, and independent. They tend to surround themselves with beauty, typically cannot stand to have their flaws exposed, and love to entertain and gain attention and admiration of others., Individuals that read auras have found a few other colors that exist, but these are not as prominent. They consider these types of auras negative auras based on the personality traits associated with them.


The brown aura is read as two different shades. The light brown aura is associated with discouragement, confusion, and a lack of confidence in oneself, the situation, or others. The dark brown aura denotes deception and selfishness.
The black aura is associated with hatred, depression, and major illness. Individuals with a black aura can be considered miserly and cheap.