 At the beginning of each show after a fly-in effect of a question that related to general knowledge (but had nothing to do with the show in question) but that could have either been short-answer or multiple choice, the narrator said "If you could answer this and a bunch of other questions, maybe you've got what it takes to..." and the viewer could here the audience scream "Make the Grade" as you saw the show logo fly onto the screen. The show music would then begin - most viewers and fans remember this music - even to this day. The narrator would come back a few seconds after the show's icon would randomly change colors and flash these differences every few milliseconds (then quickly fly off the screen and disappear) and with a quick rhetoric referring to the introduction of the host (something along the lines of "And here's with your space-age host and didn't ever tell a joke that you didn't like...") and introduced the host's name. The host would walk across the screen until he arrived behind his own podium on-set and stood before the contestants. The host would most-often thank the narrator and welcome all the contestants to the game, then explain the episode's game board and rules and the game would begin.



 ;
, This game had a few rounds that you had to get through, that will be described below., Players competed on answering questions, based on the game board that is described in a subsequent step. Players had to complete a game board so that each player had to solve one question in each grade level as well as one question in each category, and while that seemed too simple to accomplish, with the possibility of three teams vying for the same space, this seemed quite complicated. The first team to do so won the game and the right to advance to the Honors round, as well as a monetary gain of $500 and the same pair of British Knights sneakers (the losers would also be given). It was tracked on the players game board in front of them and (as you'll see later), lights lit up on the board as the questions were answered. If no player finished their game board, the player with the most question lights on their game boards won the game and was chosen to advance to the Honors round.

Losers of the Question round got $50 for their appearance on the show as well as a free pair of British Knights sneakers to take home with them.
 This round was a final Grand Prize round that resulted in more cash and in the second and third season(described below) a trip right back to Universal Studios (now called Universal Studios Orlando). At first, players had to choose a category out of three possible choices: In one specific situation, you could have been presented with Dogs, Cats or Mice (just as an example) and each question that you answered from the set of 7 questions from seven categories relating to that top-level category still led you to money. Generally, these seven questions generally related back to the same seven categories the player would have seen from the day's Question round. Each correct answer was worth $100, though once you answered question 7 right, you won the Grand Prize of a total of $1000 or the trip (dependent on season). Players could pass on a question and more often rarely got back to trying again - otherwise if answered incorrectly, they were told they were wrong but were unable to answer again and could never win the bonus question. The player was given 45 seconds to answer all seven questions., During the second and third season, this game was more often a space filler than any real part of the process in the game. Players were given several more questions which didn't really have any real category to them. More often the contestant was rather easily able to answer them. The contestant was given a question at a low dollar amount at first. If they answered the question correctly, they were given this money at the end, and they could choose to go onwards to the next question. If the next question was answered correctly, they could go onwards yet again and so on. There were questions for winnings of $50, $100, $200, $500 and $1000; players had to begin at the beginning and work their way up to the $1000. . However, miss a question or ask to pass and you end up loosing the University Round and only walk out with the money from the Question and Honors rounds with no money from the University round., Other season space fillers included (first season) the host (as you'll see later) Lew Schneider traveling to malls and asking random mall walkers questions for minimal money while on the third season the host would walk out into the audience and begin asking random people questions for T-shirts and other random small prizes. If the game was won way too early and the University Round couldn't cover it without even more time, a second game had to begin but was played in abbreviated time. However, playing an abbreviated game as a tie-in at the end was super-rare., The beginning question was answered and in a two sentence summary, a summary was given to answer it. The credits then rolled and the game concluded with the credits and such rolling onscreen., Contestants drew from a mechanical split-flap game board that had a total of 49 squares on it. It was 7 squares vertical by 7 squares horizontal. Each of these boards had seven categories to choose from (from the vertical direction) and several "grade levels" (going horizontally). It was operated mechanically and everytime a player asked to see what was behind this door (whether it be a question the players had to answer, a challenge (that you'll learn about in an upcoming step) that this show called a "Fire Drill", take a square or loose a square space), the home viewer could hear the clicking of the doors as they were opened and closed. You couldn't see the wires, but you could tell that this wasn't something that was technological in design (as many other Nickelodeon TV game shows could tout.)

Players could pick from several categories. Most often this consisted of art or science or social studies or math or however, along with one "special elective" that rarely ever fit into other categories on the board. Along the top, they had several grade levels consisting of Elementary as well as grade levels between 7th and 12th grade.

Sometimes players even picked squares that had already been revealed and had to be either told that it was already chosen by another team or if it led to a loose a square space that was already revealed, tended not to change and the action was taken yet again - thereby making players even that much more depressed at their actions.


As a player, you could run into several types of squares and square designations. They had squares for each team's colors, along with squares marked with a question mark (for when the host had to ask the teams to answer a question), Take (for when the team could take a square of another team's color as their own) or Loose (when a team would lose their color-denoted square) as well as black squares which were designations of squares that were answered by all teams but were answered incorrectly. There was a Free square which could help a team take another square without being penalized or having to answer a question, but these were rather rare (especially in the second and third season). had denoted squares that had been lost from the Loose-a-Square space elsewhere on the board.
 Fire drills were similar to Physical Challenges (but without the messiness) on Nickelodeon's Double Dare. Almost most were physical, they involved all three players partaking in challenges. Although it seemed like games never crossed between one episode and another, one fan could notice that the directions of using a fake hammer to toss a stuffed rat" onto a toy that looked like an enlarged mousetrap until the trap snapped onto the mouse. Generally, the winners of these contests got their choice of what color spot they'd like to return to and most often the winner chose to move to the team with the highest other square. These changes were cheesy and could sometimes mean a big win for a team even if the move only lasted a few minutes., The set was comprised of several items. Although it seemed like the shots were taken in a cubed room that was tilted at an angle, there were several items in this room.

The game board was at the top-most corner, but was tilted at an angle so that the players could easily read it. Closer to the audience but away from the players (if an imaginary line was drawn) was the host and host's podium (a cylindrical stand that was yellow in color with colored paint blotches).
Across from the game board in the top right corner and off to the players' right were the location of the Fire Drills. The viewer and fan could tell that this was the corner when you saw almost equal podiums in this corner when the camera was changed so the players were shown getting up from their desks and walking to the Fire Drill location.
Across the alleyway from the host's desk, you could see the contestant desk areas. One main thing that stood out was the light board for each team and below it and expanded over all three desks was a yellow banner with the show insignia on it. You could tell the light board was there and how it was set up when you saw a square-like light board with one row of lights for the categories and one row of all the grade levels (as was described previously). Each desk looked like an enlarged student desk from a school with that special game board in front of it where you'd generally see the student's knees, legs and feet.
Behind that, sometimes you could see the player's selection buttons and desk, but these times were varied, but sometimes you could tell when the players were moving to get to the FIre Drill location in the studio set.
Behind this even still, you'd find the player sitting on their stools which at times looked like even more like the podiums used for the host desk and Fire Drill holding place, while at other times in other seasons looked like the chairs like a student desk without the cross bar attaching it to the desk portion - these were freely movable but didn't seem to have rollers. They were steady, but you could tell there was some space in between them but were firm and were unmovable.
 On Make the Grade, there were three teams. They each wore one color, that was either red, green or blue. In later episodes, green was changed to yellow., Players generally were seen wearing yellow t-shirts (no matter what team color they were on) with the show logo (described later in this article) across the player's chest on the shirt. In the first season, the show logo was more centered across the entire shirt and the contestants baby-blue/light-blue like colored index card-like nametag in the player's shirtpocket-like corner. In the second season, the show logo became more pronounced in the corner and the yellow-colored (that sometimes even matched the color of the shirt) nametag would be worn on the opposite side of the shirt.

The host however, never wore any certain same shirt. He'd wear something more casual and most often could be seen wearing a sweater or sweatshirt on the set.
TV viewers could rarely see what the contestants wore as far as their pants or shoes, so this article can't vouch for these details. However, most often contestants on a Nickelodeon game show were given sneakers (brand logo information omitted) upon the rights to use brand marketing as advertisements at the end of the show.
 The show's icon was rather whimsical. Although the elliptical format of the logo with the weird writing that had some letters in all caps, the logo extended in all the corners into what made the logo appear to be some spaceship-like logo., During the first season, Lew Schneider hosted the show. This was Lew's first real acting job as the host of a show. However, Lew went on to host, produce and direct other shows including some of the 1999 season of Everybody Loves Raymond (among others) and is currently the producer of the hit TV show The Goldbergs.On the other hand, during the second season, they replaced Lew and brought in Robb Edward Morris who, much like Lew, had his initial appearance on Make the Grade which brought him fame, but who hasn't had a decent time with other roles, having last acted in 2016 on the show "Aquarius" but having two upcoming roles in two TV shows in 2017., During the entire run of the show, this show had an announcer named Maria Milito. This was Maria's one and only acting-announcing job and has no other upcoming gigs., This show aired between October 2, 1989 and December 29, 1991 on Nickelodeon for a total of 160 episodes over the course of three seasons (Fall-Winter 1989, Spring 1990 and Fall-Winter 1990).These episodes were re-released in syndication as reruns on the Nick Gas channel (between January 2,2000 and April 2,2004) until that too was dropped (when the station went belly-up and couldn't make a comeback). Each episode lasted about 23 or 24 minutes, but along with advertisements, this show was shown during a half-hour block of time once or twice a week over the course of a weekend schedule.