 If you're in a position where you can give a homeless person a job, do it! Whether it's offering to hire and train someone in a position like a secretary or file clerk, or just letting them do odd jobs like mowing your lawn, this can really make a huge difference for a homeless person.Be sure, however, that you don't take advantage of them. Pay homeless people a reasonable and fair amount of money.
 Many homeless people rely on the small return they get on bottles and cans from recycling centers to purchase food or other necessities. If you live in an area that supports this sort of recycling program, pile all your cans and bottles in a bag. Ask local homeless individuals if they would be interested in taking your recyclables., In some areas, homeless people are paid to sell a newspaper that advocates for the homeless. In other areas, businesses might partner with nonprofits in order to employ the homeless. Support these businesses and buy the products or services offered by the homeless population., Some people may not know how to locate help and therefore never get any. If you see a homeless person, you could ask them if they need help. If they say they do, ask them if they’ve been to the local homeless shelter. If they have not and are interested in going, provide them with directions.Many homeless organizations have printable maps or resource lists that you could print and give to the homeless person in question.
Showing that you care in this way is a great way to help homeless people feel that they matter.
 If you see homeless people on the streets and don’t want to approach them yourself, call a local nonprofit that helps the homeless. They might be able to send someone out to talk to the homeless person in question and help them along the process of getting back on their feet.Be sure to relay information about the person’s exact location, their manner of dress, and their appearance.
 If you don’t feel comfortable approaching the homeless individual and cannot get through to your local nonprofit that serves the homeless population, contact emergency services. They will send an outreach team to help the person and find out more about their condition. Additionally, call emergency services if you see a homeless person who is:Having a psychotic episode
A danger to themselves or others
Intoxicated
In danger because of weather conditions

