 The best way to prepare a home for a rainy season is to direct water away from it and make sure those runoff channels are solid. Check that the gutters are clear of debris and that the downspouts aren't clogged or loose. Consider pre-purchasing a gutter helmet to avoid having to clean out the gutters often. This will ensure that the spouts remain clear and unclogged all season.;
, Look for obvious areas of weakness, such as warped or missing shingles or popped roofing nail heads. If you have an attic, see if you can see any daylight where the walls meet the roof. These are all indications of problems that could result in serious damage in the face of high winds and heavy rain.
 If you've noticed some disconcerting signs in the attic or exterior of your home, it's time to make some changes. A professional home improvement company can check and find the extent of any roof damage. Before making any changes yourself, it's advisable to seek the recommendation of a professional.
 If you're in an emergency weather situation and you don't have time to get a contractor out to see your roof, there are solutions. For missing shingles or holes, purchase a piece of aluminum flashing and a tube of rubber cement. This temporary solution will keep water out of your attic space. This is not a permanent solution though, just a quick stopgap until you can get it properly repaired. If you've noticed rotting or weakened supports, try reinforcing your eaves with galvanized metal hurricane straps. These small fixes can make big differences when it comes to damage mitigation.
 Alternatively, upgrade the windows. If you live in an older home with single-pane, glass windows, consider installing exterior storm shutters. This seems obvious, but a lot of homes have merely decorative storm shutters or none at all. This leaves your windows vulnerable to high winds and flying debris. If your home was built before the 1930s, it probably has its original single-pane windows. Another option is to upgrade your windows to a stronger, more durable, modern design. Consider swapping your original windows for double-pane glass replacement windows.
 While you’re inspecting your gutters, take a few moments to check where they connect to your downspouts. If they are loose or detached, make sure to secure them. Loose downspouts can easily blow away in high winds and create as much damage as blocked gutters. A seamless gutter system should diminish your fear of leaks or erosion for years into the future.
 Extend your downspouts away from the house to keep water away and to prevent moisture from infiltrating your basement and foundation. Oversaturation of the ground surrounding your home can cause significant unseen problems that may not be caught until it is too late to do anything about them.
 High winds and rain can cave in an old garage door. If you have an older home, consider adding some braces to your garage door to keep it stable during storms. Replacing a garage door can be expensive. Take some preventative measures to make it last as long as possible.

