 You'll need to unlock the screen if it is locked. Use the same cable that you use to charge the iPhone to connect it to the PC.


If you haven't connected your iPhone before, your iPhone will prompt you to trust the computer.
You don't need iTunes installed to transfer your photos.;
, If this window doesn't appear, see the next step.
 If the AutoPlay window doesn't appear when you connect your iPhone, open the "Computer" (7 and Vista), "This PC" (10 and 8), or "My Computer" (XP) window. You can find this in the Start menu or by clicking the folder icon in your taskbar. You can also press ⊞ Win+E to open it.


Once you've opened the Computer window, right-click on your iPhone in the "Devices and drives" section and select "Import pictures and videos."

, The "Import pictures and videos" tool will allow you to add tags to your photos, as well as specify how the imported pictures will be organized. Select "Review, organize, and group items to import" and then click "Next."


If you don't care about organizing them and just want to import all of your pictures immediately, select "Import all new items now." If you do this, the pictures will be imported into a folder labeled with the date in your Pictures folder.
 After choosing to organize your photos, you'll be able to deselect any photos that you don't want to transfer. Uncheck any photo you don't want to transfer.
 The import tool will group photos into separate folders based on the date they were taken. You can use the slider in the lower-right corner to adjust the range for the folders. Moving the slider all the way to the right will place all of the photos in a single folder.
 By default, each folder will be labeled with the date range that it contains. You can give each folder a custom name before you start importing to make finding the right photos easier. Click the "Enter a name" option for each folder to rename them.
 If you want to free up some space on your iPhone, you can set the import tool to delete the photos off of your iPhone's storage after they have successfully transferred to your PC.


To enable this, click the "More options" link and then check "Delete files from device after importing."
While you're here, you can adjust some other import options, such as the default import folder. Most users can leave these at their defaults.
 Click the "Import" button after you are satisfied with your import and organization settings. The photos will begin copying to your computer. This may take a while if you have a lot of photos to transfer. Don't disconnect your iPhone until the process is complete.