 Tees generally come in a variety of different styles, including crew neck, v-neck, tank top, muscle tank and cropped, just to name a few.Decide on the cut you like and look for a shirt in that particular cut.


If you find a tee in a cut you like, stock up! You can never have too many tees and buying them in a variety of colors will ensure you’ll always have one ready to wear.
 A well-cut tee shirt should be neither too baggy nor too tight. There will always be some variation based on body type, but these guidelines should help.The shoulder seams should end at your shoulders. The tee should sit no higher than your hips (unless it’s a crop top.) Sleeves should sit halfway up your upper arm.
Avoid wearing boxy tees, as these will not flatter your figure or give you any semblance of a shape.
Check the washing instructions. If your shirt has any special instructions, make sure to follow them, otherwise your shirt will shrink and will no longer fit as well.
 If you identify as a “Nerd” wear a t-shirt that says “Nerd.”If you support a band or a TV show, wear a t-shirt that says so. There are hundreds of thousands of graphic tee designs, so chances are, you’ll be able to find one that resonates with you somehow.


If you can’t find the graphic tee you’re looking for, there are companies that will make your designs come to life. Design your own tee and get it printed online or in stores.
 Chances are, your parents have a tee or two hanging around from when they were your age. These tees are usually the perfect amount of worn-in and generally have a fun vintage feel to them.Make sure you ask your parents before taking their clothes. You don’t want to borrow something that has strong sentimental value to them, unless they say it’s okay.
 Try painting your tee. To do this, all you’ll need is a plain tee and some fabric paint.You can also try tie-dying your tee or drawing on it in permanent marker (don’t use magic marker, it will wash out when you launder your tee.)


Sometimes you find a tee that you love, but it’s too big. If this is the case, don’t fear! There are many ways to creatively cut your tee so it fits you well and you can still wear it. You can try cutting fringe at the bottom, or shredding the sides and cinching them by tying knots. You can cut your shirt into a muscle tee or a crop top. The sky is the limit.
If your shirt is too big and you still don’t want to give it up, try using it as a cover up at the beach or a nightshirt at bedtime.
 Tees come in a variety of different fabric options and some mix more than one. Fabric will determine how well your tee will hold its shape over time, so it’s something to consider when shopping around.Organic cotton is one of the most highly recommended fabrics, as it is more comfortable and softer than treated cotton.

