 Be intentional about concentrating on whatever you are doing. If you are eating and drinking, do no watch TV or look at your cellphone. Instead, focus on the sensations of the food. Also, fully engage in conversations with others. This will help you be a more empathic and conscientious participant when you interact with others.By focusing on the things you are doing, you will gain insights about yourself. For example, are you able to concentrate on a discussion or are you easily distracted?

, If you perform a task each day in a certain way, try changing it a little bit. This might give you a new way of looking at your actions and how you move through the world.If you regularly walk to work along a certain route, try going another way.
If you typically perform a task with your right hand, try it with your left.
 During your day, try to concentrate on your breathing as if you were meditating. This will help you relax and be better able to take in the present. You can practice this while you are sitting at your desk, standing in line at the grocery store, or on your bus ride home.Even twenty seconds of slow and rhythmic breathing will help you gain some mental space and a little perspective.
 Pay close attention to your body and your sense’s responses to stimuli. Concentrate on how things taste, smell, sound, feel and appear. Investigate any thoughts or emotions that might arise from certain sensations. This might help you develop some personal insights.For example, eat one of your favorite foods and concentrate on the sensations that you feel. These sensations might help explain why you like this food and dislike others, which can lead to revelations about who you are.
 Investigate the world around you. Explore new experiences and push yourself to try different things. Examine your reactions to these new situations and experiences. Try to understand why you enjoy certain things over others and what that says about you. An increased curiosity about the world around might help unlock insights about who you are.This may also help you become a more empathic and thoughtful person.

