 If your period tends to be very heavy and you're not yet on birth control, talk to your doctor about your options. Both birth control pills and intrauterine devices (IUDs) can make your periods lighter and reduce cramps.You may also want to talk to your doctor about whether prescriptions pain pills, anti-inflammatory drugs, antidepressants, and/or antibiotics could help with your heavy periods.;
, Several kinds of birth control — including birth control pills, the patch, and Depo-Provera — allow you to skip your period. If you’re able to plan ahead, consider eliminating the problem entirely.You may also have to deal with breakthrough bleeding, which — because it can come at any time — can be almost as annoying as your actual period.
There is another possibility, though it is important to note it is not a contraceptive — tranexamic acid is a pill that can be prescribed to lighten menses. Discuss this option with your doctor, and how to use the pills if heavy bleeding should occur while you are on vacation. Be certain to use a form of birth control in addition to this pill if you are sexually active; again, it will not prevent pregnancy or STDs.
 Even if you’re not scheduled to get your period, consider bringing some supplies. Travel can disrupt your cycle, even if your period is usually super regular, and you don’t want to be caught off guard.By that same token, don’t necessarily start to panic if you are late or even miss a period while traveling. This can be caused by stress, changes in eating or exercising, jet lag, or some combination thereof., Menstrual cups take up less room in your bag, are environmentally friendly, and can be left in for up to twelve hours. Try them out the month before you go to make sure you are comfortable with the process.Conserving space is especially important if you tend to bleed heavily. In addition to painkillers, pads, tampons, or menstrual cups, you might want to see if you can squeeze in a heating pad, vitamin B6, calcium, and magnesium, and iron supplements if you are anemic.