 In addition to a playing card, you will need a translucent tumbler-style cup, transparent celluloid, and an opaque handkerchief or a bandana.


Bend the card in half and make sure it is well-creased. Using a face card will disguise the crease. Unbend the card before you begin the trick.
The cup must be wide enough that an unfolded card can be pushed into it while narrow enough that the card must be forced. The glass must also taper towards the bottom. A tumbler that is highly decorated, such as with designs or ridges, will make the trick easier to pull off but is not absolutely necessary.
Cut the celluloid into the exact dimensions of the playing card you are using., Grip the card with your thumb on the bottom and your index finger at its top, bending it slightly to keep the celluloid in place. Make absolutely sure the celluloid is not visible to your audience., Tell your new assistant to call out the name of the card. Request that the volunteer hold the tumbler under the card.


You may also ask your assistant to borrow the handkerchief you need. However, this may backfire if the volunteer offers you a translucent one. If the handkerchief is too clear, your audience may see how the trick is performed.
 Appear to take hold of the card through the handkerchief with the hand you used to cover the card. In reality, quickly fold the card in half and palm it using the hand that originally held it. Place the card into a easy-to-reach pocket for later. Leave the celluloid in its place under the handkerchief., Being the exact size of the card, the celluloid will create an outline giving the impression that the card is still there. The cloth barrier will make the celluloid feel indistinguishable from a playing card to your assistant. Ask your assistant to tell the audience if he or she is holding the playing card seen earlier., Both the celluloid and the tumbler should still be covered by the handkerchief. Tell your assistant and the audience that you will now cause the card to vanish from the cup., Grip the cup from the bottom and flip it over. Remove the handkerchief in plain view of your assistant and the audience. Turn the glass around to show the audience that the card is not inside.
 You may also choose to add some dramatic flourishes, misdirecting the audience away from your pocket. While they are focused on one of your hands, use the other to grab the card. Discreetly introduce your card into the "action" to make it seem to appear from nowhere.

