 Every guy needs to have a pair of great fitting jeans. The exact fit is up to you, but they should fit you properly. Pants that do not stay up, and sag down, are not appropriate or appealing for school.Have several pairs of blue jeans in different washes such as light, medium, and dark wash.
Black jeans are also a great staple item for a guy's closet.
 Try to have different colors, styles, and fits in your closet to enhance your overall style. Besides the plain white T, you should also have several polo shirts, a few lightweight long-sleeve shirts, and some other crew neck tops in various colors and designs. This way, even though you are essentially wearing T-shirts and blue jeans everyday, you will not get bored with your wardrobe. You will have many items to mix and match.Be sure to have cozy sweaters to wear come winter in several colors such as brown, black, blue, and green., Throughout the year, especially when the weather gets cooler, you will want to have a few button up shirts with a collar. Whether these are cotton or flannel, it will be a great way to enhance your style, and stay warm., A hoodie is the perfect way to stay warm, and keep your look casual for school. Since your hoodie is meant to be worn almost everyday during cooler seasons, opt for a neutral color with either no design, or one that is simple so that your hoodie will match the rest of your wardrobe.A lighter or thinner hoodie is a good way to layer with a button down shirt underneath., Modern fashion includes all sorts of styles and color combinations, but there are certain colors that clash together and should not be paired up. To create an outfit that is complimentary together, keep color in mind. Colors that are directly opposite of each other on the color wheel are considered complementary such as blue and orange, pink and green, and yellow and purple. Wearing complimentary colors creates an attractive, color-rich palette.


For example, you could wear an orange shirt with a blue checkered button down, or a dark green hoodie with a purple polo. Keep the color wheel in mind, but do not be afraid to match other colors you think work well together.
 It can be easy to create a timeless, casual look for school by pairing staple wardrobe pieces together. It is all about layering. No matter what season it is, layering your tops together with a great pair of denim is always a great look. Here are some wardrobe ideas to follow:


Always start with a basic T-shirt. A white T-shirt is good for everyday, but you can mix up your look with a variety of colors in a crew neck or V-neck cut.
Add a polo or button down shirt over your plain T-shirt. If you are wearing a colored T-shirt, be sure that the shirt you wear over is complimentary. So if you are wearing a red T-shirt, try wearing a blue polo, or a blue checkered button down.
Wear a hoodie or cardigan. Depending on the season, you can add a third layer to keep your look interesting. Cardigans and hoodies are better to leave neutral so you can combine them with more pieces. Try a beige cardigan over your blue checkered button down, or a black hoodie.
 Unless you are required to wear dress shoes, keep your footwear casual. Shoe styles such as sneakers, saddle shoes, or canvas options are a great way to keep your look school ready. Black shoes pair with everything, but you can try wearing brown shoes when your wardrobe has Earth tones such as browns, greens, and blues.