 Go through everything that you’ve pulled out of your closets and drawers and sort them into four piles: keep, give away, sell and trash. Assess the items by asking yourself a few questions: Have you used it in the past year? Would you buy the item again? Am I only keeping it because I don’t want to waste money? Am I keeping it for sentimental value?Items that should not be kept are broken items and outdated items that have been collecting dust. If you haven’t used the item in many many years, it is time to dispose of it unless it is for sentimental value.
Keep the items you use frequently. Get rid of stained, torn and dusty unused items. Don’t keep items simply because you think you might use it again even though you haven’t used it in years. (Don’t be a hoarder.)
Unused sentimental items can be stored away for safe keeping. Old t-shirts, pictures, books and stuffed animals that are purely for sentimental value can be stored away in a large storage chest. Separate them from your frequently used items so that they don’t take up space.
 These would be the items that didn’t pass the test when you asked yourself the “decluttering questions, “ and you’re unable to sell them for some reason. Examples of unsellable items might be outdated items, items with blemishes or heavily used items. Once you’ve separated the wanted items from the “giveaways,” place them in a pile away from the keep and trash pile. Give them to friends, family or charities such as the Goodwill.
 Electronics, furniture and appliances that you simply do not need or want can be sold online. Simply take a picture of the item, and create a short listing on the website. You can make some extra money on the side selling your unwanted decluttered items, but the website you’re using matters. Some websites are better than others for selling your goods.Craigslist is best for selling furniture, appliances and electronics to local buyers in your area.Sell old cell phones, laptops or unused supplies to an international crowd on Ebay, which allows people to bid on items or purchase them outright.
 Gently used clothing can be re-sold if they are trendy, designer or too nice to give away. Stores such as Plato’s Closet or Buffalo Exchange purchase gently used clothing without stains or holes that they believe can be re-sold to its customers. Keep in mind that whether or not the store takes the items is up to the discretion of each individual store.


Local consignment shops and local chains in your area similar to Plato’s Closet also are great resources for selling used clothing. Review the store’s website to assess if your clothing fits the store’s re-sale criteria., If you have a number of items to get rid of, then it may be faster to have a garage sale over a weekend. Advertise by putting signs around your neighborhood. Then, label your items and get ready to haggle. Use the money you make to purchase new organizing materials for your home.