 Ashtanga, Bikram, Hatha, Iyengar, Kripalu are among the many different types. Try out different classes to determine which type of yoga you would like to teach., Before you can teach yoga, you will have to become dedicated to practicing and mastering all of the postures involved. If you are new to yoga, then find a studio in your area and start with beginner classes, eventually working your way up to more advanced ones.


Don’t rush the practice. Let it come to you naturally and take your time exploring the world of yoga so that when you begin your certification process, you will be prepared for the training.
 Since there is no universal certification program for yoga teachers, you will have to determine what requirements your particular gym or studio has. Also, if you dream about being self-employed then think about the possibility of opening your own studio., Group fitness trainers at your local gym or managers of yoga studios around your area may have contacts for different certification classes. Ask them if there is a particular agency or training program they prefer.
 The classes will not only teach you physical postures and routines; you will also learn about physical anatomy, injury prevention, and the philosophy and history of yoga.



Yoga Alliance is the national registry for yoga instructors in the USA. Their website offers resources and guidelines for completing your certification, and has a directory of teachers in your area., Most studios require about 200 hours of hands-on training in yoga before you can teach classes. Make sure you have the time and commitment to get these hours done.The hands-on training for the certification requires contact hours. These are hours that are in direct presence of a certified teacher. Take your time finding the right teacher for you as you will spend a lot of time training under them.It is not required, but it is recommended to have first aid and CPR training completed by the time you receive your certification.Get advanced training. If you want to teach advanced courses or learn how to teach yoga to special populations (i.e. different age groups or injured students), then consider completing a 500 hour training program., Enroll in classes to familiarize yourself with the environment and teaching style. Remember that all yoga studios are different and some may cater to certain types of yoga that you are more interested in, such as Ashtanga or Kundalini.
 Share your training experience with them, and ask them questions about the teaching programs available. Be sure to bring your resume and proof of certification.


Ask what benefits the studio offers and if you have to pay for rent to use their studio to teach. Have money set aside for rent if that is the case., Along with your resume, you will probably have to fill out an application for the teaching position. Expect the application to have questions about your history with yoga, what certifications you’ve received, and any special qualities you have or yoga styles you are familiar with., During the interview express your interest in the studio. Talk about the classes you took at the studio and how you think your skills would make you a good fit. Be prepared to also answer questions on why teaching yoga is important to you and what you hope to gain from the teaching experience.


At the end of the interview always ask your own questions and ask if there is anything specific the studio needs help with., If you do not want to work at a studio, but have the funds to pay for your own space, you have the option of opening your own yoga studio. Opening your own yoga studio will be harder than if you work for an existing one, so think about:


The cost of the studio space. Make sure you have the money for a security deposit and a few months rent.
Advertising your yoga studio. Advertise your studio through Craigslist or put up flyers at local gyms and coffee shops. Try to capitalize on what makes your yoga class different on your ads (smaller class size, one-on-one time, specific styles of yoga).
 To maintain a steady income you will probably be teaching classes before 9am and after 5pm. You will need to be dedicated to working long days when beginning your initial teaching career., Regardless of the training you have, learning from the masters is the best way to improve your teaching style. Take a variety of yoga classes at different studios and with different teachers and pick up on the qualities of the best teachers you come across.
 Leading a group exercise requires that you be able to both connect one-on-one with others and feel comfortable speaking and commanding an entire room.


Rehearse a class by yourself or with friends in front of a mirror. Watch how you act and remember to make sure that even people in the back can see you.
Play some ambient music quietly in the background to not only calm the students, but also yourself.
Speak clearly so everyone can understand you and get deep within their yoga without having to ask for repeat directions.
 A great yoga teacher can change up his or her routine to keep the classes interesting, and tailor a particular class to the needs of their students. The more experience you have, the better.Some ways to continue being versatile could be:


Bring Tibetan singing bowls to class and do a short meditation session at the end of the session.
Ask the students’ opinion on which style of yoga should be practiced that day, or which part of the body the postures should focus on.
 If you want to attract people to your class and keep the coming back for more, you will have to make them feel good about themselves. Keep them motivated with both positive reinforcement and constructive criticism.


Be sure to pay attention to your students and give them feedback on their form. This will show your students that you genuinely care about them.
 Consider asking your students to fill out a questionnaire at the end of your class so that you can make improvements for the future.