 Clothing may affect your results, so wear as little as possible. Make note of the presence or absence of curves. Is your body top-heavy or bottom-heavy? Would you describe your legs as long or short? What are your favorite bodily features? It may be helpful to record these notes in a journal.


There are many different body types, but the most common categories are hourglass, pear, inverted triangle, rectangle, and oval.;
, Wrap a tape measure around the smallest part of your waist and record your findings. Next, wrap the tape measure around the widest part of your hips and record your findings. Divide the first number by the second number to get your hip-to-waist ratio.


If your hip-to-waist ratio is a decimal number smaller than zero, you probably have an hourglass or pear body type.
If your ratio is close to one, you probably have a rectangle body type.
If your ratio is larger than one, you probably have an oval or inverted triangle body type.
 This shape can also be called the figure 8, or "X" frame. A person with an hourglass shape typically has a wide chest or shoulders, a proportionately small waist, and wide hips. Therefore, the hip-to-waist ratio will be a decimal number smaller than zero.This body type tends to be described as curvy. People with this body type tend to prefer tight fitting clothing such as wrap dresses and feel heavy in loose, flowing clothing.


A bottom hourglass is an hourglass body with more weight in the lower body. A top hourglass is an hourglass body with more weight in the upper body.
This body shape is going to be much more prevalent in women than men.
 Also called an "A" frame, Spoon, or Christmas Tree body shape, if you have this shape then the largest portion of your body lands around your midsection, buttocks, and thighs.With this body type, your upper body is smaller than your lower body; hips will be wider than your shoulders and tend to sit low. Your hip-to-waist ratio will be a decimal number less than zero.


This body type is similar to the hourglass body type in that it can be described as curvy. However, this body type is very small on top. People with this body type often see their small chests as a “problem area.”

, Also called the cone or "V" frame, your hips look narrow and your shoulders are broader than your lower body.Your hip-to-waist ratio will be a number greater than one. This is the most common body type for men.


For women, this looks like a large bust, large shoulders, and small waistline with even slimmer hips.
For men, this looks like a traditionally-masculine body type with broad shoulders and small hips.
 Also called the ruler or "H" frame, the rectangle body shape is almost equal in shoulder and hip width and the waist is not noticeably defined.Your hip-to-waist ratio will be a number very close to one. Women with this body type often feel they aren’t curvy enough while men feel their shoulders aren’t broad enough.


This body shape tends to have a slim build and can sometimes be described as “boyish.”

, Also called the apple, diamond, "O" frame, or circle, this body shape usually has slim legs and a larger chest and stomach area.The hips and shoulders tend to be narrower than the midsection, and your hip-to-waist ratio will be greater than one. People with this body type tend to point to their stomach as a “problem area.”

