 Crash-diet. Think it through simply: all foods turn into sugar (glucose); that is: When the body needs energy but when you have eaten very little. Expect your body's Krebs Cycle (cellular level chemistry) to change fat and protein to sugar, if you eat very little -- or sugar to fat, if you overeat? It will... that's its job., The various sugars and starches, refined or raw, and complex carbohydrates (about like 2 sugar molecules joined together), plus fats and proteins all turn to energy, sugar -- while your body burns some of your stored fat or some muscle protein so: eat that protein.Caution: Avoid burning your muscle! If you get too thin or too lean, there would be no more fat to burn. Stay strong.
): But, Don't do it -- for too long! See, an apple may be 5 bites, but is less than 100 calories. 10 bites of apple per day is starvation, a pure and simple food fact. The same "no-no" is true for 10 big bites of lettuce or any other low nutrient food. On the other hand, 10 bites of banana or cooked beans is not such starvation, but that, also, is not balanced!

, Ask him why "surgery and crash-diet" is better than just a crash-diet while saving thousands of dollars and not suffering a life of tiny meals from then on!

, (about his radical, restricted diet). Research his "Five Bites Diet", such as:


Fill-up with coffee or tea for breakfast (decaf for calm nerves?) -- your "daily clear liquid-diet" -- like phase 1, each morning. Drink a 1⁄2 gallon (1.9 L) of water (or other calorie-free beverages) each day (that's eight 8 oz. glasses).
Eat 5 bites of food twice per day. Limit, eat ten bites each day, "Yes, 10." (He said 12 bites will work, also).
The first 2 days are the hardest, but you get to choose to have any food you crave to help prevent feelings of deprivation that could cause you to quit your diet.
Drink liquids between meals. Drinking too much liquid with your meals can leave you feeling overly full on 5 tiny bites and prevent you from eating enough nutrient-rich foods (eat big bites!).
 Eat level or rounded tablespoon-sized bites (heaping tablespoon bites are okay -- but less effective, for rapid weight loss...).
A crash 5-bite-dieter can take 5 large, satisfying bites, for example:



Eat a burger diet: 3 Bites of burger and 2 bites of fries.

Try tacos: 2 bites of taco and 1 of guacamole and 1 of beans and 1 of rice.

Veg-out: 3 large Brussels sprouts, 1 bite of ice cream and 1 of protein...

Roll up:Fruity-tutti soft-taco. Try a burrito: Use beans (protein). Fruit roll up: Ripe mangoes or stewed apples as a taco.

Pop-5: 1 of bread, a chunk of fruit, a Brussels sprout, 1ounce of meat or cheese, a mini-piece of candy, or as you like.Bingo! We have a winner ! -- a 5-bite-loser.
 Why -- because that may be satisfying and astonishing, as you may loss up to 20 or 30 pounds, in 2 or 3 weeks. A Snicker of 1.86 ounce (52.7 grams) has 250 calories, 12 grams of fat, 27 grams sugar, 4g protein, a little less than 10% protein, by weight (data from wrapper).
, Show your determination... Also, if you may eat when stressed, try squeezing a soft rubber ball/"stress-ball" instead, and see whether that is effective for you. Get busy to be occupied with things other than food.
, While "off" savoring weeks of progress (30 pounds?) enjoying a 1/2 week break after weeks of the hard slogging: Take a retreat and eat at a buffet/but chow down on a ton of salad, plenty of vegges and some special protein, a dessert (or two like its your birthday party!)... Eat normally for a few days; then get back on the 10 bites, and march "on" to the battlefront, forward!
Avoid eating very high fat, high cholesterol, or processed foods with undesirable chemicals, or other foods, such as hardened or partially-hardened fats or trans fats, which can be harmful, especially, if you have high cholesterol problems or cardiovascular disease.
 One bite is enough to savor the flavor! Dump the rest, to avoid eating it, or get it boxed to take it home for your next 2 days' meals. Make a fist! According to Dr. Lewis, you'll stop feeling as hungry after three days on the diet because your body will feel full on this smaller amount of food.
, Talk to your doctor, whether you might need to take additional supplements, such as calcium, magnesium, zinc, etc.Drink non calorie beverages, as much as you want -- as long as it is basically water.


Breakfast: Coffee or tea (black please). (AM snack: 1/4 cup fruit, berries - optional)

Lunch: 5 bites of food. (Afternoon snack: 1 bite yogurt or ice cream - optional)

Dinner: 5 bites of food. (PM snack: 6 nuts or 2 chips, celery or such - optional)

Get a big bite of protein each day “on average”, not empty junk foods.
 Or if you like, go for 4 meals of 5 bites: -- Tah Dah: 20 Bites! Eat just enough to stop losing...

