 Viruses are a common cause of diarrhea that are passed from person to person through handshakes, shared utensils, and touching the same surfaces. Children attending school or going to daycare are at increased risk of getting a virus that can cause bacteria. If you or your child recently spent time in a public area trafficked by a lot of other people, you may have picked up a virus.


Viral gastroenteritis is a viral infection in the small intestines and stomach. It has symptoms such as diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal cramps and nausea, which last approximately 3 days.
Rotavirus is the most common virus contracted by kids that causes diarrhea.Other symptoms include vomiting, abdominal pain, fever and nausea.
See your doctor if you think a virus might be the cause of diarrhea.;
, Bacteria that cause diarrhea are most commonly transferred to the body by way of food that hasn't been properly refrigerated or cleaned. Diarrhea caused by bacteria is a symptom of food poisoning.Did you recently eat at a new restaurant or have food that tasted funny? Think back over your last few meals.
Other symptoms of food poisoning include headache and vomiting. The illness usually resolves itself in a couple of days.
If symptoms of food poisoning persists, see your doctor.
 This common cause of diarrhea is usually contracted by ingesting dirty water. If you went swimming in a lake or river that might be contaminated, or drank water that wasn't clean, you might have picked up a parasite that is causing your symptoms.


People who travel to foreign countries often experience this problem, but it usually goes away after 12 hours or so.If your symptoms don't resolve in a day or two, see your doctor.
 This is a very common cause of diarrhea and uncomfortable abdominal pain. It causes cramping and bloating as well, and can lead to the need to go to the bathroom more often than usual.IBS can usually be managed by making changes to your diet and other lifestyle changes.
IBS is exacerbated by stress. Determine whether this may be a factor for you.
 This disease causes the intestines to become inflamed, and the damage leads to bouts of diarrhea and other forms of discomfort. If you have chronic diarrhea, ask your doctor whether inflammatory bowel disease might be the problem.
 This results from an intolerance to gluten, a protein found in wheat, rye and barley. It causes fatigue, irritability, general malaise, and a host of other symptoms in addition to diarrhea. Talk to your doctor about whether this could be the problem at hand., Monitor symptoms you experience aside from diarrhea to assess whether something more serious may be at play.


Medical conditions such as AIDS/HIV, Crohn's disease, hyperthyroidism, Addison's disease, and colon cancer cause diarrhea.
Talk to your doctor about your symptoms to receive a diagnosis and treatment.
 Be observant about what food you eat and figure out whether something in your daily diet might be irritating your system and causing these symptoms. If eliminating a certain food for a few days seems to make a difference, consider cutting back on it in the long term.


Foods that lead to chronic gas, such as beans and other legumes, cabbage, broccoli, and nuts, may cause diarrhea if you're eating them in large quantities.
Try eliminating caffeine from your diet. Caffeine stimulates the gastrointestinal system and leads to more frequent bowel movements.Fats can also cause diarrhea, especially saturated fats found in fried food and snack foods.
Artificial sweeteners found in soft drinks and candy cause diarrhea.
Some people find red meat difficult to digest, so try cutting back on it.
Alcohol can irritate the system and lead to diarrhea.
 Starting new medications like quinidine, colchicine, antibiotics or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause acute diarrhea. Taking too many laxatives can also lead to problems. Let your doctor know if you're on a medication that seems to be causing adverse symptoms.