 You may be a little nervous about asking your guardian permission to use tampons. Especially if they've told you right off the bat that you should wait until you're older. Bring it up when you're the only ones in the kitchen, car, living room, bathroom, etc. Try saying such things as: "Hey mom, would you be okay with me using tampons as long as you could explain how? I will probably need help, but I think I'm ready." That way, she feels included (like you're not keeping things from her) and you will most likely be allowed to use tampons.;
, When you have this conversation, make sure to look your parent in the eyes and pay attention to body language. If your parent looks uncomfortable or is saying she or he would prefer you to wait, explain a little more. For example, try saying something like: "Mom, if I could make a list of facts why tampons would be easier than pads, would you be okay with it? The pads are uncomfortable. What about swimming? I need it for that, too."

, If your guardian still won't budge after the previous steps and you find yourself writing a list, then so be it. Make sure you use good sources, such as www.beinggirl.com. Find a site that will answer some questions that you may be too embarrassed to ask yourself. After you have gotten the information and have your list ready, arrange a day to explain it to your mother. After all, she knows tampons are easier than pads. You might have to plan your words a few days before, but if you have to go that far, it's highly recommended. Your guardian should understand. If it is a male, or if the male guardian is your main guardian, he will probably let you do whatever after step 2. Guys don't do so well with this stuff. Anyway, make sure you know how you will have your list and explanation ready.
 For example, offer to only use tampons on your medium to heavy flow days, also during sports. Try to get as much out of the deal as you can. Remember, when you earn your own money, you can buy your own tampons.


Maybe you should avoid asking until you can get them for yourself and start using them alone. If your guardian asks about it just say you took it upon yourself as a responsible woman to choose your own products. Explain you are comfortable with this choice. They can't decide what you do with your own money unless it is a family thing.
 This is both important for reassuring your parent that you know how to do so, and for ensuring you get it right when you do start using them.

