 Use some non-verbal signals or prompts to establish order. For example, perhaps when you raise your hand in a certain way to get class attention (similar to the way they must get your attention by raising a hand) or instead you start clapping a certain way (clap-clap, clap-clap-clap, clap-clap) – and they can join the clapping for a quick funny motivator (keep it short). This is better than shouting, stamping feet or slapping on a wall or table, can get students to smile, and enjoy class, especially for harder subjects.


Some teachers use a noise like an instrument (perhaps a recorder) or running a stick over a wooden animal to make a croaking sound. You can some up with many different ideas for noise-makers, and visiting a local trade aid shop can provide many handcrafted options for little cost!

, This is quite different from the few set rules. Develop as many procedures as are needed according to and as you have different situations:


Classwork: Testing procedures, work turn-in, homework, grades, hallway procedures, etc.
Smooth operations: You tell them what to do when entering class and to begin the class, you must reserve the right to say when the class ends, not the bell in any case. Bells may ring at the wrong time, and for varying reasons and you may not have finished class when the bell rings.
General orders: Putting away and getting out supplies and books, pencil sharpening, cleaning-up/throwing away trash.
 Another trick for the worksheets is to have team officers who can give out and take-up and file individual folders or packets (daily or for a change of activity).
 Fire drill procedures versus storm warning/storm watch, earthquake drills, etc. Get the bell schedules for different kinds of days, and keep them available, such as half-days, assembly and pep-rally days, etc.
 Every week, have a "Math Day" and "Language Arts Day". Every other week have a "Science Day" and "History Day". This way you'll be sure that your students have tons of things in mind.
 Don't be the teacher who hardly ever gets around to science or math because you only have time for reading, spelling, compositions and handwriting. You'll be in trouble and very unhappy when your students do not make adequate progress or may even regress in those technical courses.
 During the beginning of every trimester or semester, have your student's parents each donate five dollars or ten dollars. This way, for parties, or anything, there is no need for parents to donate repeatedly.
 Talk to the other teachers to get a feel for what goes on at your school.


Many school systems will no longer allow "homemade" foods or snacks to be sold or given to students because they may be unsafe/unsanitary. Find out how your school operates.
Some teachers do ignore food rules, and such, but the rules are there to protect the school system (and you) against law suits and bad publicity – as opposed to a food incident that could be devastating to student health and safety.
 They will volunteer a week (or some other period of time) and will help students that need help or can observe students doing an assignment in one area of the room, while you work with a group on another routine or procedure.
 Keep all supplies put away and locked up if possible, things like paints, glue, art-paper, stapler, paperclips, tape and such or some student(s) will surprise you and get them out to make something or do something. Dangerous, wasteful or messy mischief may be rare, but it is very problematic when it does happen, especially when you have your mind and eye occupied elsewhere. This, of course, is an area for a strict rule to be set.


Have things like tissues and wipes on hand for sneezes, messes, and other such things. If you are a high school teacher, have spare sanitary ware on hand for students in need.

