 Unfortunately, all humans look for quick, go-to signals to jump to judgments of the people they meet. No, it's not always accurate, but we all do it because it's easy and relatively painless. We see a situation and we assess it on its outward appearance automatically. If we don't like it, we write it off. So when you're being judged, know that it's not just you, it's what you come with.


This is sort of a nice way to say...well, that you're judged by the people around you, too. If your friends are all smelly trolls but you're not, you risk being lumped in the smelly troll category, regardless. This is especially true for Facebook -- the prettier your Facebook friends are, the prettier you seem to be.No, it's not right, but it is real.
 You know how they say "dress for the job you want, not the job you have?" It's like that. Dress for the image you want people to see, not how you feel or what you are. People are easily fooled by clothing. "The clothes make the man," right? How many more figures of speech do you need?


In a recent study, wearing brand names was shown to heighten one's perceived status. Quality of clothing didn't matter, but slapping on a luxury label made participants view the wearer as high-status and, on a related note, more likeable.It's another cue that humans jump to for a quick answer to a person. It may not be fool-proof (or the right thing to do), but it's easy.
 This one can't get super specific because whatever you do has to fit your personality, but having a "thing" can make you likeable. You'll be memorable, have a concrete identity (or so they think), and people will be able to get a grip on you. "Hey! That's the guy with the parrot! I love that guy!" Something like that.


If you've ever worked in the restaurant industry, you may have a story that relates to this phenomenon. Think of the customer that always tips in $2 bills. After a visit or two, the waiters are fighting over him. Why? He has a thing. He's easily remembered, distinguished, and interesting. He's liked., Quite obviously, people don't like to be around loose cannons. When they don't know what to expect, they get uncomfortable and tense. Try to keep a laid back, calm, and happy attitude, even when something doesn't go your way. People you don't know well may easily get turned off by displays of difficulty, neuroticism, and unwarranted insecurity.


That's not to say to hide your emotions! No, no, no. You want to be genuine. If something upsets you, let it upset you. If people don't like it, well, they won't like it. But before you start going off, choose your battles. Is it worth the judgment? If so, proceed. If not, reassess your reaction to the situation at hand.
 Different age levels, groups, and types of people are looking for different things in friends and partners. The older you get, the less phased and dramatic your network should become. Because of this, different personas may be more effective on different people. Know who you're dealing with and what they're looking for.


Things are different in middle and high school than they are in the adult world. It pains wikiHow to say it, but at these ages, you may be better liked if you're a little mean and selfish. A recent study showed that an individual's popularity rose when they were a bit of a bully.This is because at that age, other kids look to strength as an example of what's good, not knowing that that's not how things work. In short, kids are mean.
 No one will want to be around someone who stinks, literally and metaphorically. So, take regular showers or baths, wash your hair, shave if you need to, brush and floss your teeth, comb your hair, use breath mints or minty gum, clip/clean your nails, use deodorant, change clothes, clean your hands, etc. Pretty doable stuff!


Think of this as an investment into yourself. The time it takes to look good (and feel good!) will warrant you benefits in the future. Not only is it good for getting people to like you, but it's good for your health, too.
 Straight up, if you don't like you, why should anyone else? That inner negativity will seep through your day-to-day actions and people will see it. And why not like yourself? You're awesome. At least as awesome as the people around you.


Don't try to be someone you're not; it'll show if you try. Know who you are, and adjust these tips to your personality. It pays off in the long run, even if you march to the beat of your own drum. Any changes you try to force will just wear away with time, so it's best to be natural from the get-go.
 Chances are you have one, so use it! If you can make a person laugh, you're in! Just be careful to make the jokes appropriate to the setting. Offending people is not the goal here -- making them smile is.


If you don't think you're funny, don't worry about trying to be funny. You probably have a sense of humor that's a bit different from the norm. Maybe you're sarcastic, maybe you're quirky, maybe you're ridiculously smart -- any of those can be turned into comedic moments. Take what you have in your kit and run with it. It can be morphed into hilarity.

