 Straw has a natural appeal for summer, and the sun hat is a classic design that adds whimsical charm to your outfit. Try the straw hat in bold colors, like yellow or pink, or go for something softer, like coral or turquoise. You can also wear them in darker staples, like navy or red.Bucket hats and newsboy caps are fitting looks for warm weather as long as the material and color are light. A khaki colored hat coordinates especially well with a white outfit to create a natural look.;
, The combination of white and tan creates a leisurely appearance. A tan belt on a white outfit gives a pop of color while remaining neutral.A tan belt strapped across a loose-fit blouse adds structure to your outfit.
Try a tan belt with white pants and a white t-shirt.
For a sleeker evening look, wear a skinny belt with a fitted white dress and tan shoes.
 White can be monotonous, but a bright red or blue belt can throw enough color into your ensemble to draw the eye. If tan is too neutral for you, add a belt that has a bit more color.Choose a patent leather belt for chic flair.
Pair a colorful belt with a long, flowing white maxi dress.
Try a silk sash for a touch of daytime elegance.
 A silver or gold chain belt looks elegant enough for evening and creates a nice amount of visual interest against a plain white background. If you don't like chain belts, try a black belt with a large metallic buckle.


Mix and match your metals for a chic look. You don't have to match gold with gold and silver with silver - have fun mixing it up as you accessorize., A leather jacket creates a tough, boyish look, while a sweater or wrap gives you a softer appearance. Black provides a crisp, stylish contrast to a white dress.Pairing black with your white dress can give you a sleek look for evening.
 If you want something a little more fun, wear a colorful blazer, jacket, sweater, or shrug with your white outfit. Go for something bold in fuchsia for an attention getting look, a soft pastel for a romantic summer day, or an earth-tone for a boho chic look., For a casual day look, or a casual summer night, pair your white dress with a denim vest or your white t-shirt and white jeans with a denim jacket.This look is classic, gives your outfit texture, and can be paired with bold, colorful accessories.
 One great way to accessorize and break up the monotone of a white outfit is to pair it with a summer scarf.Try it in a bold color, a soft flower pattern, or even an animal print., Instead of wrapping the scarf around your neck, try wrapping it around your head as a stylish headband. If you don't want to use a scarf as a headband, buy a colorful headband to accent your outfit. Go for flowers, rhinestones, or feathers.


Leave the scarf open for a casual look. Wrap it around your neck and let the tails hang down as you go out for the evening.Wrapping it as a cowl neck works for just about any look.
 Summer is the perfect time to accessorize with sunglasses, and sunglasses are the perfect accent to a summer white outfit. Choose large black shades, vintage cat-eye sunglasses in red, or rad Rayban-style in neon colors.
 Beige and tan flats work great for a casual, neutral look. Colored and textured footwear also gives a casual style while providing a pop of color. Typically, simpler is better when going for a casual style.


Consider a denim or light pink canvas flat for a change of pace.
 Metallic shoes can be a great compliment to a white outfit. Go for closed-toe flats in silver, slingbacks in gold, or embellished bronze gladiator sandals. Metallic flats are extremely versatile and can be worn with dressy or casual outfits.
 When putting together a classy day look, choose dressier flats to accompany your white outfit. Look for bright colors to add variety to an otherwise plain look.


Try wedge sandals for a dressy day look. This shoe looks good with most outfits., Stilettos and other slim designs work especially well for nighttime, and a black shoe adds just the right amount of distinction to your feet.


Try a metallic heel. Look for a tall, strappy stiletto heel to quickly turn your outfit from simple to glamorous.
Go for a pair of bold stilettos. Bright red pumps and colorful pink or yellow stilettos can really help accessorize your outfit, and take it to the next level for evening wear while keeping it summery., Tote-style shoulder bags work great for casual outfits. A white outfit makes a perfect blank canvas, so don't be afraid to look for a bag with a bold color or bright pattern.


Look for a canvas tote-style handbag. These are great for boho chic styles. Opt for a bag in a color found in everyday nature. Think brown, sky blue, and grass green.
 If you are putting together a casual day outfit, choose a bold colored bag or one in a neutral tone. Both large or moderately sized bags will look great. For a dressier look, gravitate toward bags made from more sophisticated materials, like leather, instead of casual materials like canvas.
 For an evening look, choose a small clutch. A sparkly silver or gold handbag can look lively enough for a party and elegant enough for a formal reception. A bold blue, red, or yellow clutch can bring a bit of fun while still keeping you sophisticated.
 For summer white outfits, wear stackable silver rings and chunky bangle bracelets. Chunky pieces look a little more playful than delicate pieces, making them more suited for casual dress. The simplicity of a white outfit also allows bold jewelry to take center stage without competition.
 Since white is such a simple color, a long pendant that extends well below your neckline is an appropriate way to add visual interest to your outfit. A nature-themed design, such as a flower or leaf, plays into the boho style.
 For a dressier look, stack thin bangles on your wrist to create a whimsical look while adding detail to a simple white background.
 Dangling earrings with baby blue aquamarine stones or delicate pendants set in silver are perfect for summer. Light tones work well for daytime and coordinate with white to create a delicate, classy appeal.
 If you would rather try for city chic than quiet elegance, bold colors are the way to go. Look for costume jewelry necklaces strewn with bright red, green, or orange gemstones. Long necklaces that drape over your front are especially effective at adding vigor to your ensemble.
 If you want an elegant touch to your evening white outfit, wear simple pearl pieces, like bracelets or post earrings. If you wear a pearl necklace, choose one that hugs your neck instead of one that hangs over your blouse or dress. Pearls look elegant, even with a white outfit, but pearls that overlap with your outfit will only get lost.


Try black or pink pearls. Black pearls and other shades, like pink, can add a nice twist to your look.
 If you want a simple, sleek look, go for an all white outfit adorned by black jewelry. The black-and-white look can be very timeless. Wear long necklaces, dangling earrings, and chunky rings. If your outfit itself is relatively unadorned, you can get away with wearing multiple strong pieces.


Add a simple black belt, black heels, or even a black jacket to complete your black-and-white outfit.
 These bold earrings do not look good with other pieces of jewelry, especially at the neck, but they make a stunning focal point when hanging above a white dress or blouse with a low neckline.

