 Water is a polar solvent. Put 100 mL of water into a clean beaker. Set the beaker aside to come back to later., Nonpolar solvents include things like toluene, gasoline, and oils. Add 100 mL of a chosen nonpolar solvent to another beaker. Let this beaker sit beside the water beaker.Many nonpolar solvents fall into the category of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and are quite dangerous. Be careful when heating them, and always wear a mask and gloves.
For example, you could put vegetable oil into the second container. It is not volatile, but still acts as a nonpolar solvent.
Acetone is also relatively safe organic solvent, but you should still keep it away from fire and wear your mask and gloves. Acetone is a volatile compound.
 Put the substance in question into both beakers. Be sure to use the same amount in each beaker for consistency. You can start by adding 10-20 grams in each beaker (or 10-20 mL if the substance is a liquid).For example, you could put 20 mL of isopropyl alcohol into each beaker.
 The solvents may need to be heated or stirred to spur interaction. If this is the case, be sure that you stir and heat the solvents to the same degree. That said, heating organic solvents, such as toluene, is very dangerous and you should exercise caution.There is no need to heat when testing isopropyl alcohol. Stirring is sufficient.
If heating, use a hot plate and heat slowly. Do not heat organic solvents with a flame.
 Once the substance seems to have interacted with one or both of the solvents, let them each cool. This will give the substance a chance to separate from the solvent if it is not compatible. It also makes the samples easier for you to handle., Look for any solids or liquids separating from the solvent. This indicates that the substance is not compatible with that solvent. Since polar molecules are compatible with polar solvents and nonpolar molecules are compatible with nonpolar solvents, you can deduce that any substance that dissolves in water is polar. Any substance that does not dissolve in water, but dissolves in gasoline, toluene, acetone, or another nonpolar solvent is nonpolar.Once both beakers settle, you will notice that the isopropyl alcohol dissolved completely in the water. However, there will be two distinct layers where the alcohol separated from the vegetable oil in the second beaker. This shows that isopropyl alcohol is polar.

