 If you don't preheat your oven, it will take longer to cook your food. You have to make sure your oven is the correct temperature when you put the treats in, so that they cook properly.
 This is so that your treats don't stick to the pan. By greasing the pan, you make sure they don't break apart when you take them out of it.
 Rice is much easier for dogs to digest than other grain flour. Unlike most other grains, dogs can absorb most of the carbohydrates in rice.It also will help to stabilize you treat, so it doesn't just fall apart once out of the oven.
 Mix and let cool, but not too much. You should be able to put your finger in it, without hurting yourself. If you do not, you might cook your eggs prematurely, causing them not to mix with the other ingredients.


On the stove-top, use a small pot. Warm with low heat. This should not take long. Be careful not to burn it. Butter burns easily.
In the microwave, make sure that your bowl or container is microwave-safe. Try 20 to 30 seconds at first. Nuke it longer only if needed. You can burn butter in the microwave just like on the stove.
If the butter is mostly melted, give it a stir and wait a minute. It will likely melt more.
 Then slowly mix in your melted butter mixture, before the butter firms up.
 Do this until the mixture is evenly combined. Don't worry about little lumps of flour. Your dog won't mind. Do not over-mix.
 You don't want to fill the spaces in the pan fully. These are for a dog, and they are treats.
 This is because, when fully cooked, the batter will not be sticky, as much of the water cooks out. Don't worry if they are a little over-done. Check after 20 minutes.


The most important part is to cook the treats all the way through. Not only can it be dangerous to eat under-cooked eggs, your treat will fall apart.
A softer treat, maybe for older dogs, will take less time to cook than a crunchier treat for a dog with stronger teeth.
Make sure that no matter what size or crunchiness you wish of your dog treats, you fill each cup of your cupcake pan to the same point, otherwise they will cook unevenly.

