 Use the size measurements provided by the supplier to ensure that your graduation regalia will fit the way it’s supposed to. The cap itself should be snug, but not too tight. If it keeps slipping out of place, it’s most likely too big, whereas if it’s cutting off your circulation you might benefit from going up a size.Get a more accurate estimate by measuring your crown with a tape measure and comparing that measurement to the available sizing options.Return poorly-fitting caps and gowns right away to give yourself plenty of time to have them exchanged for the correct size.
 It’s a good idea to try your cap and gown on a time or two before the actual ceremony so you can get an idea of how the completed ensemble will look together. This will also give you a chance to make any necessary last minute adjustments.The more times you wear the cap, the more comfortable you’ll feel once it’s time to take to the stage.
 Most guys and ladies with shorter hair will be able to get away with minimal styling. Those with longer locks can experiment with ponytails, braids or straightened looks that draw the eye to the neck and shoulders. The key is to keep the hair smoothed away from the crown to give the cap the space it needs to rest comfortably.If you’d prefer to show off a more elegant style, try curling the ends or tucking it up so that it’s just visible beneath the cap.It’s typically wise to avoid up-dos and styles with too much volume.
 Wait until you’re wearing your gown, stole and any other components to put on the cap. That way, you can focus your attention on fixing your hair and makeup without worrying about messing them up later. The cap should be the final addition to your graduation regalia.Some gowns and hoods are designed to be slipped over your head, which can be tricky if you’ve already got your cap on.
 Some schools may allow you to add small embellishments to your graduation cap to express your personality and help you stand out from the crowd. Tack on a few buttons or a pendant for a modest injection of personality, or break out the paint pens, glitter and fabric letters to really make a statement. This is an important day in your life, so it's important that you enjoy yourself while you're receiving your honors.Use paint, fabric and other accessories in your school's colors.
Spell out a special message or quote related to graduation. Even if your classmates can't see it, the audience will.Be sure to run your decorating ideas by the principal or dean before you making any drastic modifications to your regalia.

