  Let your imagination run wild.  We all know that the basic construction of a snow person is three balls of snow, grading from the largest at the base to the smaller one at the top for the head.;
,  Frosty the Snowman's black top hat is seen often, but any type of available headgear works fine.  Coal was used for accents like eyes and buttons, but today, anything goes.  A fresh carrot still seems the main choice for a nose, and broken branches for arms, but rules are made to be broken, so be creative.  Draw some earmuffs, a snow shovel and a broom, other common accessories.
  Seeing how snow figures have been done by others can get your imagination primed.  Google images of winter scenes, snowmen, watercolors of snow figures and coloring pages of realistic and cartoon snow figures.  You can often print these out, too.
  You'll need an 11" x 14" piece of watercolor paper (or any size you wish,) a pencil, watercolors, various round and flat watercolor or all purpose brushes, and a water container.
  Simply painting behind the white figure with colors works well.  Putting trees, either bushy evergreens or naked winter trees in the background is another technique.
  Begin to sketch out your design.  If you aren't sure try doing small sketches of the paper both ways.  Things you might include in your design are: another snow figure or two, a sled or snow dish, part of a house, just the doorway or a corner with a window, trees, a fence, and visiting birds or animals.  Human figures wearing colorful outdoor clothing are fun to add, too.
 Everything is good, it is a work of art, don't forget, your imaginary world.
 You might have to fake it a little, but if you carefully observe a snow scene you will begin to see subtle colors in the snow caused by reflections, type of light, time of day, shadows and just pretty colorful lines and shapes as long as they are transparent and pastel.
 Winter landscapes are most often drab and fairly colorless, so using a range of grays, browns and shades of dark gray to black look right.
 Make tree branches for arms. Add details to the landscape, whatever your wish. Let the piece dry thoroughly. Stand it up and if anything needs punching up, do it on a dry painting.
 You can purchase pre-cut mats in colors that will coordinate and highlight your colors or white to give it a refined and finished look. Frames can be easily found at discount and thrift stores, so put the matted piece behind glass and hang it for the season.

Fix a cup of hot cocoa and in the warmth of your house, feel happy to have created art from something as simple as a pile of snow.

