 Feeling anxious due to an awkward silence may cause you to laugh nervously or fidget. Anxiety can also make you feel less articulate than normal.These behaviors can make a silence even more awkward. Instead, try to calm yourself by taking some deep breaths. By relaxing, you might find it easier to think of something to say or ask the person.


Try breathing in slowly through your nose while silently counting to five.
Then, exhale the breath slowly through your mouth while counting down from five.
Repeat this several times to help relax yourself.;
, People often assume that silence means that someone did or said something wrong. This is not true. The other person could be thinking about something that was said, or the current conversation may have just reached its end. Either way, there is no reason to take silence personally.For example, if you ask someone to meet up on Friday and your request is followed by a pause, the other person may simply be thinking through their calendar in their head.
Do not be alarmed if there is a pause during family dinner. The conversation could easily be at a pause because everyone is enjoying their meal.
 If you think the silence is a little uncomfortable, the other person probably does, too. If you interrupt the silence, you make it so that they do not need to break the ice themselves. Instead, stay calm and confident and allow the other person to speak first.This is particularly great if you are negotiating with someone. When you offer a deal, do not assume silence is an objection. Allow the other person time to consider your proposal and respond before you alter your proposal.
When posing a difficult question to a partner, you can also give them time to open up before filling the silence.
 Remember that not all communication is verbal. You should continue making eye contact and remain as confident as possible through the silence. This lets the other person know that you are present in that moment, silence or no silence.For instance, if you are on a date and there is pause in the conversation, your date will know that you are still very present with them if you are keeping eye contact.
It is also common for parties to be loud and obnoxious, often interrupting conversations at unnatural points. If this happens, just keeping eye contact with your conversation partner can send the message that you are interested in continuing the conversation.

