 Wash your face with lukewarm water and a face cleaner suitable for your skin type. Splash your face with cold water and gently pat it dry with a soft towel.;
, The toner will help restore your skin's pH. It will also help tighten the pores. This is especially important if you plan on wearing makeup later.


If you have dry or sensitive skin, opt for an alcohol-free toner.
 Place a tiny amount onto your ring finger, and gently dab the cream under your eyes. Avoid pulling on the skin under your eyes.


The ring finger is the weakest finger, making it ideal for the delicate skin under your eyes.
 Don't worry if you squeezed out too little. A little bit often goes a long way. You can always apply more later, if necessary.


If the cream comes in a jar, then scoop out a small amount using a small spoon or scoop. This will prevent your fingers from contaminating the product inside the jar. You can find scoops at most beauty supply stores.
 Dab the cream onto your face in small dots. Focus on trouble areas, such as the cheeks and forehead. Avoid areas that tend to get very oily, such as the creases to either side of your nostrils.


If you have combination skin, focus more on the dry areas and less on the oily areas.
 Gently massage the cream into your skin using small, upward, circular motions. Never drag downward on your skin. Be sure to leave a ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) margin around your eyes. Most face creams are not suitable for the delicate, sensitive skin around your eyes.
 Look over your face. If there are any bare patches on your face, apply a little bit more cream. Don't slather the cream on, however; more cream is not necessarily better or more effective.
 Many people tend to forget this area. The skin on your neck is delicate, and tends to age the fastest. It needs some attention as well.
 Look over your face carefully. If you notice any clumps or lumps of cream, gently dab those off using a tissue. This is excess cream.
 During this time, you can do your hair or brush your teeth. You can also start putting on your lower garments, such as underwear, socks, pants, and skirts. This way, you won't risk rubbing off your face cream and getting it on everything else.

