 People who who pretend to know everything are not as well liked as people who are willing to ask for help. Asking questions gives other people the opportunity to help you and that makes them feel good. If you are unsure of something or just want to know what someone else thinks, ask questions to give them a chance to share their knowledge.Try to get people talking about themselves. Research has shown that when people talk about themselves, they feel the same pleasure as when they eat or receive money., Active listening is a great way to get people to love you. The better you are at listening to people when they are talking, the more they will want to spend time talking with you. Practice active listening by nodding, using neutral phrases, and rephrasing what the speaker has just said.Demonstrate that you are listening by nodding your head and using neutral phrases, such as “Uh-huh,” “I see,” and “Yes.”
Demonstrate comprehension by rephrasing what the person just said. For example, if a friend says, “I have been so busy this week,” you can say, “So you haven’t had any time for yourself lately.”

, Using humor is a great way to get people to love you too. If you know a good joke, share it with people. If you are witty, make witty remarks. Just make sure that the humor you sue is appropriate for the situation or you may end up offending someone. Look for little ways to make your companions laugh and they will love spending time with you., People who are willing to ask for help when they need it are often interpreted as more likeable than people who pretend like they know everything. Show that you are open to other people’s advice and suggestions by asking for help when you need it. Allowing people opportunities to share their expertise with you will make them feel good and love being around you because of how useful you make them feel., You can also use positive gossip in your favor to get people to love you. Instead of talking about what you don’t like about people, talk about what you do like about them. This will show others that you have a good opinion of others and that you might even be saying positive things about them as well.