 For a dramatic, smoky look, you’ll need four colors that will be blended together to draw attention to your eyes. Though you can choose specific shades to your liking, you’ll need one black shadow, a dark brown shadow, a medium brown, and a highlight color that’s fairly close to your natural skin tone.Beyond that, you’ll need a fifth color that will serve as the base color for your lid.


For the four blending shades, choose matte-finish products that blend more smoothly than shimmery products.
 Using a thin, stiff dome brush that’s good for buffing and blending, create a diagonal line that goes from the outside corner of the eye to the outside corner of the lid’s crease. It should be a very short line.









Begin pulling the shadow inward onto the lid, but not further than a quarter of the way across the lid.
The color should be darker at the outside edges of your eyelids and fade as it moves inward.
You should create a “C” shape on the outside corner of your eyelid — sweeping in a little bit in the crease and at the lash-line.
 Using the same brush, apply the medium brown shadow in a sideways, windshield-wiper motion just above the crease of your eyelid. It should see like you’re brushing the bottom of the bone in your eyebrow.
 The highlight color should not draw a lot of attention to itself, but is used to complement the heavier colors beneath it by providing a contrast. As such, don’t go nuts matting it onto your face.









Using the same brush, apply it to the area between the medium color and your eyebrow.
Use small circular motions to subtly blend it into the medium color below it.
You should not be able to see a distinct line between the medium brown and the highlight color.
 For this color, you need more precision, so use a smaller brush that you used for the three previous shades. Apply the black shadow in exactly the same area and shape as the dark brown shadow you applied first. Because you’re using a smaller brush this time, you should be able to see the dark brown color around the edges of the black shadow.









Switch back to the larger brush to blend the colors together and soften the effect.
Apply more dark brown over top the edges of the black if you need extra help softening the disparity between the colors.
Keep buffing the outer corner of your eye in a “C” shape until the two colors have blended together in a natural way.
 You can use any color you’d like on the center of your eyelid, but apply the product using a flat brush instead of a stiff dome brush for blending, use a flat brush that’s better for packing the powder onto your skin.









Apply the powder to the flat side of the brush.
Press the flat side onto the eyelid to apply the powder.
Don’t cover the darker color you applied earlier to the outer edges of your eyes.
 Switching back to your dome brush for blending, gently buff the darker outside corner of the eye toward the base color, using small circular motions to blend out the distinct line separating them. Keep blending any parts of the eyelid that seem to have sudden changes in color rather than gradual transitions.








