 Cross will chase you down Lookout Point and you will be trying to escape him in your BMW M3 GTR. Unfortunately, after a minute, a cutscene will appear where your car will bump into the side of a truck that drops its haul on your car, totalling it. Another cutscene will appear.;
, After the cutscene, you will get to choose between the Mazda RX-8 (Tier 1 Tuner), Chevrolet Camaro SS (Tier 1 Muscle), and Alfa Romeo Brera (Tier 1 Exotic). Tuners have the best handling, but they lack top speed and possibly acceleration. Muscles have the most powerful acceleration, but they lack handling. Exotics have fast all-around stats, but they are expansive to buy and upgrade. Choosing your car solely depends on your racing preferences and will affect which cars you're going to unlock during Career mode. Choosing your car will also affect which cars your crew members Neville and Sal are going to drive. It's a good idea to test drive each car before choosing.
 After selecting your car, you, Neville, and Nikki will head to Salazaar Street where Nikki will tell you how to use your wingman. After that, you and Neville head to Palmont City where the cops will chase you and him. After escaping the pursuit, Neville will send you a message telling you to meet him at a safe house. An arrow will appear above your car, telling you where to go. After arriving at the safe house, you will go to the Crew Management screen where you will set Neville as your wingman. Then you will choose your crew logo and its colors (you can change this later). You will also choose the name of your crew (unlike your crew logo, this can't be changed). Once you're all set, you'll be taken to an cutscene where Nikki will tell you about the Palmont City and its crews.
 Most of the game is pretty self-explanatory if you read the on-screen directions. Every time you win a race, you will get some cash. Races also unlock performance upgrades, visual upgrades and cars.
 Then, you'll unlock a performance upgrade or a car.
 First, you'll have to race the boss in a normal Circuit race. Then, if you win, you'll have to take on the boss in a Canyon Duel. In this type of race, racers will take turns following each other down a narrow, curvy, and dangerous canyon road. Whoever follows the closest wins. On the first run, you will be following the boss to collect as many points as possible. On the second run, the boss will be following you to take away your points. If your points decrease to zero, you lose. If you fall off a cliff or fall behind/get passed for ten seconds, you automatically lose. Also ramming the boss will take away 5,000 points on the first run, but will give you 5,000 points on the second run. This could be used as an advantage to prevent your points from decreasing to zero. Once you've won both races, you officially own that area.
 First, you'll race Kenji, Angie and Wolf in a Canyon Sprint race, then you'll race them in a regular Sprint race. After you win, you'll race Darius in a Circuit race, then in a Canyon Duel. Once you win, you will have completed the Career mode.
, Customize cars in My Cars, try the Challenge Series, race in Quick Race, complete the Reward Cards, and maybe play Career mode again using a different car.

