 Your younger sister learns a lot about the world through her experiences with you. Show her the right way to interact with others as you spend time together.Show your self-awareness when making decisions your younger sister is involved with. Let her know how your values, principles and ethics affect your choices.Treat her and others with fairness.
Be honest with her and with others in her company.;
, In order to be friends with your younger sister, she needs to know that she’s important to you.Pay her direct attention and let her know that you are interested in what she has to say.
Be generous with your time when she needs you. Let her see you make an effort to have time for her.
Prioritize her needs. Nothing lets someone know that they matter faster than seeing someone take their needs seriously. By making them as important to you as they are to her, you demonstrate how much you value your relationship., Your younger sister may have a lot of questions about her life or yours, or she may just be looking for someone to talk to.Let her know that she can come to you when she wants to talk.
Avoid being critical of what your sister brings to conversations. Make her feel comfortable approaching you with anything.
Listen to her actively and participate in the conversation.
 Your sister will look up to you more if you see yourself as someone to look up to, but that doesn’t mean you can’t make mistakes.


Show your sister that you believe in yourself and she will believe in you too.
Don’t change who you are to fit in with others, instead be yourself and let her know that it’s good to accept who you are.
Own up to mistakes and demonstrate that they don’t define you. By learning from your mistakes you demonstrate confidence while teaching her an important life lesson., You can make sure your sister knows how much she means to you by taking good care of her.If you are babysitting your sister, see that as an opportunity to spend quality time together, but remember that her safety is your responsibility.
Explain why things are important for her safety or well-being as you do them.
Keeping your sister safe and secure may not always make her happy, but it demonstrates your care and concern for her, which will far outlast any temporary frustration.

