 If working with whole coriander seeds, grind 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of these seeds into a powder using a mortar and pestle.


Place the coriander seeds into a mortar and break the seeds into a fine, ground powder by smashing them against the side of the little dish using the pestle.
If you do not have a mortar and pestle, you could improvise by placing the seeds into a small but durable ceramic bowl and grinding them using the handle end of an ice cream scoop or meat tenderizer. You could also try grinding a larger amount of coriander seeds in a coffee bean grinder.
 Mix the coriander, ground chipotle pepper, garlic powder, onion powder, paprika, black pepper, cumin, oregano, seasoned salt, and cayenne pepper in small dish until evenly distributed.Stir the seasonings together for a minute or two using a spoon. You will not be able to verify whether or not all the seasonings are truly and evenly dispersed, but in general, if the speckling seems consistent throughout the mixture, the seasonings are probably sufficiently blended.
 Place the chipotle spice blend in a resealable plastic food container. Set aside.


You will not use this entire batch of chipotle seasoning for this recipe. Store the rest of the seasoning in an airtight container so that you can use it for another recipe later on.
 Stir slightly with spoon to make sure that the rice is submersed completely beneath the water.


Note that the instructions for instant white rice may vary depending on the brand you use. These instructions are fairly standard, but you should always check the instructions provided on your label and proceed according to those.
 Cover the dish with a lid or loose, microwavable plastic wrap and microwave until the water has been absorbed by the rice.


Let sit for another 2 minutes or so inside the microwave. Doing so will allow the rice to finish absorbing the water.
When done, the rice should be tender. “Fluff” it with a fork or spoon before proceeding.
 Stir the chipotle blend into the cooked rice until the rice is evenly coated with it.


Note that more or less chipotle seasoning can be added according to personal preference. The more you add, the spicier your rice will be.
Store the rest of your chipotle seasoning in an airtight container in a cool, dry location.
 Spoon the cooked, seasoned rice onto a serving plate and enjoy.


If multiple people are enjoying the rice, you can place the container out on the table so that everyone can add as much or as little seasoning as they would like.

