 Place the two ingredients in a medium saucepan and set it on the stove over medium heat. Cook, whisking frequently, until the mixture becomes smooth and thick.Cook the mixture for at least 5 minutes. Under-cooking it can result in lumps, which will negatively affect the quality of your final dough.
Continuous whisking is key here. If you do not whisk the mixture well enough, it will never become smooth and appropriately thick. Failing to whisk the mixture thoroughly can also cause the flour to begin burning on the sides and bottom of the hot pan.;
, Remove the saucepan from the heat. Allow the flour mixture to cool until it drops to a temperature just slightly warmer than room temperature.


Depending on how hot the mixture became while you cooked it, you may need to wait as long as 30 to 60 minutes before it becomes sufficiently cool.
If the mixture is too hot when you add the other ingredients, you may accidentally kill the yeast, which would mean that the dough would no longer be able to rise.
 Combine the liquid flour mixture with the remaining 4 cups (500 g) of flour, along with the butter, yeast, salt, sugar, and milk. Mix well until evenly combined.


Use your hands or a sturdy mixing spoon to combine these ingredients.
Continue mixing the contents of the saucepan until you can no longer identify any separate ingredient in the mix.
 Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured counter and knead until it becomes smooth and elastic in consistency.


You may need to lightly flour your hands, as well, to prevent the dough from sticking to your skin.
Kneading the dough can take as many as 5 to 10 minutes. Test the smooth dough by attempting to stretch out a portion of it. You should feel some resistance as you pull, but the dough should still stretch well.
 Drizzle the oil over the top of the dough. Knead it into the dough and continue kneading for another 4 to 5 minutes.


The finished dough will have a glossier appearance than it did before you added the oil, but it should not feel notably oily when you touch it.
 Place the dough in a greased bowl and cover it with plastic wrap. Let it rise in a warm place for 1 to 2 hours, or until doubled in volume.


You can encourage the process further by draping a damp dish towel over the plastic wrap. The added humidity can cause the dough to rise quicker.
 Spread the shredded coconut over the bottom of a large skillet. Heat the coconut on the stove over a medium setting for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring frequently.You only need to fry the coconut long enough to cook out most of the moisture. A few strands may also begin to lightly brown around the edges, but do not allow any of the coconut to turn a deep brown. Burnt coconut will ruin both the taste and texture of the filling.
 Spread the sugar evenly over the coconut and toss well to combine. Continue cooking the contents of the skillet for another 3 to 4 minutes.


The sugar must be permitted to melt and mix with the coconut during this step.
Watch the filling mixture carefully once you add the sugar, though. If you overcook the sugar, the filling can become too hard

, Sprinkle the cardamom powder and ground nutmeg over the coconut. Add the cashews and tutti frutti to the pan, as well. Stir to combine and continue heating for another 2 minutes.


You may use a mix of assorted nuts and dried fruits instead of cashews if you would prefer. A mix of chopped almonds and raisins can work very well in this recipe.
Tutti frutti is a chewy confection made with candied fruits. If you are unable to find it, you can use a blend of candied fruits, instead. Blends that include candied papaya are best. Cubes of barfi, another type of chewy fruity confection, can be used instead of tutti frutti, as well.
 Remove the skillet from the heat and set it aside. Allow the filling mixture to cool slightly.


The mixture does not need to drop to room temperature, but it should be cool enough to handle with your hands. If it is too warm, it could affect the consistency of the dough prematurely once you fill the buns.
 After the dough has finished rising, separate it into 16 equally portioned balls.


The easiest way to do this would be to start by dividing the dough into halves, then dividing each half into halves again, giving you four equal portions of dough. From there, divide each portion into four evenly sized balls.
 Use a lightly floured rolling pin to flatten each ball of dough until it is approximately 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) thick and circular in shape.


The counter should be lightly floured during this step, as well.
 Spoon a generous helping of filling into 8 of the 16 dough circles.


Leave roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of space around the edges of each circle.
 Place one plain circle of dough over each covered circle of dough, sandwiching the filling in between both halves. Press the two halves together and smooth away the seam.


Create a tighter seal between the two halves by wetting your finger with a little water and tracing it over the edge of the filled half before you position the empty half on top. The extra moisture can help the two halves stick together more securely.
Lightly squeeze and roll the filled ball in your hands after sealing the seam. Each bun should be fairly circular, not semi-circular.
 Place the filled buns on a lightly greased baking sheet. Cover the pan with plastic wrap and let the dough rise for another 30 minutes, or until the buns have doubled in size.


Instead of a greased baking sheet, one covered in nonstick aluminum foil or parchment paper would work equally well.
 Do this while the buns are rising so that the oven will be ready as soon as they are.
 After the buns have finished rising, remove the plastic wrap and brush the tops and sides of each bun with egg white.


The egg white will help the buns brown in the oven.
Leave the buns on the baking sheet. There is no need to transfer them to a different baking dish.
 Place the buns in the oven and let them cook for 10 to 20 minutes, or until the tops start turning a golden brown color.
 Turn off the oven, but keep the buns inside for another 10 minutes.This step allows the bread to finish baking at a gentler temperature, thereby reducing the risk of burnt bottoms or edges.
 The dil pasand is now finished. You can enjoy this treat while it is still warm or wait for it to cool to room temperature.

