 If you also suffer from dust allergies, then use a surgical mask to protect yourself from inhaling dust and other particles while you are cleaning. You can buy surgical masks at most pharmacies and larger department stores as well.
 To reduce the number of dust mites living in your bedsheets, change and wash your bedding once per week. Wash your sheets and pillow cases in hot water that is heated to about 130°F (54°C) or higher. If you have any down or wool fabrics for bedding, replace them with synthetic material bedding to reduce allergens even more., Use a vacuum cleaner with a HEPA filter to clean your floors, rugs, and carpets. HEPA filter vacuum cleaners can remove various allergens, which might help to improve your allergies. You may want to consider steam cleaning the carpets and rugs as well, especially if you have pets.Don’t forget to move the furniture when you vacuum so you can get those spots, too.
 Screens can accumulate dust and other particles that include allergens. You should also clean any mold or condensation that has formed on your window sills.During allergy season, plan to keep the windows and doors shut to reduce the amount of allergens coming into your home. Rely on air conditioning to cool down your home.
 Ozone (O3) kills many forms of mold, fungi, and bacteria but can be toxic in high levels. Since you won’t be able to fully air out the area, an air-purifier that attracts negatively charged ions (most allergens) rather than ozone gas should be better.There are air-purifiers that come with a UV light which is effective at killing mold and mildew as well.
 Clean areas in the bathroom or kitchen that may be prone to mold and mildew. There are a number of approaches you can take. Clean areas with either:Pure white vinegar. Pour into a spray bottle and spray onto any area that may be inviting to mold and mildew — any area that may be damp, warm and dark. Leave on for 15–30 minutes and wipe away
A solution of one part bleach and nine parts water. Spray onto problem areas and let stand for 15–30 minutes and wipe away.
A mixture of tea tree oil and water. Mix 1 ounce of tea tree oil with 2 cups of warm water. Shake well. Spray onto problem areas and let stand for 15–30 minutes and wipe away. You can mix tea tree oil with carpet shampoo solutions as well. Use 1 ounce of tea tree oil for each gallon of carpet shampoo

, Cupboards and closets are good hiding places for mold and mildew. Check under sinks for leaks and any mold or mildew formation. Clean and air out these spaces as well as you can.


Wash all of the clothing in your closets. Use a dryer rather than line-drying your clothes. Use a damp paper towel to wipe down all of your shoes as well.

