 Locate the app on your iPad and tap on it. The app logo has an icon of an elephant on it.


If you don’t have Evernote on your iPad yet, you can download it for free from the iTunes App Store.;
, If you don’t have an Evernote account, just enter your email address and password in the appropriate fields, then tap the “Create account” button on the welcome screen. An Evernote account will be created for you.


If you already have an Evernote account, just proceed to sign in by entering your Evernote email (or username) and password in the appropriate fields, then tap the “Sign in” button.
 Once done, tap the “Get started” button. You will be brought to your main dashboard. All your notes are found on the left panel.
 Tap the plus icon on the top right corner to create a new note. A window will open for your new note. You can also do this by tapping the Text button from the main menu, which you can bring out by tapping the elephant icon at the top left corner.
 Tap the first field and type in the name of the new note.
 Evernote organizes your Notes by filing them in Notebooks. Tap the default notebook set under the note’s name, and a small window will appear. Select the notebook where you want to store this new note.


You can also create a new notebook right from this window. Tap the “New Notebook” button at the top and enter the new notebook name.
 Tap the main part of the window and start typing your notes.
 If you need to, you can insert pictures and audio in your notes.



Inserting photos—Tap the camera icon on the header toolbar to bring out your iPad’s camera. Compose and take the shot. You can insert multiple photos in one go. When you’re done, tap the “Save” button on the bottom right corner to save the photos you’ve taken and insert them into your note.

Insert audio—Tap the microphone icon on the header toolbar. A voice recording will start. Record your message and tap the “Done” button on the header when done. The audio will be recorded in m4a file format and attached to the note.
 You can put an alarm to remind you of the note if you need to. Tap the alarm clock icon on the header toolbar and set the date and time for the reminder, and when finished, tap the “Done” button. A notification will pop up on your iPad when the time comes.
 Should you need to share your note to your family, friends, or colleagues, tap the “Share” button on the header toolbar to bring out the sharing window. Enter the name or email of the recipients of the note then tap the “Send” button at the bottom to send and share the note.


Your recipients should have an Evernote account in order to see your shared notes.
 When you’re done with the note, tap the “Save” button on the header toolbar to save it. You can now exit the app or create other notes.
 Tap on the elephant button on the top left corner to bring out a panel window for the main menu.
 Your iPad’s camera will be brought out.
 All the photos will be shown in thumbnails at the bottom.
 When you’re done taking photos, tap the “Save” button on the bottom right corner. The photos will be saved as a snapshot and put with your notes.
 Locate the elephant icon on the top left corner and tap on it. This will bring out the main menu.
 A small window will appear.
 There will be a text box in the small window, enter the task you want to be reminded of here.
 Tap the “Notify me” button at the bottom of the window. Use the calendar scrolls to set the date and time for your reminder. Tap the “Set” button when done.
 Tap the “Save” button on the top right corner of the window. Your task is now saved, and a notification will be sent to your iPad once the time comes.
 The main menu can be accessed by tapping on the elephant icon at the top left corner. Do so.
 A search field will appear at the top.
 Type in the keywords for your search in the search field. All the notes matching your search will be displayed.
 Tap the note you want to view and it will be opened in your screen.
 On the main screen, you will find all your notes on Evernote. Swipe up and down to go through them.
 If you see the note you want to delete, swipe left on it to bring out a taskbar.
 Tap the trash icon on the taskbar and the selected note will be removed and moved to the Trash notebook.
 Notes moved to the Trash notebook can still be recovered. If you want to permanently delete them, you have to empty the Trash. Select “Trash” from your notebooks, and tap the “Empty Trash” button on the top left corner of the header bar. All the notes in the Trash notebook will be permanently removed.
 There’s an elephant icon at the top left corner; tap it to bring out the main menu.
 A small window will appear.
 Type in the name or email of the people you want to chat with in the To field at the top. You can chat with multiple people at the same time, just separate their names or emails with a comma.
 Enter the message you want to send at the bottom text box.
 Do this by tapping the “Send” button beside the text box to send your message to your recipients. Your message will appear on the chat box, and all replies will come here too.