 Again, the best tip is to not take things so seriously, so don't bother to wait until you're alone to ask -- this just makes it feel more like a date. Instead, pop the question in the hall, during lunch, or in the break room. If other people are around, and you don't seem like you're asking a super important question, she'll get the hint that it is platonic.


If you're in a group, invite her out with everyone else. Having a large group of friends together will make the date obviously platonic.;
, Simply asking, "do you want to hang out," without having an idea where will just lead to awkwardness. Furthermore, having something already in mind makes it easier to just be casual about it -- "hey, want to see that concert we talked about this weekend."


In general, don't invite her out to dinner. This is almost always "date" territory.
Any activity with lots of people (mini-golf, museum tours, etc.), or common hobbies you share (biking, rock climbing, playing music, etc.) are fantastic platonic options.
 The best way to accomplish this is to not think about it for too long. Just go ahead and ask, keeping it light and fun. The best way to do this is to simply ask her when you think of the activity instead of planning out the perfect worlds. Remember -- if you want the date to be purely friendly, you need to treat her like a friend. So stop worrying too much about the words and just chat., It may seem a little strange or abrupt at first, but everyone will be much happier and more relaxed if you don't have to guess whether or not you're dating. Simply open up with an open, honest desire to get to know her as a friend:


"Hey, I don't want you to think I'm hitting on you, but -- "
"You seem like a really cool person, and I'd love to hang out as friends sometimes?"
"I'm new here, and am looking to meet some new friends. Let's be friends!"

, This is a clear, considerate way to indicate you're not looking for romance. When you ask her out on the platonic date, tell her to let her friends know as well. The cliche, "the more the merrier," isn't exactly romantic, but that's the point. Asking her to group events will be much easier.

