 If you’ve notched a stud, cut a pair of two-by-four boards so they will fit flush between the cut stud and the next intact studs on either side. If your studs are intact, cut a board so that it will fit snugly between the studs. Either way, your two-by-fours will need to be flush with the drywall opening to create a secure, well-fitting frame for the cabinet.If you’ve notched a stud, cut a pair of boards for the bottom of the drywall opening and another pair to frame the top. Cut another pair of boards to fit vertically on both sides of the drywall opening.
If your studs are intact and your cabinet outline is square with them, just cut two boards to fit between the studs at the bottom and top.  

, After cutting two-by-fours to the appropriate sizes, grab a bottom board, apply construction adhesive its ends, and place it between the wall studs. Make sure the board is flush with the drywall opening. Hold the board in place and drive screws through the drywall just below the opening to secure the board.Repeat the sequence to attach the other boards.
 You’ll likely find the 4 to 6 drywall screws that outline the opening and hold the frame in place unsightly. You can cover the screw heads with joint compound, let it dry, then sand it smooth with a fine grit sandpaper. Then prime and paint the area to make your work invisible.You'll need to patch the screw heads before installing the medicine cabinet. Once it's mounted, the cabinet might make the area harder to patch, prime, and paint.
 If you cut the recess into an exterior wall, you likely encountered insulation. If you removed any insulation while you were installing the frame, put it back into place. Depending on your cabinet’s depth, you might need to replace thick insulation with a more compact product.Visit your local home improvement store and ask a sale representative for help choosing a product such as vacuum insulated panels., Place the cabinet into the recess, open the door, and locate the installation holes on the sides. Use a pencil to mark the holes’ locations on the frame. Set the cabinet aside, then drill pilot holes into the frame at the spots you marked in pencil., Put the cabinet back into the recess. Drive screws through the installation holes and into the frame to secure the cabinet and finish the job.Your cabinet might have come with plastic washers or covers to fit over the installation holes. Check its installation guide if you have these or any additional hardware.

