 If your loved ones are proponents of the “mental illness is made up” camp, it can compromise your own treatment and recovery. Set boundaries with these people and clearly state what you won’t accept.


For instance, you might say, “Mom, telling me to just think about something else isn’t helping with my OCD. I would really appreciate it if you didn’t say that.”, Sometimes, your loved ones may simply need to be given direct instructions on how to help. People often make insensitive comments because they are struggling to come up with some way, any way, to help you feel better. Tell the people around you what you need, and you may dissolve their tendency to make ignorant remarks.Say, “I could really use some space right now.” Or, “It would be great if you would join me for my next doctor’s appointment. Then, you can ask the doctor any questions to get a better understanding.”

, If your loved ones are adamant in their misconceptions about mental illness, you may need to cut ties for your own well-being. Hearing insensitive comments may start to cause you to doubt your own sanity. Plus, if you are around people who think mental illness is all in your head, you may be less inclined to seek out professional treatment.Step away from unsupportive friends and family, if possible. If you can’t completely remove certain people from your life, refuse to discuss your illness with them. Hopefully, they will get the message that their advice is unwelcome.
 Social support is an integral aspect of mental illness treatment and/or recovery. Being isolated or feeling lonely often worsens mental health symptoms. If those around you aren’t willing to support you, you must be willing to locate others who will.If you aren’t already, try going to a counselor or therapist to help with your symptoms and to get coping strategies for stigmatization.
It may also help to join a mental health support group relevant to your condition. Here you can find support with people who understand what you’re going through.

