 Your embouchure is your mouth position and movement through which air flows into the horn’s mouthpiece. Using muscle control and air flow through the instrument, you can bend a note up or down to align it into tune more accurately. You can also adjust your lips or tongue to achieve slightly different pitches of the same note., The pitch of your horn changes depending on the placement of your hand in the bell.If you have small hands and a large bell, this can be problematic to cover enough of the bell to achieve good pitch. Similarly, larger-than-norrmal hands can also cause problems. Find a horn with a good fit for you. Test out the placement of your hand to adjust the pitch. More hand coverage will make tone flatter. Less hand coverage will make tone sharper.You can also use a tuning sleeve, which is like a cork or a bit of extra hand coverage. This will provide consistent and even coverage of the bell, which can help with pitch changes., Mouthpieces are available in various cup sizes and shapes, and various rim widths, sizes and shapes. Selecting a different mouthpiece may enable you to reach new sounds or play with better tonal quality. If you have a mouth that is smaller or larger than average, this can impact how you play and you should adjust your mouthpiece accordingly.You can also pull out or push in the mouthpiece slightly to adjust the pitch., Learning more about the horn, practicing consistently and often, and listening to others play the horn will give you a good sense of what sounds right.Practice with an electronic tuner to see how accurately your ear hears a note’s pitch. Play an open note without looking at the tuner and make adjustments to get the note into tune. Then check with the electronic tuner to see how close you are to the accurate pitch. Make an adjustment to align with the tuner and listen to how that note sounds.
 This will help you stay in pitch more so than if you play solo. You can adjust your tone to match your fellow players. You can also hide an out-of-tune note a little more easily when you play with others.

