 A neti pot is a device that resembles a small teapot. Used correctly, a neti pot flushes out mucus and trapped irritants, and moisturizes your sinus passages.The device works by putting saline or distilled water in one nostril and allowing it to drain out the other, removing unwanted irritants and germs.
Fill the neti pot with about 4 ounces of saline solution, then lean over a sink, turning your head sideways and hold the spout up to the upper nostril.
Tip the pot to fill the nostril and let it run out the other nostril. Repeat the procedure using the other nostril.
This process is called irrigation since you are flushing out the passages with a liquid to get rid of unwanted mucus and irritants that are causing the mucus. Use your neti pot once or twice daily.
Neti pots provide a moisturizing and soothing effect to the sinuses. A neti pot can be purchased inexpensively over-the-counter. Be sure to clean your neti pot thoroughly after each use.
 If you choose to make your own saline solution, use distilled or sterile water.You can also use water that has been boiled then set aside to cool. Do not use water straight from the tap since it can contain contaminants and irritants.


Using 8 ounces of water, add ¼ teaspoon of kosher salt and ¼ teaspoon of baking soda. Do not use regular table salt. Mix thoroughly then use the solution in your neti pot.
You can store the solution for up to five days in a sealed container, preferably refrigerated. Let the solution reach room temperature before using.
 The warm compresses can help relieve any pain from sinus pressure and help to loosen the mucus and allow it to drain to get it out of your sinuses.Wet a small towel or cloth with very warm water. Place the towel on your face where you feel the most pressure.
In general, cover your eyes, the area just above your eyebrows, nose, and your cheeks just below your eyes.
Warm the cloth again every few minutes and reapply to continue to relieve the pain and pressure.
 This can help your sinuses to drain through the night and prevent mucus buildup in the nasal passages.Get enough rest to help keep your body strong and help to fight off a pending sinus infection from the excessive mucus in your sinuses.
 Dry air can act as an irritant and cause sinus problems that include runny nose and congestion.Humidifiers are available in two primary types, cool mist, and warm mist styles, but there are many variations for each type. If dry sinus passages that lead to discomfort, irritation, and resulting mucus drainage is an ongoing problem for you, consider adding a humidifier to the appliances in your home.Houseplants also do a good job of releasing moisture into the air. This may be the option instead of, or in addition to, the use of a humidifier.
Other simple ways to provide short-term humidification include safely boiling water on the stove, leave the bathroom door open when showering or running a hot bath, or even drying your clothes indoors.
 Steam helps to break up mucus in your chest, nose, and throat, allowing you to expel it from your body easier.Boil a pot of water and hold your face over the bowl and breathe in the steam for several minutes.
Cover your head with a towel to concentrate your exposure to the steam.
Additionally, you can take a hot shower to help break up the mucus.
 Exposure to irritants like the smoke of any kind, a sudden change in temperature, or strong chemical odors, can cause your sinuses to create even more mucus. Sometimes the mucus will run down the back of your throat, known as postnasal drip, and sometimes the irritants can cause your lungs to produce mucus, called phlegm. You may feel the need to cough to remove the buildup of the phlegm.Quit smoking if you do smoke. Try to avoid being exposed to second-hand cigarette or cigar smoke.
If you know this is a trigger for you, also take care to avoid situations outside that may involve burning yard debris, or stay upwind of the smoke from a bonfire.
Other pollutants that we breathe in can cause sinus problems as well. Watch for dust, pet dander, yeast, and molds, in your home and workplace. Be sure to change your air filters regularly to limit your exposure to irritants in the air of your home.
Exhaust fumes, chemicals used in your work, and even smog, can trigger an episode of mucus production caused by something other than an allergen. This is termed nonallergic rhinitis.
 If your work requires that you are outside in colder temperatures, it can often contribute to mucus buildup and release when you enter a warmer environment.Take steps to keep your face and nasal area warm during the time you are outside in the colder temperatures.
Use a toque for head protection, and consider wearing one that has facial protection, similar to a ski mask.
 Blow your nose gently and correctly. Some experts suggest that blowing your nose may cause more problems than it helps.Blow your nose gently. Clear only one nostril at a time.
Blowing too hard can cause small openings to develop in your sinus areas. If you have any bacteria or unwanted irritants in your nose, then you may be forcing them further back into your sinuses as you blow your nose.
Always use clean materials to blow your nose and wash your hands thoroughly afterward to prevent the spread of bacteria or germs.

