 Organizations put on fundraising events to help garner support and money for their efforts in protecting the tiger and other wildlife. You can participate, or even help run, these events in your area.Run an internet search to find out if there are any events happening in your area.
 In the United States, write to your U.S. Representative, asking them to support the Big Cats and Public Safety Protection Act (H.R. 1998/S. 1381). Organizations dedicated to the preservation and rightful treatment of big cats have called on Congress to pass the Big Cats and Public Safety Protection Act (H.R. 1998/S. 1381).The Act calls for:


An amendment to the Captive Wildlife Safety Act, effectively ending the private breeding of big cats like tigers, as well as lions, leopards, and cheetahs. It is estimated that over 10,000 big cats are kept in bad conditions throughout the United States.Penalties for violators of the Act. If someone is abusing or badly mistreating their animals, the Act calls for up to $20,000 in fines and a jail sentence of up to five years, during which time the animals would be confiscated and rehabilitated.
There is an online letter that you can send to your representative. You will find this drafted letter here.
 Another way you can get involved is to sign petitions covering various aspects of tiger conservation. Petitions cover stopping the tiger trade, preventing deforestation, and ending the sale of tiger products.You can find petitions through petition websites like change.org and tiger conservation websites.
 The best way to keep on top of the news regarding the work being done to help save tigers is by signing up for newsletters through various wildlife, and specifically tiger, protection organizations.These emails will update you on the new challenges being faced, the steps being taken to help, and the victories being won.
 Encourage others to support the efforts being made to save the tigers. Social media is a very handy tool for this. Post links to interesting articles about the plight of the tigers and spread word about petitions that your friends and family can sign.You can also follow your favorite tiger organizations on Facebook, Twitter, or any of the other various platforms out there.

