 On a daily basis or after each use of the instrument, you should swab the mouthpiece with isopropyl alcohol. Put some of isopropyl alcohol on a cotton swab and wipe off the mouthpiece.;
, The mouthpiece is the part of the instrument that tends to attract the most bacteria, so it needs to be cleaned in a very thorough manner.


If you play regularly, you should clean the mouthpiece on a daily basis., If the mouthpiece is very dirty, it is a good idea to soak it in lukewarm soapy water. Twenty minutes should be good.Try using dish soap.
Scrub the outside of the mouthpiece. Use a damp, soapy cloth to clean the outside of your mouthpiece., Apply soapy water to the mouthpiece brush. Then, insert the brush into the mouthpiece and scrub away all of the bacteria., Fill a small container with clean water. Put the mouthpiece in the water to rinse off any soap.If you prefer, you could also rinse your mouthpiece under the tap.
 Spray the germicide solution on the mouthpiece. Then, let it dry on a piece of paper towel for one minute. You can dry off the mouthpiece with a paper towel., Remove the slides, pistons and any other parts.Be careful not to lose any pieces.
 Fill a container with lukewarm water and a cleaning solution designed for brass instruments. Rinse the instrument in the water.Avoid using hot water, which could damage the finish of the instrument.
You can use a bathtub but remember to place a towel on the bottom of the tub. By placing a towel on the bottom, you avoid scratching the instrument.Go to your local music retailer to find an appropriate brass instrument cleaner.
You could also use two squirts of dish soap., Place the snake brush into the tubing and rub it around to clean the inside of the instrument.The snake is a long, flexible brush that is designed for cleaning brass instruments.
If you are cleaning a straight section of tubing, you can use a dowel with a cloth attached to the end., Use some warm, soapy water to clean the slide on a trombone. You can move the slide up and down to remove any excess water. Remember to rinse the soap out of the instrument.You can clean the inner and outer slides of a trombone with a flexible snake brush.
 Use an appropriate cream to lubricate the moving parts of the brass instrument.It is important to avoid applying too much lubricant to moving parts, which can lead to poor performance.Find a lubricant at your local music retailer.
 After cleaning and rinsing the brass instrument, you can use a soft, lint free cloth to dry it.Since brass instruments see plenty of moisture during their everyday use, you don’t need to worry about getting it perfectly dry., After each meal, you should brush your teeth. Prior to playing your instrument, you should brush your teeth. By keeping your teeth clean, you can avoid getting food particles stuck on your mouthpiece.You might want to carry around an extra toothbrush with your musical instrument.
 After your rehearsal or performance, spray the mouthpiece with clean water. You can use a spray bottle filled with clean water. By spraying the mouthpiece, you can get rid of any dead skin particles that have been left on the mouthpiece as a result of dry lips. Remember to wipe off the mouthpiece.You can use a regular spray bottle from the grocery or hardware store.
 Using a mouthpiece brush, clean the inside of the mouthpiece after each practice or performance.You can purchase a mouthpiece brush at a musical instrument retailer or online for under $5.

