 Before you can file a lawsuit, you generally must have concrete evidence that abuse is taking place.Keep in mind that elder abuse cases can be difficult to prove, particularly if your loved one is being cared for by the abuser in his or her home.
Keep a diary of signs and symptoms of the abuse. If your loved one is being physically abused, take pictures of the injuries you see.
You may want to take your loved one to visit a doctor or mental health professional to talk about the abuse.
 Since you aren't the victim of the abuse, you must be able to show a court that you have the right to sue on your loved one's behalf.Unfortunately, most family members have a standing problem if they try to sue for the elder abuse of a loved one. Technically only the abused individual has the right to sue for that abuse, and he or she may be incapable of pursuing a lawsuit or interacting with an attorney.
In some situations, however, you may have the right to sue on your loved one's behalf. For example, if you hired the person you believe is abusing your loved one, your signature on the contract would give you standing to sue them for a violation of that contract.
Some states have special elder abuse laws that provide certain family members with standing to sue if the elder is unable to handle the litigation or discussions with the attorney.
For example, a California court held that a granddaughter had standing to sue her uncle for the elder abuse of her grandmother., If you lack the authority to do anything about the abuse, you may want to ask your loved one if he or she is willing to sign a document giving you power of attorney so you'll have the ability to sue on his or her behalf.Power of attorney is a document that gives you, as agent, the power to act on the principal's behalf. This means that, provided your loved one has the capacity to sign the document, he or she can give you the power to make financial, legal, and medical decisions for him or her.
If your loved one is mentally incapacitated, this option may not be open to you. Establishing power of attorney is something that must be done before the person is unable to handle financial affairs and medical decisions.
If the person you believe is abusing your loved one has been appointed an agent, you may want to talk to your loved one and other family members about amending the power of attorney document, either to appoint a co-agent or to remove that person entirely and appoint someone new.
 An attorney with experience in elder law can help you assess the laws in your state and your options to take legal action against the person who is abusing your loved one.Many attorneys who take elder abuse cases work on contingency, meaning they cover the costs of the litigation and are paid through a percentage of your settlement or award. You don't have to worry about paying out of pocket for attorney's fees or court costs.
Look for an attorney who specializes in elder abuse and is familiar with the particular elder abuse laws in your state.
A good place to start your search for an attorney is on the website of your state or local bar association. Most have searchable directories of their members, and many have attorney referral services you can use that will match you with an attorney based on a description of your case.
Try to interview at least three attorneys, and find out what percentage of their practice is devoted to elder abuse, how many cases they've completed, and how many cases they've won.
If there are elder rights nonprofits in your area, you also might ask for attorney recommendations there.
 Once your attorney has enough information about the type of abuse that is taking place and the actions that have been taken against your loved one, he or she will file a complaint in court to initiate your lawsuit.Your attorney will work with you to calculate the damages owed and who should be sued for the abuse or exploitation of your loved one.
Keep in mind that if you are filing a personal injury lawsuit, the statute of limitations can be very short, giving you only one or two years after the incident takes place to file a lawsuit.

