 Reputable guide dog schools require that those applying to get a service or guide dog have mastered mobility and orientation skills. You will need to be able to travel independently with a cane, cross the street, walk safely in areas familiar to you, find destinations, and have the ability to problem solve if you become lost or disoriented.If you need help mastering orientation and mobility skills, contact an Orientation and Mobility Specialist in your area. They can help you acquire these skills.;
, Use the Internet to research different breeds that are bred as service dogs for blind and visually impaired individuals. Learning about the different breeds will help you choose a school that works with the breed or breeds you want.Australian Shepherds and Border Collies are active breeds that are commonly trained as guide dogs.
If you are interested in a family friendly breed, Golden Retrievers and Labradors are good options.
Large breeds trained as guide dogs include Standard Poodles and German Shepherds.
 In the United States, there are around fifteen different guide dog schools that will pair you with a trained dog and oversee your initial training with the dog on their campuses. There are multiple schools like this outside the United States as well.Explore the National Federation of the Blind’s Guide Dog Resource List at https://nfb.org/resource-list-guide-dog-schools.
The list will give you information on reputable guide dog schools in multiple regions.
 Once you complete your research on guide dog programs and different guide dog breeds, you should reach out to a school that interests you. Call the school’s admissions office and ask questions about the program and the dogs they train. Questions you might want to ask include:


What are the entrance requirements for your school?
What is the cost of the program?
How long is the on-campus training?
Will I have to live on campus during the training period?
What breeds of dogs do you work with?
What is your process for pairing individual dogs and people?

