 You may choose to enlist the help of a third party medical-travel facilitator. Medical-travel agencies can help you connect with hospitals and medical professionals, help make appointments, and set up travel plans like plane and hotel reservations.Make sure to research the medical-travel agency before choosing one. Some may receive referral fees when getting patients to use certain doctors or hospitals.
Medical-travel agencies should not give you any medical advice or read your x-rays or test results.
 Though medical tourism is an increasing industry that more people are using, complications can still arise. Suining international hospitals is very difficult and can take years. Getting medical travel insurance may be a good idea just in case something goes wrong.This type of insurance can cover any malpractice, follow-up care for a death, or disability.
Medical insurance can range from $350 to $600.
 There are risks associated with travelling after medical procedures. Flying for too long increases the risk of deep vein thrombosis, and you shouldn’t fly for around 10 days after chest, abdominal, or cosmetic surgery. Talking to the travel doctor before you travel can help you know what you should do to make sure you experience safe travel.This may include knowing how long you should wait before flying back or what kind of follow-up care you will need.
You should also discuss what recreational activities you can do after your procedure. Sunbathing, drinking alcohol, sight-seeing, or swimming may not be appropriate after your surgery.
 For some surgeries, you may need extended follow-up care after you return home. You should talk to your local doctor about the kind of care you will need when you return. Set up appointments and postoperative visits before you get the surgery.You should also determine if your insurance pays for follow up or if you will have to pay for that out of your pocket.
 When you figure out what doctor or hospital you want to use, request that you get all the details of your procedure in writing. This helps to make sure everyone is on the same page and ensures there are no surprises or changes for you when you arrive.The agreement should outline the treatment you are receiving, supplies that will be needed, the care you will receive, and any extras that are included in the price of the procedure.
 If it is possible, take a trusted friend or family member with you. This adds in an extra layer of safety in case something goes wrong. You can have the security knowing that medical professionals can talk to your friend or family member about your medical history or preferences.Having someone with you can also help you feel less nervous or stressed out. Any medical procedure is stressful, and going to another country for one can be an extra layer of stress.

