 You only have 17 moves to clear 16 jellies, which need to be cleared twice to go away. The candies move from top to bottom across the gaps in the board. Wrapped candies to not clear anything outside of the area they are in, making them less useful in this level. You have precious few moves to complete the level.


There used to be only 14 moves available, which made the puzzle especially fiendish. It was updated to provide 17 moves, which eases the pain a little but still provides a lot of challenge.;
, Since you only have 17 moves, you need to make sure that every single one counts. You will likely only have one or two moves to spare when you finally clear the board. Clear as many jellies per move is possible, and don't worry too much about creating special candy.


Look at the board above the one you're making a move in to see if there is a better move (one that removes more jelly) available there. Since candies move downwards, if you make a move in the lower board, the candies on the board above it will move, removing that option for later.
 Clear the lower two boards first, as you will automatically clear some parts of the top two boards with chain reactions. Try to focus on one quarter of the board at a time, and you will see other quarters start to clear because of what you do.


If you are out of moves on the bottom, there are very few ways to clear it up and start getting it to move again. Try to play on the bottom and keep it active., Use striped candy to clear a row in not just the board it is in, but also the adjacent board. Striped candies, either on their own or combined with another striped candy prove very useful in clearing rows quickly.
 There is a minimum score required in order to pass the level, but chances are if you clear the jellies you'll probably beat the score without trying. The minimum score required used to be higher, but was lowered when the number of moves was increased., If you don't like the initial candy setup, and you are playing on a mobile device, you can reload the level and start with new candies without losing a life. This can be especially useful if you don't start with many good moves. You can't do this after making a move, and you can't do it on Facebook.Tap the yellow arrow in the bottom right corner. Tap the red door icon that appears. This will take you back to the map.
If you are playing on an Android device, press the soft "Back" button at the bottom of the phone once. This will take you back to the map.

