 Parsley has been shown to freshen your breath because it contains chlorophyll, which can act as a natural deodorizer for your breath. Have fresh parsley as a garnish on your plate or add parsley to freshen up a dish.You can also try parsley in a smoothie or juice by tossing a few handfuls into your blender. Then, sip on the juice when you need a breath refresher.
 Having fresh fruits and vegetables like apples, carrots, and celery can help to keep your breath fresh. Cut up apples, carrots, and celery and pack them as snacks.


These foods help to keep your saliva flowing between meals and help to remove bacteria from your tongue, teeth, and gums. They act as mini toothbrushes for your teeth, and are also good for your health.These foods can also help your stomach stay full between meals so stomach acid does not build up, which can lead to foul breath.
 Dairy items like yogurt and cheese can help to neutralize the acids in your mouth and remove bad-breath-causing bacteria. Have a piece of cheese after a meal to remove any bad bacteria stuck on your teeth.You can also have unsweetened yogurt to help reduce the levels of hydrogen sulfide in your mouth, a compound that can lead to bad breath.
As a bonus, most dairy products like yogurt and cheese are fortified with vitamin D and contain calcium, which are both beneficial for your oral health.
 You should also make an effort to avoid foods that are known to cause bad breath, such as garlic and onions. These foods contain sulphur compounds that are absorbed into your bloodstream and released when you exhale out of your mouth. Even if you brush well, you can only mask the smell of garlic and onions, but never truly get rid of it., Avoid drinking too many carbonated drinks and fruit juices, as these are high in acid. Have one fizzy or fruit juice drink a day, or go for water instead. Limiting the amount of acid that comes in contact with your teeth can help to reduce odor causing bacteria in your mouth.You should also avoid drinking too much coffee or drinks that contain caffeine, as these drinks will dehydrate you and dry out your mouth. A dry mouth can lead to foul breath. Instead, drink lots of water every day so your mouth stays hydrated.
If you do drink any acidic drinks, swallow them quickly. Do not swish them around in your mouth, as this allows the acid to get all over your teeth.
 Sugarless gum can help stimulate saliva flow in your mouth, which can then help to wash away any food or bacteria in your mouth that can cause bad breath. Opt for sugarless gum, as gum high in sugar can actually contribute to bad breath.