 If you are struggling with your relationship with your married partner, you may reach out to family or friends. Talk to a close, trusted friend about the situation. Or reach out to a close family member. Speak to someone you feel will not judge you and simply listen to you.


For example, you may say to a close friend, “I recently found out my partner is married. Can I talk to you about it without any judgement?” or “Turns out my partner is married. I need to talk about it. Would you be okay to just listen?”
If the person's response makes you feel ashamed, or you find that talking to them makes you feel worse, end the conversation and find someone more supportive to talk to. You might just say, "Thank you so much for listening. I don't feel like I can talk about it anymore."

, If you do not feel comfortable talking to someone who knows you personally, you may decide to talk to a therapist or a counselor. Talking to a therapist can be a good way to share how you are feeling without being judged or preached down to. A good therapist will listen to you and offer support or guidance when you need it.You can search for a therapist or a counselor online in your area. You can also ask your primary care doctor for a referral to a therapist or ask friends for referrals to a counselor.
 You may also feel more comfortable talking to someone who is in a similar situation as you are, struggling to deal with a married partner. You may reach out to a friend who went through something similar or a family member who had a similar situation and dealt with it head on. You may feel more comfortable speaking to someone who can relate to what you are going through and offer advice or support.


For example, you may say to a friend, “I know you struggled with a married partner last year. I’m going through the same thing. How did you react to the news?” or “I remember that you had a situation with a partner who turned out to be married. What did you do?”

, Turn inward and do self care to cope with the news about your partner. You may set aside an hour a day to do a relaxing activity like yoga or meditation as a form of self care. Or you may pamper yourself with a massage or a bath at home. Doing a hobby you enjoy can be a form of self care as well, such as painting, drawing, or playing music.


You may find doing self care can also help you relieve any stress or anxiety you might be feeling as a result of your situation with your married partner. You may turn to healthy distractions like a fun activity or a night of pampering to get your mind off of your married partner.

