 Whether you're standing up in front of a crowd or talking one-on-one to a person, you need a set speech for how you're going to ask people for money. Even though you are memorizing a speech, you should remember that you're talking to real people who want to hear from you and what you think.Keep it short and to the point. Focus on giving information about your organization and what you need from the person. For example, something like, "Hi, I'm John from the Sunshine Organization. Our mission is to help families in need. For instance, we've helped families who've been hit hard by the downturn in the economy and find themselves without a place to stay. We provide cheap or free temporary housing to these families based on their needs. Currently, we're in need of new mattresses, as ours are not holding up anymore. We could really use your help in the form of a donation. Your donation would mean so much to these families."
Don't forget to practice. Like anything you do for the first time, it can help to practice your spiel first. Try saying it in the mirror first, getting your timing and delivery right. Next, try practicing on a friend or family member to see if they have any suggestions for improvement.;
, When you're asking for donations, you need to figure out who your target audience is. Sometimes, it's a single person, while other times it's a group of people or an organization. Basically, you need to know your audience so your can target your message to that audience.Knowing your audience includes doing research about them. For instance, say you want to talk to the small business association. You'd have to call the leader of the organization to set up a time to talk to them. After that, you'd need to look up the company and executive profiles for the people involved. If possible, you should find out what causes they've donated to in the past. You can use what you learn to tailor your speech to that audience.If you know the group of business men has supported similar organizations in the past, for instance, you can use that information. Help them to see how your organization is similar to the places they've donated to in the past and also deserving of information.
 When asking for donations, people want to know what their money is going towards. They want it to help people, not necessarily to go to paying a huge amount of administrative costs. Therefore, people feel more comfortable if you can offer a breakdown of what your money is going to.You don't have to break it down into details like money spent on pencils and pens. Just broad categories will do, such as "Services," "Administrative Costs," and "Building Costs," for instance.
It also helps to follow up later to say exactly how the money was used through a later or email., Desperation can work in the short-term, if you really do need a one-time large donation for something huge. However, when organizations constantly shout out desperation, it can be wearing on donors. Try to keep it more professional, and you'll be more likely to draw donors in.For example, over-exaggerating your need time after time can make you look bad. If you're constantly saying, "We need your donation, or we may need to close our doors forever," that looks desperate, even if it's true.
It's better to say something like, "Your donation makes such a crucial difference to the families we serve."

, People generally don't respond to abstractions. A concrete goal can help you win over people to donate to your cause. For instance, if you need to fix your roof or gain enough money to sustain a program, ask for donations with that specific goal on the table.For example, if you need to raise money to fix your roof, you could say something like "We need your help to reach our goal of $15,000. Our roof is in bad need of repair, and once you help us reach that goal, we can fix our roof and continue services to those in need."

, That is, most companies and many people appreciate some sort of public acknowledgement of their funds. If you tell them upfront how you will show appreciation to donors, it can help encourage them to donate.You can also mention donations being tax deductible. Even though most people are aware of this fact, you should emphasize that your cause is one that qualifies them for a tax deduction.
 If you take your donors for granted, they may want to leave. Everyone wants to feel appreciated sometimes. Things like thank-you notes, small gatherings, and in-person visits can make donors feel appreciated.In addition, donors who feel appreciated may be more willing to solicit donations on your behalf without you even asking.

