 Creating the first draft of your personal interest statement isn’t about getting everything perfect. Focus on getting your story onto the page and finding the important details that bring it alive.


Remember, securing an admission to a college or university is a competition between you and dozens of other aspiring students. It is crucial that you stand out. NEVER begin your personal statement with “I am Janie Higgins, and I’m applying to the college of engineering to become a better chemical engineer.” They already know who you are and where you’re applying, and presumably, already know that an education in a subject will make you better at it., This time, focus on making your personal statement stronger and more concise. In particular, take some time to craft your introductory hook, which is going to determine whether or not your essay gets read or merely skimmed. Make sure your essay is clear, readable, and easy to follow.


A good hook doesn’t waste time with a lot of background information. It starts right when the action starts, and fills in the background information as needed. For example “We had just sat down for Thanksgiving Dinner when Grandma told us she was going to lose her house,” is starting right at the beginning of the action.Cut out unnecessary words and phrases. Avoid repetition and introductory phrases that could easily be left out without losing any meaning or impact.
 Check spelling, grammar, and sentence structure, but also look over your content. Make sure your personal statement meets the requirements of your application and vividly illustrates the themes you want to impart.


Vary sentence structure and word choice. Good spelling and grammar and your choice of words demonstrate the writing skills colleges seek in a candidate.
Edit your paper over a period of several days. The time in between edits allows you to get a fresh perspective.
Ask other people to read your personal interest statement. They can often catch mistakes you might miss. They can also bring a different perspective to what can make your essay stronger. If you can, ask people who don’t know you well to edit your essay. It’s easier for a passing acquaintance to be objective than it is for a close friend.
 Consider the advice of others and make any final corrections to the essay. Remember, suggestions are personal opinions and ultimately you need to decide what to change and what to keep. You know the themes you want to impart and the stories you want to tell, you just need to make your essay tell those stories and impart those themes.


Unless your editors are English professors, their suggestions don’t need to be taken as gospel. Do keep in mind, however, that when multiple people identify a passage that doesn’t work for them, it probably doesn’t work. Novice editors are typically better at identifying problems than they are offering solutions.

