 Run your fingers through the front of your hair to loosen it from the elastic and add body. This look creates a more classic, crown look; perfect for the office.
 Slide your favorite or outfit-complimenting headbands on your head, two inches away from your hairline. If you have blond hair, use two black headbands or darker colored headbands. If you have brown or black hair, try using white headbands or a different light colored headband.
 Adding beautiful small bling or flowers will really make your look stand out. It is important that you don't over do it. The messy bun look is one of simplicity and elegance. Adding to much will make your messy bun look gaudy and unnatural.
 Play around with your hair until you've accomplished the perfect bun. Leave out strands of hair before you pull up the majority of your hair into the ponytail. Once you have created the main bun, separate your hair into strands in the pony-tail and individually twirl them into separate strands and wrap them around the bun securing each strand with a bobby pin so that you have multiple bun strands surrounding the main bun. Pull a full wispy pieces of hair out from the front and sides of your hair for a messy, whimsical look or lightly pull the hair at the back of the bun to loosen it and let it naturally fall.
 Make sure you spray about seven to eight inches away. If you are feeling really adventurous you can purchase glitter hair spray for a stunning sprinkle of glitter and shine!








, There are several different ways to create your messy bun masterpiece. The more you play around with your own style, the more styles you will come up with that you like for yourself. The most important part of choosing to create a messy bun is that it look natural and not over-worked or too tight. When you are finished creating your messy bun look, you should feel relaxed, glamorous and whimsical. As you learn to master the craft, you will be able to control the look so that people will think you are naturally endowed with the perfect locks!








