 Stress fractures are caused by putting too much weight or pressure on the weight bearing bones of the body such as the legs and feet. This weight can cause an imbalance in the growth of new bone cells, and constant overuse of weight bearing bones can lead to bone exhaustion, cracking the bone and leading to the development of a stress fracture.


Stress fractures usually occur in the tibia (shin bone) fibula (lower leg bones), metatarsals (bones of the feet), navicular (bones of the mid foot). They occur less common in the femur (hip bones), pelvis, and the sacrum.
 Sedentary individuals who are subjected to increased physical activity after a very long sedentary life can have a high likelihood of developing stress fractures. This can come as a shock, and be the first sign of overtraining.


If you have just upped your running mileage dramatically, or recently began a new regimen, you may be suffering from stress factors.
 Many sports, such as track and field, basketball, tennis, and gymnastics enforce repetitive stress on the bones. This stress is due to the foot striking the ground, causing trauma that can lead to stress fracture.


Athletes who overtrain on different surfaces and those who use substandard equipment, like worn out athletic shoes, are at an increased risk for stress fractures.
 Women, especially those with an irregular menstrual cycle, are at an increased risk of stress factors. During menstruation, a sufficient amount of iron is lost. Iron is needed for the proper development of bones.


Iron deficiency can predispose women to stress fractures.
 Individuals with foot problems, like flat feet or high and rigid arches, are more prone to developing stress fractures. This is due to the imbalance these foot abnormalities cause during weight bearing activities.
 People with preexisting medical conditions, especially osteoporosis, are prone to developing stress fractures because they have weak and brittle bones.


Osteoporosis weakens the bone and a stress fracture can develop.
 People who drink more than 10 alcoholic drinks a week or smoke are at a higher risk of developing stress fractures. This is because substances in alcohol and cigarettes tend to reduce bone density.


Additionally, people with eating have reduced amounts of calcium and vitamin D, nutrients that are necessary for strengthening the bones.

