 You will not be able to to pair your iPhone to Ford SYNC if one of these is off. The Power switch for your radio/SYNC system may vary per car model; refer to its user’s manual for assistance.;
, Find the gear icon on your iPhone’s home screen, and tap it. The Settings menu of your iPhone will open.
, Locate “Bluetooth” from the General settings options. Tap it to access the Bluetooth menu. You will see “Bluetooth” on the next screen with a toggle switch next to it that should be set to OFF. Slide this switch to ON; this will enable Bluetooth and make your device discoverable. It will also begin searching for devices to pair with.


Continue with the next steps, but do not exit the Bluetooth menu of your iPhone.
 The location of this button may vary depending on the car model, but usually it’s on the wheel or dashboard and is represented by a phone icon.


SYNC will begin searching for a phone to pair with. If it finds your iPhone, it will display a 6-digit code on its screen and you can skip the next step; if not, proceed to the next step to add your iPhone.
 Use the Seek buttons (the << or >> buttons) on SYNC to find the option to “Add your phone” and then press “OK.” SYNC will state “Press OK to begin pairing your device,” so press “OK” again.
 Tap on the bar below “Devices” to refresh the search for devices to pair with, and SYNC will now appear below. Tap it and you will be asked for the PIN.
 Press “Done” at the top of the screen to begin pairing. SYNC will then notify you on its screen that your iPhone is connected.
 After pairing, SYNC will ask if you want to make the currently connected phone the primary phone. Press OK on SYNC, and use the Seek buttons to find the “Yes” option. Press the OK button again to enter your choice.


If you don’t want to make the phone primary, just use the Seek buttons to locate “No,” and press OK.
 Now you can download your contacts to SYNC. This will enable you to call a contact by telling SYNC the contact’s name. So when SYNC prompts “Set automatic phonebook download to ON?” press “OK,” select the “Yes” option using the Seek buttons, and press “OK” again.

