 You can buy yoga blocks are your local yoga studio, online, or at sporting goods stores. These blocks are often made of cork or foam and can be very useful for beginner yogis who want to work on improving their balance, flexibility, and alignment.Think of the yoga block as a support in your practice that you can use in balancing postures to deepen your stance in the pose or to help you remain grounded in the pose. You can use yoga blocks when doing Half Moon Pose, for example, by placing your bottom hand on the block to give you extra support and to help you maintain proper alignment.
You can also use yoga blocks when forward folding or twisting to help improve your flexibility and allow you to deepen your stretch without having to worry about falling or slipping.
 Yoga straps are great for improving your flexibility and providing support when you want to go deeper in a pose. You can buy a yoga strap at your local yoga studio or at sporting goods stores. Most yoga straps are made of woven material that is made to withstand tugging and pulling.Standing balance postures like Dancer Pose can be difficult for people with limited flexibility. You can enhance this pose by wrapping a yoga strap around your lifted foot and holding the strap in your opposite hand. This will allow you to access the full expression of the pose without straining yourself or worrying about being thrown off balance.
 If you are interested in practicing yoga with others and are looking for an interactive way to improve your balance and flexibility, consider taking a partner yoga class. Partner yoga is a good way to practice certain poses with someone else acting as a safety net or a support. You can do many poses, from Wheel Pose to Forward Fold, with a partner in a partner yoga class, without the fear of falling over or losing your balance.


If you are a more experienced practitioner, you can try an AcroYoga class, where you use the support of a partner, as well as a spotter, to balance on the body of your partner. AcroYoga is considered more advanced and should always be done in the safety of a class with a certified yoga instructor.