 There are many formulas that can be used to calculate your ideal weight. One of the simplest is the HAMWI formula, which is used for adults over 5 feet tall. For men, the formula is 106 + 6 lbs for every inch over 5 feet. For women, it's 100 + 5 lbs for every inch over 5 feet. Add 10% if person has large frame, subtract 10% if person has small frame. If you're unsure, assume a medium frame, and make no adjustment.So, a man with a medium frame who is 6'2" would have an ideal weight of 190 lbs (106 + 84 lbs = 190 lbs).

You can also calculate your Body Mass Index (BMI) which can help you decide if you should lose weight or maintain your current weight. To calculate your BMI, you’ll want to divide your weight in kilograms by the square of your height in meters.To calculate using pounds and inches, divide your weight in pounds by the square of your height in inches and multiply by a conversion factor of 703.There are several reliable online BMI calculators, including through the Mayo Clinic: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/obesity/in-depth/bmi-calculator/itt-20084938. Once you know your BMI, you can compare it to what is a normal BMI for your age, height and gender.
Keep in mind that these calculations are very broad and do not take into account that muscle weighs more than fat. For instance, many professional athletes would be considered obese based on their BMI because they have more muscle, which increases their weight on the scale.
Instead of getting hung up on a number, ask yourself: "What weight is healthy for me and also allows me to be mentally and physically at my best?" Figuring out what it realistic and healthy for you is more important than trying to hit some magical number.;
, To make sure you are eating the right amount of calories, you will want to determine your Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR). Your BMR determines the amount of calories your body needs to function while at rest, and knowing your numbers can help you ensure that you are not eating too many (or too few) calories.

To calculate your BMR, you’ll need to calculate the relationship between your weight, height, and age. For men, use the following equation: 10 x weight (kg) + 6.25 x height (cm) – 5 x age (years) + 5. For women, use: 10 x weight (kg) + 6.25 x height (cm) – 5 x age (years) – 161.
You may want to use an online calculator, such as the one at the Mayo Clinic: http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/weight-loss/in-depth/weight-loss/itt-20084941


, Once you have determined a healthy weight and how many calories you need to eat to lose weight, you’ll want to ensure you are not eating too many or too few calories. If you're eating more calories you're burning, you can either add workouts to your day, or cut back on the number of calories you eat. If you're burning more calories than you're eating, then you need to exercise less or eat more.


Count your calories. Make a note of what and how much you eat, and then look up the caloric value for those foods.Add them up to see your total daily caloric intake. You can use a pen and paper or an app like MyFitnessPal or the SuperTracker from choosemyplate.gov.
Ensure that the calories you are eating come from nutritionally dense foods, including fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, and whole-grain carbohydrates. Choose a variety of foods from each food group to ensure you are getting enough nutrients.These foods will give you increased energy, added vitamins and minerals, and you can eat more of them, while staying within your daily caloric requirements., Your weight is linked to your emotions about food and exercise. View food as energy and as a path to achieve good health, have more energy, and improve your overall quality of life.Exercise can help boost your mood, combat disease, and improve your energy levels.Using food as a coping mechanism can make you feel worse and derail healthy weight management. Find other ways to meet your emotional needs, such as getting a massage, spending quality time with others, buying a new outfit, or a fun activity. , If you are above or below your ideal weight, make a realistic plan to achieve the outcome you want. Focus on taking small steps, such as eating five servings of fruits and vegetables a day.Track your achievements, exercise, and calories. Keeping a record can help you see patterns over time and allows you to make necessary adjustments., Aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity per day, though you may need more depending on your goals for reaching your ideal body weight.Find exercises that you enjoy. Activities like swimming, gardening, walking, bike riding or dancing all count. These can be a fun and pleasant way to burn calories and stay fit, and you’ll be more likely to stick with your routine., Drinking enough liquids (especially water) is critical to maintaining overall health, but also may help you reach your ideal weight.Drinking water may increase how many calories your body burns for at least an hour.Staying well-hydrated helps your muscles and heart work more efficiently., People who are successful at maintaining their weight monitor their progress and step on the scale regularly.If you note that your weight has gone up or down, you can take steps to remedy it, such as increasing or decreasing portion sizes or modifying your exercise routine.


Keep a health journal. Writing down your food and activity ensures that you are tracking how you are meeting your goals., On average, the less people sleep, the more they weigh.Sleeping enough hours per night is an easy way to maintain your ideal weight, while also being a key part of an overall healthy lifestyle.Most adults need seven to nine hours of quality sleep on a regular schedule each night.When you are tired, you may be more likely to reward yourself with food. , Getting regular physical activity will help you maintain your ideal weight, while also lowering your risk for diabetes, heart conditions, strokes, and certain cancers.Staying sedentary harms your metabolism and makes you more likely to gain excess weight, even if you are not eating more.Simple changes can help you get more activity in your day such as taking the stairs, sitting less, parking your car further away, or taking a daily walk., Eating the same types of food each day is better than eating more on weekends, holidays, or other special occasions.Don’t skip meals. This can slow down your metabolism and you’ll burn fewer calories at rest.Keep healthy snacks on hand. You’ll stay satisfied without adding too many calories., Savoring each bite of your meal will help you feel satisfied and fuller longer.Put your fork down between bites, chew slowly, and sit at a table to eat. These changes can help you become aware of physical hunger and satiety cues.Practice shopping smart at the grocery store. Plan ahead, bring a list, and avoid shopping while hungry.This will help you choose healthy foods and avoid bringing home non-nutritious foods such as cookies or soda.
Cook healthy recipes at home. Restaurant food is often salty, fatty, and highly caloric. Preparing food in your own kitchen can help you develop healthy habits at meals and consume the right number of calories for your body., There will inevitably be setbacks or interruptions to your routine, so be prepared. Weight maintenance is a long-term commitment.Make a plan if you know that your health routine for weight maintenance will be challenged or interrupted. Feeling like you are in control can help you overcome discouragement and keep you motivated., Part of maintaining your body’s ideal weight is knowing what is realistic and attainable. View yourself as a whole person and appreciate all that your body can do, instead of focusing on physical faults.A negative body image can impede your weight goals and lead to other serious health consequences, such as developing eating disorders or mental health issues.Remember that health is more important than appearance. Drastic approaches to achieving an unrealistic weight are harmful to your emotional and physical health., Asking a friend or family member to partner with you on your health goals can help you stay accountable.Social support is a key strategy in reaching and maintaining the weight that is best for your body.Choose a partner who shares the same goals for weight maintenance that you do, and have regular meetings.
Online communities can be a great source of social support for maintaining weight loss. Seek out groups in which you can share healthy eating and exercise tips., Take an active role in managing your overall health.Maintaining your ideal weight requires making good decisions and taking charge of your diet and fitness level.Stay accountable through keeping the big picture in mind, and setting permanent objectives for your weight and health.
 Keeping weight off after losing it is a tough task. Enlist your physician and other health professionals in helping you manage your weight.Get regular check-ups and discuss your weight with your doctor. They can advise you on healthy habits, and ensure that you don’t have any health problems that may make it more difficult for you to lose or maintain weight.