 Meeting Selena Gomez could be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. You do not need to wear anything formal but try to put your best foot forward regarding your clothes and appearance. Doing so could make you stand out from the rest of the crowd and improve your chances of being noticed.


Consider wearing a fan shirt. You can buy an official concert tour shirt or you could make your own shirt that has text or images expressing how big of a fan you are.
Consider putting together an outfit together with garments from her clothing line, "Dream Out Loud."

, Show excitement when you see her to make yourself stand out in the crowd. If you actually get to meet her one-on-one, express your enthusiasm in your words, tone of voice, and body language to leave the strongest impression possible and to make the occasion memorable for everyone.


Most celebrities will enjoy hearing how much you love their work. Consider saying something along the lines of, "I love your new album. ‘Revival’ is my favorite song!”
Avoid touching her without permission. If you’d like a hug be sure to ask her first. Never grab her arms or reach for her – that’s the quickest way to lose her attention.
 Don't be pushy. These mementos are great ways to remember meeting her and depending on the circumstances she might oblige. However, there could be some situations in which such actions are not feasible. If your request is denied, accept that fact and move on.


For example, if you ask her for her autograph while she’s trying to get to an event she may not have time to stop for you.
 Courtesy is always important no matter what but you should be especially courteous during a moment like this. After all, being remembered as someone who caused a disruption or created a problem could have serious long-lasting consequences. Besides, who would want their idol to remember them as a rude person?


Be courteous when approaching her. If you spot her by chance while she is clearly in the middle of a date, meal, or casual evening out, it would be polite to leave her alone.

