 Condoms are most commonly made from latex, polyurethane, nitrile, polyisoprene, or lambskin.Each has advantages and disadvantages. All should be disposed of in the same way. They go in the garbage. With condoms, there's no real way to avoid the landfill. Get a biodegradable latex condom or lambskin condom if you're worried about the earth.Latex condoms are the most common. They are durable and inexpensive when compared to other condoms. However, some people are allergic to latex condoms.
Polyurethane is stronger than latex, and can be made thinner. They are a suitable replacement for people with latex allergies. However, they are more brittle and expensive than latex condoms.
Nitrile feels a bit like latex, and is relatively inexpensive. This material works very well for female condoms.
Polyisoprene is a relatively new material. It is made by putting latex rubber through a process to remove allergens. It is expensive, but it is still, though rare, possible to be allergic to it.
Lambskin condoms are able to prevent pregnancy, but not HIV. Natural membrane condoms are not proper protection from sexually transmitted infections. Those seeking to prevent the transmission of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases should choose a latex, polyurethane, nitrile, or polyisoprene condom., You will need to hire a professional to fix it. That can be expensive and potentially embarrassing.
 This is littering. It is also a bio-hazard. A pet could bring it back inside, or try to eat it, causing health problems. Young children might play with it and become sick.
 They will take a very long time to breakdown.Composting condoms can also attract animals. Not only are wild animals hazardous, the condom, if ingested, can cause the animals harm. Even pets may be drawn to it. Though some condoms are biodegradable, and can theoretically be composted, the potential problems created by using condoms for compost makes them unsuitable for most situations.
 Unfortunately, the foil wrappers around condoms are not recyclable.It will need to go into the trash with the condom.
 They cannot be reused or recycled. Though there are people developing tools to do so, the technology isn't quite there yet.