 The first step towards attaining the credentials that you will need to work on a U.S. container ship is to apply for a TWIC, which is issued by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). You must submit an online application and then visit a TSA office to present identification and immigration documents, get fingerprinted, and have your picture taken.You will have to pay a fee of $128 when you submit your application. Discounts are available for individuals with a hazardous materials endorsement on their license or with a Free and Secure Trade card.
You will not be granted a TWIC if you have been convicted of certain crimes, including espionage, treason, terrorism, and murder.
 Everyone working on a U.S. container ship must receive an MMC, which is issued by the U.S. Coast Guard. The MMC is a photo ID that lists a crewman's qualifications, grade, and endorsements, which will dictate what kind of jobs you are allowed to hold on a container ship. Depending on the endorsements you apply for, you will have to pay a fee of $45-$140 for your MMC. To apply for a Merchant Mariner's Credential, you must do the following:Submit proof of U.S. citizenship, permanent resident status, or foreign citizenship. Foreign citizens are only granted MMCs by the United States Coast Guard if they are enrolled in the United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Be at least 16 (with parental consent for minors).
Pass a background check. If you have a criminal record, the Coast Guard will consider your eligibility on a case-by-case basis.
Either currently hold or be in the process of applying for a Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC).
Pass a physical exam. Requirements are different for entry-level and qualified individuals, so make sure you submit the appropriate form.
Pass a drug test.
Submit proof of previous experience at sea and successful completion of the appropriate examinations for your desired endorsement and grade. This is not necessary for entry-level endorsements.
 A certificate in Standards of Training Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW) will allow you to work on vessels that operate in the oceans worldwide. If you have an MMC but not your STCW credentials, you will only be permitted to work on inland waters in the United States or in the Gulf of Mexico within 12 miles of the shore.Entry-level crewmen must complete a five-day Basic Safety Training class that covers basic firefighting techniques, survival skills. basic first aid, and personal safety and social responsibilities. Higher level positions will require additional training.
The cost of the complete five-day program is $1025 at New England Maritime, but the cost may be different at other institutions., If you would like to start working in a higher level position, consider attending a four-year maritime academy. When you graduate, you will hold a bachelor's degree and a license to serve as a Third Mate or Third Assistant Engineer.