 Unfiltered coffee has been associated with higher “bad” cholesterol levels. By contrast, paper filters are able to trap the compounds in coffee that raise cholesterol. Be sure to use a filter when brewing coffee at home.Avoid french press coffee, boiled coffee, or Turkish coffee, as these are unfiltered.
 More than half of the chemicals found in tap water are unregulated, and some experts believe the standards are too lenient for those that are. Filtering your water can remove potentially harmful chemicals like nitrates, arsenic, and lead. Use filtered water to brew a healthier cup of joe.Ask for your water utility company’s annual water quality report. This will tell you about potentially harmful substances in your local water, and can guide your filter purchasing process. Pick a filter that removes problematic chemicals in your water and is NSF International certified.
 Black coffee has the lowest calories per serving. Adding creamer, sugar, and syrups increases caloric content of your coffee, increasing risk of type 2 diabetes and other chronic diseases. If you can stomach it, opt for black coffee., If you can't get used to black coffee, go for a dash of non-fat milk instead of whole milk and creamers. Whole milk and creamers are high in fat, and those calories can add up over time.Low fat soy, almond, or rice milk are good substitutes for non-fat cow’s milk.
 Sugar sweetened beverages have been associated with significant health consequences, including increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and obesity.Black, sugar-free coffee is best, but if you need your coffee sweetened, you should use small amounts of sugar or select an artificial sweetener.

However, data suggests artificial sweeteners may have health consequences of their own. Studies have linked artificial sweetener to weight gain, type II diabetes, and heightened sugar cravings. If you want to sweeten your coffee, it may be better to use a small amount of sugar rather than an artificial sweetener., Instead of using sugar or creamers high in sugar and fat to flavor your coffee, try using natural spices. Cinnamon, nutmeg, and cardamom are all good sources of nutrients.

Cardamom, for example, is rich in vitamin C, magnesium, zinc, and potassium.