 You'll probably want to get it at least a week or two before the dance. If you are going with a date, you can coordinate the colors. Here are some ideas:


Top: A fancy blouse that compliments your skirt is excellent and looks great!
Skirt: Don’t get a skirt that is too short, as this is a semi-formal. Instead, get something knee-length or longer.
Dress: You can get a dress instead of a skirt too. Since it's a semi-formal, look for something about knee length. Don't go for sparkly, glitzy, or super short dresses. Buy what fits and suits you.
Shoes: They don't have to match your dress, but should be a complementing color. Semi-tall heels work well with knee-length dresses. Make sure you can walk in them!(Ballroom dance shoes are elegant & comfy);
, Use a good smelling body wash. Shampoo and condition your hair. Shave if you can,

,,, Paint them, or at least file them. Shimmery, light colors work well.
, Sometimes it can be better to go to a stylist who knows what they're doing. But if you have to do it yourself. You want something that isn't so loose it will fall out when you dance; you want something pretty. Halter dresses look pretty good with any hairstyle. Strapless dresses look good with up-dos. Strap dresses look good with anything. If you have straight hair, try smoothing and shining it and wearing it down. Or, put it in a sleek high ponytail. If you have wavy hair, try wearing down and a little bit messy; feel free to add a headband, put it in chic messy bun, or even try on a messy side ponytail.
 You don't want to stain your dress with toothpaste!

,, Go glam for nighttime. Green eyes: try lavender, purple, or light gray shadow. Make a smokey eye. Put on some mascara and curl lashes. Put on some shimmer cream as blush and some shimmery lip gloss. Brown eyes: try a green or purple shadow. Blue eyes: try a brownish or coral shadow. If you go heavy on eyes, don't go heavy on lips.
 A pretty pocketbook or clutch is fine. Include: bottle of water, mascara, lip gloss, breath mints or gum, cell phone, floss, body spray, hairbrush and pins, and money.
,