 Plan your writing time for your most productive part of the day. If you’re a morning person, set aside an hour or two before work or class. If you’re a night owl, schedule your writing time for after everyone else in the house has gone to bed. If you plan your writing time for when you’re distracted or tired, you’ll struggle even more to focus and get any good work done.Also, if you’re juggling multiple writing projects — if you’re a freelancer, for instance, or if you have multiple research papers due — schedule a time for each project separately. If you have two hours in the morning, schedule Project A for 7-8 am, and Project B from 8-9 am. Give each project a dedicated time of focus.
 For most people, setting a time-based schedule for writing is the best way to ensure ongoing productivity. If you’re writing from 2-5 pm each day, for instance, you will become conditioned to perceiving this as “writing time” and your productivity and focus will likely increase.However, some people simply cannot write as effectively when they feel like they’re being controlled by a ticking clock. If you’re writing a novel and “write one good page per day” works better for you than “write from 1-3 pm each day,” that’s okay. Just make sure you hold yourself to that schedule just as rigidly. It will probably also help to write at roughly the same time each day., If you know someone else writing a dissertation or three-act play, buddy up with them and coordinate your writing schedules. Give each other regular updates and hold one another accountable for sticking to the schedule. You can even use small punishments/penalties and rewards if that helps.Your writing partner doesn’t have to be physically present; you could start your shared “writing time” with a text (then turn your phone off!) and end it with another. And, if it’s not possible to write at the same time, you can still keep track of each other’s daily writing results — and hold each other accountable if you come up short.
 It’s a bit easier to be held accountable if you owe your “writing buddy” five dollars each time you don’t get in your two hours or finish that daily page. However, you can set up a series of rewards and punishments for yourself to help keep your writing on track.For example, you can set aside Friday nights for going to a movie or hanging out with friends. However, take away one hour of your “fun time” for each hour of scheduled writing you skipped out on during the week.
Or, if there’s a certain pair of shoes or video game that you really want, put a dollar in your “wish list piggy bank” each time you complete a scheduled writing session. In time, you’ll have earned your reward.
 Writing is tough. It can be fun at times, but it’s also just plain hard work. When you achieve a significant writing goal, like finishing a chapter or completing a new set of poems, don’t be shy about celebrating it. You have accomplished something that many others couldn’t do — or wouldn’t have the persistence to do.Especially if you’re writing something lengthy like a novel or dissertation, define clear milestones along the way. Use them to record your larger progress and to serve as markers worthy of celebrating when achieved. Keep others informed of your progress and achievements, and have a little party or a night out to reward yourself.
Sharing milestones (and when you ought to achieve them) with others also helps keep you on schedule and accountable.

