 Jealousy makes people act out negatively when they might not otherwise do so. Sometimes, they may put the jealousy behind them and work towards moving forward to preserve the friendships. The way a person acts affects the entire friend group, whether it is negative or positive. Figure out how they are responding to the jealousy to figure out how to deal with them.For example, the jealous friend may push the jealousy aside and be supportive. However, the jealous friend may let the emotion make them bitter and angry and become a bad friend who talks behind the group’s back or backstabs them.
 If there is a lot of jealousy in your friend group, you should take a look at the friendships within the group. Why are you friends? What are the friendships built on? Have you build your friendships on trust, respect, and a deep connection, or is it based on superficiality and convenience? Understanding the nature of the friendships within the group can help you figure out what to do.True friends who truly care about one another and respect each other won’t feel bitter jealousy that leads to deception or harm. They may feel jealous, but it will be benign jealousy that is easy dealt with.
Insecure or superficial friendships may not have the deep respect and connection needed to move beyond bitter jealousy.
If you find that your group of friends is superficial or materially competitive, then it might be wise to find new friends.
 If you feel the jealousy, you should take a long look at yourself and why you feel these emotions. If the jealousy is with someone else, you should have a conversation with them about why they feel jealous.You may want to ask them why they feel jealous. Then, help them realize that the feelings are not really about their friend. They may be about themselves. If this is the case, be there for them and help them deal with the underlying feelings.
For example, you may say, “Do you know why you are jealous of our friend? Is it because you have feelings of low self-esteem or feel like you have failed? You are my friend and I care about you. You are not a failure and I like you. I want to help.”
Try to figure out what the jealousy is about because this will help you determine how you can support the person and resolve the situation. For example, is there any jealousy regarding a romantic relationship, another person's success, or someone's abilities?

