 If you have slippery floors, go barefoot, or opt for socks that have rubber grips on the bottom. Try not to tip-toe or you will make noises if you're staying inside. Wear dark colored slippers or boots.;
, Do not wear shorts or t-shirts. Preferably a dark hoodie and pants. Do not wear black! Black sounds like a good idea, but it is not. Dark blue is a good idea.


If you are going outside, wear dark blue or purple. This will help you blend in with the shadows more.
 But don't use the same excuse over and over again. Using the same excuse makes it seem kind of suspicious.
 Find any spots where the wood squeaks or you could trip or fall inside, and outside find any dangerous spots you might not be able to see at night like a ditch or a river nearby.
 Wear warm clothing if it will rain or if it is windy. You don't want to wear something too light because it might be cold at night.
, If they are awake and ask why you came into their room, say you were coming in to say goodnight.
 The cops might find you and arrest you for having a gun, regardless of your age. But don't worry, bring a walking stick or get one to protect yourself, you can't be arrested for having a stick.
 If you see a spider in the house and feel like running for the swatter or screaming "Spider, spider!", don't. Be brave and face fears like the dark or insects. But paranoia can also be your friend: Don't go out if you feel it's a dangerous area, like if you live in the middle of the city.
 Hide it in your room during the day and stuff a pillow at the bottom cracks in your door to muffle out all sounds. Then tie the rope to a bed or dresser leg and lower yourself down. Then fully shut the window and pop the screen back in. Or leave the window ajar if it's safe, as you want to get back inside! If your room is on the bottom floor, you don't need a rope. Just step out of the window.
 Use a rope or ladder that was hidden in your room during the day. If your window is really screechy then make sure you rub wax, Vaseline, or a candle on the part where the window slides and screeches because it will make it glide smoother. Make sure if you're planning to come back in from the front or back door then unlock the front or back door (the door you want to come back in by) when everyone goes to bed. But if somebody wakes up and locks it, it's good to not lock your window when you leave. House-keys can be noisy and hard to use sometimes.


If you are going outside, be sure to bring a flashlight.
 Put pillows and stuffed animals under the cover so it looks like you're still there and leave a note that says you are under the blankets so do not disturb. Also you could really fool them by putting some doll hair that looks like yours at the opening and a voice recording of you snoring to really fool them!

,,