 Think deeply about what you love in life and the people who surround you. Although the world might seem like a disaster, we all have people and things that matter to us a great deal.Ask yourself, “What do I love absolutely?” Then, make a list of the things that fuel your happiness in life. Add to the list as your life progresses.
It’s okay to think about the simple things you love like watching television, eating pizza, or taking a drive, but consider those activities that make you excited and feel alive.
Focusing on the things you love will inspire your heart and soul thereby gaining insight to the things that bring you the most enjoyment.;
, Remind yourself about all of times that you were proud, succeeded, or overcame great odds. Then, think about what you did to make those times successful and why you think they are accomplishments. In doing so, you will realize what inner strengths you have.What behavior did you exhibit to reach success? Were you calm, cool, and collected, or confident and cocky? Thinking about your behavior will reveal who you truly are.
How about your actions? Did you take the initiative, collaborate, or discover something different from everybody else? Find out what kind of person you are; a leader, follower, or team-player?
Did you plan things out or were you spontaneous? What strategies did you employ to be successful?
By acknowledging your accomplishments and how you achieved them, you will discover your greatest strengths as a person.
 This is probably the toughest thing to discover simply because many of the things we do in life are to avoid judgment or receive favorable judgment. Try the best you can to think about what your purpose is authentically and honestly.Start by making a list of everything you would do, say, and go if you never had to worry about what other people would think about it. By connecting these dots, you will be on the path to discovering your innermost wishes, dreams, and your greatest personal values.
Another way is to take tiny steps towards your purpose by eliminating those things in life that provide obstacles to self-fulfillment while adding things that aid you in the pursuit of your passions.
Remove the red tape and all the debilitating questions: “what if I fail,” “what if I don’t like it?,” or “what if I make no money?” Instead, take action and try new things. That way, you get out from in front of yourself and pursue your true purpose in life.
Don’t struggle to find the “one” purpose in life. Rather, live a passionate life to live your life on purpose. Nobody can really claim that they are good at only one thing – good parent, excellent basketball coach, perfect coworker – nor should you claim that you have only one purpose in life.
 Imagine that no matter what you do, you would be guaranteed success without the threat of failure. Finding the answer will help you discover the life you really desire. Visualize this life and set out to achieve it.Ask yourself, “What would I do if I win the lottery for millions of dollars?” This is a good way to fantasize about your life because it would be financially secure. Therefore, you can uncover all the things that you really want to do with your life.
If you win the lottery, what kind of person would you be; how and where are you living; what is your profession? This is an opportunity for you think limitlessly about your life. By winning the lottery, you remove all the boundaries and obstacles to your dreams and desires and find out what you truly would like to do with your life.
Answering these inner expectations will help you work towards finding out what would make your life ideal. Indeed, instead of putting the life you desire so far out of reach try to overcome the negative voices that stop you from going from here to your potential dream life.
 Of all the movie, sports, and musical stars in the world, who inspires you the most? What qualities do they possess that you admire the most? Find the person or people in this world who inspire you and discover why you admire them. You might find that they possess many of the same qualities that you have but were able to go beyond their fears to succeed on a larger stage.The person who inspires you the most does not have to be famous. It could also be a friend or family member, teacher, or a colleague. The point is that they accomplished something in their life that you admire and want to emulate. Living authentically is their only choice and it can become yours as well.
In the end, the greatest knowledge gained is the one where you get a sense of who you really are. Your ability to achieve your internal passions will determine whether you reach your potential or not. If so, you will open many new doors that will enhance the quality and purpose of your life.

