 Are you in it for the interviews with fashion icons? Or are you more into your fashion magazine for the tips and tricks on fashion and beauty? If you know what you like about fashion magazines, you can feel like you didn't waste an hour of reading useless uninteresting articles.;
,


If you like the interviews with celebrities, you can gain some information about the celebrity that was interviewed which can help in social situations and it can also open up some new interests for you if you think that the celebrity you read about is particularly interesting. You also may find some tips from the celebrity about various things whether it's about fashion, or expressing yourself, or confidence.
If you're into the magazine for the beauty and fashion tips, you can learn about different ways to look good. Looking good can help with your confidence. You can also learn some techniques that will help you look better faster. This can reduce the stress in the morning about getting to work/school on time.
If you're into the magazine for the outfit ideas, you can get ideas on how to recreate the look while adding your own twist to it. The "look-books" that you sometimes find in magazines are very helpful for this, and even the ads can help out. Recreating looks with your own twist can help with your creativity and can help you express yourself. It can also help with confidence since if you feel comfortable with what you're wearing, and you feel like it shows "the true you" then you are more likely to feel better and more confident.
 This is very true. First there are the ads. Then there's the products and stores that they recommend, and then there's the celebrities that they put a good word in for during the interviews. If you understand this, then it can help you from buying something that you really wouldn't want if you hadn't seen it in your fashion magazine.
 It may sound absurd, but it's true. In TeenVogue, the have one article per issue about serious teen problems such as teen alcoholism and coping with and helping friends who are doing drugs. In InStyle, they have an entire section devoted to things about life. While most of the time this section includes products for throwing good parties and tips for throwing parties and such, it's still (slightly) drifting away from the "fashion" side of things. This section of the magazine is called "Life, Etc."

, If you sort of like the fashion part of the magazine, then consider getting a magazine that has a bit of that in it, but includes other things as well. For example, if you like the side of the fashion magazine that talks about life and gives you tips for life, try a magazine like Chatelaine, All You, or Canadian Living. If you like the celebrity part of the magazine, try getting a magazine like People, Star, OK! Magazine, or US Weekly Magazine. If you don't like the fashion magazines at all, try a completely different type of magazine that suits your interesting. For example, if you like playing video games, get a video game magazine like PC Gamer or GamePro.

