 Most personal trainers no longer endorse spot training, as evidence suggests that it does not successfully eliminate fat in the targeted area.Some parts of your body lose fat faster than others. For many people, especially middle-aged women, the body retains a large portion of excess fat around the stomach area.
The fastest way to lose excess fat in your stomach is to perform exercises that cause you to lose excess fat overall.
Exercises focused on your abdomen do help you to tone that area, however. More muscle mass means a higher metabolism, which makes it easier to burn fat. Have a toned abdomen may also help to reduce the appearance of your muffin top.
 Cardio gets your heart pumping, forcing your body to work more and burn off more calories. The more calories your body burns, the more your muffin top should begin deflating.


High-energy dance classes, like zumba, work wonders. Swimming, hiking, kick-boxing, and cycling are also good examples of high-intensity cardio workouts.
Short, high-intensity exercises tend to work more effectively than drawn out, moderate-intensity exercises.
Take plenty of steps. You should take about 10,000 steps per day, and you can monitor these steps with a pedometer.
 Strength training builds muscle, and having more muscle makes it easier to burn excess fat quicker.


Strength train at least three times per week. Women who perform strength training for a solid 25 minutes two to three times per week usually gain about 2 lbs (900 g) of muscle and lose twice as much fat within the first two months.


These exercises alone will not get rid of muffin top, so they should only be done in conjunction with cardio exercises.
Crunches and sit-ups are the most common ab-focused exercises.
 You can help tone your waistline by working the muscles on either side of your abdomen.


Simple leg lifts are a good example of this sort of exercise. Lie on one side with both legs outstretched. Raise and lower the top leg, keeping it straight the entire time. Repeat the procedure with the opposite leg to work on both sides.

