 Keep in mind that it takes these seeds two to three months to sprout. You can bypass this process by getting a seedling or small plant from a nursery.;
, Change the water each day.
 Plastic containers used for starts will allow for easy transplanting later on. Fill the container with soil and place the seed approximately 3/4 of an inch (2cm) or less below the surface.
 Depending upon your weather, you can place it outside or in a greenhouse.
 When at least one leaf has appeared, you can transplant it. If you have a variable climate, you may want to wait until it is more established to plant it in the ground.


If you have been germinating the seed in a low-sun area, you will need to move it into the sun and slowly increase the number of hours of sunlight. If not, it will burn in the sun.
 Queen palms have shallow, grass-like root systems, so other features, such as concrete or structures can be placed fairly close to it. The queen palm also likes a small amount of shade.,, It should be the depth of the top and no deeper.
 Add sand or Canadian peat moss if the soil doesn’t drain well.
 Loosen the palm from the pot and then place the plant and the soil from the pot in the hole. Fill in the area around the plant with more soil mix.
,, Water every other day for the next week. Use a bubbler or soaker to ensure that the ground stays moist.
 You will generally want to water three times per week in the summer and twice per week in the winter. Due to its grass-like structure, it must be watered more than most trees., The following are good guidelines:


With temperatures below 85 (29 Celsius) you can water one to two times per week.
With 85 to 100 degrees (29 to 38 Celsius) you can water two to three times per week.
With temperatures above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius), you should water four to five times per week., Use a slow release blend that contains magnesium, iron, copper, manganese and nitrogen.
 A healthy queen palm can grow up to six feet (1.8m) per year once established. It can grow to the height of 30 or 40 feet (9 to 12m).
 This is an indication that your plant needs manganese. This is unlikely to be native to the soil, so you will need to add more manganese to the soil at the first sign of this condition.

