 During the tutorial you will play as Jaina Proudmoore, the Mage class. Once you have completed the tutorial objectives you will have unlocked Jaina. You can then use Jaina to unlock other heroes. Each hero unlocked also unlocks a different style of play.;
, After you finish the tutorial you will be taken to the “Main” screen. Click on the “Practice” button. This will take you to the “Practice Mode” screen where you can battle against other heroes. Each time you successfully defeat another hero you will unlock that hero for use in other play modes.
 All of the heroes have different abilities, and knowing what they’re capable of can help you decide who you want to fight next.Malfurion Stormrage, the druid, has the power to shapeshift and increase a minions armor and health, he plays primarily through his minions and many of his basic minion cards have taunt.
The hunters Rexxar and Aleria Windrunner are good to use with decks that primarily have beasts in them. Their class ability is to do two direct damage to the enemy hero.
The paladin Uther Lightbringer has an endless supply of 1 / 1 (1 damage / 1 health) minions he can place on the board with his hero power. His minions are balanced and many have the ability Divine Shield, which will completely ignore the first attack regardless of strength against it.
Priest Anduin Wrynn is hard to kill because of his ability to use rather large heals on himself and his minions. A unique ability the priest has is to use the card “Shadow Form” to change the nature of his hero power from a heal spell to a direct damage spell.

Valeera Sanguinar, the Rogue, is adept at using very cheap cards to defeat her opponent. She even has a few cards that cost no mana crystals to play. Her hero power is the ability to equip herself with a 1 / 2 dagger.
The shaman, Thrall, has the ability to summon random totems to his aid. These totems can be healing totems, damage totems, or buffing totems. His deck is comprised of spells and minions that are used with his totems to do very quick and large amounts of damage to his opponent.
The warlock Gul’dan has demon minions at his disposal. He also has a interesting game play mechanic different than any other hero. He can use his hero power to sacrifice his own life to draw cards. He can use this ability to gain a rather large hand in the early game and use that hand to dominate the playing field in the mid game.
The warriors, Garrosh Hellscream and Magni Bronzebeard, are adept at defensive abilities as well as tactical use of direct damage. They have the ability to increase their armor using their hero power, and also have many weapons they can equip within their decks. It is hard to get through their defenses in order to land an attack.
 Once you have defeated another hero you can then use that hero to battle others in “Practice Mode” and are not required to continue to use Jaina. Switching up heroes as you play in “Practice Mode” will help you to understand how each plays, will grant that hero experience, and will unlock new cards for that hero’s class specific card deck.
 As you play through the “Practice Mode” you will find that each hero uses a different technique. Sometimes changing to a different class will help you defeat your opponent more easily. Keep trying different classes of hero and card combinations until you have defeated and unlocked all nine heroes for play in your regular games.

