 Instead, try to pay attention to what the person is saying and respect what's on his or her mind. Try to answer any questions as best you can, and not in a condescending manner.;
, If you are a parent, this matter definitely, is handled differently, especially since you are likely paying for the outfits that your children are wearing. You should definitely care about how they look and what message they are sending to others.
 In other words, don't try to force your daughter to become a cheerleader just because you missed out on it...make sure that is what she wants to do. Don't force your son to play football or baseball just because you love sports, or missed out in participating in sports. Listen to what your child or children may be interested in.
 They need to have some time to enjoy being young; as long as they are doing their homework that should be good enough.
 Be careful on how that you speak to a young person about drugs, drinking, smoking and so forth...don't preach, but mention it and let it go. You'll be letting them know that you are concerned without being overbearing and pushing them into dangerous, rebellious activities.
 If they appear to be listening, but are giggling at the same time, they most likely are not having sex yet. Be sincere, and answer any questions that might arise.
 If your child is having trouble in a class, listen to your child about how he or she feels about a teacher. Your child may work better on a one to one basis; he or she may need more explaining about a subject, than the teacher is taking the time to give. Go to school and meet the teacher in question.
 As long as the child does his or her best, a few B's or C's are not a big deal. A younger person may not be good in one subject, but great in another. When you see a lower grade on your child's report card, simply ask, "Are you putting forth your best effort on this subject?" If the answer is yes, tell your child to do the best that he or she can.
 It forces you to be something you're not and people can see through that.
 The fact is, things aren't the way they were when you were young and complaining won't change that. Don't complain about the types of entertainment that are popular today. That can get old fast.