 If a fatal accident happens at work or a co-worker dies, many companies will offer counseling services through them to help deal with the grief. This counseling will be aimed at helping you cope and grieve for your co-worker so you can move on and continue to work despite the loss.Talk to your manager, supervisor, or HR representative to see if there are services available to you.;
, If someone in your workplace has died, they may want contact with people their loved one worked with. They may want help cleaning out desks or lockers, or they may want to share any memories you have of your co-worker.If you are in a management position, you may also need to answer questions or provide help for the family of your colleague, especially with dealing with any workplace paperwork or business.
 Some people cope with grief by extending their condolences and support to the family of the deceased. You may decide you would like to contact the family and support them. If you are not sure how to get in touch with them, talk to someone in management to determine if they can let the family know you would like to contact them to offer support.For example, you may want to attend funeral services, bring food, help clean out desks or lockers, or send flowers.
 If you feel it will help, share your feelings with others. This may be a co-worker who wants to talk about the deceased person. If there is no one at your workplace you want to talk to, talk to a family member or friend.For example, you may say, “I would like to talk about our co-worker. I have a lot of feelings and am trying to cope. I think talking about it will help.”

, When someone in your company dies, you may want to remember them by doing something in their honor. This can help give closure to the people who worked alongside of them. Honoring the deceased coworker can also help everyone cope.For example, you may make a board or wall in memorial of the person with photos, memories, and notes.
You may want to donate money in their name to a charity or hold a fundraiser in their honor and donate the proceeds to charity.
Hold a company memorial service for the person where colleagues can get together to share memories and grieve together.
 When you experience a death at your office, everyone will not react the same. Some people talk about their grief or deal with it outwardly. Others will ignore it or refuse to talk about it. Some people cannot handle other people’s grief because they have enough trouble dealing with their own. Don’t be angry when a co-worker doesn’t grieve the same way you do.Respect how your co-workers grieve. If you want to talk about it and your co-worker doesn’t, don’t badger them. If they want to talk and you don’t, gently say, “I understand you want to discuss this. However, I am not comfortable talking about it. Please respect the way I grieve and know I wish not to talk about it.”

, When your co-workers are all faced with tragedy, it can be helpful to create a support group. Find others who want to talk about their grief or just be around others who understand. You can hold weekly meetings to talk through the grief while you all heal.Don’t be offended if someone doesn’t want to join the group. Not everyone will be comfortable sharing their grief with co-workers.
If you can’t get a support group together at work, consider looking for a support group in your area dealing with loss or trauma.

