 Running isn't a good exercise if you have weak or painful knees, because you'll end up increasing the pain and risk serious knee injury. However, brisk walking can give you a good cardio workout while also strengthening your knees.Make sure you have good walking shoes and try to walk on a relatively flat and even surface. You may want to go to a track at a nearby school, or use a paved fitness trail in a local public park.
If you're going to walk around your neighborhood, avoid areas that are especially hilly, as inclines can put additional stress on your knees.
Start with a 10-minute walk each day if you're new to exercising. This will enable you to get in the habit of being active. After a week, increase your time to 15 minutes. Keep adding time until you've worked up to a half-hour walk each day.;
, Cycling is good cardio exercise if you have bad knees, and with an upright or recumbent stationary bike you don't have to worry about balance. The exercise won't put much stress on your knees, but can strengthen your knees and improve their range of motion.If you're not a member of a gym, you might want to buy a stationary bike to use at home. You don't necessarily need one with all the bells and whistles – you can get a basic stationary bike new or used fairly cheaply.
Make sure your bike is set up properly and the seat is comfortable and at the correct height. When the pedal is at the bottom, your knees should have about a 15-degree bend, rather than your legs being completely straight.
Set the resistance level to mimic biking on flat pavement – you don't want it too loose, but you also don't want to set it as though you're going uphill.
Use a standard stationary bike rather than a recumbent bike to get the full benefit from this exercise.
If you're just starting out, try to bike for about 10 minutes each day. After you get used to this exercise, you can increase your time.
 If you have access to a pool, swimming is a low-impact cardio exercise that will work out your entire body as well as strengthening your knees. If you haven't had any training in swimming, you may want to take a class or swim with a more experienced friend so you can make sure your form is correct.Freestyle is the easiest swimming technique to master, and puts the least stress on your knees. You should avoid techniques that tense your knees, such as strokes that incorporate frog kicks.
To preserve your knees, don't push off from the wall. Remember that you're not in a race, so speed isn't important. Just start swimming and turn at each end of the pool rather than doing push-off turns.
Another activity that is good to do in the pool is walking the pool lanes. If you are having difficulty walking on a treadmill then you might want to try walking in the pool. This lessens the stress on your knees, while allowing you to exercise. This is good for those who are elderly or overweight.
 Most dancing is relatively low-impact, and can be a way to have some fun while also getting a good cardio workout. Apart from that, you're also learning a new skill that you can show off at parties or social events.Check your local dance studios to see what types of classes are available for amateurs or recreational dancers. For example, many ballet studios offer classes for adults or recreational dancers that teach you the basics of form. If you're a member of a gym, it also may offer fitness dance classes.
Don't worry if you don't have any dance experience. Most of these classes are designed for beginners, and you'll be learning in a group – not performing on a stage.
 If you're a member of a gym, you should use the elliptical rather than the treadmill if you have bad knees. You'll burn roughly the same amount of calories, but won't put as much stress on your joints.Since your feet never leave the pedals of an elliptical machine, this exercise decreases your risk of injury to your knees or back.
When you're just starting out, choose a slower speed and exercise for about 10 minutes. As you get more accustomed to the exercise, you can gradually increase the amount of time you spend on the elliptical.

