 Regardless of the type of flat feet you have, wearing shoes with good arch support is going to provide at least some benefit, and it might possibly provide total relief of your foot, leg or back symptoms. Try to find a comfortable walking or athletic shoe with substantial arch support, roomy toe box, firm heel counter and a flexible sole. Supporting your arches helps decrease tension in the posterior tibial and Achilles tendons.


Avoid shoes with heels higher than 2 1/4 inches because it leads to short / tight Achilles tendons. However, wearing completely level shoes is not the answer either, because too much pressure is put on the heel, so wear shoes that are elevated in the heel by about 1/4 or 1/2 inch.
Get fitted for shoes by a trained salesperson later in the day because that's when your feet are at their largest, usually due to swelling and slight compression of your arches.
 If you have flexible flat feet (not completely rigid) and spend lots of time standing or walking, then consider a pair of custom made shoe orthotics. Orthotics are semi-rigid shoe inserts that support the arch of your foot and promote better biomechanics while standing, walking and running.By providing cushioning and some shock absorption, orthotics will also help reduce the likelihood of problems developing in other joints such as your ankles, knees, hips and lumbar spine.


Orthotics and similar supports don't reverse any structural deformities of the foot nor can they reconstruct an arch by wearing them over time.
Health professionals who make custom orthotics include podiatrists, as well as some osteopaths, physicians, chiropractors and physiotherapists.
Wearing orthotics often requires taking the factory insoles out.
Some health insurance plans cover customized orthotics, but if yours does not, then consider off-the-shelf orthopedic insoles — they are less expensive and may provide adequate arch support. In fact, they have been shown in some cases to be equally effective when compared to custom orthotics.
 If you are overweight (especially obese), then losing weight has a multitude of health benefits including taking the pressure off the bones, ligaments and tendons of your feet, as well as providing better blood flow to the area.Losing weight won't reverse rigidly flat feet, but it will positively impact other types of flat feet to some extent. For most women, consuming less than 2,000 calories daily will lead to some weekly weight loss even if you're only a mild exerciser. Most men will lose weight on a weekly basis if they consume less than 2,200 calories daily.


Many obese people have flat feet and tend to over-pronate their ankles (the joints collapse and turn in), which then leads to a knock-knee posture.
Sometimes women develop fallen arches during the late stages of pregnancy that then go away once their baby is born.
To help promote weight loss, eat lean meat, poultry and fish, whole grains, fresh veggies and fruit and drink lots of purified water. Avoid sugary drinks such as soda pop.

