 Meticulous hygiene and grooming are mandated. No one likes body odor, bad breath or slovenliness. Carry a toothbrush, mints, deodorant and eau de toilette with you at all times.;
, Loose waves with a hair band or even a ponytail are very appropriate in today's society. Flips, Bobs and Shags are classic, versatile, easy to wear hairstyles for today's woman.
 Learning to hold your tongue will go a long way.
 Go to a salon and get this done. Update with a wax kit to maintain your shape.
 Skin should be well cared for and clear of imperfections. Find a scrub, toner, and moisturizer that fits your skin type. Remember to wear sun lotion at all times if you're going outside! Try to give yourself a mask facial once a week. For additional skin help, try giving yourself a steam facial once every two weeks. (It clears the pores.)

, If your teeth are crooked, get braces. This is simple hygiene. Ladies' teeth shouldn't rot out of their mouths.
 Your makeup should be classic and unoffensive. Men truly are attracted to women whose faces they can actually see! This means wearing only mascara with matte lipstick - not gloss - and bronzer. For added drama use tinted moisturizer, one shade of sheer eye shadow over your crease, and eyeliner. That should take your look into the evening.
 Your modest appearance will attract the right people. Follow your school or work dress codes to the letter. Learning to be creative within the bounds will actually make you more original. Anyone can wear the low-cut top and miniskirt. Dare to be clothed. Dare to be different.


A conservative or preppy look is best for this time of your life, when you are at your most vulnerable. Make sure hemlines reach the knee and necklines reach the collarbone area. Invest your hard-earned money in a few quality clothing and jewelry pieces that you will need your whole life.
This Includes: a trench or pea coat, a simple basic dress, and suit ensemble. Buy the simplest, most expensive purse you can find in a medium size. Don't forget the closed toe 1" heels!

, They feel better, last longer, and say a lot about the woman you wish to become.
 Parents and coworkers will appreciate a woman who cares more about her education and her work ethic than her salon appointment. This will reflect in how you are viewed by those in authority. Who do you think gets the break when her homework isn't turned in one day? Teachers are harder on a girl who admits to spending two hours doing her nails than the one who is usually consistent.
 The people worth knowing will advance you in the right direction. These people are generally very smart. If they find you worthy, they could help you move your mountains. Remember, every step of your path counts!

, A lady is always punctual and courteous. Learn every facet of your job and the things that go with it. The boss will notice you if you work really hard and promote you over the lazy clock watcher.
 They are rude cretins who are not worth your time. They will ultimately deter your path to greatness. They will embarrass and hurt you. They could even ruin your life by killing your dreams.
 You don't need Aids or babies right now. This is your time to shine. Why tie yourself down with a premature family? Focus on you. The family comes later.
 If you don't have any interests, or lack suitable goals, now is the time to cultivate some. Sign up for everything to find your niche. Community Centers and free events are the perfect place to start because they are cheap and accessible.
 Your first impression really does count. Make it a good one. "People Watch" for just one day and you will notice how very little etiquette matters to the general masses anymore. That puts you in the small percentage that will be noticed for a good reason.
 Juggling school and work with your family life isn't easy but at least pick up after yourself, throw out the trash and make your bed. A sanitary and dust free home are always necessary for health reasons.
 You never know when an opportunity will present itself and you will need to be prepared. Always have some beverages and snacks available. This is part of the etiquette we spoke of before.
 Have a theme room or a basic concept for your house. Try basic color schemes without too much fuss. A few collectibles are nice, a few hundred are not.
 A lady doesn't sleep on the floor or sit on milk crate couches. The Goodwill and yard sales have decent things when you are on a budget.

Curtains, rugs, and pictures will turn even the humblest apartment or dormitory into a cozy home. Try to keep it simple with pieces that will grow with you.

