



Abasha: they are often rebellious and don't like looking girly, they are often mistaken for little princes both proper and edgy. Most will be seen being one of the guys almost refusing to do anything that will make them seem girly

Amahle: is very sweet. These girls believe in looking like a doll to the very letter. They draw the most inspiration from the Ulzzang style, and are most likely wear circle lenses to appear doll like. The makeup is usually very subtle on a daily bases. They also draw inspiration from Lolita styles, as well as Hime-kaji and slight hints of Decora. They love anything cute.

Bachiko: a more extreme form of Udoli for those uphold the idea of a wealthy Appearance . They often use bronzer in order to add a natural glow to their skin. They also have very Dollie looking eyes. They draw inspiration from Gyaru, more specifically the Serebu, Hime-Kaji, and Onee Gal styles.

Intombi: extremely sweet and often very hyper and bubbly, they are girly girls they enjoy numerous stuffed animals and may seem a little Naive by nature. They practice being elegant and retaining a cute appearance. The more frills the better.

Itshitshi: the younger sister to Bachiko, they keep up with the latest trends, and follow their elder counter parts upholding a wealthy more sophisticated look.

Lulamtoti: an Udoli that has a very simple and sweet style, they are more laid back with their fashion yet still retain the look of a doll. The follow the Ulzzang style more closely than the Amahle. They accent their styles with elegant little hints of jewelry and look their best. Makeup is very simple and usually takes little time to do

Mandla: an edgier Udoli, and draw the least inspiration from Ulzzang, they love music and draw most of their inspiration, from Visual Kei and Punk Lolita styles. They love using leather or metal in their outfits. Makeup tends to be dark and sometimes a little heavy

Sha Usisi: they are just as laid back as their elder sister if not more. As they get older, they learn to have a more pulled together look instead of just random, but they make sure they are comfortable

Singamoya: light and breezy. These Udoli are just as easy going as Lula. They're style is influenced by tropical colors. Hair is usually in more natural style, and often little to no makeup is worn. they also have a tendency to use natural materials as well (flowers, beads, shells, bugs, hemp jewelry). the influences of singamoya are hippies and the bohemian.

Xuba: these Udoli break the rules and mix two or more of the styles and make it fierce. Edgy, stylish and oh so adorable but they make it look so effortless. They draw inspiration from every where, although it would seem they get inspiration from Decora, but it is actually more influenced by Fairy Kei, and Ulzzang fashion.;
,,,, and post your image in the photo album.
 Enter the contests here on Myspace: https://www.myspace.com/481810259

