 Choose the credit card that fits your needs. Since you are transitioning from a secured card, you may be limited based on your credit score. If your score is above 700, you will likely qualify for most credit cards available in the market. If your score is less than 700, you may have to search to find a card that doesn’t charge annual fees or have a high interest rate.


Generally the best credit cards are those that earn cash rewards as you use them, called cash back cards. Cash back cards often provide options on how to redeem your points, including cash, but also including options like gift cards or travel rewards. These cash back cards generally provide more value than other rewards cards.Some department stores, like WalMart, issue no fee credit cards that can be used at other stores, and will often lend to consumers with low credit scores.This may be a good option if you’re still not qualifying for general cash back cards.
Because your credit score is based partially on your approved credit limit, closing your secured card before opening a new card can lower your credit score and affect your ability to open the new card. You should start by choosing the unsecured credit card you want to use, and close your secured account after the new one is open.
 Fill out an application for the card you want to use. To do this you will need your social security number, address, phone number, and date of birth. Once you are approved, the new lender will send you your card in the mail, and you should activate it by calling the number provided along with the new card. Make a purchase on your new card to make sure it is working before you close your secured card.


If you apply for a card and are not approved, the lender will send you details about why you weren't approved for the card, including your credit score. Read this information carefully, and consider whether you should wait and continue using your secured credit card until your score is stronger.
 Remember not to close your secured card until you have been approved for your new card and have received and activated it. Once this is done, you can close your secured card by calling the phone number on the back of your secured credit card, and asking to close your account. If you have an outstanding balance on the card, you can ask the lender to take the outstanding balance out of your deposit before paying the deposit back to you.


Your secured card lender may ask you to stay, and you should consider this option. If your goal is to increase your credit score, having two cards won’t hurt, and using only a small portion of the amount for which you are approved will increase your score. However, since you’ve already been approved for an unsecured card, tell your secured card bank that you no longer want to use secured cards. Ask what options they have for transitioning your secured card to an unsecured card, and make sure to avoid transitioning to a card that has annual fees.
Once you close your secured card, the lender will likely hold onto your deposit for an additional 30 – 90 days to make sure no extra charges come in on your account. Once the waiting period is over, they will pay you your deposit back. Make sure when you close your card you ask about the timeline for getting your deposit back, and give up to date information on your address or bank account, to get your deposit back smoothly.
When you have received your deposit back and know your account is closed, cut up your old credit card and throw it away. This will ensure you never accidentally try to use your closed credit card, and that no one can steal it and try to reactivate your account.
 You should keep improving your credit by using your new unsecured card responsibly, in the same way you did your secured card. Remember to always make payments on time, and only use a small portion of your approved credit line. You should aim to use about 20% of your approved credit limit, and never use more than ⅓ to keep your credit score from dropping.

