 The role of water in biological systems of the human body, as well as in other organisms, is similar in its function. Also in non-biological systems, the role of water is also similar with minor differences. Due to its unique chemical structure and the huge resources of this compound, it functions in the body as a medium in which all other compounds in the body are dissolved. This is important for several reasons:


One reason is the ability of the water medium in the body through its continuous movement between the different parts of the body tissues to transport important molecules to needy tissues such as nutrients and oxygen. The mechanism of exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the lung is possible due to this transport system that involves the water medium. Also, many other important compounds in the body are shifted from one place to another by the assistance of the continuous movement of the blood in the arteries.

Examples include the transport of the hormonal system in the body which is mainly done by traveling in the blood stream. Also, cells of the immune system in the case of inflammation are able to migrate to the site of inflammation by traveling in the blood stream. All these show the important function of water as a solvent for most molecules in the body. The continuous movement of water in the arteries is possible due to the efficient process of blood pumping in the heart. Compounds that are usually not soluble in water by itself become soluble by binding to carrier molecules in the body such as proteins.
Examples include lipids that are normally insoluble in the blood medium. They become soluble in water by binding to special type of proteins that can increase their solubility in the blood. Cells by them are not water soluble otherwise our life would be terminated by the effect of dissolution of the body tissues.

;
, Inside the cellular environment water also has the distinct function of solubilizing the compounds inside the cells. The amount of water inside the cell is carefully monitored and controlled. Any change in the amount of water inside the cell can harm the cell and cause its death. The mechanism that controls the amount of water in the various compartments of the body is mediated by the phenomenon of osmosis. This phenomenon is characteristic of all biological systems and is dependent on the degree of salts concentration in the cell and out of it which is called degree of osmolality.


The osmolality degree inside and outside the cell will dictate the direction of movement of water between the two sides of the cell. Osmosis is a very important process that can maintain homeostasis in the body by preventing cellular death. Too small amount of water inside the cell can lead to its shrinkage and subsequently its death. Analogously, too high water content inside the cell can cause its rupture and death. For these reasons patients that are severely dehydrated are not treated with infusion that is of pure water but instead they are infused with saline water that has similar concentration to that of the blood. This is so in order to prevent the movement of water in and out of the cell.
 Due to all these important functions, biological systems in the human body use special forms of mechanisms in order to monitor and control the amount of water in the body in general and in the cells and the body compartments in particular. These mechanisms involve in most cases hormonal molecules that can affect the amount of water in the body by either inducing its diuresis in the urine in the case of high level of water in the blood or through inducing its retention as occurs in a state of low blood volume or shock. These two basic hormonal functions are mediated by receptors at the surface of the kidney cells that respond to the amount of the specific hormone in the blood.


There are several hormones that have effect on the water level in the body and on the blood pressure in particular. Pharmacological drugs that are called diuretics are drugs for the treatment of excess water in the body. Other drugs are designed the opposite way to retain water in the body. These drugs usually agonize or antagonize the effect of the particular hormone.
 Water function as a medium for solvating macromolecules in the body is not restricted to biological systems. It is also used for other purposes such as to dissolve electrolytes in chemical reactions. Also, water is being used nowadays extensively as a solvent for carrying chemical reactions instead of volatile organic solvents that can be harmful to the person that is using them.

