 People with SAD will begin worrying about a speech they have to give or social event they are attending weeks before the actual event occurs. This worrying can cause digestive problems, like a loss of appetite, and problems with sleeping. While it is normal to get nervous the day or morning before a speech, it is generally a sign of SAD if you are nervous for weeks before the event.For example, if you have a speech coming up in two weeks and you’ve already written out what you’re going to say, you should feel pretty prepared. However, someone with SAD might be kept up at night worrying about the presentation for the whole two weeks before he actually has to give it.
 A common sign of social anxiety is an unwillingness to participate in class or during meetings. This means not raising your hand to ask or answer a question, or choosing to work on an individual project rather than a group one. People with SAD will often avoid working in groups because they become too concerned about what their team members think of them.For example, if you avoid raising your hand to ask a question in class, even if you don’t understand the material, this could be a sign of social anxiety.
 People with SAD often display physical, as well as emotional, symptoms of anxiety. These physical symptoms can include blushing, sweating, trembling, shortness of breath, and numbness.For example, if you get called on in class and know the answer, but instead of answering you blush, begin to sweat, can’t seem to breathe, you may have social anxiety.
 People with SAD will often change their opinions so that they do not have to justify their thoughts by speaking out loud. They want to avoid feeling alienated or questioned at all costs.


For example, imagine you are working on a group project and someone suggests an idea, but you have a better one. You may choose to go with the other person’s less efficient idea simply because you don’t want to be put on the spot and have to explain your idea.
 People with SAD will go out of their way to avoid giving presentations, speeches, and other public speaking instances where all eyes will be on them. Consider how you feel about public speaking and how often you have gone out of your way to avoid it.In these instances, you may be thinking: what if I forget what I have prepared? What if I stop in the middle? What if my mind goes blank during the session? What will everybody think? Everybody will laugh at me. I will be making a fool of myself.

