 The best images are those that have fewer interlocking lines and features; these ensure that the stencil is not difficult to make or cut.









Look online. Use a search engine, especially one able to search by images. Search for the type of décor or image you would like to transform into a stencil.
 Try several versions, keeping in mind that stencils will need to have some space between the interconnected lines., After saving it to your computer, print it in the size you would like to see on your wall or project.









Most printing screens allow you the option to change the size of your image on the page. You can also open the image file in Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator to change the image size in the file.










Some decorators suggest you practice with the paint colors you plan to use before you place the stencil on the wall or another surface. Use colored markers to paint in a copy of your image.
 Make new lines on the paper where you want the lines to be disconnected, allowing the stencil to hold together during your project.
 Large clear or opaque folders will create a sturdy stencil that can be used repeatedly. Transparencies are slightly more flimsy.









Craft stores sell stencil blanks. These are ready for drawing on and cutting out shapes inside a defined area. They can be easier to use.
 Choose a craft knife that has a pencil grip over a box cutter with a razor edge, because it will be easier to cut out intricate designs.
 Place a thick sheet of corrugated cardboard or a cutting board onto a flat table.
 Use masking tape so that it will be easy to remove.
 You do not want the image or the plastic to move during this process.









If you bought a plastic folder, you will need to cut the front and back apart with a pair of sharp scissors. You can use the sides to make 2 different stencils.
 Use the fine-tipped permanent marker so that it does not smudge off.









Start from the top and work your way down. The marker needs a little while to dry before you wipe your hand over it, or it will smudge.
Ensure you change the design as needed with your hand drawn intersections.










You can remove the paper underneath or leave it in place.
 Make sure all the lines are very smooth, so that the paint will look even when you use the stencil.
,,,