 Take a close look all over your body, paying special attention to the places that rest against a bed or wheelchair. Use a mirror or ask someone to help you look at your backside, which may be hard to see yourself.Also check for skin that is tough to the touch.;
, If the bedsore is bleeding or seeping fluid from it, you may have fairly serious bedsores and need to consult a doctor immediately to prevent further damage and to manage pain.An offensive odor may indicate infection in the wound, in which case you should see a doctor immediately.
 Before visiting the doctor, you should be prepared with answers to a variety of questions you may be asked.Questions might include:


How long has the skin discoloration been present?
How painful is your skin in these areas?
Have you had a recurring fever?
Have you had bedsores before?
How frequently are you changing positions or moving around?
What is your diet like?
How much water do you drink every day?

, The doctor will ask you questions about your health, the nature of the sore areas, your diet and other topics. They will also conduct a physical examination, looking at your body and paying close attention to areas that are noticeably sore, discolored or tough to the touch. They may also take urine and blood samples to rule out particular conditions and to assess your overall health., There are 4 stages into which bedsores can be categorized. Stages I and II are less serious and can be treated and healed. Stages III and IV require medical intervention and possibly surgery to treat properly.Stage I: The skin has some level of discoloration but there is no open wound. For lighter complexions, the skin may look red; for darker complexions, the skin may look blue, purple or even white.

Stage II: There is an open wound that is still shallow. The edges of the wound are infected or have dead tissue.

Stage III: The wound is wide open and deep. It extends below the top layer of skin into the fat tissue layers. It may have fluid or pus in the wound.

Stage IV: The wound is large, affecting several layers of skin tissue. Muscle or bone may be exposed, and there may be eschar, which is a dark substance that indicates necrotic (dead) tissue.

