 You'll see the MSQRD camera screen appear once the app loads.;
, Your face will need to be inside of this outline in order for the effect to work. Try to use MSQRD in a well-lit room., This can help in a darker room, or darken a picture that's too bright. Keep tapping until you find the brightness you want.
 Each time you swipe, you'll see a different effect. Depending on your device, you can also tap the previews at the bottom of the screen to select an effect directly.
 Some effects will have an action printed at the bottom of the screen, such as "Open Your Mouth." Performing this action will change or activate the selected effect.
 The effect will only stay applied if your face is inside the outline. You can turn your head and the effect will turn with it, as long as you keep it lined up.
 Once you've found the effect you want to use, tap the button at the bottom to take a picture or start recording a video. you can switch between modes by tapping the button next to the camera.


If you're recording a video, press the button again to stop recording.
 The picture or video you take will be immediately saved to your device, and a menu will appear with some social media sharing options. Tap one to share directly to that service, or tap the Share button to select an app on your phone to share the picture or video to.
 As soon as you take the picture or finish recording the video, it will be saved to your device. You can find it in the Photos or Gallery app on your phone. From there you can edit and share it however you'd like.
 The Face Swap effect will take your face and put it on your friend's head, and vice versa. The MSQRD face swap effect requires both of your to be next to each, and it can't load faces from pictures stored on your device. You can find the Face Swap effect right after the featured effects.


Once you select the Face Swap effect, line up each of your faces in the outline on the screen. Once both of your faces are lined up, they'll be swapped automatically. You can move your head around as long as you keep it inside of the outline.
 MSQRD often adds new effects for pop culture releases, such as a Daredevil effect for the latest season on Netflix. Check back often and you may come across an effect from your favorite franchise. Featured effects can usually be found towards the beginning of the list.
 MSQRD updates the available effects on a regular basis. Check back often for new filters to use.If you're using an iPhone, you can tap the Menu button (☰) and toggle "Notify about new effects" on. You'll receive an app notification whenever a new effect is added. Notifications are not yet available for Android.

