 You can use photo editing software like Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator to create the image for your favicon. These software applications also allow you to resize and export the image in the right format. Some software allows you to create your favicon by hand.

There are also favicon specific editing programs that you can find online.
Use a search engine and type in "favicon editors."
Make your canvas size 512x512 pixels because this number breaks down to most applicable favicon sizes and is still big enough for you to edit effectively.Other popular photo editing software includes GIMP, PhotoScape, and Paint.NET.When using this software, you won't be able to edit the .ico files directly, but you can use .png, .jpg, or .gif files and then convert them later.
 32x32 px is the size of Windows desktop items while 16x16 px is the size of favicons in your browser's tab.After you create your favicon in a larger format, it's important to reduce its size so you can see how it will look in people's browsers. If it is unreadable or not aesthetically pleasing, start over on your original design. Think about the platforms that your website or application is most likely going to be used on and then create a favicon to cover all your bases.

It's important to note that different hardware and software utilizes different favicon sizes.
Some other favicon sizes include 57x57px for the standard iOS home screen, 72x72px for the iPad, 96x96px for Google TV, 128x128px for the Chrome Web Store and 195x195px for the Opera Speed Dial.If you want to cover all your bases you can create versions of your favicon in each of these sizes.
Save separate versions of your favicon, so you don't lose the work you've done.
 The great thing about .ico files is that you can combine more than one file to create it. This is useful because different browsers and software will want a different sized favicon. To make sure your favicon looks good across all different platforms, convert your files using an online converter. Type "icon converter" into your favorite search engine to find free online applications to do this. Save the merged file as "favicon.ico."

You can also use a program like GIMP that has a built in feature, or download a plugin called ICO FORMAT to Adobe Photoshop.Create a new folder so you can store new favicons or works in progress.
Type ".ico converter" or "favicon generator" in a search engine to find different tools you can use.

