 Children can already understand some instructions, as early as when they are 2 or 3 years of age. Giving a little work to do will make him or her learn to obey and follow instructions. Remember, this is not to make your child feel tired or sad. It is good for your child when he or she starts learning to know that helping out is a good thing to do. Example of a chore: ask your child to help tidy up the mess he or she made while playing.;
, Tell them that they have done a good job afterward. Say words like Good, or Brilliant after they have done what you ask them to do. This will make them feel appreciated and acknowledged after they have done something good. Always try to avoid negative words. If your child fails to do something, tell him or her that it is okay and that he can do better next time. Always remember to avoid negative remarks.
 Always say “Please” and “Thank You” where necessary. Another phrase is "I’m sorry" when he or she does something wrong. If you always practice this yourself, your child will imitate these habits. They will learn to copy what we do to them and what we do among ourselves as adults. Establishing a connection between their apology and the reason they are apologizing also helps build empathy, which is vital in good communication and interaction. You can do this by bringing their attention to the subject of their apology. You can tell them: "Do you see how sad you made your friend feel?" instead of just "Say sorry."

, Get them to say what they feel about anything. Have them confide their feelings about anything, by observing their reactions to the world around them and letting them know that you are open to their thoughts and feelings on any subject. They will learn to express themselves better. This practice is very good because you do not want them to keep their frustrations to themselves. This way, as an adult, you can learn to understand and handle your children better.
 This is a way to break their anxiety and nervousness around people. Start with small groups. Your child will also learn to share things among friends. He/she will learn to understand that sharing is a good value and children can only understand and appreciate it with other friends.

