 When grandparents live far away from their grandchildren, it can be difficult to bond. Planning regular visits can make bonding easier, even if it’s only possible a few times each year. Take the time to have a conversation with your kids’ grandparents about the importance of seeing each other as much as possible. Plan a visit or two in the near future where your kids can have some important face-to-face time with their grandparents.Try saying, “Mom, it is really important to me that you get to spend time with the kids. Would you like to plan on spending several holidays together this year?”

, There are endless opportunities for your kids to connect with their grandparents using technology. From a face time conversation on your smart phone to playing games together on the Internet, kids can bond with their grandparents using a variety of technologies. Try setting up regular Skype dates with your kids’ grandparents, or ask them to set up a Snap Chat account to share silly pictures.Encourage your kids to teach un-tech-savvy grandparents how to use certain technologies.
Ask your kids’ grandparents to post photos on social media and make sure you share photos of your family as well.
 Snail mail is a great way to encourage bonding between long-distance grandparents and your children. Have your kids write a letter to Grandma and send her a package filled with stationary, stamps, and pre-addressed letters to your kids. She likely be excited to start writing regularly to her new pen pals.Encourage your kids to send a postcard to Grandma saying, “Hi Grandma! I’m looking for a pen pal. Do you want to send letters to each other this winter?”

, It may be hard grandparents to get details about your child’s accomplishments and milestones by speaking with them, so you may need to update them on these things.


Try sharing your child’s accomplishments, milestones, and other significant information with the grandparents after your child has finished speaking with them. For example, if your child recently won an award at school, then you might share this information after your child finishes having face time with the grandparents.

