 Unlike many European cities, there are still fairly cheap accommodations, restaurants and attractions inside the city. Spend time walking the city to enjoy its history and modern culture. Public Transport is very cheap, and with a go-as-you-please ticket you can use all subwaylines, buses, tramways and suburban-trains quite around the clock. Self-accomodation at daytime is quite cheap, when buying German delis in the nationalwide known discounters incl. fresh warm cakes and ice-cream delis in a 1,50 USD range for 2-3 portions. Near Berlin is a new wine producing area with wine - tasting events all over the year : affordable and always in good spirits.;
, Romania, Hungary, Slovenia and Turkey offer history, sun and wonderful cultural experiences. Many of these countries have recently adopted the Euro but are still more affordable than France, Spain or England.. The comfort is much lower in common than in the Western countries. Be alert due to petty criminal acts , more common than in the West.
 Finding an apartment in the Cotswolds or the Lake District can afford you adventure, hiking and relaxation for far less than a city center hotel.
 This is an ideal destination for bikers and wine-lovers because its beautiful scenery makes both very popular.
 Stay on the mainland instead of a more expensive island. You can often catch ferries for a very low price, instead of renting boats.
 If you like the idea of group travel, don't assume that packages are more expensive. Tour companies get bulk discounts, so they can still make a profit and cost less.


GoToday and Tour Crafters are good places to start looking. Some tour companies also let you book your own flights and then provide all the services in Europe. Make sure to factor in spending money, meals and tips with your tours. When travelling in a small goup, renting a microbus can be an affordable option. The Eastern German federal counties of Thuringia, Saxony and the rest can be better travelled by car. Accomodation is mostly cheaper than in the other federal counties . Visiting Franconia (NE Bavaria with several hundred familiy breweries and big-sized dishes are waiting for You.
 Fiddle with the different options as well. You can often undergo a long layover and shave hundreds of dollars off your ticket price.
 Then, once you arrive, book tickets on low-cost travel airlines, like EasyJet or RyanAir, to other European destinations. This is the best option if you are traveling very light with carry-ons, because you can avoid lost luggage and extra baggage charges.
 A short-term lease of a small car can cost less than a rental car.
 Aim for booking 1 month in advance, or at least 3 days in advance if you are on a shorter time line. TGV, BritRail and other train tickets are often half the price a month before.
 Train tickets are more expensive during commuting times and you will end up spending more money on gas if you are stuck in traffic jams in a rental car. Use your flexible vacation time to travel mid-day or during the late-evening or night.
 If you can sleep easily in transport, then you will save money on an overnight stay and arrive more quickly at your destination. Make sure to book all overnight trains or flights at least 1 month in advance.
 Buses and trains are likely to be far cheaper than rental cars and taxis. If you are staying in a city for a few days, get rid of a rental car, buy a pass, such as London's Oyster Card, and figure out the transportation system.
 If you are planning on seeing some main attractions, as listed on the pass, and buying a transportation pass, then a city pass is likely to be a better deal. Compare the list of included attractions and services carefully and add them up to ensure you are getting a good deal.
 If you bike in your home country, then research bike rentals, such as Roue Libre in France. Many large European cities are now renting thousands of bikes each day that you can pick up and leave at other locations.


Many of these rental stations require that you use a card with a smart chip in it. American Express cards work this way, but many other non-European cards do not. Research payment methods before you arrive.
 Look into hostels, agritourism farm stays, cottages, bed and breakfasts, apartment rentals, convents, castles and camping. Compare prices and you are far more likely to find a cheaper option in the area, than a traditional hotel.
 Find a reputable website and look for a person who needs someone to take care of their house. You can also arrange for someone to stay at your house while you stay in their house in Europe.


Start this process well in advance of your stay. A good house sitting profile can take a few years to build up. However, successful house sitters often stay at a European house free of charge. Finding a house trade can also take 6 months to a year.
 These are available through Orbitz and Expedia, but other versions without airfare are also available at vacations.easyjet.com and visitlondon.com. If you are planning on staying in hotels, then you are likely to find a good deal on a number of services by booking a package in advance.
 Many European countries, like England, France and Italy, do not require an entrance fee for cathedrals and museums. Chances are you can find a list of free attractions that is long enough that you won't be able to see them all during your time in the country.
 This office is similar to a chamber of commerce or visitor's center. They often hand out maps, discounts on public transportation and attractions, and they give you helpful tips.
 Whether you go to a fancy restaurant or a corner bistro, dining out will be inherently more expensive that making food yourself. If you don't have a kitchenette or refrigerator in your room, then embrace the picnic and buy freshly made bread, local cheese and meats, fruits and vegetables from a farmer's market and bottles of wine or water from a corner store.


Spread a blanket in a park for lunch and dinner. Although it may not seem like a local meal, eating fresh, local foods will be a more authentic taste of what Europeans eat. Buy granola and acquire fresh milk or yogurt every morning and eat your breakfast in your room.
 Most restaurants, expensive and low-cost, feature similar fare for half the price at lunch. Dress up and go to a fancy lunch, and then pick up a picnic for dinner.
 These places serve local cuisine that is less expensive than their fancier alternatives. In fact, some tapas bars serve appetizers for free to encourage people to stay and drink, so choose your bars accordingly.
 Prices are usually a few Euros more in the most convenient and popular places. Do a little extra walking to find an authentic place that offers average prices.

