 Two or three meals a day is better for your Basset Hound’s digestion than one large meal. Leaving food at all times can lead to obesity. Consult your vet about how often and how much food is best for your dog’s age and activity level.Maintaining a healthy diet and weight will help prevent many potential problems, such as spine and leg problems.
 Due to their breeding, Basset Hounds are prone to several health issues, including hip, leg, back, thyroid, and eye problems. Knowing if its parents were screened for or had any genetic disorders or developed breed specific issues will help you keep your dog healthy. Keeping weight off and getting proper exercise are key to maintaining its health.Ask the breeder or shelter where you got your dog if its parents’ health records are available, preferably prior to purchasing or adopting.
 A vet exam at least once a year is key to caring for your Basset Hound. Your dog’s vet will screen it for possible inherited disorders, They will also make sure your dog is up to date with its vaccinations, help you maintain its weight, and check its hips and legs for any issues.Discuss your dog’s level of activity and age with your vet in order to decide how to maintain a healthy weight.
Ask your vet about flea and tick treatment for your location.
 Basset Hounds are also at a higher risk of bloat, which is when their stomach expands with gas, causing discomfort. Sometimes the gas-filled stomach can twist, which cuts off the blood flow to your dog's internal organs and causes their system to fail. Preventing obesity and avoiding feeding your dog one large meal a day can help prevent the condition. If you spot symptoms of bloat, take your dog to the vet immediately for emergency care.Be aware of signs of bloat such as anxious pacing, restlessness, dry heaving or inability to vomit, and stomach swelling.
 Basset Hounds are at a high risk for developing IVDD, which is a condition where the discs between the bones in the dog's spine rupture and impinge on the spinal cord. Signs of IVDD include changes in gait, weakness in the limbs, paralysis, and back pain. IVDD can be a surgical emergency, so get your dog help immediately if you suspect it.

Watch your dog walk to see if its gait is off.
Notice if your dog has trouble standing or cannot stand for long.
Get immediate help if you notice signs of paralysis or back pain.
 Basset Hounds are prone to developing hip and elbow dysplasia, as well as other leg and joint issues. Be on the lookout for symptoms such as limping and loss of thigh muscle mass.


Knowing if either of your dog’s parents developed any breed specific issues will help you and your dog’s vet maintain its health.Keeping an eye on your dog’s weight, avoiding overfeeding, and giving it regular exercise will help prevent or manage orthopedic problems.
Be aware that dogs can develop hip and elbow dysplasia at any point in its lifespan, including as a puppy.
 Since yeast and bacteria commonly grow in between a Basset Hound's skin folds, the breed is prone to skin and ear infections. After walks, inspect your dog's folds and ears for foreign bodies, such as mites, dirt, grease, or other buildup. In addition to daily spot checks, thoroughly clean these areas two or three times a week to avoid infection.Skin lesions or cankers are easy to find, but it can be tricky to spot the signs of ear infection. Notice if your dog shakes its head more than usual or seems like it's trying to remove something from its ear canal. You may also notice a musty or foul odor in your dog's ear. Check the inner ear for redness or a discharge, usually dark brown to black or yellowish-brown in color.
Take your dog to the vet for a more accurate diagnosis and, if necessary, prescription medication if you spot a skin or ear infection.

