 Studies have shown that eating from a smaller plate tricks your brain into thinking you have a bigger meal to consume. A bigger plate will allow us to eat more; and we can easily underestimate the calories in our over-sized portions.
 It is a known fact that it can take your body up to 20 minutes to register that you had enough to eat. Rushing down your meal will only have you reaching for that second helping in no time., Consuming plenty of water and herbal tea will help keep you satisfied throughout the day. Staying hydrated will prevent you from eating when you are not actually hungry, since hunger is very easily confused with thirst., Filling up on lightly dressed salads or a bowl of vegetables or low fat chicken soup before main meals is an effective way to keep you from overeating. The fiber in the vegetables will help to curb your appetite and leave you feeling satisfied sooner. Try combining a salad as a starter and a nourishing soup as your main meal., We all have foods that are simply too irresistible to avoid. Whatever your temptation, it’s very important for you to occasionally treat yourself. However, try to limit this to once a week. These days there are a lot of products that come in bite-sizes, so it’s best to indulge in one of these small servings when needed., Eating at a restaurant does not mean you should consume the largest portion available. Rather share a meal with your dining partner, or try ordering a starter meal as your main meal. You can also order a half portion or a children’s portion. Although not all restaurants will charge less for half portions, your waistline will thank you later., Have you ever noticed how you tend to eat more when you are tired? We use food – especially carbohydrates – to deal with energy slumps and while you might get a quick burst of energy, this will soon fade. Being well rested will keep that “afternoon slump” at bay and keep you away from temptation. Studies also indicate that fatigue stimulates the production of the hunger inducing hormone, Ghrelin in the human body. If you tend to eat when you are not hungry, try doing something to distract you from the temptation to eat., Writing down when, what, where and why you eat will make you aware of the foods you consume and the amount. This will help you to identify the times you eat too much and why, so that you can adjust your diet accordingly. You can also rotate your food schedules each week to break up the monotony.