 This is so crucial, whether you’re working with a large or small bust. If your bra is too small you’ll be squishing your breasts, and if it’s too large, you won’t be supporting them. To really accentuate your bust you should wear a push-up bra, which will lift your breasts and create some intense cleavage. Girls with naturally small busts should choose push-up bras with extra padding as well, to increase the overall size.If you can, go to a lingerie store to get fitted for a bra by a professional.
You can also measure yourself with a simple tape measure, using these techniques.

Make sure you replace your bras regularly. Daily wear and tear will gradually loosen up the straps, band, and underwire, decreasing the lift and support you need.;
, Keep in mind that dark colors are slimming, but also bust-minimizing! Colorful shirts can be the perfect pop to accentuate your chest. Showing off some skin can achieve the same effect— choose items that show off your shoulders and arms to highlight your upper body.Additionally, don’t shy away from tight shirts. Baggy shirts can make your chest look dumpy. Tight shirts will hug your chest, regardless of size, which will emphasize your curves.No matter what your bra size, drawing the eyes to your chest in any way will make you appear more busty.
 A plunging neckline, like a deep V-neck or scoop neck, is perfect for showing off the cleavage created by a perfect push-up bra.A sweetheart neckline is a fabulous neckline for both small and large breasts, because the curve of the neckline accentuates the natural bust line, while showing skin to draw attention to the area.If you really want to embrace the curvy look, don’t be afraid to show some skin.


When it comes to both style and neckline of shirts, you have to be able to wear it with confidence. The perfect color and cut won't mean anything if you are hunched over, self-consciously tugging at your clothing. Choose something that makes you feel sexy and self-assured, first and foremost.
 To do this, you’ll need a dark powder, preferably a bronzer, and a light face powder or eye shadow. Apply the dark color down the center between your breasts, blending it upwards along the top curve of your breasts. Apply the lighter powder on the top half of your breasts.The goal of this is to imitate or enhance the shadows created by generous cleavage.
It’s best to do this once you’re already dressed. Just make sure to protect your clothing with tissue!

, It may seem obvious, but standing up straight and tall is the simplest trick in the book to accentuate your bust. Your breasts will appear larger and perkier, and you'll also appear more poised overall. Try to pay attention to your posture, and train yourself to straighten your back when you find yourself hunching.Look in the mirror while you are hunching and then while you are stranding up straight. See a difference? That's your motivation to work on your posture!

, If you don’t feel comfortable wearing clothing that’s skintight everywhere, choose outfits that are at least formfitting at your natural waist. This will make your waist look smaller, thus making your curves above and below your waist look larger by comparison.Avoid “potato sack” clothing. If the fabric doesn’t define your waist, you run the risk of looking straight and boyish.
Fit and flare dresses are great for accentuating the waist, as well wrap dresses, peplum tops, pencil skirts, and high-waisted pieces., One simple belt can make a huge change in your silhouette. By marking your waistline with a thin belt or sash, you will can create an hourglass shape even in the baggiest of clothing. Use this trick to make any shapeless dress more flattering.Tucking your shirt in at the waist will also help to show off your waist, helping to accentuate your curves.
Another cute and easy way to accentuate your waist is to tie a shirt around it. You'll look effortlessly casual and curvy at the same time., Specifically, look for clothing that has a block of color down the middle, with different colors on the sides. When others see you, their eyes will be drawn to the middle color. The colors on the sides will be less noticeable. This will accentuate your waist by making it appear tinier, only the size of that middle block of color.Colorblock clothing works as an optical illusion to give your body that extra va-va-voom!

, Regardless of your size, wearing shapewear under your clothing can make your normal clothing even more flattering. Shapewear is usually made of spandex, which will smooth out the midsection to highlight your waist. In a way, shapewear “sucks everything in” so that you have curves in all the right places!Shapewear comes in all styles and colors, so you can find something that fits seamlessly under any outfit.
 If you wear fabric with no stretch, you run the risk of squishing your assets. This is exactly what you do not want to do. Find clothing that doesn’t flatten your curves, but rather lifts and accentuates them.Look for jeans that contain Spandex or Lycra. This stretch denim looks no different than regular denim, but will hug your body tighter while being flexible.Tight, stretchy clothing will draw eyes to your butt, and you don't want a glaring panty line distracting from your curves. Make sure you wear the proper underwear for whatever outfit you are wearing.
Tumble dry stretchy clothing. The heat will help the fabric retain the stretch it may have lost during wear., If you're wearing shorts, a skirt, or a dress, raise the hemline. When you show more leg, eyes will automatically be drawn to your butt. When you’re looking to accentuate your curves, this is perfect.If you don’t choose to show leg, strategically showing a bit of skin above the waist will achieve the same goal. Look cropped shirts or pieces with sexy cut-outs near the waistline.Show the areas that you feel confident showing. If you love your back, don a backless top. If you love your muscular legs, a mini skirt is perfect. Any bare skin near your booty will help you accentuate it, so choose clothing that makes you feel sexy.
 Wearing high heel actually raises the booty by around twenty to thirty degrees.This change in angle makes your figure appear more youthful and curvier. Heels also lengthen your legs, and this will draw eyes to your legs and butt.


Wearing heels may take some practice. To walk naturally, focus on putting your heel down first, then your toe., Even if you think you’re lacking in the booty department, don’t be tempted to hide it in loose clothing. Clothes that hug the curves you do have are your best bet for dressing for a curvaceous look. Wear clothes with confidence and embrace the body you’ve got!Pay attention to your body language. Stand tall, and walk in to every room like you own it. Flaunt whatever curves you have, and they are sure to be noticed.

