 You'll need this container to be large enough so that when it is filled with water your terra cotta pot will be completely submerged. Soaking the pot in water will make it less brittle, and allow you to shape the breaks in it with greater precision.


Depending on your pot, your soak time will vary. Thicker pots may need to be soaked for a few hours. Thinner pots will likely only need a 30 minutes to an hour soak., Remove your pot from the water filled container. Much like perforated paper is easier to tear cleanly, you'll be drilling holes to guide where your pot will break. Use your craft or power drill and a drill bit to drill holes ½-inch apart along your planned break-line.You may want to use a piece of chalk to outline where you plan on breaking your pot. This way, you can follow the outline when drilling.
For terra cotta that's especially thick or sturdy, you may want to drill your holes with only ¼-inch separating each hole.
You can create breaks in your terra cotta pot in any shape you desire. For example, you might make a V-shaped break from the mouth of your pot down to the bottom, or you might try to make a diamond shape.
 Before breaking your pot, put on safety glasses to protect your eyes. Hit your terra cotta pot to the inside of your break-line with your hammer. Use firm, medium force strikes. Your pot should break along the break-line. Try to break your pot so that you have at least one large potsherd.Try to create few smaller pieces of potsherd along with the large one. Smaller pieces, stacked ascending on sloping soil, will give the appearance of tiny stairways, with each small potsherd forming a single step.
If your pot broke so that there is only one big piece, take your drill and drill holes to create a break-line to remove the upper left or right corner from your largest potsherd. Hit the potsherd with your hammer so that it breaks the corner piece off.
It is not necessary to remove a corner piece from your largest potsherd. However, doing so will allow you to stack small potsherds on soil sloping up to the corner gap. This will create a "stairway" up through the gap that leads to the central, unbroken part of the pot.

