 Do several of these optional changes for a kind of little changes for a larger makeover, perhaps, into a new slimmer life/lifestyle, based upon just a few-new-styles of eating.



Meal skippers -- Don't do it; you will become hungry; eat 3 or 4 medium sized meals each day;
Nonstop nibblers -- nibble slices of veggies and fruit, and you won't get so hungry;
Liquid-calorie lovers -- drink vegetable juice "not sugar added" and cut out sugary soft drinks;
Emotional eaters -- If you eat to celebrate or to compensate for feeling tired or bored, then eat veggies, salads and lean proteins instead of chips or sweets;
Junk-food junkies -- Avoid tantalizing yourself and satisfy your cravings with good foods. Eat veggies, yogurt or sour cream dips, walnuts, have several bites of something satisfying, but not anything in the junk food world.
Absent-minded -- Write how much and what you eat in a "Food Diary".
Gobblers -- Eat more slowly, be more satisfied. It takes up to 20 minutes for "I'm satisfied." to kick in, so hold it down.
Burning-out -- Go to bed an hour earlier and avoid the "late diet busters".
Muncher -- Chew gum while cooking, can prevent tasting/snacking.
Laying back -- Stay on the jogging trail, not completely quitting

,, No need to toss juice for its calorie count. Choose natural vegetable juice with no salt or sugar added. Research suggests: "drinking vegetable juice" (and plenty of water) may help control your appetite. "D""ietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension" -- in a study, people "following the D.A.S.H. diet lost four times as much weight in 12 weeks when they drank an 8-ounce glass of low-sodium 100% real vegetable juice each day, compared with those who ditched juice" for other choicesHave a vegetarian lunch at least once a week: Experiment with such things as hearty "Pecan-Mushroom Burgers" to have a meatless lunch. Research suggests: "this simple act could knock off 5 pounds or more in a year if you do it just once a week". In a study, people who ate mushroom-based lunches instead of beef-based ones ate 30 fewer grams of fat for there through the rest of the day and felt equally satisfied.Get a regular deep, cold-water seafood-fix: Try oven-poached or lightly broiled wild salmon-fillets -- do not overcook seafood. Seek the best kinds of protein from the sea. A study suggests: you can "lose more weight on a reduced-calorie diet that includes fish rather than on a seafood-free weight loss plan." Fish packs fewer calories per ounce than beef, pork, and most skin-on poultry. And the omega-3 fats that fish contains may help stimulate fat burning in cells, researchers claim. ;
