 Pour one cup of coke into a small saucepan. Bring it to a boil. This should only take a few minutes..


It is also an option to use Diet Coke.;
, Pour the two packages of Jello into the boiling coke. Stir for two minutes until the Jello has dissolved. If it has not dissolved after two minutes, continue stirring. Stir until you no longer see bubbles from the cola’s carbonation in your gelatin mixture.You can also choose to use unflavored gelatin and spiced rum.
 Once the Jello has dissolved, pour one cup of cold coke and one cup of rum into the mixture. Stir or whisk the mixture. Stir until all of the parts have been incorporated. You can turn off the heat while you are mixing the ingredients., You can use shot glasses, or small paper or plastic cups to pour the mixture into. Usually, you will pour two ounces (60 milliliters) into each cup. You can pour more or less into the cups depending on the size of the cup., Put the molds on a cookie sheet before putting them into the fridge. This will keep them from moving when you transfer them. Allow them to sit in the fridge for two hours. , Look at the Jello shots after two hours of being in the fridge. The mixture should have solidified into a gelatinous form by now. If the mixture hasn’t solidified, allow the shots to sit in the fridge for up to two more hours., Garnish your shots with small lime wedges. You will probably need at least two limes, depending on the amount of shots you’ve made. Cut the lime up into small wedges and put them on the rims of each Jello shot., You can serve the shots with a lime and whipped cream, but you can also choose to serve the shot with just whipped cream. Whipped cream will make the shot more of a sweeter, dessert shot. Use any type of whipped cream and spray a small amount on top of the shot. , For special events, you can pour the Jello shot mixture into molds so that they will come out as shapes. For example, during the Super Bowl you can buy football molds to pour the mixture into. Spray baking spray into the molds before pouring the mixture into them so that the shots come out more easily.Decorate the football molds with whipped cream in the shape of the football laces.

