 Although few articles do exist of some theme parks, if you type in the theme park's name into the green search bar at the top of any wikiHow page, you can generally get to see if your given topic has already been written or not. If the search results come up with a list of articles, you'll need to compare your topic idea to the articles there to see if any of them meet the requirements for a duplicate title as the one you are proposing and to ensure your topic you began isn't deemed to be something that will one day need to be merged to prevent duplicate information in two different articles according to our Merge Policy.
 Make sure to use the term "Visit" as part of the how-to title as written on this site at the very front of the title followed by the theme park name. If the theme park has more than one branch (such as Six Flags and similar), you'll need to add in it's name after the theme park name. If there are still several notable differences of multiple choices, you'll need to finish this title off with "in" and the city name in which this theme park itself is based., You'll need to know whether or not the park has several sections (or lands) throughout the park, the park has lands that are untitled but tend to be split into their own groups, or if the park is spread sporadically around a bunch of ungrouped lands focused around one or two soul footpaths with buildings on either side.

If the park has titled lands, you'll more likely to need to use the wikiHow Advanced Editor or Article Creation tool so you can establish the subsections of steps, so that each land can be portrayed accurately, and so that the reader doesn't lose their focus because it looked confusing to read to them. This will be described more in a few steps from here, so be prepared.
If the park has untitled lands, you'll more than likely need to designate some type of system to explain to the reader the direction of travel when the reader would be walking and how they'd come upon it. If the attraction is at the borderline between two untitled lands, you'll need to mention something along the lines of "If you've reached (attraction name in second title), you've walked too far or reached into the next land" upon the last attraction in the lands' section.

If you do not like (or do not understand) wiki-text languages, you can use the Article Creation Tool. However, using this will make the flow seem to go awful slow and you'll end up giving up a whole lot sooner.


If the park doesn't have titled lands or has no visible lands but a few soul footpaths, you can use the Guided Editor to begin your article, but you'll still have some work to do to establish a great article otherwise. Guided Editor will help form some of the wiki-text to form the items you talk about into Steps.

For most of these articles, you won't need to add substeps (of your main Steps) and many sub-tips of Tips which some users find difficult to understand the syntax of.
 Although this will depend on how you want to get into the article and how your settings run, most users will want to click the "Write an Article" button from any page of wikiHow which will send you to this page where you'll have to input your proposed title. This is a double-check step to ensure none of the top five (5) articles match what the article calls for as a duplicate. Type your title based on our Title Policy and click "Get Started" then click the "None of these are exactly the same as How to (title)" and click "Write My Article"., The Article Creation tool, as was stated earlier can help, but you can also send the article to be written in the Advanced Editor from there, or you can deselect this option in the preferences page and write them from Guided Editor and switch between Advanced and Guided on the fly. For those who know front-end wiki syntax very well, you can (and should) use the Advanced editor and go from there, but each article's information will vary widely., The introduction of the article is the first place that will establish the first form of communication to get your reader psyched into visiting the park. However, it isn't there to spoil the user's vacation to the park or describe just what the article is bound to do. Shoot for three to four sentences for an introduction, as part of a paragraph to psych the reader to get them ready to read the remainder of the article., Although park maps will differ, park maps with all rides and attractions should be enough to formulate a good article that is ready to be researched. Experience in the particular park you are planning to write about is definitely a plus, but giving the reader the ability to see just how much there is to do in the park, makes for one excellent article - even if you feel that the ride was rather lame, let the others know that when they arrive at the step that they might want to either not ride or take things in stride or to skip the ride at all. (Even other shows and attractions should be written as their own step.), Anything that makes this attraction unique is a strong point to write down about the attraction and include in the Step inside the article. Either research the ride on Flickr (for static images) or YouTube (most widely-used researching choice for videos) to see just what each ride is like. With so many users on YouTube filming their on-ride POV videos (and even some with off-ride videos), you'll need to know just what the user should expect to encounter on their ride.

Even if you've been to the park before, make sure you see spots where others might have recorded that show things others were thinking to see where your reader might not understand if given the article inside the park. Try to expand on others' mistakes from their filming and explain their wrongdoings.
(Search using the exact ride name along with the theme park's name as well as a trigger word using "on-ride" or "off-ride" (or sometimes even the trigger abbreviation "POV") as these videos can take either of these two forms when searching. If the search returns no results (or few/unrelated results), omit these trigger words altogether and try again. If this still produces none, you'll need to rely on other sources of information such as from this theme parks website which could list information about their rides.

For show attractions however, neither terms "on-ride/off-ride" nor "POV" are ever used, so do your research without these triggers behind as your search term.
 (i.e. Scrambler rides can be formed into Scramble, as well as shows being either Watch or Take in.). Try not to use the action verbs "Go" or "Ride" as they can be considered vague and the reader might not be in an understanding with those steps set that way or need to further question what to expect when they get there and will tend to venture away to find more information that you should have researched already. As you work through the park, focus on gathering an action verb to describe what the ride does, what types of scenery it provides and how the two elements interact to provide for a great ride experience and describe. Even if you have never ridden the ride or watched the attraction before, get to know exactly what all attractions are like., Make sure the reader understands some of the other theme park options of nearby theme parks that could be around or within a comfortable (30-90 minute) driving distance or in case they don't want to go to this park once they arrive), as well as noting the address of the park (which you'll need to cite where you reputably obtained the park address/contact info from).

Google has information, but you'll have to really deep-down delve to really understand where it's getting it's information. Bing has it set up so that once asked, the engine will give you your answers then relay you to the website it found the information from then send you to other possible search results if you still didn't find the information you were looking for.
 But, please read on, as it's not all about those few steps to visit the park.

Discuss the parking situation. Although you don't need to grab directions from a nearby landmark like most websites mention (since everyone is coming from different places), you might want to discuss whether the park's parking options include an open lot or some sort of enclosed parking garage. If you can find the parking spot's exact address located online somewhere, provide an address as close as you can to the parking garage as well as it's price for a general 2-to-4 axle car. If you can't, provide it's nearest cross-streets nearest the entrance to the parking area.

Although this should really be written by typing from a real-life perspective of what you'd find (as if you were the reader looking for these answers yourself), if you do enough research on your topic, this will take you a small amount of time - if you know just where to look for your answers.
If you have enough citable information as to the parking lot section names (few theme parks websites and apps list this information), provide these names and cite your source as to where you found these names. Don't just say that you found the list on (name major website here) and send the reader searching for answers or looking to prove your information to be inaccurate - no! - that doesn't tell the reader exactly where this information can be found and will more than likely send your reader looking elsewhere to gather the information they need on another website or competitors website (if one exists).


Explain the entrance, or if the walkway to the entrance has something memorable that all readers will encounter when entering (that sets this park separate from the others), mention it! Again, best done by real-life instances that people know of, but could be done sometimes via looking at YouTube videos and Flickr images. Explain to your reader what the turnstile entrance entails - but not to the point where you'll be describing how the crank get's turned or the direction your entrance card gets you in (readers can already assume how these items work or can ask for help if needed when they arrive to that point). You can explain some of the signage on top of the entrance gates or even the theming of the paint scheme surrounding the turnstiles or similar ticket booths to let them know what they should be looking for to get them in.
 Go the extra mile to get the reader psyched to know just what to expect when they get to the park. Even if the entrance of one ride and another is on opposite sides, as long as you group them together of nearby attractions, you can easily keep your reader thrilled and want to understand the step well enough.

Establish subsections of where the lands begin and end as the reader would walk through them. Set Steps up by themed land as with each land set as it's own subsection of the Steps top-level section of the article; Even if you can't read it or can't understand the best pattern of where the exits and entrances are - at least the readers can get a general idea of where the attractions are for themselves and can easily look to find the exact entrance pattern as they enter the park (of if they still can't find the item's entrance, can ask a nearby employee for help who should be able to give them better directions).
If you have an article that needs to be written that you have subsections for and don't know wiki-formatting all that well, rather write the article as is and leave out the subsection title headers and go back and add the subsections following these guidelines later using Guided or Advanced Editor formatting.
Parks not divided into individual lands can be set up as if the reader walks from one end of the park on one side to the back end of the park then coming back around and back to the main intersection where the turnstiles are.
 For each remaining step that you set up, make sure they have information for each attraction - ride or show - that the park has. Although you want to avoid spoilers as much as genuinely possible, you can mention that there are certain areas that can't be missed and describe areas nearby the area that these rides show that this information could almost spoilers of, so the people don't miss them. Describe the ride or attraction using an action verb at the front. (Remember, some nouns can become verbs, but you'll want to catch yourself from using the better action verbs (by doing researching on the potential verb alone at first) to ensure the word can become a verb on it's own.)

Just because some attractions aren't too famous, doesn't mean that it shouldn't be included. (Outside of food vendors) all attractions should be explained in some respect inside the article. (i.e. In SeaWorld parks, although roller coasters similar to Manta and the like are very popular, there are also rather minor attractions such as dolphin shows and the famous Shamu show along with Otter shows and tanks where different types of fish can be watched by the visitors that most people who write these types of articles often miss that really make the article informative.)
If you still need help describing the attraction, inside some theme parks, you can sometimes find theme-park fanatics who will go out and record rides and post them on YouTube as front-seat/on-ride POV videos (as was described before).
 If the park has any special fireworks or special daytime or nighttime parades, give them details into some of the parks' parades. Provide the location of the entrance point of the park and exit point and general parade route, if you have that information easily accessible.

If you have watched a recent showing of the parade and noticed a really great spot that was never crowded, provide this viewing spot referencing nearby attractions and from what side of the walking path you were on.
Don't concern yourself on special fireworks or activities that only happen on select days. (i.e. While most readers will want information on the fireworks shows at the Disney parks (but these articles have been covered already), once you get into talking about the slight variations of Christmas and Halloween versions of the shows and their tweaks, you'll have lost your audience.)

, At the very least, some great tips that fly well include well-sourced Tips about the date which this particular park opened (Grand Opening). Some of this information can be found and sourced from Wikipedia's information for the park. Other ideas to include can include these ideas.

Tips

When 4-8 year old kids get antsy in this park and it seems like your day is lagging behind, give these kids some options. Even though this park has a few areas where kids can explore and run out all their excitement, this may sometimes not be enough. If you haul around a double-seat stroller, and warnings just don't work, give them time in the stroller. If they don't fit, you'll need to find some other way to draw out their energy. They will thank you for helping them "take a load off their feet". These youngsters tend to draw energy out more quickly, and become cranky quicker.
Keep kids (under age 5) on "leashes" (arm straps) at all times. Don't allow your kids to remove them at any time. It's hard to see your kids leashed up like a pet, but with the large amounts of guests in the park at any time, security is of utmost importance, and their leashes will help immensely. Don't even remove them, when your kids are in their stroller, as it can take only a few seconds for the kid to get out and become missing (the leashes only would allow the child to go so far as you'd allow them to go).


Warnings

Always ride the ride with safety in mind. Use all safety devices the ride operator provided for you and your family.
Rides occasionally close and change at this park. Don't fear if your favorite ride has changed or has become defunct. Something will be there to replace it over time. Their replacements might be just as good as the ride you once loved.
Everybody's tastes are different. You can skip some rides if you don't have time or if the kids act up. Some kids might be too churlish to some rides, while other rides might be too intense for the younger crowd, so you may want to skip these rides.
 Although all Disneyland and Disney World (USA)-based park Visit guides here have already been started as well as a few of the other named parks, categorize most of the Visit articles in Category:Carnivals Circuses and Theme Parks via either of these methods (dependant on your wiki-editor you are using). If you are using the Article Creation Tool, you will have to publish without a category and add it using the Guided Editor that is just as easy to use as the Article Creation Tool when editing an article; and which you'll find towards the bottom of the tool., Turn on the "Sources and Citations" section (for those who have had to cite their sources) in Guided Editor (check the "Sources and Citations" section towards the bottom of the page and publish) or if you are able to use the Advanced Editor, set up the "Sources and Citations" section and place the {{reflist}} template on the article in this section. If you are working from the Article Creation Tool, you must skip this and add this step's publication information manually from the Guided or Advanced Editors. Not doing so at any point of citing, will create cite (citation) errors which cause reader confusion.

If you have other research/reference sources that are citable based on wikiHow's External Links policy, provide those in this section as well. Forego any eHow or About.com links as these are competitors websites which have been known to be from farm systems that can sometimes be unsuitable to be referenced on articles here due to those editors being paid to write their articles which can sometimes cause major gaps or inaccuracies
Don't just say that the information is from a "personal experience"! If there was a webpage that gave you the idea to create it (besides this article) and this link doesn't violate this policy, provide it in this section with the notable words "ideas from" provided in the same line along with the website that gave you the ideas. (i.e. "* ideas from (link URL here) ")

, If you are using the Article Creation tool, you won't have this feature, however, once you publish and use the Guided or Advanced Editor, you can add Step-by-Step pictures in the article.

The Flickr tab in the Guided or Advanced Editor can be a lifesaver for most of people when they are in trouble, it can sometimes run you into trouble if the theme park isn't well-known or well photographed (such as theme parks outside of the United States/Canada and some theme parks in Europe). Flickr tends to see people photographing rides from the outside (and sometimes inside) of famous (or can become famous later) rides. Include photos that have the main entrance (or close to main entrance) as the photo you'll use, but make sure the photo is specific to that specific park's entrance.
Use the Local file tab to use pictures you yourself took of the ride. Click the "Add Image to Steps" button in Guided Editor or by clicking the add pictures button (which looks like a portrait of a mountain with a plus sign in the right hand corner of the portrait) on the tiny toolbar of icons at the top of the Advanced Editor (if you've chosen to utilize it for subsections) and utilizing the pictures under the "Flickr" tab and add the photo that way.
 Although the Article Creation tool won't give you a place to explain what you are doing (and will automatically populate a field inside of the edits that need to be patrolled with this information), with the Guided and Advanced Editors, you'll need to add in an edit summary such as "created new article" or similar. Sometimes there will be another box that will help you populate these fields once you begin typing, but this helper object won't display unless you create them in the Guided Editor., Scroll down the page until you see the line of buttons and click the Publish button. It may take a few extra seconds for the article to compile and ask if you like what you see, but you can easily select Publish if you have all the necessary things this article has described here. If you aren't done with the initial publishing edit during this session, you can click the "Save draft" button.