 Being in trouble usually means you have less opportunity to socialize. While this may seem like a terrible thing, it actually creates an opportunity for you to focus on developing a healthy lifestyle. Social activities often include unhealthy food and drink, and possibly drugs and alcohol. It's easier to adopt a healthy diet and refrain from abusing substances without peer pressure.


Developing a healthy lifestyle may also help you stay out of trouble in the future.
 Exercise is a great way to relieve stress and distract yourself from your troubles. Workouts will allow you to set and achieve short-term goals to feel like you are using your time productively.


If your lifestyle was previously very sedentary, you should design workouts to get progressively more difficult over time. Starting out easy and building up to more vigorous exercise will help prevent injury.Physical activity can also help you manage feelings of depression and anxiety. Exercise releases endorphins, natural mood-boosting chemicals produced by your brain.Exercise can also help you release anger in a helpful way, which can be helpful if you're feeling upset about being in trouble., Trying to balance friends, family, school, and/or work is difficult, and it's usually homework and housework that gets put off. These small tasks then pile up and become overwhelming. If you're in trouble, it's a pretty good sign you should immerse yourself in your studies and get organized. This will distract you from your problems and help you stay out of future trouble.


Try creating a study schedule to keep you on track even after you are no longer in trouble. Use a calendar to block out time to study specific subjects each week.You can also schedule specific household chores. Tackling projects one at a time will actually help you finish them all in a more timely manner.
 Sometimes, you end up in trouble because you don't feel good about yourself. You may give in to peer pressure or act out in order to "prove" yourself. You may feel attacked and become angry if people don't behave toward you the way you think they should. If you have a hard time accepting painful feelings, you're more likely to end up in trouble when you respond to them. Showing yourself compassion can help you feel better about who you are, the mistakes you make, and your capacity for growth.


For example, imagine that you're in trouble because you dented your parents' car due to careless driving. You could choose to beat yourself up about it and think "I'm such a loser." This is unhelpful because it doesn't focus on what you can learn from the experience. It also unfairly generalizes about you based on one specific event.
Instead, you could acknowledge that you made a mistake, accept that making mistakes is part of being human, and focus on what you can do to avoid a similar situation next time: "When I earn back the privilege of using the car, I will look more carefully when I'm in parking lots and won't drive so fast."
Remind yourself that painful experiences and thoughts are part of living, and everyone experiences them. Understanding that you share common humanity with others can help you be more compassionate towards everyone, including yourself. It can also help you distance yourself from them, because suddenly you're not the only person in the world this has ever happened to.
 Instead of getting your validation from others, like your peers, look inward. Self-worth is highest when you feel like you're living in accordance with your personal values, or the core beliefs that determine how you view yourself, your life, and your world.For example, recognize that you don't have to follow the crowd to be "cool." Cool is whatever you define it to be. Perhaps for you, being "cool" means expressing yourself artistically, or getting involved in a team sport.
It can help to spend a little time thinking about your values.For example, what feels most important to you? If you could change one thing about your community, what would it be? What traits or characteristics do you really admire in others?
Remember that your values are yours, and thus your self-worth isn't dependent on what others value. Values aren't superior or inferior; they're just different.
 Watch out for generalizing statements, such as "I'm a loser" or "I can't do anything right."These are unfair generalizations about you, and only pay attention to one thing that you see as wrong, rather than viewing yourself as a whole person.They're often a sign of all-or-nothing thinking, too.


Instead of making generalizations, focus on the single event or experience that's prompted that feeling. In this case, it's probably whatever you did to get yourself in trouble. Acknowledge that mistake, but don't allow it to define you. Instead, focus on your future: "I made a bad decision about drinking underage. I regret that choice. I can learn from it to help me avoid giving in to peer pressure in the future. I will follow my own values."
Watch for all-or-nothing thinking, too. This can be extremely demotivating, especially if you're having trouble with schoolwork. For example, you might do poorly on a quiz and think ,"Well, I'm just going to fail this class, that's all there is to it." Instead, recognize that this is a single event in a larger experience. There are things you can do to help you improve your performance: get tutoring, ask your parents for help with homework, talk to your teacher, watch some YouTube videos explaining the concept. Focus on solutions, rather than allowing the problem to paralyze you.
 Volunteer at local organizations to shift attention from yourself to others. This is a productive way to connect with others and keep your mind off your troubles. Focusing on the hardships of others will also help develop empathy and increase your self-esteem, reducing the likelihood of getting in trouble again.You can find lots of volunteering opportunities online.