 Ask your acting teachers, colleagues and friends if they know of any upcoming projects in your area. These can be your best first resource.
An acting coach or teacher will know what parts you are suited for and can give you valuable contacts.
Your own professional network will be able to recommend you to casting directors and local agents.
 You can find them in your local newspapers, websites, TV, radios and elsewhere.Many TV networks post on their websites when they have casting calls for shows or other projects
Theater auditions and castings are often published in theater magazines or local newspapers.
Look in major newspapers for large cities. You will have better luck finding opportunities in large metropolitan areas with big entertainment industries.
 Facebook is a great resource for getting auditions. Event pages are often used to announce open casting calls and auditions. These can be a good resource for both film, tv, and theater.
Look at agents pages or find specific project pages on Facebook. Sometimes, audition information will be posted there.
You can also find casting calls and auditions on Twitter and Craigslist.
You might have more luck finding auditions and acting opportunities if you live closer to a large city with an entertainment industry.
 At first go to the sites, sign up and post your head shots. Some examples of these sites include www.exploretalent.com, www.laauditions.com, www.actoraccess.com, or www. backstage.com.
Make sure your profile is distinct, detailed, and has multiple headshots.
Most of these sites will send you emails or alerts when a project is holding auditions or open casting for a part.
Be wary of using these sites as your only resource. Many of them charge a fee with minimal return.
These can be a very good tool for researching projects that are happening locally.

Most films that are looking for extras will advertise through your city's film office.
The film office will also have a list of current projects, permits and contacts. This can help you do some more research and contact casting directors.
The film office might also offer information on acting classes and workshops to allow you to practice your craft.

