 Choosing something you are already interested in makes it easy to start becoming more curious. Reading is one of the best ways to widen your knowledge base. There are books and articles written on every conceivable topic, from politics, to cooking, to gardening. Think about your interests, and choose one to start learning about. Grab a book and find out more.For example, if you are curious about technology and how it has changed society, there will be a book for you. Try to read publications by various authors so that you are exposed to more than one viewpoint.
Browse the stacks. Head to your local library or bookstore. Spend some time wandering up and down the aisles, picking up anything that looks interesting.
Ask for recommendations. People who work in libraries and bookstores love to talk about books. Ask them to recommend something interesting that they've read recently.
Use social media. Ask your friends and families to tell you their favorite book. Make a list of the ones that sound appealing.
Read the news. There is a lot going on in the world every day. If you take a few minutes to browse some news sites each day, you are sure to come across something that interests you. You could also subscribe to a daily newspaper to get your information.
Enjoy fiction. Fictional tales can spark your curiosity just as much as non-fiction. For example, try reading a crime thriller. You'll be dying to find out how the cops solve the case. It will certainly cause you to start wondering about how the justice system works.;
, Take a tip from Leonardo Da Vinci, who was known for having an amazing array of interests. He famously had a "to-do" list that included things to draw, places to go, and people to talk to. Da Vinci had a plan. As you start becoming more curious, make a list of things you would like to do or learn. This will give you inspiration to be more curious about new things.Traveling is a great way to build curiosity. When you go somewhere new, you will naturally want to learn about your new environment. You'll wonder about the foods people eat, where to go for fun, and what you can check out at the local museums. Make a list of places you want to go, and get started.
Keep an idea journal. Every time something sparks your interest or raises a question, jot it down. For example, maybe you see a man in your neighborhood walking his dog every day. If you wonder what dog breed would be right for you, this is a topic you can start looking into.
 Studies show that as adults we are too eager to get to the answer. That means that we spend most of our time as parents, managers, teachers focusing on finding a solution, and we forget to acknowledge the importance of the question. Take time to thoroughly consider and reflect on questions.Questions are what foster the most curiosity. So the next time you are trying to figure out what to buy your partner for Christmas, start with a series of questions. What does he like? What sort of reaction are you hoping for? By consciously asking yourself questions, you will open up your mind to new possibilities and ideas.
 Being mindful means being more aware of your emotions and your surroundings. Try to become more conscious of curiosity. Make an effort to remind yourself to find something to spark your curiosity each day.Scientists say that curiosity is a valid emotion, but one that is often overlooked. If you focus on it more frequently, you will find yourself automatically becoming more curious.
The next time you see a movie, challenge yourself to find something to investigate. If you are watching a movie about James Bond, try to learn something new about martinis. Become curious about cocktails.
 A set routine is considered an active enemy of curiosity. Many people are creatures of habit. In order to stimulate curiosity, change things up a bit. Try to find a different way to do some of your daily tasks.Take a different route to work. Whether you walk or drive, take a different path. Chances are you'll notice something new. Maybe you'll see a new Korean restaurant and you'll be curious abut what kind of food they serve.
Doing something as simple as brushing your teeth with your non-dominant hand can get your brain thinking differently.

