 The process for installing your scanner will vary depending on the model, but generally you can simply plug it into your computer via USB and Windows will automatically install the correct software. Your scanner may also come with its own software, but this isn't always necessary to install.


To add a network scanner, connect the scanner to your local network via Ethernet or Wi-Fi, open the Devices and Printers section of the Control Panel, and then click Add a printer. Select your network scanner from the list and follow the prompts to install it.;
, If Windows doesn't recognize your scanner, you'll need to download the drivers from the scanner's support page. Find the manufacturer and model of the scanner by inspecting it. The model number is usually displayed along the front or top of the scanner.


Visit the support page for the manufacturer and enter your model into the search engine. Download the drivers for your scanner along with any programs that may be required to scan.
 Some scanners can scan multiple pages, while others just have a traditional scanner bed. Refer to the indicators on the scanner to orient your page correctly.
 Many newer scanners have menu displays that allow you to set the output format directly from the scanner. If you are able to, set your out format to PDF.
 For most scanners on modern versions of Windows, you can simply push the Scan or Start button and the scanner will begin scanning the document. A notification will appear on your screen indicating that the scan is underway. When the scanning is completed, the PDF file will appear on your computer. The ability to do this varies depending on the scanner.


For most scanners, the new file will appear in your Documents or Pictures folder with the date as the file name.
 If you can't start the scanning process from the scanner itself, you may need to use a program in Windows to start the scan. Your scanner may have specific software that can be downloaded from the manufacturer, or you can use a variety of different utilities:


Adobe Acrobat allows you to create PDFs from the scanner. Click the "File" menu, select "Create", then "PDF from Scanner". Select the type of document you are scanning, and then switch pages on the scanner when prompted.
If you want to scan your PDF with OCR (Optical Character Recognition), you'll need an advanced scanning program. These typically cost a few hundred dollars, but will allow you to scan your documents into searchable PDF files.
If you need a free solution, one of the most popular freeware options is "Not Another PDF Scanner 2". Be careful when installing, as it may attempt to install adware along with it.

