 While it might be easier to avoid or dwell on your feelings or moods, try to let it go. Remember that moods come and go and you can choose to put less awareness onto your mood. Even if you continue to remain in the same mood, you can let go of how it affects you.For example, imagine your mood floating away on a cloud or as a wave in the ocean.
 Remind yourself that moods come and go. Your mood isn’t who you are. If you’re stuck in a mood, remind yourself of this fact by repeating a mantra or affirmation.Say, “This mood is not who I am, it’s only something I’m experiencing.”
You can also say, “This feeling will pass and I don’t need to hold onto it.”

, Relaxation is a great way to encourage a calm state of mind and to calm your body. Take a couple moments out of your day and do something that brings a sense of peace. For example, try daily yoga, qi gong or tai chi.Practicing relaxation every day can help stabilize your moods, so get into a daily practice.
 Tuning into your senses is a popular mindfulness technique that allows you to connect to the present moment. Instead of focusing on your mood, put your attention on your senses. Get comfortable, then focus your attention on each sense, one at a time for about one minute each.For example, start noticing the various sounds around you, like the hum of an air conditioner or planes outside. Then, move to focusing on touch and notice how it feels to have your body against the chair, your hair touching your shoulders, etc.
 One of the best ways to disconnect from discomfort is to meditate. Get in a comfortable seated position, close your eyes, and focus on your breath. There are different techniques to breath meditation, but start just by bringing awareness to your breath. Notice the inhales, exhales, and spaces between.If you want, start counting your inhales and exhales. For example, count to five for each inhale, then again for each exhale.
 Don’t be afraid to laugh at yourself and find humor in situations. Laughter can help you de-stress and lift your mood. If something goes wrong, find the humor in it and remember not to take life too seriously.If you want a humor boost, take a mini break and watch a funny video or read a funny story. Do something that makes you laugh.

