 Similarly to the flat iron method, it's best to start this method with clean, damp hair. Apply texturizing and volumizing product to your hair to create shine and body, rub in leave-in conditioner to keep your hair soft, and use a heat protectant to save your hair from any damage., Start by parting you hair however you'd like. Take the two front sections of each part, and blow-dry them upwards, using a round brush. You will twirl the brush backward, so that the hair is curling away from your face. This method will give you big, voluminous Beyoncé waves.Flip your head upside-down to blow-dry the rest of your hair. Use your fingers to move your hair around while you dry the remainder of your roots. Use a round brush as you dry the rest of your hair, and curl your hair around the round brush as you reach your ends.
 This will make it easier to curl all of your hair. Pull the top half of your hair up and secure it with a clip or hair tie so that you're able to curl the bottom half of your hair first. Then, divide the bottom portion of your hair into two sides. Focus on curling one side at a time.Once it's time to curl the top portion of your hair, divide it into two sides as well. Again, focus on curling one side at a time.
While you're doing this, plug in your curling iron so that it has time to heat up.
 Starting with the bottom portion of your hair, grab pieces of your hair one small section at a time. Starting close to your roots, wind your hair around the curling iron away from your face. Instead of clamping the iron down, hold the bottom 1/2 inch of your hair in place for 10 seconds. Then, let go of your hair and gently pull the iron away from your hair. Proceed to do this until the bottom half of your hair is curled.Unclip the top portion of your hair, and grab the first piece you'd like to curl. Instead of starting near the roots, start your waves about 1/4 of the way down your hair. Curl the top of your hair the same way you curled the bottom, by wrapping small pieces around your curling iron. Continue until you have curled all of your hair.
 Lightly comb through your waves with a brush or your fingers. Pour a dime sized amount of shine serum or oil into your palms, and spread evenly onto your hair. Hairspray your new Beyoncé hair to set it in place.