 Diffusion is, by definition, a spontaneous and random process. This means no heat should be added because then the process no longer spontaneous. While heated diffusion is popular, heating essential oils also decreases their effectiveness. Heating can cause chemical reactions in the essential oil, changing the types of substances in that oil and causing an allergic response.


Essential oils are also flammable, which means heating them is an unnecessary risk.;
, The easiest method to diffuse an essential oil is to open the bottle of the essential oil. When you do this, wave your open hand over the top of the bottle and inhale from the air you are wafting from the bottle.


You can also put the oil in a bowl and sniff directly from the bowl. This will help alleviate how strong the oil is directly from the bottle because it is less concentrated.
Avoid directly sniffing out of the bottle. Essential oils are very strong and may cause strong reactions., You can also try soaking a cotton ball in the essential oil of your choice. The cotton ball can be held under your nose, placed in a cup, or laid out in a room to diffuse the oil. Bring it to your nose and mouth and move it gently so that the aroma wafts toward you.


You can also use a piece of cotton cloth, a towel, or a gauze pad., For more rapid diffusion of your essential oils, you can place a few drops of it into warm water. Make sure the water isn’t warmer than your body temperature so it doesn’t change the composition of the oil.


To use this method, place the warm water and the bowl of oils in a central location in the room you’re in. You can also sniff from this bowl as well if you want a more concentrated sniff of the oils., If you want a more direct placement of the essential oils, you can rub it into your skin. Place a drop of the essential oil on your wrists, chest, or temples. This will allow the essential oil to diffuse in the air around you.


If you want, you can also rub some into your palms and bring them to your face to sniff in the aroma of the oils., A method that increases the rate of diffusion is fanning. Place a few drops of the essential oil into water and placing the bowl near a fan. You can also place it about six to 12 inches from any source of blowing air.


During cool weather, place the bowl about a foot away from a heat register. Make sure it isn't too close. It’s not likely that the heat can present a safety hazard, but you do not want to overheat the essential oils.