 If you are nervous about what you are going to say or do, try visualizing it in your mind. Imagine the scene in detail. Visualization allows you to imagine the successful outcome of your encounter, and help you become more confident because you have “prepared” for it in your mind’s eye. This preparation teaches your brain to respond in this way when another similar event occurs.Visualize all the details of your encounter. If you are visualizing meeting a potential employer at a job interview, for example, you may wish to visualize yourself driving up to the interview location, walking up to the building, and finding the correct office. Visualize the suit you will wear to the interview, shaking hands with the interviewer, and sitting down at a table. Continue this process and visualize the entire interview.Allow yourself to feel the emotions you would ideally like to have when you meet this person. For a job interview, you might want to imagine yourself feeling confident, prepared, and excited to learn more about this new opportunity.
Incorporate all of your senses into your visualization. If you are picturing a first date at an Italian restaurant, smell the garlic and marinara in the air. Taste the lasagna you will order.
Visualize positive outcomes. Imagine a successful job interview, a fun first date, or a productive meeting with a new supervisor.
You can also visualize an actual encounter from your past that went well. This can trigger memory of strategies that worked well while also framing the upcoming encounter in a hopeful light.
 Make it a daily habit, first thing in the morning or the last thing you do before you fall asleep. Successful visualization takes practice and commitment. Think of it like exercise: the more you do it, the stronger you get, and the easier it gets.Close your eyes and sit up straight during your practice, so you don’t accidentally doze off.
You may wish to work with this in conjunction with a meditation practice.
You may wish to close your visualization exercise with an affirmation, like “I am confident and brave,” or “I’ve got this!”

, Another effective way to visualize is to write down how you would like your meeting to go. Writing out your visualization allows you to focus even further, and also allows you to return to the same visualization again and again by rereading your words.Write your visualization in a private place, like in a journal, or put it in an electronic document that you can pull up easily. Consider reading it on your phone during your commute, for example.

