 Once most skaters get used to riding and develop their own style and preferences, they need more customization than a complete board can provide. Luckily, assembling your own board isn't difficult, and the complete control over your board's characteristics is worth the bit of extra work.



Trucks: The metal, T-shaped rods that attach your wheels to the board. The width and height of them will depend on your personal skating style.

Bearings: These allow your wheels to actually roll. Bearings come in steel and ceramic varieties. While steel is the most common option, the more expensive ceramics are a bit smoother and tend to last longer.Wheels: The size and hardness of a wheel determines how it rolls, lands, and turns.

Hardware: All hardware sets are is a packet of screws and bolts needed to install everything. This packet generally costs $2-$5., If you have a 7" wide deck, you should get trucks between 6.75-7.24" wide. This is measured by the axle width of the trucks. In general, heavier riders will prefer a slightly wider axle, while lighter riders or those who want the lightest possible board (to help get height on flip tricks) will err 1/4" thinner than the board. If you're not sure, just get the same width -- 7" trucks for a 7" wide board.


Some trucks are measured by axle length, and some are measured by hanger width, which is slightly smaller than the axle length. Make sure you double check the specs before purchasing., This is often referred to as the "truck profile." These terms are relative, and often depend on your wheel size. In most cases, you should start with mid-level trucks, as they can handle just about any scenario. However, if you do more specialized skating, buy your trucks accordingly.


If you have small wheels (50-53mm), you should go with lower trucks. These provide a shorter board that flips faster.
If you have larger wheels (56mm and up), you'll want to get trucks with a high profile. This provides more stability and smoothness at high speeds., The ABEC rating system tells you how fast and smooth a set of bearings are. They are simple ratings, with five grades: 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9. The higher the rating, the faster and smoother the ride, but the more expensive the bearings will be. All bearings are an identical size, so they will fit any board.


In general, ABEC 5-rated bearings are the best speed for the price. ABEC 7 and 9 are for those that really prize a quick board.
There are companies that don't use ABEC ratings, like Bones Bearings, but they all have their own easy-to-find rating systems to help you out., A wheel's hardness is measured by a durometer rating. This is simply a number and letter, usually "A," with higher numbers indicating harder wheels. A harder wheel is more responsive to tricks, where softer wheels are more comfortable at high speeds.


All-around skaters tend to prefer 90A-97A wheels.
Street skaters tend to prefer 95A wheels or harder. Some companies make B grade wheels, which indicate the wheel is 20 points harder than its A counterpart (ie. 80B are the same hardness as 100A).
Cruisers and longboarders tend to prefer 75A-90A wheels., A wheel's diameter must change depending on your style. The size of a wheel is measured by the diameter across it, in millimeters. They range from 48mm for street riders to 75mm for long boarders. Larger wheels are faster, covering more ground per rotation, whereas smaller wheels sit lower to the ground to make flip tricks easier.


A good starter or all-purpose wheel is between 52-60mm.
Smaller wheels also accelerate more quickly, meaning they are good for combination or trick skating where you need speed quickly.
Testing wheel sizes is always recommended. At the very least, try out a few friend's boards and find out what is most comfortable., Risers are common for longboarders and cruisers, as the make the ride smoother and more comfortable. They can make tricks, especially flip tricks, more difficult, however, because you have to get a taller board over obstacles.


In general, any wheel size larger than 55mm should have a riser attached.
The longer the board and the bigger the wheel, the more height is needed in a riser.
 This simple bag of screws, nuts, and bolts isn't too complicated -- just buy a pack with the rest of your components. If you don't have a riser, you should get 7/8"-1" length hardware. If you have riser pads you'll need longer hardware to ensure everything can be screwed in. Simply add the length of the riser to your hardware pack.


If you have a 1/2" riser on your deck, you should get 1 1/2" hardware instead of the typical 1".