 Your heating system (including chimneys, ducts, and vents) and your hot water heater should be thoroughly inspected by a qualified technician every year., Never use a portable generator inside your home or garage, even if the doors and windows are open. Only use generators outside, at least 20 feet away from your doors and windows., Only use a space heater if someone in the house will be awake and alert enough to make sure it’s functioning correctly. Also make sure it is in a room with good air flow. You don’t want to use one in a tightly enclosed space.
 No matter how much you are tempted, do not barbecue or use your camp stove in the garage., Ovens and stoves are designed specifically for food preparation. They should never be used as a heating source for your home., Every year, you should have your vehicle’s exhaust system checked by a professional. Don’t ever leave your car running in your attached garage, even if the doors are open. Fumes can still make their way into your home., If you see soot coming from your fireplace or an appliance, it’s a bad sign. Make sure you open the damper on your fireplace before lighting a fire. Keep it open until all the ashes are cool. An open damper helps to prevent CO build up., Vent pipes that become loose or disconnected can become a major problem. Make sure pipes are connected properly with no rust or water streaks., A pilot light that frequently blows out could be a sign of CO being present in your home. Weak, yellowish flames can indicate a problem and the presence of CO. The flame on your pilot light should always be bright blue or blue-green with a yellow tip., Excessive or increased condensation inside your windows, walls, or cold surfaces in your home can also be a sign of CO buildup., By contacting your local Fire Department, you can find out who you should call in your area if you ever encounter a problem in your home. A local utility company can also provide you with useful information about local resources. By arming yourself with the information you need, you’ll be prepared if danger strikes., When you purchase your CO alarm, make sure that it is audible and battery-powered (or that it includes a battery backup.) Look for models with digital displays that will tell you precise CO level readings in addition to beeping an alarm., Make sure you have at least one CO detector on each level of your home (including the basement) to alert you if poisonous gas is present.Consider placing an alarm outside each bedroom or sleeping area in your home.
For a small, one-level home, one CO alarm would be sufficient.
Don’t place an alarm inside your garage where high CO from car exhaust may trigger a false reading.
Don't place alarms near doors or windows because the fresh air could cause a false low reading.
 By connecting your alarms together, you will be sure to be alerted to danger. If one detects the presence of CO in your home, they will all go off. Most alarms can be wirelessly interlinked together., Regularly check your alarms to make sure they are working correctly. Be sure to change your batteries on a regular basis to ensure proper battery backup., The first thing you should do if you suspect CO poisoning is to get outside your home into fresh air.
 If you suspect that that you or a loved one have suffered CO poisoning, call emergency services or proceed directly to a medical professional. The effects of CO poisoning should not be treated at home.
 Signs and symptoms of CO poisoning can appear suddenly or over a long period of time. As CO builds up in your body, symptoms can get worse and worse. You may notice that symptoms subside when you leave a building and then you feel worse when you return. Remember that signs of CO poisoning can include:


Weakness
Shortness of Breath
Dizziness
Vomiting
Sleepiness
Headache
Confusion

