 Though children develop at different rates, there are standard milestones children reach around the same age. Knowing the approximate time when these milestones occur can help you notice delays in your child. There may be a problem if your child is delayed beyond two months from where the milestone norm is, like if they’re seven or eight months old and haven’t smiled yet. Common milestones include:Two to four months: smiles, moves hands to mouth, looks at parents, makes sounds, turns head, follows with eyes, begins to push up onto elbows when lying on the stomach, copies movements, reaches for objects
Six to nine months: plays with others, looks at things, puts things in the mouth, moves things between hands, rolls over, sits without support, supports weight on legs or bounces when parents help them stand or they stand on their own, points, picks up food between fingers, crawls
One year: holds out limbs while getting dressed, starts saying short words, can wave good-bye, shakes or throws things, takes things out of boxes or containers, sits up without assistance, starts walking, hands things to people
Two years: copies older children and adults, repeats words, can say short sentences, finds hidden things, kicks or throws balls, stands on tiptoes, climbs, runs, uses stair with a railing, starts to use writing utensils to draw messy shapes

, During your child’s first three years, they will develop skills that affect their entire life. If not identified, delays or lags may negatively impact them later in life. Early identification is extremely important to make sure your child gets the help they need to overcome any lags or delays.For example, your child may be delayed in more than one area, such as language and motor skills.
Ignoring the problem or hoping it goes away on its own may cause permanent damage to your child’s development. It is better to be cautious and get a professional opinion if you think anything is wrong with your child than waiting for them to figure it out on their own.
 Delays may not be the only symptom that your child may have a developmental problem. Your child may also have regressions. If your child is suddenly unable to do something they were able to do before, you should get them checked out.For example, you may notice that your child could hold something in their hand but can't now. Your child may have started making sound, but now doesn't anymore.

