 Remember that it’s easier to teach a younger child to sleep alone than it is to change an older child’s habits, so consider starting as soon as you feel ready. Ideally, though, you’ll also want to move your child to his or her own bed during a relatively peaceful and uncomplicated time – not when your schedule is crazy or when your toddler is dealing with any other major changes.


If you are traveling or moving in the near future, it’s best to wait. You won’t be able to sustain the routine during such a chaotic time, and too many changes will be overwhelming for a toddler.
If your child is sick or injured, or if he or she is dealing with other issues related to sleep (including nightmares or night terrors), it’s also best to wait until these problems subside.
If your child is in the middle of another major transition (weaning from the breast, giving up a pacifier, learning to use the toilet, or starting a day-care or preschool program), consider postponing the move to a new bed. These transitions are difficult for toddlers, and it’s not a good idea to pile them one on top of the other.;
, If you have a partner, have an honest conversation about putting an end to co-sleeping. The transition will be more successful (and much less stressful) if you approach it from a position of agreement and mutual support. Don’t try to force the issue if one partner feels strongly that it is too soon to make the change.
 Explain to your child what you expect, and present it in a happy, positive way – as an exciting change that shows how big and independent he or she is getting.
 Take your child to purchase bedding, and consider allowing him or her to choose a special new toy or stuffed animal with whom to share the bed.
 Make sure your toddler uses his or her own bed at nap time. He will learn to associate it with sleep at a less stressful time.
 If you have already established a regular bedtime routine – for example, your toddler has a bath, puts on pajamas, eats a snack, gets a bedtime story, brushes his or her teeth, and then goes to bed – keep every part of the routine in place except for where he or she sleeps. That way, your toddler’s sense of stability will remain intact, even in the face of a major change.
 Reiterate what an exciting change sleeping in bed alone will be, and let your toddler know you are proud of how big and independent he or she is becoming. Show your toddler how much more room there is in the bed, and remind your toddler of the bedding and toys you picked out together for this moment.
 The first night, your toddler may feel apprehensive. Say goodnight calmly, offer a hug and a kiss, and then leave. If he or she is very upset, go back every ten minutes or so to very briefly reassure the child. Repeat as necessary.
 If your toddler goes to bed without a fuss, overcomes his or her nervousness, or sleeps well in his or her own bed during the night, offer up plenty of praise in the morning. Positive reinforcement will help tremendously with the transition.
 Many toddlers cry, fuss, and beg to come back into your bed. This is normal, so try not to get too upset. If your child sees you getting worked up, the situation will escalate.
 Do not give in to crying or whining; if you do, your toddler will learn that he can manipulate you to get what he or she wants. If your toddler cries and whines from his or her bed, simply check in periodically and offer some brief words of reassurance; if your toddler keeps getting out of bed, simply walk him or her back.


Avoid making exceptions. If you take a break from this consistent behavior because your child is sick or because he or she had a bad dream, you’ll only cause confusion and fuel more resistance.
It can be very difficult for a parent not to give in to this kind of distress. You may feel like you are being too cold or rejecting your child, but ultimately, your toddler will be less confused and feel more secure if you stay as consistent as possible. Keep a warm, loving tone, and let your toddler know you are there, but do not give in, and do not feel guilty.
 If your child continues to cry and fuss at night, try to determine what the reasons are. During the day, when your toddler is calm, discuss it. If it’s just stubbornness and a desire to stay with you at night, just keep being positive and consistent about the change. If it has more to do with fears – of the dark or of monsters – you may be able to resolve the situation by adding a night light and devising some sort of “monster killing” ritual.
 If your toddler continues to resist, you might try sitting in the room until he or she falls asleep. After a few nights, move to the doorway; after a few more nights, move to the hallway outside the room.
 Consider a sticker chart or another reward system to make your toddler more willing to sleep in his or her own room.

