 A hydrometer measures the specific gravity of water, or its density compared to pure H2O. Because almost all types of salt are denser than water, a hydrometer reading can tell you how much salt is present. This is accurate enough for most purposes, such as measuring salinity in an aquarium, but many models of hydrometer are inaccurate or easy to use improperly.This method cannot be used for solid material. If you are measuring the salinity of soil, see the conductivity method instead.
For a more accurate measurement, use the inexpensive evaporation method, or the faster refractometer method.
 Hydrometers, also called specific gravity meters, are sold online or at aquarium shops, in several different basic designs. Glass hydrometers that float in water are typically more accurate than other designs, but often don't have precise measurements listed (a longer decimal).Plastic "swing arm" hydrometers may be cheaper and sturdier, but tend to become less accurate over time., Because different materials expand or shrink at different rates as they heat or cool, knowing the temperature the hydrometer was calibrated to is important when using it to calculate salinity.Select a hydrometer with a listed temperature on the device or packaging. It may be easiest to calculate salinity with hydrometers calibrated to 60ºF (15.6ºC) or 77ºF (25ºC), as these are the most common standards for measuring the salinity of salt water. You may use a hydrometer with a different calibration as long as it comes with a reference chart to convert its readings into salinity.
 Transfer some of the water you plan to measure into a clean, transparent container. The container should be wide enough to fit the hydrometer, and the water should be deep enough to submerge most of the hydrometer. Make sure the container has been rinsed free of any dirt, soap, or other materials.
 Use a thermometer to measure the temperature of the water sample. As long as you know the temperature of your sample, and the temperature standard of your hydrometer, you can calculate the salinity.


For a slightly more accurate reading, you may heat or cool the sample to the temperature the hydrometer was built for. Be careful not to overheat the water, as steaming or boiling can significantly alter the specific gravity.
 Scrub the hydrometer to remove any visible dirt or other solids on the surface. Rinse the hydrometer in fresh water if it was previously used in salt water, as salt may have built up on the surface.
 Glass hydrometers can be placed partially in the water, then released to float on its own. Swing-arm hydrometers will not float, and usually come with a small tab or handle that allows you to dip them into the water without getting your hands wet.


Do not submerge glass hydrometers entirely, as this can mess up the reading., If air bubbles are clinging to the surface of the hydrometer, their buoyancy will result in the wrong density reading. Gently shake the hydrometer to remove these, then let the water turbulence settle down before continuing.
 Keep swing-arm hydrometers completely level, with no tilt in either direction. The measurement the arm points to is the specific gravity of your water.
 In a glass hydrometer, read the measurement where the surface of the water touches the hydrometer. If the water surface curves up or down to cling to the tool, ignore that curve and read the measurement at the level of the flat water surface.


The water curve is called a meniscus, and is a phenomenon caused by surface tension, not salinity., Many aquarium care instructions use specific gravity, typically measured between 0.998 and 1.031, so you do not need to convert to salinity, typically between 0 and 40 parts per thousand (ppt). However, if it only provides the latter measurement, you will need to convert between the first and second measurements yourself. If your hydrometer didn't come with a reference chart for this purpose, search online or in an aquarium reference book for a "specific gravity to salinity conversion" table or calculator. Make sure you use one designed specifically for the temperature standard listed on your hydrometer, or you may get the wrong result.



This table can be used with a hydrometer calibrated to a 60ºF (15.6ºC) standard temperature. Note that the water sample temperature is given in ºC.

This table is for hydrometers calibrated at 77ºF (25ºC). The water sample temperature is given in ºC.
These charts and calculators will also vary based on the liquid, but the vast majority are used for salt water.

