 Use a rolling pin to flatten a portion of fondant so that it is roughly 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) thick.


The fondant needs to be approximately as thin as a nickel or dime.
Since this is a generic flower shape, you can use any color fondant you want.
To prevent the fondant from sticking to the rolling pin or the surface, dust both the rolling pin and the surface of your counter or mat with cornstarch before working with the fondant.;
, Use a fondant cutter or cookie cutter to cut out five 2-inch (5-cm) circles from the flattened fondant.For a less uniform look, you could also cut circles out freehand using a butter knife.
This size will create a fondant flower that is roughly 2 inches (5 cm) in diameter. Adjust the size of your circles accordingly to create a larger or smaller flower.
 Dust the top surface of one circle with cornstarch before gently folding it in half.


Pinch the fold in the center. The fondant should stick to itself at this point, but it should not stick together at the edges.
Work with one circle at a time.
 Dust the surface facing you with additional cornstarch and fold the circle in half once more, forming a quarter of a circle.


Pinch the fondant together enough so that the center of the fold sticks together. The edges should just barely touch near the center of the fold.
Work with one circle at a time.
Let each piece dry for a few minutes before continuing on.
 The pointed corners should all touch and the open edge of the fold should face in the same direction for each petal.


You should be left with a shape that is fairly circular in nature.
 Mix a small amount of each in a little dish until a paste forms.


This paste will be what holds your petals together.
Alternatively, you could also use a little melted white chocolate as a paste.
 Brush the paste onto the corners of the four flat pieces and the corner tip of the remaining fifth piece. Press the remaining piece upright and into the center.


Let dry. Once it rests, it can be used as a decoration.

