 Ensuring you have a healthy, balanced diet is a good first step to avoid water retention. Water retention can occur due to imbalances in your diet, deficiencies of some vitamins and minerals, and having too much salt. Eating a balanced diet will help to reduce the chances of water retention occurring due to these issues., As part of your healthy diet you should try to make sure you eat plenty of food that is rich in potassium. Eating plenty of potassium-rich food can help reduce the amount of salt in your body and relieve your water retention. Fruits and vegetables are generally good sources of potassium, so be sure you have at least five portions of fruit and vegetables a day.Some examples of potassium-rich foods include bananas, tomatoes, potatoes and avocados.
Leafy vegetables that are dark green also have lots of potassium.
Processed foods often have less potassium than non-processed foods.
White bread and white rice have less potassium than wholemeal bread and brown rice.Do not take potassium supplements, unless advised to do so by your doctor., If you have a lot of salt in your system, this may prompt your body to retain fluid. To help you avoid water retention, try to cut down on the amount of salt you consume each day. You can do this by eating fewer processed foods, which are typically high in salt, and not adding extra salt to meals you have cooked.


Think about other sources of sodium, such as soy sauce, soup, and canned vegetables and try to limit your intake.Get into the habit of looking at the ingredients labels and examining the amount of your daily allowance of salt each serving contains.
When buying processed food, look for the “low salt” or “low sodium” option.
 Having an active lifestyle that involves regular exercise is a crucial element is keeping your body functioning well. People who exercise regularly also report less instances of water retention.Adults should do both aerobic exercise and strength training each week in order to stay healthy.


Try to do at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity a week, such as cycling or fast walking. Or do at least 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity a week, such as running or playing tennis.
Couple this with strength training two or more days a week.
Make sure the strength training works all your major muscle groups, such as your legs, back, arms, shoulders, and abdomen., People who suffer from fluid retention are sometimes overweight or obese. Achieving a healthy weight can help to you reduce and avoid water retention generally.Assess your weight and think about if it could be contributing to your fluid retention. You can check your BMI online here: http://www.nhs.uk/Tools/Pages/Healthyweightcalculator.aspx?Tag=Lose+weight


To lose weight you need to eat healthily and get plenty of exercise.
Aim to lose weight in a steady and controlled way.
Plan out your diet, and swap high fat and high sugar foods for healthier alternatives., You might think that drinking lots of water could lead to more water retention, but in fact, having a low intake of water causes your body to retain liquid. Keep well-hydrated to promote good kidney function and avoid water retention.Try to make it a habit to drink plenty of water throughout the day.


Men are advised to drink up to 3 litres (13 cups) of fluid a day, and women 2.2 litres (9 cups).Drink a glass of water before each meal.
Drink water before, during and after you exercise., Drinking more water isn’t the only way to try to tackle dehydration and the resulting water retention. Try to drink less caffeine and alcohol, as these substances increase your dehydration levels. Consider drinking decaffeinated teas and coffees during the day.