 A Djembe drum is typically goblet shaped. The top is usually made with goatskin and traditionally made from wood. Ropes usually tie the goatskin in place, holding it down in a somewhat zig-zag pattern. The shoe polish on the cup design and the terra cotta pot and painted containers in the pot design both imitate the wood covering of a Djembe drum. If you did the terra cotta design, you'll already have made some zig-zags. If you're using cups, you can draw or paint on zig-zags to mimic an authentic design. This will get you started in terms of making realistic designs., There are certain carvings you may find on traditional African drums. These can represent different aspects of life and culture in different parts of Africa. You can try adding such designs using stickers, paint, or other craft supplies to make your project more authentic.


Various animals may represent different things on a drum. A crocodile is considered one of the first creatures on earth in some African cultures, for example. A python is often associate with divination and fortune telling. Chickens can represent possibility and sacrifice. Fish can represent wealth and happiness.A padlock can represent power and control. Some occupations also hold significance. Drawing a blacksmith, or a blacksmith's tools, on your drum can symbolize transformation or fire.Keep in mind symbolism varies from culture to culture. You might want to get a sense of how symbolism is used and then use symbols from your own personal life and culture on your drums. For example, if a particular animal has special symbolism to you, you could put that on your drum.
 You can add decorations by simply using paint and markers. This may be the simplest option when working with young children.


Both masking tape and terra-cotta are easy to paint or draw on with markers. With the terra-cotta project, beads of glue from the zig-zagging process may be visible. These can be covered up with the use of paint or markers.When working with children, provide smocks or have your kids wear old clothing. Paint and markers can get messy.
 If you're doing any of the above projects with very young children, consider providing them with stickers. These may be easier to use. Look for African-themed stickers, such as stickers featuring animals you would find in the region. You may be able to find stickers involving countries from Africa online. These can help make the project educational.
 Construction paper can also be a fun addition to an African drum project. You can have your kids cut the paper into shapes and glue them onto their pots or cups. Construction paper can make a variety of fun patterns that can be added to the African drums.
 You can stop by a local craft store and pick up things like beads, feathers, puff balls, pipe cleaners, and other fun craft accessories. If you're working with young children, they'll have fun gluing such supplies to their drums. Young kids often appreciate getting a little zany or silly for their projects. Don't be afraid to think outside the box by providing a medley of fun craft supplies.

