 You'll need an anvil to customize your name tag later. To craft an anvil, you will need the following:


Three iron blocks - Each iron block requires nine iron bars, for a total of twenty-seven iron bars needed.

Four iron bars - These bars bring the iron total to thirty-one.
You can create iron bars by adding iron ore, which is the grey stone with orange-brown spots, into a furnace that has coal in it.;
, It will open to a three-by-three grid.

If you haven't yet crafted a crafting table, you can do so by placing a plank of wood in each of your inventory's four crafting slots.
 To do so, you'll place the three iron blocks in the top row of the crafting table grid, three of the four iron bars along the bottom row of the grid, and the final iron bar in the center of the grid, then select the anvil icon.

On the PE version of Minecraft, tap the black anvil icon on the left side of the screen.
On the console version of Minecraft, select the anvil icon in the "Structures" tab.
 You can only gather name tags in one of three ways:Fishing - Blank name tags are random catches when fishing.

Buying from villagers - Villagers will sell blank name tags for between 20 and 22 emeralds.

Looting fortresses - If you come across a chest in a fortress, an abandoned mine shaft, or a mansion, there is anywhere from a 22 percent to a 40 percent chance that you'll find a name tag.
 You'll need three sticks and two pieces of string to do so.

You can also combine two damaged fishing poles to craft a working pole.
 To fish, you'll cast out a line by right-clicking (or tapping, or pressing the left trigger) while facing a body of water with your fishing pole equipped. When your pole's bobber dips below the surface of the water and you hear a splashing noise, you'll press the "Cast" button again.

You'll likely catch a lot of fish and other junk before you reel in a name tag, since name tags are fairly rare.
 Villages are randomly generated structures situated around Minecraft's world. If you know of a village's location and you have plenty of emeralds, it may be faster for you to purchase a name tag than it is to fish for one.

To speak to a villager, face them and then right-click, tap, or press the left trigger.
 Chests inside of these areas have a reasonably high chance of producing a name tag. Since these structures are randomly generated, this method of acquiring name tags is incredibly inefficient if you don't already know where to find a fortress/mine shaft/mansion in your world.

Mansions are extremely rare.
As one might expect, looting a fortress entails a significant amount of risk due to loads of enemies.
 Your experience level, which is the green number near the bottom of your screen, must be at least one in order for you to craft a custom name tag., It will make a loud "clank" noise when you do so., To do so, open your inventory and move the tag to your character's hotbar, then select it. The tag will appear in your character's hand., This will open the anvil's crafting window with your name tag in place., You'll do this in the "Name" field at the top of the anvil's window.

On console editions, you'll first have to select the "Name" field and press A or X.
 Doing so will place it in your inventory., Once you see it in your hand, you're ready to assign a name to a mob.

On console editions of Minecraft, you can simply select the tag and press Y or Triangle.
 You'll want to take care whilst naming a hostile mob (e.g., a zombie), but naming animals like sheep or cows is a harmless task., As long as the name tag is in your hand, doing so will place a text box with your name tag's phrase in it above the mob's head.

You can repeat this process for as many mobs as you like, since your current name tag has unlimited uses.

