 If you want to drive your boyfriend crazy, then you have to be adventurous and be excited about making love or just hooking up in new places. If you're always getting it on on the couch or the bed, your moves may begin to feel stale, so you should mix things up from time to time so your boyfriend is still crazy about you and so that your relationship and love life feel fresh. Here are some places to try:


Try "christening" a new room in your house or apartment by making love there.
Pull the car over to a private and scenic location and have fun kissing each other.
Take it back to high school and have fun kissing your man at the movies.
Go on a sexy vacation and have fun having hooking up in a completely new environment.
There's nothing wrong with sneaking off to your friend's balcony in the middle of a party and stealing a few kisses.
 You can be adventurous in the safety of your own bed or home. If you're always making love or hooking up in the same position, mix things up next time. If you're always on top and your man is on the bottom, switch roles from time to time. You can make a game of hooking up only in new positions for a while, and cycling through a variety of positions before making it back to same old, same old.


Trying out new moves is a great way to keep things fresh -- just make sure you're not doing anything that doesn't make you comfortable.
 If you want to drive your boyfriend crazy, then you can't keep doing the same old stuff together, or your relationship can begin to lose its luster. Instead, you have to find new ways to keep things fresh -- and to continue to turn your man on. Here are some things that you can try:


Go hiking together. You'll have fun enjoying nature, feeling romantic, and enjoying each other's company.
Go camping. You'll feel romantic -- and frisky -- if you and your man are alone under the stars.
Play pool. Have fun leaning over and letting him see your body as you aim your cue.
Do power yoga. Get sweaty on adjacent mats and enjoy looking at each other's bodies.
 Another way to get adventurous and to drive your boyfriend crazy is to explore new places together. You'll get a new appreciation of your relationship, and your sexual chemistry, if you're out exploring completely new locations. Take a trip to the beach or the woods, or even have fun taking a long walk down a previously unexplored path.


If you have the time or money, go on a romantic vacation. Being in a completely new environment while hooking up will drive your boyfriend crazy and will make him see you in a new light.
 If you're not too shy, then a little bit of healthy role playing is guaranteed to drive your boyfriend crazy and to make him want you even more. You can have fun in a variety of role-playing situations, whether you're pretending that you're late to a party but really can't get enough of each other, or if your boyfriend pretends to be a stranger knocking on the door.


If you really want to drive your boyfriend crazy, have fun taking a trip to a sex store. Find some outfits that really drive him wild and don't get embarrassed or feel shy about it.
 Take a dance class or just take your man out to a nice bar or club with some mood-inducing music. Have fun leaning close to your man, whispering in his ear, and letting him explore your body. You can make a weekly or monthly date to go dancing together, knowing that this will lead you straight to the bedroom.


Look into your man's eyes when you're dancing. Let him know how much you want him.
If you take a dance class together, you'll be getting your adrenaline pumping while you enjoy each other's company.

