 Parents should lead by example, Jesus trained the twelve disciples by example. Do not expect to teach them what the Bibles says: "You should not steal, curse, gossip, etc" -- if you do not follow it yourself. "Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners; and purify your hearts, you double-minded." James 4:8;
, 5:22-25, "But the fruit of the Spirit is love, *joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit." Read the passage to them and ask them to give practical examples of how they will apply the fruit of the Spirit at school or or social outings. You could also give them a scenario of a little boy at school that had a problem with a friend, and ask them what they would do in a similar situation. If they still battle with anger or impatience and you have explained to them the fruit of the spirit and to walk in the Holy Spirit, bless them with the opposite behavior. "Father, I bless my son/daughter with walking in the fruit of the Spirit of joy, and patience and long-suffering." Continue to bless them and it will change.
 Teach them how important it is to attend to Church, in order to worship God, because of all the good blessings He has bestowed upon them.
, Pray in front of your children so that they can hear how you speak to your Heavenly Father. You can teach them to pray the Lord’s Prayer. The J.O.Y. way of praying is also easy to remember depending on the age of your child.



Jesus - tell Jesus how you love Him, say thanks to the Lord and praise His wonderful name.

Others - pray for your friends, if they are not saved, or if you are worried about them.

Yourself - ask God for something specific that you need, ask also for forgiveness, if you know you did something wrong.
 Ask them for their opinion after you read a passage out of the Bible and how they will implement the passage in everyday life.
 If you love somebody (a friend), you will spend time with them to get to know them. Teach them to spend time in God’s word to learn God’s character and how He feels about them. Romans 8:1, "There is therefore no more condemnation to them which are in Christ, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit." God will always forgive them no matter what they did.
 James 4:7 "Submit yourself therefore to God; resist the devil, and he will flee."

, Ephesians 6:1-3, "Children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land."

, Philippians 2:14-15.
 The righteous are as bold as a lion. Prov 28:1, "The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion."

