 Your face will be the first thing employers see, so you should look professional, approachable, and fresh. Here are some tips to having a fresh face:


Wear nice and subtle eye makeup. Wear dark eyeliner, subtle eye shadow, and black mascara to show your employers that you spend time on your appearance.
Wear a subtle shade of lipstick.
Avoid wearing too much makeup. Wear just enough makeup to make a pleasant impression, but avoid hot pink lipstick, globs of blush, or bright green eye shadow. You should look like you're going to work, not hitting up the clubs.
 The perfect top is an important part of your outfit. Don't overlook the effect that the right or wrong top can have on your chances of getting hired. Here are some tips for having the right look above your waist:


For a professional environment, wear a suit top or a coordinated blouse. Your top should be blue or black.
For a business casual or even a casual environment, wear a nice sweater or cardigan.

Do not show cleavage. Unless you're applying for a job where your looks are obviously an important factor, minimize the cleavage as much as possible. Your employers will be too busy staring at your chest to listen to what you have to say, and you will just look silly and tacky. Even if you're applying to work in casual environment, your assets will not be an asset.

Do not wear a see-through shirt. Your potential employers are not interested in getting a peek at your belly button, bra, or chest. Even your bra straps should be covered at all times.
 It should nicely match your top and should be clean, ironed, and tasteful. Here are some tips:


For a professional environment, wear a matching suit bottom or skirt.
For a business casual or casual environment, a cotton or khaki skirt will be acceptable.
No matter what material your skirt is made up, it should be long enough for you to sit comfortably and cover yourself. Avoid awkwardly pulling down your skirt during the interview.
If you wear a slip under your skirt make sure it won't show.
Wear neutral pantyhose. Avoid fishnets or fun-colored or trendy tights. You will look tacky. Remember that pantyhose can tear easily and bring an extra pair of hose in your purse just in case yours rip on the way to the interview. Nothing will distract your interviewers quicker than a giant run in your hose.
 The right shoes can tie your outfit together. Your interviewers will notice your feet when you're sitting down, so it's important to have the right look.


Wear a pair of shoes that are one solid color, preferably black.
Avoid showing your toes.
Have nice reasonably-high heels. Don't wear platforms or stilettos. Make sure you're walking in them before you go into the interview. Check that your heels aren't worn down or don't have dirt clinging to the bottom.
 Though you should avoid too many accessories, the right ones can catch your interviewer's eye and can tie your outfit together. Here are some tips:


Wear tasteful and subtle jewelry. A quiet silver necklace, ring, or bracelet can help your classy look. Avoid wearing too much jewelry or you'll look weighed down or like you're trying to hard to be trendy. Don't wear more than one ring or bracelet.
Avoid showing too many piercings. Even if your ears are pierced eight times, just one pair of earrings will do. Take out your nose ring if you have one.
Bring a simple portfolio or briefcase. Show that you're work-ready even if you don't need your portfolio that day.
For a more casual environment, a nice one-colored purse will do.

