 Determine what kind of alloy a ring is made of by reading labels and talking to a jeweler. An alloy is a mixture of two or more metals, in this case used to make the platinum harder. Platinum rings should be marketed listing the quantity of other metals, especially if there is less than 90% pure platinum in the ring.


A 950PLAT ring will typically be alloyed with cobalt, copper (or a combination of the two), iridium, palladium, ruthenium, or tungsten, which makes up the other 50 parts of 1000. If this other 5% is from the platinum metal group (iridium, palladium, ruthenium, rhodium), the ring can be considered 100% precious.A 900PLAT ring will usually be alloyed with iridium or palladium. Sometimes it will be listed as IRIDPLAT to indicate a mix of 100 parts iridium and 900 parts platinum.
An 850PLAT ring will usually be alloyed with palladium. Less than 85% platinum will often be listed with the quantity of palladium or other metal, such as "585PLAT 415PALL.", Once you know the content of other metal present in a platinum ring, you can make choices based on the quality that each type yields. Find an alloy that will have the finish and durability you desire.


A composition of 950 parts platinum and 50 parts cobalt is often considered the finest alloy quality for platinum rings. This combination creates an extremely strong and durable ring with a very bright finish, looking almost as if it has been lit from the inside.
A ring with 950 parts platinum and 50 parts ruthenium is very durable and almost scratch-resistant, so it is a very fine quality choice. It also has a high shine mirror-like finish.
A 950 parts platinum and 50 parts iridium is perhaps the most common alloy sold in platinum rings, but it is not the highest quality. It yields a softer metal which is prone to scratches, pits, and bends, leading to a duller finish over time., Choose a platinum alloy with a certain type of metal if you have a known allergy to one of the common base metals. Note that any ring with a high percentage of pure platinum should not cause negative skin reactions, as platinum is hypoallergenic.


Avoid cobalt in alloys with a lower amount of platinum, as those with a cobalt allergy may be sensitive. However, in a quality PT950/Cobalt alloy, allergic reactions are very rare.Copper is also a fairly common metal allergy. Steer clear of rings with copper or copper-cobalt platinum alloys, especially in lower grades, if you have a known reaction.
An allergy to any metal in jewelry will show up as a red, itchy rash or blisters on the skin that comes in contact with the jewelry. Test out wearing a piece of copper or cobalt jewelry for 24-48 hours, if you can, to determine if you will have a negative reaction.