 If you do not know where the person in question was arrested, but you do know where the individual's home is, search for that county's website instead.
 Some county jail websites have searchable databases of the people being held there. Oftentimes, you do not need anything more than a person's name to search the database.


Not every county has an online resource that can be used to locate inmates, but nowadays, many do, and you can find the link to that resource on a county law enforcement page.
Not all online databases are updated often, and the information could easily be out of date.
If you do find the person that you are searching for online, you will want to confirm that the individual is still there by calling the jail directly.
 If there is any chance that you have the county wrong and that the individual might be held elsewhere, it would likely be in a neighboring county. Try using an online resource that lists all inmate locators for your state.Note, however, that these resources may only list counties that have an online inmate locator and may not list neighboring counties that can only be contacted by phone.
 Most states contract with VINE to provide the service, however, in some states, VINE is only available in certain counties or not at all.


To use VINE, simply visit the website here and click on the state where the offender you are looking for is located. You can search for the offender by name, or by using an identification number.
Additionally, you can register to be contacted by VINE (either through email, text message or a phone call) when the offender’s custody status changes.
You can also download the VINE app to stay informed.
 If you are trying to locate someone who you believe could be in federal jail instead of a county jail then the Federal Bureau of Prisons’ website will be a good place to look. This is a government run website that has a search engine to help you find the person you are looking for.


To use this website, at the very minimum you need to know the person’s first and last name. Both names must be spelled correctly.Keep in mind that the Federal Bureau of Prisons' website only applies to people that are being held in federal custody, as opposed to state crimes. In most circumstances, garden variety crimes are punished under state law, while crimes that take place in multiple states or violate a federal statute will be punished under federal law. For example, a DUI would likely be punished under state law, while violations of the Securities and Exchange Commission rules would be punished under federal law.
Also keep in mind that this government website only has records for inmates that were incarcerated from 1982 to the present.
 If you did not have luck finding the person you were looking for through the county website or Federal Bureau website, you could try to use a nationwide inmate locator website. In your online search engine of choice, use the search bar and type in ‘find an inmate’ or some variation of this phrase.


Quite a few websites will come up. Avoid ones that look like they are a scam. For instance, if they are littered with ads or ask you to sign up for something, don’t use that inmate locator.
Once you find a website, you can choose the state that you are interested in and can be directed to that state’s website or inmate locator system.