 It needs to be large enough to contain your cellphone. Simply hold your mobile phone against it to test the size––the edges should extend around the outside of the phone.


Suitable bottles include lotion, shampoo and conditioner bottles, provided they are large enough and flatter across rather than too rounded.;
, Use hot water for best effect, with a dash of dish detergent. Swish it around strongly a few times, then pour down the drain. Allow it to dry upside down on a dish drying rack before proceeding.


You can wipe out any residual beauty product after cutting it open.
 The back of the bottle will need to be turned into the handle that hangs from the wall alongside the power point, while the front of the bottle needs to be cut high enough to prevent the phone from falling out when placed into the container. Basically, draw a straight line across the front of the bottle and a big "mound" at the back, to just under the neck of the beauty product bottle.


Use a marker, pen or other suitable drawing device to make the markings.
 This can be done using scissors or a craft knife. Be careful to try to keep the edges as rounded as possible when cutting the curved parts. Sand any rough edges away.
 This is the bit that will hang from a hook. Cut the hole out, leaving plenty of space between the top of the handle and the hole, to provide the hanging strength. (This part should be at least 2 inches/5cm in width, if not more.) If you have a large craft hole puncher, this might be used instead, to make a pretty shape (just make sure it allows for good hanging though).
 The bottle isn't anything to look at it with its commercial logo and writing on it. You can improve this in one of several ways:

Paint over it using acrylic paint. You could use one color, or vary the colors, or even make a design.






Add adhesive contact paper. Find plain colored contact paper, cut to shape and carefully adhere.






Add fabric. Sand the surface of the bottle first to make it easier for the craft glue to adhere (Mod Podge is a good choice but strong white glue would also work). Then cut the fabric into a rectangle (leaving extra seam at both the top and bottom, as well as wide sides), and glue onto the surface of the container. It works best if you add the glue to the container first. You'll need to keep it tight and smooth out any wrinkles as you're adding the fabric. Cut away the excess fabric neatly when it is all glued into place, then Mod Podge over the top of the fabric layer. Allow to dry.






Be careful to get all edges cut neatly if using adhesive contact paper or fabric.
 You can either hang the charger from a hook attached alongside the power point if preferred.

