 In addition to being able to use any type of wood in the Minecraft world to make a set of stairs, you can also use certain types of stone:Bricks (made from clay)
Quartz
Cobblestone
Sandstone (mined or made from sand)
Nether brick;
, You'll need six blocks of the same material to create a set of four stair blocks. In order to do so:Stone - Mine any kind of stone (cobblestone, sandstone, mossy stone, stone bricks, etc.) with at least a wooden pickaxe.

Wood - Mine any kind of wood (jungle, birch, oak, etc.) with any tool. Use an axe for the quickest production.
 To do this, right-click the crafting table (computer edition) or press your console controller's left trigger while facing the table.


If you don't have a crafting table, you can press E (or X for consoles) and use four wood planks to create a crafting table.
 To create stairs, you'll need to place three blocks in the first column of the crafting table, two in the second column, and one in the third.


You'll need to place your blocks starting on the bottom row of the crafting table.
If you're using the Xbox version of Minecraft, simply scroll over to the stairs icon and then scroll up or down to select your preferred material.
 It's to the right of the crafting table interface. Doing so will both create a set of four stairs blocks and add them to your inventory.


On Xbox, just press A.
If your quick-access bar at the bottom of the screen has an opening, the stairs will be added to it.
 Do so by pressing E (PC) or X (Xbox).
 You'll find every type of stair available for creation in Minecraft about two-thirds of the way down the page. These stairs include the following:


Oak, birch, spruce, jungle, acacia, and dark wood stairs
Cobblestone stairs
Brick stairs
Stone brick stairs
Sandstone stairs
Red sandstone stairs
Quartz stairs
Purpur stairs

, This bar is at the bottom of the screen; dropping the stairs onto this bar will make them equippable.


On Xbox, just selected your preferred stairs, tap A, and tap A again.
 To do so, click on the stairs in your quick-access bar. They will appear in your hand on-screen.


If your stairs aren't yet in your quick-access bar, tap E (or press Y for an Xbox controller) and move the stairs from your inventory to your quick-access bar.
On Xbox, tap RB to cycle through your quick access menu until your stairs are selected.
 Your cursor in the middle of the screen should be directly in the middle of the block.
 Doing so will place your stairs. The steps will be facing you.


On an Xbox, you'll press the left trigger instead.

