 He will tell you to get three pieces of a map to get you to Crandor.


Find map piece 1 on a goblin in the Port Sarim jail. He will ask you to give him 10k for the piece. If you have a magic level over 33, just kill him and telegrab the piece/kill him with a halberd and take the piece through the bars.






Find another piece in the dwarf mines. You will need a wizard mind bomb, crayfish pot, a sheet of silk, and an unfired bowl. When you have all of the items with you there is a door that has no handle. Click on the door and it will open, then open the chest and there will be a piece in it.






Find the last piece is in a house southwest of Falador. Kill creatures to get the colored keys that match the colored doors. If you open the wrong colored door you will have to do it again for all colored doors.






Kill the second smallest rat with the longest tail to get a red key to open the red door.






Kill the level 19 Ghosts with the hood until you get the same color key that the door is.






Kill level 22 skeleton with the circular shield until you get the colored key.






Kill the level 24 zombies to get a blue key then kill Melzar the Mad, a level 43 wizard until you get the colored key. Protection from magic helps. As you fight him he will say funny things like "Feel the wrath of my feet!"






Finally, kill a level 82 Lesser demon (use a Silverlight sword if you have one, obtainable from the Demon Slayer Quest, unless you have a rune or dragon weapon) until you get the last colored key.






Open the last door and the chest behind it, and you will have all of the map pieces. Note that this is the hardest part of the maze.;
, Then click on the last piece and the two that are put together and you will have the full map., He has a ship you can buy for 2000GP. When you buy the ship you will need three planks & 90 steel nails to fix the ship.
(His name is Ned and he can be found in Draynor Village.)

,, He will take you to the island. He will crash at the island but don't panic! There is another way out after you're done.
 Climb over the wall and go inside. There is a room with a dragon in it. Kill the dragon. Don't stay around the outside with the skeletons, they will waste your food. If your food runs out, use your teleport runes to teleport out, then load your inventory with more food, travel to the cave and repeat this step. Also if you are going to stick around there is a glitch which takes you straight to Oziach and finishes the quest. All you need to do is go to the back of the room and keep clicking on a candle about 7 times and you should be there!

, Push on it and it will open. Keep going until you get to a room with lava and Lesser demons. Climb the rope there and you will be on Karamja island. Go to the dock and get a ride back to Port Sarim. Or, you can use the Home Teleport spell and teleport to Lumbridge.