 Shorter flights have less impact on the atmosphere than longer ones; local trips that avoid flying are even better in terms of atmospheric impact. If you are flying, plan to fit in as much as possible, such as possible work conferences, networking, catching up with as many people as possible, volunteering, etc. Consider buying a carbon offset for your trip; most airlines now carry details on how you can do this. In terms of getting around within countries, consider cycling, trains, public transportation options before car rental. Some forms of public transport will offer great deals for weekend, weekly, or even monthly travel.;
, Seek to support those places that walk the talk. These places are often signed up to various country or international schemes aimed at reducing the environmental impact of their operations and concerned with being a sustainable business. Learn about what they are doing online before you book. Some of the hotels or resorts will even take you to see their green features if you ask.
 Many hotels are now into saving water and energy where possible, even if they are not known as a green hotel. Where you are given the opportunity to reuse towels, sleep on the same sheets, open the windows for fresh air rather than using the air-conditioning, etc., then consider doing so. And turn the lights off whenever you're not in the room.
 There are many foldaway bags available now that open into much larger carry bags when needed. Having one of these with you at all times removes the temptation to accept plastic or paper bags anywhere you are. This is great for impulse purchases at craft markets, leftovers from breakfast and lunch, sweaters that become too warm to wear, etc. Alternatively, use your day pack as a means to carry anything purchased while you're out and about.
 Look for local crafts, art, artisanal products, etc. rather than buying mass-produced tourist gimmicks. You can support the local industry in both developed and developing countries and give the craftspeople a big boost. It's nice to let your seller know where you're taking their handwork home to; that often becomes a talking piece for them down the track and is a source of pride.
 This is suitable for a range of items including cell phones, music and video widgets, battery chargers, etc. There are solar cell packs available for laying across backpacks, so that you soak up the sun as you're walking all day. The beauty of solar power charges is their ability to work when the electricity doesn't, making them ideal for back country and electricity-poor visits.
 There are many online postcard choices that you can use.
 It can be really beneficial for tourists to support the local organic industry, especially in countries where this is a fledgling industry. Let others know about the products on your blog or by word-of-mouth to help spread the knowledge.
 If you want to experience travel that includes educational and awe-inspiring elements, find a guide who is keen on eco-travel too and will be able to help you tread lightly as you discover amazing places in the world.
 This can be a great way to tidy out the loose coins and benefit an environmental group at the same time.

