 Pain or discomfort can indicate that you may have pulmonary hypertension. The pain caused by pulmonary hypertension may present in your chest or on the upper right side of your abdomen.


Call you doctor if you are having pain in your chest or upper right side of your abdomen.;
, Losing your appetite can also indicate that you may have pulmonary hypertension. If you have noticed that you are not as hungry as you normally are, then tell your doctor., If your heart is beating faster than normal, then this can also be a symptom of pulmonary hypertension. Note this symptoms along with any others and tell your doctor about it.You can check your heart rate by taking your pulse. Place your index and ring finger on the inside of your wrist and search for a pulse. Then, apply gentle pressure until you can feel the pulse.
Set a timer for 60 seconds and count the number of beats in your pulse. A normal pulse range for adults is between 60 and 100 beats per minute, so anything over 100 may be considered abnormal.
 If you find yourself becoming tired easily or fatigued, then this could be a symptom of pulmonary hypertension. You might notice that you feel tired from routine chores or things that you used to be able to do with ease.For example, doing the dishes might be an easy chore for someone without PH, but someone with PH may become tired after doing the dishes or feel too tired to even finish doing them.
Tell your doctor right away if you find it hard to do routine tasks because this may indicate that the disease is advanced.
 People with PH usually note that their problems breathing begin while they are active (running, exercising, or walking), but after time, you might eventually find yourself struggling for breath while resting.If you find it difficult to do simple activities without losing your breath, call a doctor immediately. The disease may have advanced significantly.
Shortness of breath may also lead to dizziness, lightheadedness, or fainting., You may notice swelling in your wrists, ankles, and legs. This is called edema. If untreated, the swelling will spread to your abdomen (a condition known as ascites).To check for edema, press lightly on your ankle or wrist. If an indentation appears where your finger pressed, you may have edema. Your skin may also appear stretched or shiny., You may notice that your lips, gums, nails, and the skin around your eyes appear to have a bluish tint to them. This is called cyanosis.Cyanosis is caused by a lack of oxygen in your blood, which may be caused by PH or by a clot, high altitude, or another lung disease.