 You don’t want to think of yourself as anybody’s girlfriend until you know yourself better. Otherwise, you risk being defined as somebody’s girlfriend instead of what makes you unique!You can learn about yourself by thinking about why you liked him in the first place. Things you like about your crush can actually give you clues about who you are and want to become.For example, you may feel that you like the guy because he sounds smart when he talks in class. That tells you that you admire the quality of intelligence, and you would probably like to be seen as smart yourself.
You may even realize that you don’t know your crush as well as you thought you did.
 You wouldn’t want a relationship with a guy who doesn’t like you! A good relationship is balanced.Ask your parents what healthy relationships are like.
 Think about your talents and good qualities. Get busy doing things you like to do.Get involved with sports, clubs, and school.Hang out with friends or find an after-school activity you enjoy. Try reading some new books.
Remember how special and wonderful you are!

, You can develop better study skills to prepare for your future education if you don’t date in middle school. Being preoccupied with boys gets in the way of homework.Some kids who date in middle school even end up dropping out of school! You want to have an education so that you’ll be able to get a good job and support yourself in the future. You’re also less likely to get depressed if you ditch the idea of dating in middle school. Focus on making good friends instead of thinking about romantic relationships.Dating in middle school involves things like talking, texting, sitting around at a fast food place, holding hands, maybe a hug – you’re not missing out on anything.But you could miss out on some great friends if you’re busy spending time with crushes in middle school. Relationships with your friends and even your best friends can suffer.Guys in middle school are immature. For example, they may be more interested in playing basketball after school than having a girlfriend.
If you wait until you’re older to start thinking about guys romantically, you will probably have more freedom to date then anyways: for instance, with curfew, time you can spend on the phone or internet, places you can hang out, etc.

