 To make a fortune teller/cootie catcher, you must use a piece of paper that is in the shape of a square. If you have a rectangular piece of paper, you can fold it into a square and cut off the excess. To do this, fold one corner of the paper diagonally across until the edges line up. There should be a long rectangular piece of unfolded paper left on the bottom, which should be removed by cutting or tearing.






;
,, With your paper now in the shape of a square, fold it in half so that the edges line up and you’re left with a rectangular shape. Crease the edge so that the fold is defined and secure. Then, unfold the paper back into the shape of a square.
 When your paper has been unfolded back into its original square shape, fold it in half again but this time in the opposite direction of the previous fold. Crease the fold to keep it in place, and then unfold the square again. The square should have a large ‘X’ going through the center of it now.
 Work your way around the square, folding each of the corners in towards the center. There should be a rather defined center point as a result of your previous folding, so matching up the four corners in the center should be easy. You should be left with a (folded, obviously) smaller square/diamond shape.
 Flip your folded paper over so that the previously folded corners are facing downwards, and the flat, smooth top side of the paper is facing you. Repeat the aforementioned step of folding all the corners inward to meet at the center. This will once again leave you with a smaller square/diamond shape.
 Your cootie catcher is in the final stages of folding! Before you finish up the main shape, reassert the creases by folding the paper in half in both directions. This will make the cootie catcher easier to open up.
 Flip the paper back over, and there should be four small squares that are formed and are open at the corners. Pull these outwards, and the center should fold inwards a bit. Insert your fingers into the empty spaces, and you should be finished!







, Typically there are three main sections of the cootie catcher that need to be labeled. When you are holding the catcher, each of the four corner tabs should be labeled with a color. When you flatten out the catcher, the inside tabs should be labeled on the outside with a number. Lastly, each of the inner tabs should be labeled with a fortune







,