 Protective and low manipulation styles are good ways to prevent breakage and retain length.Protective styles are styles that protect the ends of your hair by tucking them away. Cornrows, and two-strand twists, are common examples of protective styles.Weaves and extensions are technically protective styles, but can still damage your hair.Some protective styles, such as a two-strand twist, allow you to further style your hair with a bun, or a twist-out.Braiding cornrows can be a time consuming task and takes a bit of practice to master. Have a friend help you if you plan on going this route.
Low manipulation styles don't protect the ends of the hair, but they can still prevent breakage. They are easier to do and less permanent than protective styles. Twist-outs and coils are examples of low manipulation styles., After washing, make sure you give your hair a little time to dry before trying to detangle it. If your hair is dry, use a spray bottle and mist it with some water before detangling.Use a wide-tooth comb to detangle your hair. If you find that using a comb causes your hair to break, then switch to finger-combing.Some people prefer to use a little conditioner or shea butter to help detangle their hair. Once your hair is detangled, rinse the moisturizer out with water., When trying to grow your hair, it's best to trim away any split ends to prevent further damage to your hair. Schedule your trims every 3-4 months, when the hair starts naturally splitting.In between trims use a sealant to protect the ends of your hair.Trimming your hair when it is dry will give you a better idea of your hair's actual length. Dry hair also allows you to see more split ends and the true shape of your hair.Trimming your hair when it is wet might be easier because your hair is more flexible. But, during a wet trim you can't see the actual shape of your hair., Heat tools, such as flat irons and hot combs, can permanently damage your hair if used too much. These tools suck the moisture from your hair and increase the chances of breakage.Too much heat may lead to more frequent trims, which means a longer growing process.Try braiding or twisting your hair to naturally increase the length.