 Create a budget, listing your fixed and discretionary expenses. Fixed expenses are things like your rent, car payment, and health insurance premiums. See how much money you have left over each month for paying student loan debt.


The standard repayment plan for student loans is 10 years. You’ll pay an equal amount each month for 120 months.There are many ways to lower the amount you pay each month, either temporarily or permanently. Reduce your discretionary spending as much as possible, which will give you more repayment options.
 This is usually a better option than refinancing a mortgage to pay off your student loans. You can roll all of your student loans into one loan with a lower interest rate. Consolidating makes repayment easier, and it can lower your monthly payment.


You can consolidate federal loans using a Direct Consolidation Loan, which you apply for through the StudentLoans.gov website. However, this new loan’s APR will be the weighted average of APRs for all of your current loans, so you won’t save money.To save money, consolidate with a private loan. You can use a private loan to consolidate either federal or private student loans. Generally, you need a credit score in the mid-600s. Interest rates range from two to nine percent.
 Federal loans will let you pay a lower amount each month if your income is low. Contact your lender and ask about any of the following:REPAYE Plan. Pay 10% of your discretionary income. Any borrower is eligible.
PAYE plan. Pay 10% of your discretionary income and never more than the 10-year Standard Repayment Plan amount. This plan has income eligibility requirements.
IBR Plan. Pay 10% or 15% of your discretionary income, depending on when you borrowed the loans. This plan has income-eligibility requirements.
ICR Plan. Pay either 20% of your discretionary income or what you would pay over the course of a 12-year fixed repayment plan. If you have PLUS loans, this is your only option.
 You can lower your monthly payment by extending the repayment period for up to 25 years.You’ll end up paying more in interest over the life of the loan, but you won’t put your home at risk like you will by paying the loans off with a mortgage.


Use the Repayment Estimator to check how much you’ll end up paying., Federal loans qualify for this option. The details will differ depending on your circumstances, but you typically pay a lower amount the first couple of years. The amount increases in subsequent years. Graduated payment is a good option if you anticipate your income rising in the future.You can combine a graduated repayment plan with an extended repayment plan.
 You can temporarily lower your monthly payments or stop making them altogether by seeking a forbearance or deferment. With forbearance, interest continues to accrue on your loans. However, it generally doesn’t accrue with deferment., Your private loans have fewer repayment options than federal loans.To find out exactly what is offered, call up the lender and ask. Don’t delay.


Generally, your best option is to consolidate with a lower interest rate.
However, some lenders might offer short-term forbearance.

