 Your child may not realize the correct way to apologize. Instruct the child by giving them specific templates that they can use to apologize to other people.


You might teach the child to say “I’m sorry that I did what I did.” For example, they might say, “I’m sorry that I didn’t eat my dinner” or “I’m sorry that I yelled at you.”Another good template is to say, “It was wrong to do what I did. Next time I will not do that.” For example, the child might say, “It was wrong to kick your seat. Next time, I will sit still in the car.”If the child tries to say something like, “I’m sorry, but the other kid deserved it,” ask them to try again. This time, they should not defend their actions. Instead, encourage them to state what they will do better next time.
 If the child is young, you might tell them that you will apologize with them. Visit the offended party, and together, say you’re sorry. If the child is apologizing to you, you might offer to say sorry to them back.You can model apologies in the following ways:


You can say, "How about I go apologize with you? We can do it together."
If the child is apologizing to you, you might state, "How about I go first? I'm sorry that I yelled at you."

, Some children may learn to apologize within seconds of doing something wrong to avoid getting in trouble. It is important that the child learns to apologize when they sincerely feel bad about a situation. To do this, try not to demand apologies from children over the age of five.


If you suspect the child is being insincere, you might ask, “Do you really mean that?”
If you think that the child is just saying sorry to get out of trouble, you might encourage them to demonstrate their remorse. For example, they might clear the table for you that night or write a nice note.
 Apologizing by itself does not mean that the child will stop misbehaving. It is important that you also discipline them appropriately for bad behavior so that they will not repeat their actions.Time-out is an effective disciplinary action. Make them sit in a quiet area or room, and leave them there for one minute per year of age.
You may need to remove certain privileges to discipline the children. Try taking away television or video games for a day.