 A professional referral might help you to find pet therapists in your area. If you're interested in pet therapy, doctors and therapists may know of programs in your area, but they also might not. It depends on the area and availability of this type of therapy. The hospital in your area might have a pet therapy program in place that is available to patients, and this could be helpful if you are feeling homesick while in the hospital. They may be able to schedule regular meetings with a pet therapist in the area.Say something to your doctor such as, "I'm feeling really homesick and I've read pet therapy can help. Do you know of any programs in this area?";
, There are hundreds of associations that register dogs for pet therapy. Get in touch with an association near you. They may be able to point you in the direction of registered pet therapist.Associations include Alliance of Therapy Dogs, Love on a Leash, and American Therapy Pets.
The American Kennel Club website has an extensive list of pet therapy certification programs. This is a good place to begin searching for a program to meet your needs.
 Universities often provide pet therapy for students, especially new students still adjusting to the college transition. Ask at the counseling center or look for fliers around campus advertising pet therapy. You may be entitled to free pet therapy as a student., While pet therapy is becoming increasingly popular, it is still not widely used. It may be difficult to find a pet therapist in your area. If you can't find a pet therapist, interacting with animals in other ways may help with homesickness. See if you can volunteer at an animal shelter, for example, or spend time with a friend who has pets.


If you live in a building that allows animals, consider fostering a dog or cat from your local animal shelter. You would care for this animal in your home until it finds a full-time owner.Keep in mind spending time with animals is not the same as pet therapy, which is a specific therapy program where interactions are supervised by a trained therapist. Simply interacting with animals may not have the same therapeutic effects.

