 Each day, set aside a specific time after work to come back to your work related concerns. Keeping this time in mind will help you push aside your worries during your work day. During this time, bring up your worry list and give your worries the proper attention.


This time period should only be around 20 to 30 minutes.
If you don’t want to do this every day, schedule your worry time every other day. If your schedule varies, you can make the specific time vary every day. Just make sure it isn’t over 20 to 30 minutes.
Make sure it isn’t too close to bedtime. You don’t want to fill your mind with worries right before you try to sleep. It may keep you awake or make it hard to fall asleep., This may seem hard to do at first, but one way to work through your worries is to accept them. When you are thinking about your worries, don’t feel guilty or bad for experiencing worry. Your feelings are valid and you have a right to them.


Once you accept your worries and the emotions attached to them, you will be able to start working through them., If you are constantly worrying about things that may happen at work, you aren’t being active in the present. Instead of focusing on your worries, keep yourself focused on what is going on around you. As soon as you start to worry, focus on how your body feels, the noises around you, and the rhythm of your breathing.


This is a mindfulness technique that will help you stay in the present., Many of the things you stress about at work may be due to uncertainty. It is often hard to deal with the unknown or things that aren’t set in stone, but these are exactly the kinds of things that you should not worry about.


If there are things that you cannot control in your work position, there is no reason to worry about them. There is nothing you can do about it in the first place.
If you find this hard, keep telling yourself that it is impossible to be certain about everything in life and that you can handle anything that comes at you., If you find yourself feeling anxious, take a moment to simply breathe. Close your eyes, letting what’s going on around you melt away. Take a few deep breaths, focusing on your inhales and exhales. After a few breaths, open your eyes and continue with the day.


This will calm you down so you can keep on working.You can even imagine you are breathing out the worries as you exhale. Imagine them floating into the air away from you.
 Although this may seem like you are repressing your worries, it is actually an effective strategy to help you deal with your worries. If you feel yourself getting anxious, pretend that you feel fine. Go about your daily work and interactions as if there is nothing going on. The longer you pretend you are okay, the better you will feel.


Try to vent your worries a little at home, but keep a positive attitude at work. Eventually, your mind will start to adapt to the way you act.