 You don't have to buy expensive paper to create a stencil--you may already have what you need in your kitchen, home office or craft room.


Freezer paper. Freezer paper, also known as grease-proof paper, is available at your local grocery store; it's stocked right next to the tinfoil, plastic wrap and wax paper. Unlike wax paper, which was a waxy finish on both sides, freezer paper has a waxy finish on one side only.

Freezer paper is a good choice if you plan to stencil on fabric (T-shirt, onesie, tote bag). Draw your design on the unwaxed side. After the stencil is cut out, place it waxy-side down on your fabric. Use an iron to gently heat the paper, and it will stick to the fabric's surface, making it easy to then apply the paint.


Tracing paper. Start with tracing paper if you plan to trace the outline of your stencil from an existing design you've found in a book or downloaded from the internet. Tracing paper is thin enough that it's easy to see through it and accurately copy your design.
Letter stock. Computer paper and other medium-weight paper can be used to create a stencil. A big plus of this material is that you're likely to already have it on hand.
Heavy paper. Cardstock and cardboard make for a sturdier stencil that holds up well with multiple uses. Because this paper is so thick, it's a little more difficult to cut. Be sure your blade is very sharp when working with these papers so that your cuts are clean.
Carbon paper. If you've created your stencil on tracing paper but want to transfer it to a sturdier paper, you can use carbon paper to transfer the design.

Place the sturdy paper onto your table. Layer a sheet of carbon paper on top of it. Be sure the matte side of the carbon paper is facing up and the side with the carbon is facing down.
Lay your tracing paper design on top of the carbon paper. Retrace the design going over every line and detail. Apply firm pressure as you work to ensure that your design transfers clearly and completely.
Remove the tracing paper and the sheet of carbon paper. The design will now be "printed" on your sturdy paper.
 It's a good idea to make your stencil as strong as possible so that it stands up well for your project and allows you the option of reusing it in the future.

Cover the stencil in contact paper. Clear contact paper is readily available in the housewares department of your local hardware or discount store.






Place your stencil flat on a nonporous surface. You don't want to accidentally remove the finish from a table by having it come into contact with the sticky paper.
Cut a piece of contact paper the size of your stencil, remove the backing and stick it to the stencil. Trim away any excess.


Use packing tape. Place your stencil design-side down on a nonporous surface. Run strips of packing tape over the stencil. Overlap each strip with the next until the entire surface is covered. Run the tape past the edges of the paper and trim the excess







, If you're drawing, you may want to start by working in pencil. Once you have the design how you want it, retrace your pencil lines with a fine to medium point permanent marker. If you're tracing a design, you can use a marker to begin with.


If you've created multiple lines while making your initial pencil drawing, be clear on what the final outline should be before going over it in ink.
 Because of its delicate nature, cutting paper requires a sharp blade and significant patience. Trying to move too quickly can result in rips and tears that will mean redrawing your stencil and starting again.


Secure your stencil in place. Use masking tape to secure the edges of your paper stencil firmly in place on your cutting surface. You could also use small bits of poster gum to get the paper to stick to the work surfaced. To make sure you have contact between the paper and the surface, use only a small amount of the gum and thoroughly flatten it out.
Use a sharp, new blade in your cutting knife and remove the areas of your stencil where you plan to apply paint or ink.
Do not cut out your bridges--those borders that separate one section of your stencil image from the other.
If your stencil is particularly large or your using heavier paper, you may have to replace your blade mid-project; do so as soon as the blade seems dull to prevent it from dragging and tearing your paper.
When making long cuts, hold hold your knife at a lower angle and further away from your blade.
As you move around your stencil, turn the paper not your hand.
To create sharp edges, cut away from corners not into them.
Use tweezers and a sharp knife to remove the cut stencil pieces.
When you've finished, peel up the tape by its edges. If you can't remove it from the paper stencil without it ripping, simply fold it over onto the back. If you used poster gum, work from one corner and remove the gum from the back of your stencil.

If you notice that one of your cuts did not go all the way through, immediately put the plastic back on, re-secure it to the surface and go over the intact area with your blade.



