 Unless you live in the extreme north, summer can get hot.


Try layering tank tops together, and band tanks if you can find them.






Wear cute tees. Anything from old school band tees to bright neon tees with cute sayings and characters on the front, e.g. Hello Kitty, Domo.






Hot Topic has a lot of great accessories and band tees/graphic tees.






Flower patterns were in last spring for the scene, maybe you can bring them back!






Wear your tutus! Buy lots in neon colors and wear over light graphic leggings.






Shoes -- Flats are going to be your best friend this summer! Vans slip-ons and Converse are always in, but can get hot. If you wear flip-flops make sure they are in bright colors. They look great with denim shorts. Most sandals aren't very scene, except strappy or studded ones, but maybe you could start a new trend! Metallic ballet flats look great with tutus and bright shorts so pick up a few pairs.






Try something new. Instead of wearing skinny jeans, try mini skirts, cut-off skinnies (for girls), denim capris (also girls) and combats. Bright shorts are a must for the summer. Also buy a tartan mini skirt and match it up with colorful neon leggings. Topshop also makes shorts that are super cute. You should also look for colored minis and patterned shorts at secondhand stores.





;
, Try using hair mousse instead of gel. Hair mousse is more lightweight and still holds you hair in place. Go for a new shorter cut. Instead of leaving your hair long try a shorter cut with dramatic bangs.Layers, Layers and more layers! instead of traditional black (which absorbs more heat, making you hotter, causing you to sweat more and get oilier hair), go platinum blonde, or a bright color. Get funky and creative! Just keep the color away from darks. If you want to keep your hair long and layered, try wearing your hair in a low ponytail, or use a stylish sweatband to keep hair layers out of your face. You can also buy matching wristbands. Bobby Pins, Bows and your five year old sister's hair clips are a must. ALWAYS tease your top layers no matter what hairstyle your have.
 Maybelline Ultra Liner in black is the absolute best liquid eyeliner around for summer. It's waterproof, and when you do wash it off, it doesn't get in your eyes and sting. Waterproof mascara, however, is often clumpy and not very dark. Wear mineral make-up. It is all round better for your skin. Always dust translucent powder over your foundation when you are done.


Wear as little makeup as possible. If you can, try to stick with a foundation, eyeliner, and mascara makeup agenda. It's also the new scene thing to wear cupid lips.
 This will complete every scene girl outfit. Lots of cute colourful bracelets, cute barrettes and bows, colorful hairbands, studded belts, cute charm necklaces and of course NEVER forget your huge sunglasses!

