 While spending time getting to know and date the Pisces, watch for clues about what seems to make your date feel cared for, valued, loved, beautiful, appreciated, etc. Did your date light up when you complimented their sense of humor? Or when you held their hand or gave them a little memento of your first date? What made your date laugh? What made your date smile? Some people may love receiving compliments, while they may make other people squirm. Keep that in mind while considering advice about a typical Pisces — if the person doesn't appear to share the Pisces trait of loving compliments or romance, then find other ways to make that person feel special.
 A sensitive, caring Pisces will likely be very receptive to compliments. Make sure they come from the heart, and tell the person what you really appreciate about them. Pull your Pisces close and whisper in their ear, letting them know just how amazing you think they are.


Pisces are intuitive, so they will likely know if you are being insincere. Don't say nice things just to try to manipulate or seduce the person — be honest and real.
 A typical Pisces will go for sincere, romantic gestures. Think candles, wine, chocolates, flowers, and poetry. Write a song or poem for the person, draw their portrait, pick a bouquet of the person's favorite flowers — the price tag of these things shouldn't matter; rather, you want to concentrate on the sentiment behind them.


Reciting a line from a famous poem at the appropriate time is another way to impress a Pisces. Or buy her a book of romantic poems
If you aren’t the artistic or romantic type, try reading write a love poem, write a love song, or be romantic. This doesn't mean you have to change your personality if you're not a romantic person, but if your love interest responds to romance, it will help show that person how much you mean to them.
 Ask your Pisces about their fantasies in the bedroom. A sensual, dreamy Pisces might respond very well to role playing — ask if this is something they might like. A classic Pisces will also likely prefer for you to take charge — but it's very important you don't make assumptions here. Communicate clearly about what turns you on and what your partner wants sexually. A Pisces may be very sexually adventurous, but it's important you have their consent before trying something new.


Some role play ideas include dressing up like a French maid, nun, construction worker, or something similarly subdued, but sexy.
Pisces may be very into foreplay, perhaps even more so than the actual sex. Consider long, steamy make out sessions and taking things slow, really building up to sex.Seduction of a Pisces is not a one date deal. You may have to go on multiple dates until they feel comfortable with getting physical with you.

