 This technique takes long exposures of one hour or more so that the path of the moon during the lunar eclipse appears like a long light trail. Make sure your camera has a manual bulb setting. A manual bulb setting is needed to lock the shutter open.The shutter needs to stay open for a long duration photo, so make sure your camera has the ability to take long exposure photos.
 Research the position and duration of the moon ahead of time. You will need to line the camera lens up with the path of the eclipse. Try estimating the moon’s direction and elevation one or two night before the eclipse. The moon will appear in the same position 50 minutes later each night. If the eclipse begins at 10 p.m., then the moon will be in the same position at 8:20 p.m. two nights before., A tripod is necessary tool because this technique captures the path of the moon, and the exposures need to be steady to capture that path. Use a makeshift tripod, like a wall if necessary, but make sure the camera stays very still.Be sure the tripod is sturdy and not prone to vibrating from surrounding movement.
 Long exposure photos can drain the battery quickly. A fully charged battery will prevent your camera from dying before the photo is completed., Pick an ISO of 200 or 400. Choose an aperture of f/stop, f/8, or f/11. The photo exposure will be between one and three hours for this technique.Aperture is the hole in the camera’s lens that allows light to pass through.The larger the aperture, the more light allowed in.
The lower the aperture, the less amount of light allowed in.
 Focus manually. This will help the photo to be as steady as possible., Make sure that the camera’s field of vision lines up with the path of the moon.The camera’s line of vision can be traced by planning the positioning of the moon one or two nights before. This should have been planned already, so that it won’t be a problem to line the camera up with the moon.
 The cable release prevents vibrations. This is a necessary tool to use for for a photo that relies on a steady camera. , Open and lock the shutter when you are ready for the photo to begin. Make sure to time this with the beginning of the eclipse.