 Pick a note you can sustain easily, but opt for one that is high enough to fall within your falsetto range. The pitch should be the highest one you can sing in while sustaining it without tension.


Falsetto screaming is usually easier to learn than screams done in your normal vocal range.
With this technique, you can learn to insert individual screams into songs or scream out lyrics.
To help yourself with this step, consider playing the note you sing on a pitch wheel, keyboard, or guitar.
There should be absolutely no tension on this note. If you have to push yourself to make and sustain it, drop down a pitch further and try again.
 Once you figure out which pitch to go with, attempt to sing it out for as long as you possibly can without straining your throat. Ideally, you should aim to hold it for 30 seconds.


Keep practicing until you can hold this pitch steady for the full 30 seconds. Holding it steady means that there should be no cracking, wavering, or other variances in pitch or tonal quality.
 Take a sip of lukewarm water, but instead of swallowing, begin to gargle it while making the same "ah" sound as you made earlier. Keep the same note and pitch.


Pay close attention to the vibration of the uvula. The uvula is the piece of flesh hanging down from the back of your mouth.
This vibration will be what you will rely on when creating a raspy scream voice.
Continue gargling on the "ah" sound until you can commit this vibration to memory and feel comfortable with it.
 Essentially, you will be trying to create the same sound you made while gargling the water without actually gargling water anymore. Make the "oo" sound while directing air toward the soft palate of your mouth. The breath pressure should be directly applied to the top middle part of your mouth.


This is the same "oo" sound as the "o" in "shoe."
The soft palate is the soft tissue found at the roof of your mouth.
This action should cause the uvula to vibrate as it did before. The resulting sound should be similar to the coo of a pigeon.
Make sure that this is sung in the same pitch as before, and that you can sustain it for 30 seconds without the sound becoming uneven.
This technique teaches you to place your tone in the soft palate, which is essential if you want to safely sustain a long scream in a song.
 Sing the "ah" sound in the same pitch and on the same note as before, making sure that the note is still consistent. Direct more air toward the soft palate to activate the uvula, creating a distorted "scream" note.


You can direct as much air to the palate as you want as long as it does not result in straining.
Manipulate your tongue, throat, and breathing using this same technique to produce different vowels, consonants, and sounds.
 You will need to practice a little at a time over the course of a couple of weeks before you can really master this scream. Take your time to avoid damaging your throat.


If you take your time, it could take several weeks of consistent practice before you master this scream. You should still practice this slowly to avoid ruining your throat, though.
If your throat starts hurting as you practice, stop and drink something warm. Warm tea with honey is especially good at this point. Only continue with your practice when your throat feels completely fine.
With enough practice, you should be able to create raspy, screaming tones without relying on the uvula. You should also be able to apply this technique to the rest of your vocal range, instead of only your falsetto voice.

