 Some studies show that men are instinctively attracted to the color red, which–you guessed it–ignites the male passion and libido. And we humans aren't the only ones: some primate species and birds associate the color red with their mating rituals.Like humans blush when embarrassed, hot, or turned on, female baboons will make their fertility known by displaying flushing, or redness, on their genitals and chest.It's biological!

, Apparently, men are less shallow than their reputation. Rather than being first draw to a woman's chest, as is generally thought, research reveals that men are actually first attracted to the eyes, not the cleavage.If you want to attract a guy, emphasize your eyes with make-up to highlight their natural brilliance and beauty.


Wear clothes and use make-up that will bring out the color in your eyes to help ensure that guys will get lost in them. You'll have him!

, Men find agreeableness sexy and attractive. When deciding what to do, where to go, or how to approach a particular task, most men find it preferable to follow the simplest, as opposed to the "best" or most complex solution. Correspondingly, men find agreeableness and a willingness to act sexy in prospective partners.


If a guy comes up with an idea to go out for a slice of pizza, and seems genuinely excited about it, going along with it will seem sexy to him, even if you're not excited. If you're still full from lunch, does it really matter? Take a few bites and enjoy the company.
This doesn't mean you should be a wet noodle, but you should prioritize things that require debate and decision-making and things that are better off left undiscussed. Guys don't want to talk about what to eat for dinner for longer than 5 minutes, but discussing

, Studies show that men are turned off by both overly-cool and calm prospective mates, as well as hyper-stressed partners. However, people with "moderately neurotic" characteristics are usually rated by men as the sexiest. But what does that mean for you exactly?


To appeal to men, it's good to sweat the big stuff and let the little stuff slide. When it comes to your career, your family, and your health, it's good to be somewhat neurotic, serious, and concerned. When it comes to finding a place to eat lunch, go easy.
Don't affect weirdness to have more sex appeal, just be genuine and avoid sharing overly-personal neuroses with people you're attracted to. You might be feeling neurotic about your dog's weird skin warts, but that's probably not something to discuss with a date.
 Keep people guessing! Don't give away every single detail about yourself right away. People like a puzzle, and they'll be more interested in who you are and what you're doing if they don't know everything. Save some good stories to detail later, and keep certain parts of yourself private until the opportune time. It'll seem that much sexier when you reveal more.


If someone you like starts pressing for personal details, you could even turn it into a sly and flirty put-off. "If I told you, I'd have to kill you" is an old classic line, but you could also try "Sorry, that's classified" or "That's need-to-know information." For extra appeal, smile or wink as you say it.
 Don't just spend your time trying to have sex appeal or worrying about what other people think—keep your life interesting and full of events. Socialize, keep up with your hobbies, and try new experiences. You'll feel more confident, and other people will be more attracted to you as a result.


If you lead a generally quiet life, it's still ok to give the impression that your life is busy. If someone asks you out, plan it for a time that works best for you. Keep them wanting. Making a guy wait a few days for the date builds anticipation, which can be sexy.

