 Make sure you have a rack in the middle of the oven so the can cookies bake evenly. If the rack is too close to the top or bottom of the oven, you may burn the top or bottom of the cookies.If you are at a high altitude you may need to increase the temperature of the oven by 15-25ºF or adjust the baking time.;
, Lining your pan will keep it clean and prevent the cookies from sticking to the metal. A liner, especially a silicone mat, will also help your cookies bake evenly and prevent the color or material of your baking sheet from affecting how the cookies bake.An unlined dark aluminum sheet or non-stick pan can cause your cookies to brown too quickly. If you don't have a liner, try turning down the temperature in your oven by about 25ºF.An unlined insulated cookie sheets may prevent your cookie from browning and may cause your cookie to spread.Do not grease the pan if you can help it, as this may cause your cookies to spread and become too thin and crispy.If you have nothing to use as a liner, then grease the pan very lightly (unless it's a non-stick pan).
 You may find that the cake mix is clumpy straight out of the box. You should be able to mix out the clumps as you make the dough, but if you want to be extra careful or decrease the time you spend mixing, you can sift the cake mix and baking powder.Many cake mix cookie recipes leave out baking powder. The baking powder causes the cookies to rise, but not spread, so they will be airy and fluffy and hold their shape.You can make the cookies without baking powder in a pinch, but your cookies may be flat and dense or lose their shape and spread on the pan.
 The dough tends to be very sticky and can be a little hard to mix. You will have to stir vigorously to make sure you blend all the dry ingredients with the wet.The dough should be a bit oily and very thick once it is fully mixed.If you don't feel like building up your arm muscles by hand-mixing, you can use a stand mixer with a paddle attachment to combine your ingredients.
If you don't have vegetable oil, try 1/3 cup of melted butter, cooled to room temperature. Your cookies may not be as moist, but they will still taste good.Substituting margarine for vegetable oil may cause your cookies to spread in the oven, because it often contains a lot of water, so try not to use it., You can add just about anything to the cookies at this point. Candies, dried fruit, sprinkles, nuts, peanut butter chips, white chocolate chips--whatever sounds good to you!

, They should be evenly spaced on the baking sheet, with enough room to expand a little as they bake.If you want thick, puffy cookies, try shaping the scoops of dough so that they are taller than they are wide.If the dough is too sticky to work with, try chilling it in the refrigerator for up to 30 minutes., If you are baking a colored dough (like a strawberry pink or light lemon) and don't want any browning, check on the cookies after 8 minutes. If they aren't quite ready, keep a close eye on them to make sure they don't darken while your back is turned., If you plan to make another batch, use a clean baking sheet or allow your baking sheet to cool. If the baking sheet is hot when you scoop the dough, the cookie will immediately lose its shape and begin to spread., Here are some suggestions for you to try:


Strawberry cake mix with white chocolate chips for Valentine's Day.
Chocolate devil's food cake mix with chocolate covered candies.
Lemon cake mix with lemon icing.
Chocolate cake mix with crushed candy canes.
German chocolate cake mix with coconut icing.
Vanilla cake mix with colored sprinkles.
Sugar-free cake mix with dried fruit.

