 Some research indicates that foods with lots of sugar or artificial sweeteners and foods high in fat may trigger chemical reactions in your body that increase your cravings for these types of foodsYou can reduce your food addictions if you purchase healthy foods and don’t have foods around that are addictive.


If you are unsure which foods are healthy choices, ask your doctor for a referral to a Registered Dietitian who can help you plan meals and choose healthy, nutritious foods.
Instead of buying foods that are known to increase your cravings for them, buy fresh fruit and vegetables.
If you need to, make it hard to get to your money so that you can’t just go out and buy foods that are addictive.
Make a list before you go shopping. Shopping with a list will make it easier for you to purchase healthy foods. In addition, don't go to the grocery store with an empty stomach, as this can cause you to impulse buy unhealthy foods or things you don't need. Go after you have had a snack or a meal and you're not hungry.;
, Sometimes eliminating the foods that you addicted to can be unrealistic. In this case, you can reduce your food addictions by allowing yourself to have only a certain amount of those foods.


When possible, buy only a single portion of the foods that you are addicted to. For example, a single serving bag of chips or a personal size pizza.
Review the recommended portions for the foods you are addicted to and eat only one portion.
If you are still hungry after this one serving, tell yourself you will wait 30 minutes before having another serving. By this time the craving may pass.
If you need to, divide foods that are sold in multiple portions (chips, cookies, etc.) into single servings.
Keep one serving available and put the rest somewhere that it is hard for you to get to.
 You will be less likely to crave specific foods or types of food if you are meeting your nutritional needs through your meals.


Eating a healthy breakfast can help you start your day nutritiously and help control your food addictions throughout the day. Some mental heath professionals believe that starting the day off with good food choices can help you set your intentions and make better choices throughout the day.
Check labels to make sure you are getting daily recommended values of nutrients.
Try to get the right amount of protein, carbohydrates, dairy, polyunsaturated fats, vitamins, and minerals.
For example, you might have a dinner of baked chicken, broccoli with cheese, and a baked potato.
 It will be much easier for you to reduce your food addictions if make sure that you keep nutritious snacks around. Instead of giving into your addiction, you can eat something that will benefit your body.


For example, you could experiment by having tomato slices with sea salt when you feel that in-between-meals hunger.
Try to keep options such as nuts, fruit, and vegetables close at hand for when cravings hit.

