 If you are going to have floral arrangements on your table, opt to use gold vases, bottles, or jars, or add a gold filler such as gold marbles or stones to your vases. Alternatively, for a small pop of gold you can tie a gold ribbon or bow around the center of the vase, or drape gold fabric around the base of the vase.Use gold paint or enamel on the inside of clear or frosted glass vases to turn an ordinary vase into a gold centerpiece.Paint on thin layers of Mod Podge and roll your vase in gold glitter to add sparkle to your centerpieces. Allow the Mod Podge to dry before adding the next layer. Repeat until you achieve the level of opacity you desire.
 If you already have your floral centerpieces set, or if you are not using flowers, pick gold accessories like candlesticks, trays, tea light holders, bird cages, or geometric table sculptures.Check big box stores, craft stores, and home goods stores for deals on gold table accessories.
Also check online marketplaces for chances to purchase in bulk.
If there is an accessory you like that does not come in gold, you can always use craft paint, enamel, or gold leaf to add shine to the piece.
 There are countless ways to add gold into your place settings. You may choose plates with gold on them, or decide to use gold chargers underneath. You can also use gold utensils, and ask your linen vendor about finding gold napkins and table runners.


Gold chargers can often be found cheap at big box stores and dollar stores, especially around the holiday season.Gold napkin holders are often readily available from kitchen and home goods stores, and wooden napkin holders can easily be painted with acrylic paint or enamel to make them gold.
If you are looking for gold linen, you will need to contact your linen vendor well in advance. Let them know, “I would like to incorporate gold into the table linen in some way. What do you recommend?”

, Hand-written place cards are generally a beautiful and charming touch. Save money and add gold to your wedding decor by opting to handwrite your place cards in gold ink rather than having them printed.You can buy affordable bulk place cards in a variety of colors as well as gold ink pens and markers online or at many paper goods stores.

