 Structure is a crucial component of ensuring stability in a child's life.


Set a daily schedule for your child, but make sure you are flexible if it doesn't work out perfectly. Explain to the child what the plan is for the day. If you deviate from the plan it gives you the opportunity to discuss flexibility with your child.
Make sure your child is supervised, especially when very young, at all times. Never leave him home alone unless he is old enough (teenage years). This does not mean never give your child privacy when he needs it, but always make sure he is safe and someone is there to help him if he gets hurt.
 Conflict that is witnessed by the child (especially domestic violence) can lead to issues such as depressed mood, anxiety, and behavioral problems.Cultivate healthy relationships. If you are married, show affection and admiration for your spouse in front of your child. This can promote a sense of security, love, and respect for the whole family.
Never take out your anger on your child. Physical aggression can lead to a child displaying aggression., Remember your child copies you; if you treat the child well he will treat you well, if you treat others well the child will treat others well. Similarly, your child will learn responsibility if you display responsible behaviors in front of him.


Don’t drink excessively or use drugs in front of your child (or at all, for that matter).
Plan ahead and be prepared. If you are going on a trip, pack enough food and extra supplies.
 Pro-social behaviors, such as helping others, being part of a team, and being understanding, increase positive and healthy relationships. You can teach your child these pro-social skills through modeling.


You can model pro-social behaviors with your child through play. Try role-playing different social situations in order to teach your child how to respond.For example, you can pretend to be a child on the playground that took away your child's ball. First, notice how your child responds (he may yell and say, "Give me back my ball!"), then you can switch roles to model the most pro-social way to deal with the situation. You might model something like saying, "I feel sad that you took the ball I was using (instead of saying "my ball"), could you please give it back?" Or, you could say something like, "How about we play with the ball together?"

