 Knowing the styles of engagement rings she prefers will help you narrow down the vast list of possibilities.


If you want the engagement to be a surprise, pay attention to her comments on rings she sees or when other friends get engaged.
Ask her friends if you’re not sure. They will often know the styles she likes or exactly what she wants.
If the engagement isn’t a surprise, then ask your future fiancée what kind of ring she would like.
Shop together and have her pick out several styles she likes. This way, you can surprise her with the final choice.;
, Finding out your intended fiancée’s ring size assures that the day you propose you have the perfect ring for her finger.


People often don’t know their ring sizes. Take a ring she wears frequently and have it measured. Just make sure she doesn’t notice! A good way to do this quickly is to trace her ring on a piece of paper and then put the ring back. Many jewelers can estimate her ring size from your sketch.Some people prefer their rings to fit a little bit looser to accommodate for swelling.
You can have the size increased or decreased as needed once you purchase the engagement ring.
 Knowing how much money you can spend on a ring is important. You want to get your fiancée the perfect ring without going into major debt.The old rule of thumb on ring prices is you should spend 2-3 months’ salary.Be realistic about what you can actually afford. For example, it might only be 4-6 weeks pay.
If you know your budget before you research and buy, you can make adjustments to certain aspects of the ring like cut and color. This ensures that you get the best possible quality and value for your money., Buying an engagement ring isn’t as simple a task as going to a store and picking out something. Armed with your fiancée's preferences and a little information about the different components of engagement rings, you can easily make the right choice.


Any ring is made up of two parts, the setting and the stone. There are countless combinations of metals, stones, shapes, and cuts you can combine for your fiancée’s perfect engagement ring., The setting is ring’s metal framework and enhances the beauty of a stone.


Settings are normally in the following metals: gold (which comes in yellow, white, or rose), platinum, or palladium. Silver is also an option. Platinum is hypoallergenic and an excellent choice for someone with sensitive skin., Once you’ve decided on a what metal you would like for the setting, you can figure out what style setting you’d like. There are many options such as vintage, pavé, bezel, or channel set.You can also choose a setting after you’ve chosen your stone. Often, the brilliance of a stone is influenced by the setting’s metal. For example, colorless diamonds look best in white gold or platinum because yellow gold casts slight yellow tint onto a clear stone.Two other options are custom settings and vintage or heirloom rings.
Jewelers can craft custom engagement rings that specifically fit your fiancée’s personality, taste, and size. A jeweler will let you choose the setting, setting style and a stone or stones you like.
You can buy quality vintage or heirloom rings from jewelers, or even from websites like Ebay. Estate sales are another place to find vintage or heirloom pieces.
 This is arguably the most difficult part of buying an engagement ring because a stone has so many variables. The stone is what is placed into a setting and is the central focus of any engagement ring. The 4C’s- cut, clarity, color, and carats (or stone size)- are the characteristics of a stone and dictate its price.


If you are socially conscious, you may want to consider purchasing a “conflict free diamond,” which are stones that have not funded civil war or human rights abuses in African combat zones., Traditionally, engagement rings are clear diamonds. Colorless, round, brilliant cut diamonds are still the most popular for engagement rings.People are increasingly adding other gemstones, such as sapphires, emeralds, or rubies to their engagement rings, either as the center stone or to frame the center stone.
Fancy colored diamonds in yellow, pink, or blue are also popular- and expensive because of their rarity.Colors are rated on a scale of colorless (D grade) to light tint (N-Z grades).Aim to purchase color grade “H” and above so that the stone doesn’t have too much of a yellow tint., This refers to the stone’s shape, which is cut by a qualified jeweler.


Cut is considered the most important factor for beauty. A poor cut can make the stone look dull.Some examples of different cuts include: round, princess, emerald, and radiant. Cushion and Asscher cuts are considered “fancy” and are generally more expensive.Aim to purchase cut grade “very good” or above, which will guarantee your stone sparkles brilliantly., Carats refer the size of a stone. The more carats a stone has, the larger its surface area. Ring prices increase with carat weight.


Each carat is divided into 100 points: if you have a one carat ring with 50 points, it is equal to 1.5 carats.If your fiancée wants a higher carat weight ring and cost is an issue, one tip is to get a stone with a larger surface area and shallower cut. This way, you’ll get the size without a significant increase in price., A stone’s clarity measures imperfections, also called inclusions. The less inclusions a ring has, the more it will sparkle- and cost.


Clarity is graded on a scale from “FL” (flawless) to “SI” (some inclusions” to “I” (imperfect).Grades “VS” (very small inclusions) and “SI” (small inclusions) are considered “fine quality” stones., There are countless engagement rings for sale and you want to make sure that you find the right ring for your fiancée by exploring what styles are available at different vendors.


Give yourself time to find the perfect ring. Don’t buy the first ring you find- you can always come back to any ring after searching around a bit.
 Shop around to get a sense of what stores offer in terms of engagement rings and factors like their insurance and return policies.


It’s important to find a reliable location to buy your engagement ring. This will guarantee the quality of your purchase.
Ask for recommendations for jewelers from friends or family.
Big name chain stores like Tiffany, Cartier, or Macy’s are also safe locations to purchase a high-quality ring.The Gemological Institute of American can also suggest quality vendors., Once you’ve done your research and decided on the perfect ring, you’re ready to purchase it for her.
 There are a few questions you should ask when you purchase your ring about its quality, insurance, and pricing.


Ask whether the diamond comes with a diamond certificate. All quality stones come with a “diamond certificate” that contains information on the stone’s cut, carats, and clarity.
Ask whether or not you can purchase insurance for the ring. This is an excellent option if your fiancée loses the ring or it’s stolen. The store also may have a replacement policy if stones fall out of loose settings.
Ask about the return policy. You’ll want the option to return the engagement ring if you fiancée doesn’t like it or if the engagement breaks.
Ask about financing. If you don’t have the entire amount to cover the ring, ask if the company will finance the cost of the ring over a set period of time.
