 The Department of the Interior's BLM has responsibility for undeveloped land, most of which is located in the western United States. Any sales to the public are coordinated by the nearest regional office with jurisdiction over that property.Keep in mind that undeveloped land is offered for sale to the general public rarely. These tracts typically are small, isolated parcels, and very few have any agricultural potential.
Land also may be sold that was acquired by the government for a specific purpose or public objective and is no longer suited or needed for the reason it was originally acquired.
Almost all land for sale by the BLM is located in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, or Wyoming.
There are other small tracts occasionally for sale in other states in the western and mid-western United States.
 Each BLM regional office has brochures for any undeveloped land in its jurisdiction that is available for public sale. These brochures provide detailed information about the property, including its precise location and basic characteristics of the property.Land types vary widely – almost all are isolated tracts that are difficult to manage. A few of these parcels are several hundred acres in size.
While federal law requires these parcels to be sold at fair market value, there is no average cost for these lands.
The sales brochure will describe the type of property, whether it is suitable for development with access to electricity and running water, and whether it has any agricultural potential.
You also will have access to the fair market value appraisal and any encumbrances such as easements that may affect the value of the property.
 The BLM conducts sales by oral bid, seal bid, or a combination of both. Auctions are held either somewhere near the property to be sold or at the regional BLM office that has jurisdiction over that property.If the sale is conducted by oral bid, it's not necessary for you to be there in person – you can be represented by an agent. However, it's typically in your best interests to be there yourself so you have the opportunity to inspect the property before bidding.
For sales conducted using a sealed bid process, you can get details regarding the dates when bids will be accepted from the BLM regional field office conducting the sale.
Sealed bids must be received by the specified deadline using the official bid form supplied by the BLM. Any additional requirements will be included in the legal sale notice.
Sealed bids will only be accepted if they are received by the deadline and meet all requirements and conditions that are specified for that property.
 You must pay an established percentage of the full price of the property with each bid, and the balance must be paid in full within a brief period of time after the auction closes or the deed won't be issued, so it's a good idea to arrange financing, if necessary, before you attend the auction.If the auction closes and you are the winning bidder, you will have only 180 days from the sale date to pay the balance of your bid in full.
 While specific procedures will vary depending on the type of auction being conducted, typically you arrive at the location of the auction, register as a bidder, and place your bid along with the deposit.Keep in mind that the BLM can only sell public land to U.S. corporations or citizens over 18 years of age.
The minimum accepted bid is the appraised fair market value of the property. The property goes to the highest bidder.
In an oral auction, you must submit a non-refundable deposit of at least 20 percent of the bid amount before close of business on the day of the auction.
For sealed bids, you must mail your deposit using the BLM form along with a deposit of guaranteed funds for at least 10 percent of your bid amount by the deadline set for that property.
 If you attended an oral auction, you will know the winning bidder immediately upon close of bidding. However, for sealed bids, you will have to wait until after the bids are opened.Typically the winning bidder will be notified within a week of the date the bids are opened, which will be specified in the auction details.
Once notified, you have 180 days to pay the balance of your bid to close the sale on the property.
When full and final payment is received, the BLM will issue you a quitclaim deed for the property.
If you were not the winning bidder for property auctioned through sealed bids, the BLM will return your deposit typically within a week of opening the sealed bids. Checks are returned using a trackable shipping method.

