 Copper is said to bring good luck, prosperity and good fortune to those who hold it, so why not let your spouse wear it?You can search websites like Etsy and Amazon to find vendors selling copper jewelry. You can find beautiful and unique copper pieces online, as it’s a very popular material for jewelry.


Choose something that your partner would actually wear. If they love fun necklaces, add a copper one to their collection. If you’ve never seen them wear a bracelet in their life, it's probably not a great gift idea.
If you do choose to order online, make sure you allow plenty of time for processing and shipping. Add even more time if you’re getting something handmade! You don’t want miss your anniversary.;
, You can easily find copper home décor items like vases, figurines, wind chimes, clocks or picture frames.You don't need to buy anything massive– you can simply buy a small copper piece for your home to go with another gift.


Try to find something that complements the décor you already have. Just because copper is the traditional gift doesn’t mean you need to present your love with a giant copper vase that they’ll never use!
Add a personalized touch to this gift by explaining why you bought it, or how you can enjoy it together as a couple. For example, copper cookware is the perfect gift for a couple that loves to cook dinner together every night.
 Copper pots, pans and other cookware make great gifts. These are perfect for a spouse who loves to cook, but they also work for a spouse who loves to eat! Present them with a set of cookware along with a yummy recipe that you two can make together for a date night.


Going along with the kitchen theme, you can also find many kitchen appliances that feature copper trim.
 Consider something in a copper-color, like clothing or something else they’d enjoy. Maybe you could go the extra mile and surprise your sweetie with tickets to a sunny vacation or an event, and include a bottle of Coppertone sunscreen. Get creative! You can incorporate copper a lot or a little, in any way, shape, or form.


It can be especially thoughtful to give your spouse something you can both enjoy together, like a shared experience.
 Wool represents marriage in the fact that it is warm, comforting, and strong.A sweet way to incorporate wool into your anniversary gift is to give her a wool blanket with an entire date night to go along with it.Maybe you could throw in a gift card to your favorite restaurant to dine together, or cook a yummy dinner for them. Choose a movie that you think they’d love and voila¬— you have a great gift and an evening of fun together.
 Look online or in person at your spouse’s favorite clothing shops for something like a sweater, a vest, or a scarf.If you aren’t too sure if they’d wear wool clothing, or if you live someplace that isn’t that cold, consider getting them a fun or cozy pair of wool socks just as a part of their gift. Remember, your entire gift doesn’t need to be wool, but it’s fun to incorporate it in whichever ways you can.


If you live someplace warm, why not use the gift of wool as an excuse for a vacation? Go the extra mile (literally) and give your love a set of wool gloves to wear on the surprise ski trip you booked.
 If you have a place in your home where you think a wool rug would go nicely, that’s perfect. You can get a rug that matches your home décor and that you will both enjoy. If that isn’t practical, buy your spouse a set of wool roses. You can find these online at Etsy or various other gift stores.It’s a small, sweet token that you can give them to commemorate your seventh year. Unlike regular roses, they can treasure them forever.
 Wool is not considered vegan or cruelty-free, so remember this if your love is passionate about either of these lifestyles.Luckily, however, there are some great wool alternatives for your vegan spouse! Bamboo fabric, linen, and SeaCell are all materials that are comparable to wool, but don't involve any inhumane practices.Give these to your spouse instead, and explain why you chose them instead of wool. Not only will they love your gift, but they'll love the thoughtfulness behind it!

, Consider something like a brass sculptures, garden décor items, bells, or even a piece of furniture. Consider a brass personalized name plate and door knocker for the front door to make it a more personalized gift. If you want to keep it simple, pop one of your favorite pictures of you and your spouse into a brass picture frame.You can write an accompanying note, explaining why you chose that particular picture and what the memory means to you. A brass gift goes well with a side of sappiness.
 Etsy and Amazon are great resources to find unique and handmade pieces that your spouse will love. Luckily, brass jewelry tends to be affordable as well. There are necklaces, rings, bracelets, earrings, and more to choose from, so you're sure to find something if jewelry is the route you want to go., Think about something your spouse uses regularly in their office work, such as a planner or writing utensils. You can find countless websites online that will customize things like planners, book covers, pen holders, pens, etc. The more thought that goes into an anniversary gift, the better.


While your love might not be thrilled with an anniversary gift of pens, they'd probably love a customized pen set engraved with your initials and anniversary date.
You can also get things customized with meaningful words, like lyrics from the song you had your first dance to or a quote that means a lot to them.
 This is perfect if they work from home, or if they have a lot of freedom in their office at work. Something like a framed family photo or a throwback wedding photo is a thoughtful way to add a little bit of love to their workspace. Although the modern seventh anniversary gift is a technically a desk set, you can really give them anything for their office at all. Remember, it's your anniversary and it's your gift!

, This is a sweet, thoughtful gift, and can be used for thank you notes and other correspondence. Decorative personalized return address stamps are also very popular. These can be customized to reflect your interests as a couple, and it's something you can both use. This is a great gift idea for anyone who sends a lot of mail.
 What’s more modern than that? Your marriage is a unique and personal bond, and your gifts should reflect that. If you have something in mind that you know your spouse would absolutely love, but it doesn’t happen to be copper, wool, brass, or office-related, go for it anyways! Your anniversary is a day about celebrating your love for each other, so give your gifts with their happiness in mind.

