 It can be nice to have your animal's remains buried in your own backyard. This way, you and your family can visit your pet's grave easily whenever you want. However, you need to make sure to look into the legality of this. Call a local courthouse to see if there are regulations on burying animals in your backyard in your area.Make sure you have room to bury you pet if you choose home burial. Find a spot away from hazards, like underground wiring.
Think about whether this option is right for you. Some people find it comforting to have a pet buried so near to them, while others find the reminder difficult.;
, Most veterinarian's offices provide cremation services for grieving owners. If you have no room for a home burial, or would prefer to live without the reminder, cremation can be a good option. You can put your pet's ashes on display or scatter them in an area that was important to you and your pet., Conduct an internet search to see if there are pet cemeteries near you. For a price, you can have your pet buried in a cemetery alongside other lost pets. This is a good option if you want a burial for your pet, but would prefer not to have a grave in your backyard. Pet cemeteries are also convenient, as your pet's body will be taken care of for you and the grave will be cared for.The major downside to pet cemeteries is the price. The cost of space and any related services can get high, so get a cost estimate before deciding to go this route.
 Making art can be especially helpful for young children, if you have them. If you enjoy art, you can make some with adults or other household members. Get out some art supplies, like paper and paint, and encourage family members to make their own decorations. Everyone can make something personal that helps them remember the lost pet. You can hang up art pieces around where you're having the memorial.If you have a lot of old pictures of your pet, you can have your kids make collages with these pictures. If most of your pictures are electronic, transfer them to a flash drive or other portable device. You can print your pictures out at most print shops or drugstores like Walgreens.
For those so inclined you could write a poem or a song that you might like to be read at the funeral.
 In a viewing area, you can place photographs and other mementos of your lost pet. If you have your pet's ashes in an urn, or its body in a small coffin, place the urn or coffin near the viewing area and decorate around it. You can, for example, place the urn on a small table and then add mementos around it.Things like old toys, beds, and collars are great mementos for the viewing area.
Put out any photos you have here.
 Frame a large photograph of your pet. At the service, have this photo sitting out near your pet's ashes or urn. You can also have it sitting out in place of ashes or an urn if you had your pet's body disposed of or sent to a pet funeral home., People who knew your pet may wish to light a candle for it. Set a few lines of candles out on a table somewhere with a lighter nearby. Invite guests to light a candle for your pet if they so choose.Choose candles that reflect something about your pet. If you're grieving a calico cat, for example, put out black, orange, and white candles.
If you have young children, it's a good idea to keep the lighter out of reach. Have children ask you first if they want to light a candle for your pet.
Remember to practice basic fire safety. Put out the candles when you're done using them, keep them away from flammable objects, and do not leave lit candles unattended.
 If you have decided on a home burial you might want to mark the location of your pet using this stone., Let your guests know when the funeral will be. For a pet funeral, it's usually easy to have it in your home. You should also find a time that works for everyone. If your children want to invite their friends, for example, have the funeral on a weekend afternoon or early evening during a weeknight., When the funeral begins, someone should say a few words memorializing your pet. Announce why everyone is gathering and mention a few quick things about your pet's personality.For example, start off with something like, "We are gathered here today to say goodbye to our beloved Labrador retriever Rocky."
From there, mention a little something about your lost pet. For example, say, "Rocky was a very loving pet and we enjoyed his company for over 12 years. We will miss taking him on hikes and swims at the local lake."

, Sharing stories can help people learn to treasure their memories of a lost pet. This can help people say goodbye and learn to value their memories. You can have a preset order, determined before the ceremony, or simply invite people to take turns sharing stories.If people are unsure how to come up with stories, offer some guidance. For example, say something like, "Would anyone like to share their first memory of Rocky?"

, If you have any videos of your pet, you can compile a video reel before the ceremony. Use simple editing software on your computer to compile some video footage of your pet over time.The video does not need to be long. About five minutes of footage can help people remember your pet.
 There are many poems you can find online about mourning a lost pet. Have someone read a poem at the ceremony as a way of wrapping things up. One popular poem for lost pets is "The Rainbow Bridge," which is appropriate for young children. A young child may want to read this poem., Let those gallons of tears out on the bed., An empty room they had doesn't help.,