 Allow to dry fully before proceeding.;
, Here, anything goes. Bear in mind that whatever designs you choose must be easy to draw and cut out from the foam and may need to match the color of the foam sheet you can get hold of. Simpler designs work best. Some ideas include:


Rows of cars, buses, trucks, boats, etc., driving around the lampshade.
An ocean with fish, sharks, whales, dolphins, octopuses, etc. swimming around the lampshade.
A flower garden filled with all sorts or only one sort of flower, such as daisies, tulips, trailing ivy, etc. Use flower and plant designs that are simple to draw and work out.
A zoo filled with animals you or your child likes.
Favorite clothes, such as dresses or shoes; or perhaps accessories and makeup, such as tubes of lipstick, high heels and handbags.
Geometric shapes - all of the same sort but differing sizes, or many different shapes.
The night sky, with lots of stars and a moon.
And so forth.
 This will determine how many design pieces in the sizes you're using will fit around the lampshade.
 There are key considerations here: the design pieces must be sized to fit well on the lampshade and the design pieces should all complement each other. It can help to draw the idea on paper first, then source the designs after you're satisfied with the total design.


Draw the designs on light cardboard. Cut out the shapes in readiness for making the foam pieces.
Decide what color foam to use for each design element. Light plain colors or white can be decorated using suitable paint or gluing on decorations, if wished.



Place the cardboard templates over the selected foam sheet.
Using a thin-tipped marker or pencil, carefully draw around the shape to transfer the design to the foam.
Using scissors or a sharp craft knife, cut out the drawn-on shapes, making as many as you'll need to make the lampshade design.
If you need to add eyes, handles, etc., do this now. Hole punches are good ways to make eyes or holes for threading through ribbon, etc.



Attach a small piece of double-sided adhesive pads or tape to the back of each design piece.
Peel off the backing paper from the outer side of the tape.
Following the design you've already decided on, stick each piece onto the lampshade.
, For example, you might want to add things like ribbon bows, artificial flowers, beads, buttons, sequins, etc. Children might like to add an image of themselves or a small something that they have hand drawn. You can cover such an item on adhesive plastic before attaching it, to keep it clean.
 Attach the lampshade to its base and place on display.

