 The best way to interpret your blood results is by talking to your doctor. They understand the information and results better than anyone. Making an assessment on your own can lead to misdiagnosis or complications from self-treatment. Ask your doctor any questions you may have about individual or total levels and what they may indicate.Have your doctor go through each series of numbers individually, explaining what they test for and what your specific results may mean.
Ask your doctor to compare previous results with the new ones to better judge where you are physically.;
, This measures the number of hydrogen ions in your blood, which may indicate conditions such as COPD, asthma, pregnancy, diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), lung disease, liver disease, or drug use.The normal range for pH values are between 7.35 to 7.45.If the pH level is below 7.38, then you may have more acidic blood from conditions such as airway obstruction, COPD, asthma, sleep disordered breathing, or neuromuscular impairment.If the pH level is above 7.45, you may have a alkalosis, which could indicate stimulation of the central nervous system, lung disease, severe anemia, drug use, or pregnancy.
 Your kidneys produce bicarbonate and help maintain a normal pH. The normal level for bicarbonate is between 22 to 26 milliEquivalents Per Liter (mEq/L).A disruption of your bicarbonate levels may indicate conditions such as respiratory failure, anorexia, and liver failure.An HCO3 level is below 24 mEq/L indicates metabolic acidosis. It may be the result of conditions including diarrhea, liver failure and kidney disease.
An HCO3 level above 26 mEq/L indicates metabolic alkalosis. This may be the result of dehydration, vomiting, and anorexia.
 Partial pressure of carbon dioxide, or PaCO2, measures the carbon dioxide in your blood. The normal level for PaCO2 is between 38 and 45 mmHg.Disrupted levels may indicate shock, kidney failure, or chronic vomitingRespiratory alkalosis is present if the PaCO2 number is below 35 mmHg. This means there is too little carbon dioxide in the blood. It can signal kidney failure, shock, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperventilation, pain, or anxiety.Respiratory acidosis is present if the PaCO2 number is above 45 mmHg. This means that there is too much carbon dioxide in the blood. This can be a sign of chronic vomiting, low blood potassium, COPD, or pneumonia.
 Partial pressure of oxygen, or PaO2, measures how well oxygen can flow from your lungs into your blood. The normal level is between 75 to 100 mmHg.Higher or lower levels may indicate conditions such as anemia, carbon monoxide poisoning, or sickle cell disease., How well your hemoglobin carries oxygen to your red blood cells is called oxygen saturation. The normal levels are between 94 and 100%.Lower saturation rates may indicate the following:Anemia
Asthma
Congenital heart defects
COPD or emphysema
Strained abdominal muscles
Collapsed lung
Pulmonary edema or embolism
Sleep apnea

