 Making sure the bed is of a large enough diameter will ensure that your dog does not have to curl up in uncomfortable positions in order to sleep. The larger the bed, the less pressure it will put on your dog’s joints and soft tissues.You can use the following general guidelines:


If your dog is 1 – 10 lbs, the bed should be about 18" x 13"
If your dog is 11 – 25 lbs, the bed should be about 24" x 18"
If your dog is 26 – 40 lbs, the bed should be about 30" x 20"
If your dog is 41 – 70 lbs, the bed should be about 36" x 23"
If your dog is 71 – 90 lbs, the bed should be about 42" x 28"
If your dog is 91 – 110 lbs, the bed should be about 48" x 30"
Bed sizes may vary by company, so consult a bed sizing chart for your dog in order to determine the appropriate size.;
, Choosing an orthopedic bed that is ground-level will allow your dog to comfortably enter and exit their bed without assistance. The less your dog has to lift their limbs to an uncomfortable height the more comfortable they will be.Stick to a 2 – 3 inch height for small dogs and a 6 – 8 inch height for large dogs., To increase your arthritic dog's comfort, find a warm place for the bed, away from cold and/or damp drafts.If the area is on hardwood, you may want to put down a rug so your dog doesn't slip when getting and out of their bed. You may also want to position it near a door to making going outside easier, or in a room where family members spend a lot of time, as your dog will probably want to be close to their people most of the time., Orthopedic beds have many uses including soothing medical conditions that your dog may have. Consult your vet to see if an orthopedic bed might relieve some of the symptoms that your dog has.


Orthopedic beds generally relieve joint problems, like arthritis; bone and soft tissue problems, like hip dysplasia, back problems, or dogs who develop sores on elbows and other bony points; and muscle loss associated with old age., Although there is not set rubric for dog sleeping styles, taking notice of how your dog often likes to sleep will help you purchase the right orthopedic bed for them. Look to see if your dog likes to hang their head off their bed or prop it up on a bolster, sleep on their back or curl up on their side. Noticing their sleeping style will help you choose a bed that can give them the most support.


Bolsters are long, narrow, stuffed cushions that surround the outside of a bed and are often the most common addition to orthopedic beds., Beds made from high-quality materials will not only last longer, but also provide as much support as possible for your dog. Look for beds made from quality materials like memory foam. Memory foam will form to your dog's body, which is especially helpful if they have muscle, joint, or bone issues as this will greatly relieve any stress.Look for orthopedic beds with high-quality fabric that can be removed and washed.
Memory foam is a popular orthopedic material and is graded by pounds. The lowest quality memory foam is 3 pound memory foam. The highest quality memory foam available on the market today is 5 pound memory foam. Choosing a higher quality memory foam will ensure your dog’s support and comfort.
Other good options are thick slabs of quilted poly fiberfill or a single, thick slab of orthopedic or high-denstiy foam (this is better than multiple, thin slabs glued together)., Orthopedic beds made from cheap or poor-quality materials will wear out quickly and will not provide your dog with the support and comfort they need. Some manufacturers choose other materials to make their products more cost-effective, which decreases the bed’s quality and longevity.


These materials are not memory foam and do not provide the orthopedic qualities of real slow recovery visco-elastic memory foam: high memory fiber fill, convoluted foam, egg crate foam, medical grade hospital foam, foam chips, shredded memory foam, recycled fiber, batting, cedar, or polyester fiber.Contact your vendor if you are unsure if the bed you are interested in purchasing contains slow recovery visco-elastic memory foam.
 Orthopedic beds can be considered specialty dogs beds, especially if they are designed to relieve a specific ailment. Your vet will most likely have information available to you regarding who to contact and what to look for.


Ask your vet at your dog’s next check up or call in to their office.
 Not all pet stores will stock orthopedic beds, but most will have the option of custom ordering or ordering online. Go into your local pet store to discuss orthopedic bed options with an employee. Going into the store will allow you to speak face to face with an employee, ask questions, and you may even bring your dog to try beds out!Talk to your local pet store employee about dog breed and size, and popular and best selling brands.
 Look around online for highly rated orthopedic beds and vendors. There are many review sites dedicated to reviewing pet products’ quality, durability, and cost. Many blogs or forums for dog owners have sections devoted entirely to orthopedic beds, user reviews, and vendor reviews. Try finding a website dedicated to reviewing dog’s beds to be able to check as many vendors, materials, and styles as possible. Even if you plan on ordering a bed through your local pet store or a vendor that your vet has recommended, shopping around online will help you get a feel for the users’ experience.

