 Most guys are more practical than they are frivolous. Give your man something that he can use.Tools are always a great gift. When you are a guy, there is no such thing as too many hammers or screwdrivers. If there's a specialty tool that you know he needs, special order it and watch his eyes light up. Or try something really cool like this Estwing 15-Ounce Ultra Hammer or this Hitachi Cordless Nailer.Gloves, wallets, sunglasses, or a nice watch are all gifts that are not only practical, but are items that he would be able to use on a daily basis.If you want him to think of you, give him something that reminds him of you every time he puts it on!
Or give him something unique like a beer making kit or beard wipesthat he didn’t know he could use but can’t keep living without!;
, Think about things he points out when you're out together. This will let him know that you really pay attention to the things he likes.


If he loves having a clean car, buy him a gift certificate from the best local car care center.
If he daydreams about going fishing, a membership to a sportsman's club or a chartered day-long fishing trip would be ideal.
 Men love gadgets! Find something zany and unusual that he didn't even know he needed, like a USB Mini-Fridge or a Swiss Army Knife iPhone case., He may have mentioned a city he would like to visit or a restaurant he's always wanted to try to his sister or his roommate.They might be able to offer ideas you haven't even thought of, and he will be surprised that you took the initiative to do a little research.
 While giving a gift is an action, it also helps to see the gift as something that communicates to your boyfriend exactly how you feel about him. If your boyfriend is artistically inclined, a paint set can say, "I really admire your creativity."
Rock climbing accessories might say, “I like your sense of adventure.”
Sexy boxers could say, well, you get the idea.Be careful. The gift might accidentally “say” something negative as well. Personal grooming kits might imply a message like "I wish you would do a little man-scaping," and he might think a gym membership says, “You need to work out more,” when you didn’t mean those things at all.
 While a racecar video game is a nice gift, what about an afternoon at a racetrack, or even better, driving lessons at a speedway? An experience gives him something he enjoys and creates great memories that will last longer than any video game ever would.


A new set of beer glasses might be nice, but go a little further and plan a trip a local brewery to not only buy his favorite beer, but to see it made!
Tickets to see his favorite band, sports team, or comedian would be a great gift not only to open, but to look forward to!
A weekend away to go golfing, camping, hiking, or fishing are all great gifts that he could enjoy alone, with a friend, or together with you., If you give your boyfriend something one-of-a-kind that you spent time and effort on, he will know just how special you think he is.


Surprise him with a jar full of handwritten love notes, a collection of his favorite candies, a hand-knitted hat, a photo book full of pictures of the two of you, or special date coupons are just a few ideas that he would love.Don’t forget that the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach! Nothing says I love you like a homemade cake or a couple dozen of his favorite cookies.