 In Rhode Island, there is no legal age limit to adoption. Someone who has recently found their birth parents, who wants to cement a relationship with a foster family, who would like to simplify an inheritance, or who has any other reason, may find that adult adoption is the answer. An adult adoptee can take a new family name at the same time.


The form to fill out is the Adult Adoption Petition and Change of Name form, here: http://sos.ri.gov/documents/probate/PC8.2.pdf

If you are changing your name due to adult adoption, such as taking the last name of a new family, print this out and enter all of the information that it asks for.
If you are changing your name for any other reason, use the standard petition form.
 You can look up a notary at the online notary database if you have any questions. The Rhode Island state database of notaries may be found here: http://ucc.state.ri.us/notarysearch/onlinesearch.asp.
 You will need to turn in the name change petition to the court in your county, along with a filing fee.


The fee for adult adoption is at the discretion of the local court. Check with your local clerk.
You will be given a court date with a judge in your county. The clerk will direct you if there are further steps that need to be taken.
 This is not actually required by many courts, but you could be asked to print an announcement.


Publishing a name change can be done by publishing an ad in the newspaper where you reside that states your former and new name.
Upon completion of this step, you will be granted a 'Proof of Publication'. If you have been legally asked to announce your name, you will need to bring this to a hearing so make sure to keep track of it!

, You may be required to attend a hearing, or the clerk may simply notify you that your 'Name Change Decree' is ready.


Adult adoption is handled by judicial discretion in Rhode Island, so follow the directions of your local court.
Since this petition is more than just the name change, the court may have further requests or want a hearing. Rhode Island leaves this to the individual courts to determine.

