 Even if you are fairly certain you didn’t get any rubbing alcohol on your hands, it’s best to wash them before you ignite the fireball. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. If any rubbing alcohol splashed on your clothes, it’s very important to change into new clothes.


Having rubbing alcohol on your clothes can cause your clothes to get set on fire.
 Don’t ignite your fireball in a cluttered space or around highly flammable objects like papers. Try to find an empty, neutral space like your driveway or inside a concrete garage. Set up a fire extinguisher as an extra safety precaution.


Review how to use the fire extinguisher before lighting the fireball.
 It’s not a good idea to set fire to the ball when it is in your hands. Instead, pick it up using a pair of tweezers or tongs and hold it out in front of you.Clear the bowl of rubbing alcohol away, as it could be a fire hazard.
 Use a fire source, preferably a long reach lighter, to ignite the ball. The ball should immediately be consumed by flames and become a fireball!, After you light the fireball, you have the option of holding it by the tongs or tweezers, or holding it in your hand. If you decide you want to hold it, drop the fireball carefully into your palm, making sure not to drop it on the ground.


If you do drop the fireball, you can try to scoop it up, or just stamp on it with your foot to put it out.
 Though it’s safe to handle the fireball, if you hold it in the same place in your hand, it will become very hot and may burn you. Instead of holding the fireball in the same spot, shift it between your left and right hand.Hold your hands away from your body so that there is no risk of the fireball catching your clothes on fire.
Remember not to panic. It’s safe to hold the fireball as long as you keep shifting it around and keep it away from your clothing.
 Whenever you are done playing with the fireball, close your hand over it. This should cause the fireball to extinguish. Make sure that the fireball is completely extinguished by running water over it. Then dispose of the ball.