 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are prescription painkillers that reduce inflammation. They work by inhibiting the "bad" COX-2 enzymes that mediate joint inflammation, while allowing the "good" COX-1 enzymes that maintain blood flow to the kidney and stomach lining to work as normal.


These drugs have a high safety margin when used correctly, are less likely than other painkillers to cause potentially nasty side effects such as gastric ulceration, and bleeding disorders. NSAIDs commonly prescribed by vets are meloxicam (Metacam), carprofen (Rimadyl), and robenacoxib (Onsior).The maintenance dose of metacam is 0.05mg/kg by mouth, with or after food, once daily. The oral suspension contains 1.5mg/ml and so a typical 30kg Lab requires 1 milliliter (0.034  fl oz) daily with his food.
 Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) provides mild to moderate pain relief. However, long-term use is associated with gastric ulceration, especially when given on an empty stomach. This happens because aspirin reduces blood flow to the gut lining, stomach, and kidney.


Aspirin should never be given in addition to a NSAID medication. When combined, both drugs are even more likely to cause gastric ulceration, with serious consequences.
If no other pain relief is available, a healthy dog can be given aspirin in doses of 10mg/kg given twice a day, with or after food. Aspirin commonly comes in 300mg tablets, so a typical dose for a 30kg Labrador would be one tablet twice a day with food.
 Another option for moderate pain relief is Paracetamol (Acetaminophen). However, take care when using this medication because exceeding the recommended dose overloads the liver with a toxic metabolite called N-acetyl-p-aminobenzoquinonimine, which can cause liver damage, and ultimately liver failure.


A vet-approved prescription medication is preferred, but if no other option for pain relief is available, give Paracetamol with food and observe the correct dosage. The dose is 10mg/kg by mouth, twice a day, with or after food.
Most tablets are 500mg and so a 30kg Labrador can take a maximum of three-fifths of a tablet twice daily. If in doubt, always give a lower dose and for small dogs, consider using the pediatric suspension.
 An exciting new option for the treatment of arthritis is stem cell therapy. This differs from previous generations of therapy in that the principle is to encourage repair of damaged tissue, rather than merely treating the discomfort.


This therapy involves harvesting fat from the dog under anesthetic, extracting stem cells from the fat sample, activating the stem cells in a laboratory, and then injecting the activated stem cells into the joints.A few veterinary clinics are now able to offer this treatment on site. Many animals are so improved a few weeks after treatment that they no longer need to take pain medication.

