 Adopt a proper running posture, keeping your back straight and swaying your arms held in a 90 degree angle at the elbow. Run on the balls of your feet, using them to spring off with every step.


Try pushing your legs further back to give yourself a longer stride. You will get a better grip of the ground and allow yourself to bounce off the ground, and it gives you an extra boost in every step. If you ever watch Olympic sprinters, you'll notice that they almost always have very long strides.
Your upper body is important too. Put a bend in your arms and pump them up and down sharply with each step. Leave your palms open, with fingers together as if you were stabbing the air. This should help you force yourself forward more easily.
 While you run, you want to be taking in enough oxygen that you can maintain a light conversation. If you can't, you're likely to run out of steam and you'll have to slow down. Deep, steady breathing will help you run more quickly in the long term.


Some people breathe in through their noses for three seconds and exhale for two. See what you're comfortable with — one person's breathing style may not be best for everyone.
 Use a stopwatch to time yourself every running session. Each time, try to go just a little bit faster on the same route. The added incentive will help you push yourself to the max.


Just before you reach your goal, even if it seems impossible, try to force as much power out of your body as you can and put out a burst of speed. You may be surprised by how fast you can actually go when you know you're about to reach your goal. This can improve your time drastically.
 Even something as simple as changing the way you look ahead can make you a better runner. Try to focus your eyes on where you want to go, rather than on the area right in front of your feet. Keep focusing on new spots further down the path as you move — you won't ever feel like you're almost done, so you won't give up as easily.


For example, if you're running on a straight track and you're coming to the end, try focusing on a spot far ahead of the finish line and push yourself to run there. This can help keep your motivation high until it's actually time to quit.
 If you're not meeting your biological needs, you'll have a harder time running as fast as you can. Taking a small drink of water before your run ensures your muscles have the water they need when it counts. It's also a good idea to carry a little water with you so you can take drinks as needed during your run.


There is such a thing as too much water, however. Don't drink a ton of water right before running. Drink small amounts as you go, but try not to take big gulps. This will give you cramps.

