 Before you get back to exercising or strenuous work, you should consult with your physician. Your doctor will consider your condition and provide you with direction as to what sorts of physical activity are best for you.Your doctor will work together with a medical team consisting of specialists, including:


Pharmacists
Nurses
Physiotherapists
Physician assistants
Physical therapists
Dietitians;
, But immediately after a heart attack, your body is vulnerable and weak. If you’re doing a lot of intense physical activity, you run the risk of hurting your heart. For that reason, start out with simple, everyday things like walking to the store and walking up stairs. Light exercise like yoga or playing catch is also an acceptable option.


If you have a dog, take them for a walk.
Invite a friend or family member to play catch with you at a public park.
Whatever form of exercise you enjoy, do something physical every day. For instance, take a walk for 10 minutes each day.
Set aside time each day to work out. Try to make it at the same time each day. This will help you form a habit of working out.Avoid exercises or actions like heavy lifting, moving your arms above your head for long periods, or doing any kind of prolonged and repetitive work with your arms like raking, mowing the lawn, or vacuuming.
 As you begin to strengthen your heart, you can incorporate more intense exercises into your workout. Go for a light jog, bike ride, kayak or canoe ride, or mountain climb.


Since you started out easy, continue walking each day, but add two minutes each day for a minute or two. By the end of the month you should be able to walk about 30 minutes at a moderate pace.Ask your doctor if it is okay for you to lift weights.
 Palpitations, chest pain, and shortness of breath are all indications that you’re pushing your heart beyond its limits. If you experience any of these conditions, stop your physical activity immediately. Make a note of these episodes and let your doctor know what happened so they can help you develop a plan that meets your needs and protects your heart health.


While your doctor might recommend how long and how fast you might increase your workout regimen, you should always stay aware of and exercise within your physical limits.
 They are therefore the preferred rehabilitation method for people recovering from heart attacks. Examples of aerobic exercises include:


Jogging
Riding a bike
Swimming
Dancing

