 You don't need to flip through fashion magazines to become inspired. You can find styles everywhere you look. Re-watch your favorite movie and notice what types of clothes they're wearing. There must be someone in your life whose style inspires you. Reach out to that person for advice.


Set some parameters to help guide your style. Don't be afraid to aim for a blend a few styles, for example punk and valley girl.;
, After setting some guidelines for yourself, think of some clothes you could use to help this idea. Start small and consider easy items to find like a jean jacket or a pair of Uggs.


Go window shopping. This will give you an idea of what's in style right now, and will give you a chance to see what items you like and dislike.
 Style doesn't have a rule book. You know yourself and your body. Style comes from within; it comes from your personality and aspirations. It's okay to like a clothing trend, just be sure to think twice before you hop on. Take aspects from trends, but ultimately hold your own personality., In a plain notebook, paste pictures of styles that you like and jot down notes about outfits you see. When you have a fashion dilemma or need to go shopping, flip through the book and find the outfits you like.
 Go through your clothes and make three different piles: keep, maybe, and give-away. Have a creative eye and think how you could adapt your current clothes into the style you're imagining. Offer your old clothes to friends, or try to sell them at a secondhand clothing store.
 You don't need to exclusively shop by brand. The most important rule of having style is to not be defined by labels. You don't need to wear Gucci or American Eagle to be a stylish person. It's not what you wear, but how you wear it.
 Use the current trends to guide your fashion not dictate it. Wear what you want. Think about what it is you want people to gain from your style. What does your outfit say to a stranger on the corner? Keep these in mind as you map out some ideas about your style., Don't go out and buy a tank top for the next heatwave if it's November in Chicago. Sometimes buying out of season is smart if the clearance for that item is low enough. For a general rule, buy pragmatically and buy clothes that you could wear tomorrow.


Since you're improving your style, you'll feel better buying clothes you can easily show off.
 Upgrading your wardrobe can be an expensive endeavor. If you have a smaller budget, consider buying in small increments and don't feel obliged to update everything you own. Create a budget of how much you'll allow yourself to spend before going shopping.


Create a list of the essentials you need before shopping.
Don't get stuck shopping to feel good if you can't afford it.
 Pick someone to come along with you who either dresses well or plays devil's advocate to your style. Having a pal around can help you sift through clothes faster and more efficiently. It helps to have someone whose opinion you trust about certain clothes you aren't sure about., Everyone has their colors that they feel comfortable in. If you find something that falls outside of your color palette, think hard about it. Especially try on the clothes that fit outside your color comfort. There's no reason not to buy something if it looks good, or fits into the style you're going for. Just think about it and save the receipt.
 A large part of pulling off an outfit is having the proper fit. Finding clothes that do fit you can sometimes be difficult. For tops check the shoulder and chest dimensions. The shoulder's seam should reach the edge of your shoulder and the chest shouldn't be too tight. Pants should fit comfortably around your waist and not sag.


Use changing rooms to evaluate the fit.If the buttons are gaping, you'll probably need one size larger.
Don't feel ashamed to get a larger size. Buying too small can be uncomfortable and unflattering.
 Don't succumb to uncomfortable clothes for fashion. Feel the material at the store and ask yourself, "would I enjoy being wrapped in this?" You can also pay attention to the fabrics and percentages used on the tags. Limit the amount of these fabrics in your clothes:


Polyester
Acrylic
Rayon
Acetate/Triacetate
Nylon, Take the clothes that you're imagining in an outfit and bring them to the dressing room. You don't even have to purchase all the items. This will lower the risks of buying something you're hesitant about.
 You can have a lot of nice single pieces of clothing, but it's not going to dazzle anyone unless you know how to put them together. Learn what colors work well together. Take a look at a color wheel and study what colors complement each other. Know when to rock heels and when to go for sneakers.


Try a monochromatic look, which means all your clothes are the same color. It's a basic technique, but can look modern and chic., Need a new skirt? Don't go and buy one; make one! Rip the sleeves of a long sleeved top or cut some shorts to make them into a skirt. You can create a lot of clothes, from thrift stores, that fit your style by modifying them at home.


Personalize your clothes. Make your own bag. It would be best to use a sewing machine to make the stitches are neat.
Customize your stale jeans. You can splatter paint on them or wash them with bleach.
 Jewels and other accessories can change an outfit from being okay to being in style. Know how much jewelry is too much. Take everything in moderation when first trying out new techniques for your outfit. Consider wearing a hat and figure what type of hat best suits your outfit. Baseball caps or a beanie can go a long way.
 Never settle on a style if you want more out of your appearance. Try wearing the wrong shoes with an outfit. Try for example, Doc Martins with a tennis outfit or a shorter skirt. The juxtaposition will create a fashionable look. Wear something big with something small. Try wearing a small crock top with an oversize coat.Wear a t-shirt that's clearly too big for you with tight pants or cut-off shorts. Tall t-shirts are becoming quite a trend.
 Wear your clothes; don't let your clothes wear you! Style is meant to empower you. It's not suppose to make you self-conscious. Don't feel obligated to stay in your comfort-zone. Also know that one bad day of fashion won't taint you for life.

