 Adding three bananas to a healthy diet may help prevent ulcers and reduce ulcer pain. You can simply eat bananas, add them to a smoothie, or consume them any other way you may enjoy. Bananas are effective because they are high in potassium, magnesium, manganese, fiber, vitamins B6 and C, and folate. Some studies suggest they are high in an enzyme that helps stop the growth of the bacteria that causes stomach ulcers.


It is recommended that you begin to eat three bananas per day as soon as you feel ulcer symptoms. You should continue eating three bananas per day until symptoms subside.;
, By combining bananas with a healthy lifestyle, you will have a better chance of preventing ulcers. In addition to bananas add other non-acidic fruit to your diet. Non-acidic fruits includes kiwi, mango and papaya. Also try lightly boiled vegetables like broccoli or carrots. You should eat more leeks, onion, oats, wheat and whole grain.These foods are rich in vitamins and will help to speed up the ulcer healing process.Bananas are high in carbohydrates, so pairing them with healthy fats and proteins can help to prevent blood sugar spikes/lows.
 Acidic fruits include oranges, peaches, berries and grapefruit. Acidic fruits will increase stomach acid and can irritate ulcers by breaking down mucus lining in the stomach. Try non-acidic fruits instead!

, Raw vegetables may be acidic, particularly corn, lentils, winter squash and olives. Again, acidic foods can irritate stomach ulcers.
 Drinking in excess, that is more than a couple drinks per day, can actually promote the development of ulcers by interacting with the bacteria that causes ulcers, Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori).To reduce your alcohol intake try drinking more slowly, or tell a friend or loved one you will only be drinking two drinks per day to help with your ulcers.Never drink on an empty stomach as this will irritate peptic ulcers.
 It is popularly believed that coffee can cause ulcers, although medical research does not show a connection.However, the acidity in coffee may contribute to upset stomach.In fact, any beverage containing caffeine may irritate an existing ulcer.You may find relief for your peptic ulcer if you

, Smoking, much like drinking, can promote the development of ulcers by interacting with the bacteria that causes ulcers, Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). By smoking you are increasing your chance of getting an ulcer.If you are a heavy smoker, try to gradually reduce the amount you smoke per day., If you have headaches or other needs for a pain reliever, consider switching to acetaminophen. Like alcohol and smoking, aspirin promotes the development of ulcers especially in someone who has the bacteria H. pylori already present in his or her stomach.Talk about switching pain relievers with your doctor.

