 If all you need is a free domain name (e.g. if your website is already built, or if you'd like to build it yourself from scratch), then this is a good option for you. A quick search can yield several results of companies that supply free domains.


Free and fully customized domain names that end in “.com” and “.org” are nearly impossible to get, but there are sites that offer free domains with less common extensions such as “.tk” or “.cf”.
Web hosts sometimes offer fully free domains as incentive for you to purchase a hosting package.
Note that many free hosting sites offer free subdomains of their websites (e.g. yourcustomname.freehostingcompany.com). If you are willing to have your web hosting company's name in front of your chosen domain name for at least a time, this may still be your best option.
There are also some companies that offer affiliate programs challenging you to sell domains to others in exchange for a free one for yourself., Consider what features and functions you most need from your domain name registrar and on your hopes and dreams for the site itself before settling on any one provider.
 Because alternate domain extensions are relatively rare, your first choice domain name is more likely to be available through free domain provider services. Before being assigned your domain you will have to search its availability.


If having a specific domain name is important to you, consider checking the availability of a given domain before signing up for any services by typing it into your browser's address bar. If a website is returned (instead of an error), you will know in advance that this specific domain is already taken.
 Some sites only offer one domain extension option (e.g. ".tk" or ".tumblr.com"), while others will search through all available (free) domain extension options. Choose the domain name one that suits your fancy, and you’re ready to start building your website.


Free domain providers typically make it easy to redirect your existing website to the new domain, or offer a range of options to help you begin building your website. *Remember to be careful, the Dot TK is not trustworthy due to they redirect the URL traffic to malware when your website has got good enough traffic. There is evidence of people getting their hard work disconnected.*

