 Whites should always be washed separately from colored clothes to avoid colors transferring to and staining white clothes.;
, This helps prevent colors from bleeding onto all-white clothes, despite how small the surface area of color may be. For example, separate a white shirt with bright red stripes from all-white t-shirts.
 This prevents dirt, food, and other debris on soiled white clothes from staining other white clothing. For example, if a white shirt is caked with mud after spending an afternoon gardening, separate that particular shirt from cleaner, brighter-looking whites.
 Tags and clothing labels provide washing instructions for water temperature, washing cycle, and whether or not you can use bleach. For example, place all gentle-cycle clothing in one pile, and regular, permanent-press clothing in another pile., This prevents lint from accumulating and sticking to fabrics from which lint is difficult to remove. For example, wash white towels separately from white pants made from corduroy to prevent lint from sticking to corduroy.
 Hot water is more effective at killing germs and bacteria, and helps keep whites looking white.


Make adjustments to water temperature as needed based on care labels to prevent clothes from shrinking or becoming misshapen. For instance, clothing made from nylon, spandex, lycra, and certain cotton blends may shrink in hot water.Use cool water when washing stained white clothes. Stains from items such as wine, chocolate, and tea come out better in cool water, which also helps prevent stains from bleeding onto other whites.
 The amount of detergent you should use depends on load size, and on the strength level of your detergent brand.


Avoid adding more detergent than recommended by the packaging. Excess detergent can lead to filmy buildup that attracts more dirt and is more noticeable on white clothing.
 Bleach helps whiten clothes, but can be toxic and irritating to sensitive skin. Consider using chlorine bleach to help remove heavy stains, or combine one part bleach and one part baking soda to neutralize the toxicity of pure bleach.


Use bleach as directed on the packaging label to avoid using too much, which can stain your clothes gray or yellow.
Avoid using bleach on delicate clothing, since chlorine- and oxygen-based bleach brands can weaken fabrics and lead to tearing or fraying.
Substitute bleach with household ingredients that have natural bleaching properties, such as lemon juice, white vinegar, baking soda, or hydrogen peroxide. These ingredients make whites whiter without the added risks of toxicity and skin irritation.
 Bluing agent formulas make whites whiter by releasing a small amount of blue dye to the water and removing during the rinse cycle.
 This helps prevent whites from developing mold or mildew as a result from sitting in the washer for too long.
 This prevents dryer heat from setting in stains if stains aren’t completely removed.


Rewash stained clothes in the washing machine as needed before transferring to the dryer.
 Some clothes may instruct you to “lay flat to dry,” or recommend a particular dryer setting. For example, fabrics such as nylon and acrylic may require a lower temperature setting since these fibers tend to absorb less water.
 The sun’s ultraviolet rays have a natural bleaching effect on clothing that helps keep whites white. Allowing clothes to hang-dry is often more cost-effective than using your dryer.