 If Instagram doesn’t automatically open to your profile, tap the Profile icon (a silhouette of a person’s head and shoulders) at the bottom right corner of the app., The icon looks like an upside-down chat bubble with a silhouette of a head and shoulders. Once you tap this icon, you’ll see a list of every photo included in Photos of You.
 By default, Photos of You opens up in a grid format. Tapping a photo also gives you a chance to see who posted the photo and associated comments and likes.
 If you’ve decided that you no longer want a certain photo to appear in Photos of You, you have the option to hide it by removing the tag from the original photo., Tap on the photo to bring it into view.
, A new menu will appear.
 This will remove the tag from the original photo and remove it from Photos of You.


iPhone: You can tap “Hide from my profile” instead of “Remove Me from Photo” to hide the photo without removing the tag. Use this option if you want to keep your Instagram name tagged in the photo.Android: Just like on an iPhone, you can also hide photos without removing the tag. Instead of selecting “Remove Tag,” flip the switch next to “Keep in Photos of You.”

, You can add new photos to Photos of You by tagging yourself in any photo you have uploaded.


To tag a photo you’ve already posted, tap the Profile icon and scroll to the photo you’d like to tag. Tap the … (iOS) or ⋮ (Android) menu above the photo, then choose “Edit.”It is not possible to add a tag to someone else’s photo and have that appear in Photos of You. The person who posts the photo must tag you for it to show up.
 You can skip this step if you’re not uploading a new photo.
 Whether you have uploaded a new photo or are tagging an existing one, you’ll see “Tag People” as an option.
 If this is a photo of you, you can tap somewhere on your face. This is a matter of personal preference, and most people will not notice the tag location.
 Once you choose your username, it will appear where you chose to tag the photo.


The tag is not visible others unless they tap your photo to view all tags.



If this is a new photo, add your caption (if you want) and then tap “Share.”
If this was an existing photo, tap the checkmark again to save your tag.
 The recently-tagged image will now appear at the top of Photos of You.
 If you’d rather approve each photo that appears in Photos of You manually, you can set that up in the app.,, Now, whenever you are tagged in a photo, Instagram will prompt you (via a notification) to approve or deny the addition to Photos of You.


If you are already set to approve photos manually but would rather they be automatically added, select “Add Automatically” instead.

