 Price generally isn’t the deciding factor for choosing software for filing personal income taxes, because most customers won’t pay more than $50 anyway. Tax software for businesses is considerably more expensive. The price for some brands, like TurboTax for Small Businesses, can easily top $200., Since business taxes are more complicated than personal income taxes, ease of use can be a more important factor in choosing business tax software. Due to their complexity, a lot of users will have a greater desire to be walked through filing their business taxes than personal income taxes, so an interview format such as the one found in TurboTax and H&R Block can be very helpful.There is a much wider variation in maximizing returns and minimizing liability when compared to personal income tax software. This seems to stem from ease and difficulty of use, rather than some programs having larger databases or more capabilities than others.
For example, some reviewers rated TaxAct’s business software as downright difficult to use, compared to the personal income tax version being simply un-intuitive.Help and support goes a long way toward making a program easier to use. Two of the big storefront chains, H&R Block and Jackson Hewitt, both offer support from tax professionals in addition to technical support, which all of the major programs offer., While a lot of people don’t even use software like QuickBooks for personal finances, almost all business owners will use financial software for their business. So when choosing tax software for your business, make sure it has this capability.Some programs will even import past information from other brands of tax programs. If you’re making a switch, look for this capability as well.
 Many business owners might divide what appears to be one business into several companies, which would require filing more than one state and federal return.Additionally, a lot of businesses derive income from multiple sources and do business in multiple states. Using a software program that allows the filing of multiple returns for little or no extra money would be advantageous for them as well.
 For some people, the $200 price tag and the aggravation of doing their own business taxes won't be worth it. If gathering financial information and choosing software seems like a task that's too daunting, give serious thought to choosing a competent, experienced professional to complete your taxes for you.

