 Mobilize them by explaining the benefits that they'd receive from joining together for the sake of advocacy, information sharing and pooling resources together. You can use story-telling and sayings to help them to understand the benefit of coming together as a group, especially for poor and weaker persons in society who don't often have a voice.


Tell them well-known parables about strength together, such as the story about the four cows and the lion.
Motivate them by saying that "One thread can't tie an elephant but one rope made of threads can".
Tell them that "for one person alone it is difficult to fight a problem, but it will be easier as a group to fight a common problem such as poverty".;
, It is up to you what the group should have as its goals but here are some ideas:


Working as a bank for local women to start businesses or take out loans. (This aspect is discussed below.)
Campaigning against a law, for a law change or for the development of a law.
Campaigning for local improvements, such as schools, parks or safe areas for women and children.
Build on successful examples of SHG models in such countries as India and Bangladesh.
 Ask the members to name their SHG on their own. Names that motivate SHG members will be a good selection. Encourage them towards coming up with this during a meeting.
, Meet at least once every two weeks or weekly.
 Group members themselves should fix the amount according to what they can each afford.


SHG savings meetings (weekly or 15 days) can be conducted at SHG members' houses. It helps all the SHG members to know each other better and to understand their economical conditions.
 Interest will be an important form of income for the SHG.
 SHG books and the money in hand should be rotated among the members after every meeting.
 After 6 to 7 months, open a bank account in the SHG's name in order to enjoy loan benefits provided by government (if relevant in your country).
 SHG members can use their savings to start a business. The earnings should be equally shared among the members.

