 Get a small journal or notebook and write down your distances, dates, and times. Look over it to see how you are progressing. You can also purchase apps for your phone that will help you to track your runs. Consult your phone when running to monitor your pace.
 Think about your most recent runs and try to increase the distance or speed up your pace on future runs. It may help to write down your goals for each day’s run. Choose goals that you can actually attain or you may get burned out., When you feel like quitting toward the middle or end of a race, split the remaining distance into pieces. This will allow you to reach a series of small goals on the way to one major one. Each time that you complete a chunk, praise yourself and further divide the remaining pieces. Keep doing this until you reach the finish line.For example, if you have 8 miles left to go, try breaking it into 2 mile chunks. Watch for each 2 mile section to pass and then celebrate mentally before moving onward.
 Make a note of where/when you lag at each race. Then, in future races, start to purposefully slow your pace in the minutes before you hit this wall. You may also need to regulate your pace at the very start of the run, especially if you start at almost a sprint.For some runners, training with an interval workout is helpful is teaching them how to ramp up and ramp down their speeds and energies.
 You might fall into a rut if you follow the same running schedule every day. This may make you more complacent and lead to less of an effort on your part. So, every few weeks, switch up your routine and add a few opposite-time runs in. If you usually run in the morning, take a quick evening jog and vice versa.People who run in the mornings generally see a larger boost in energy and better sleep than evening athletes. If you switch up your routine temporarily, you may find that another time suits you even better.
 Running on the same path can be helpful in that you know the landmarks for pacing; however, it can also get boring really fast. Try to add short new legs to your run. Hop in the car and go to a park for a change of pace. Make sure that you are running on different types of terrain to add in even more of a challenge. All of this will help you to keep pushing yourself to new levels.