 Leaving on your makeup when you sleep can cause your eyes to water. It can also clog the pores under your eyes, increasing puffiness and the appearance of bags. Wash your face before bed, either with soap and water or makeup remover. Your face will have clean, open pores and the skin around your eyes will retain less water., Wearing sunscreen at the beach is a given, but it's easy to forget that your face is exposed to the sun's harmful rays on a daily basis. The rest of your skin may be covered, but your face remains exposed every day. Too much sun can cause the area around your eyes to sag and wrinkle into bags. Try wearing a moisturizer or foundation that has SPF in it. You can also wear sunglasses or hats to help keep the sun off of your eyes., There are a ton of eye creams out there that are for the reduction of eye bags. The moisturizers are specifically geared toward the sensitive skin around your eyes and have vitamins and nutrients that help reduce the bags under your eyes. They also have the added benefit of preventing wrinkles, reducing redness and puffiness, and helping with dark circles. Try out a few brands to see which one works best for your skin.


There are some people that say using hemorrhoid cream will help prevent under eye bags by shrinking the blood vessels. Avoid this method because it can irritate the sensitive skin under your eyes. Instead, try a retinol cream. It also helps reduce eye bags without the added skin irritation., If you haven't found a way to prevent under eye bags that works for you just yet or if they are hereditary, try hiding them with concealer. Buy a brand that works with your skin and that matches your skin tone. Apply it gently under your eyes, patting it into your skin. Try not to rub it in, which can irritate the skin under your eyes.You can also buy foundation that has concealer in it. It will also help hide the appearance of under eye bags and blend the skin under your eyes in with the rest of your face.Make sure you don't wear a concealer that is lighter than your skin tone. This will call attention to your bags and defeat the purpose of the concealer., Cold water can do wonders to re-hydrate your skin and help reduce the swelling of your eye bags. It can also constrict the blood vessels under your eyes, reducing puffiness. A cold compress is a great method to administer this. Wet a clean washcloth with cool or cold water. While sitting up, let the compress sit over your eyes, applying gentle pressure. You can also dab the damp rag around your eyes. Do this for 5-10 minutes.You can get a similar effect with cold spoons. Stick two spoons in the freezer for about an hour. Take them out and gently massage them under your eyes, being careful not to poke your eye. The coldness helps constrict the blood vessels under your eyes and the massaging helps reduce swelling., Putting slices of cucumbers on your eyes is a time honored method of bag reduction. The cucumbers have skin-lightening qualities and contain a mild astringent, which can help reduce the appearance of bags under your eyes. The excessive amount of water in the cucumber can help hydrates the skin under your eyes and the coolness can reduce puffiness and sagging. Chill a cucumber for at least 30 minutes. Slice off two generously sized pieces. Sit or lay down, placing them over your closed eyes for 10 minutes. Remove the cucumbers and wash your eyes with water, removing the juice. Repeat twice a day for a week or more for the best results.You can also try dabbing a solution with cucumber juice under your eyes. Juice a cucumber and lemon, mixing equal parts cucumber and lemon juice. Soak a cotton ball with the juice, gently applying it under your eyes. Leave it on for 15 minutes before you wash it off. Repeat daily for a week or more.
 Much like cucumbers, you can use slices of potatoes to help reduce the appearance of bags under your eyes. They have antioxidants and nutrients that, mixed with the coldness, can help educe the puffiness and inflammation of under eye bags. Cut thin pieces of a chilled potato. Sit or lay down and place the slices of potato on your eyes for 10 minutes. Repeat daily.You can also use potato juice to help reduce under eye bags. Grate a potato, getting enough juice to soak two cotton balls. Place the soaked cotton balls over your closed eyes, letting them sit for 10 to 15 minutes. Rinse your eyelids with cool water to remove the juice. Repeat once or twice daily for over a week.
 Brewed tea bags have antioxidants and caffeine that can help reduce the swelling and shrink the blood vessels associated with bags under your eyes. The bags can also help reduce fluid retention. Take used black or green tea bags and chill them in the fridge or freezer for at least 30 minutes. Place a chilled tea bag on each eye, letting them sit for 10 to 15 minutes. Wash your face to remove excess tea. Repeat daily.Make sure you don't let stray tea get into your eyes. This could cause eye irritation and discomfort.

