 Take a class or read a manual addressing pool maintenance, debris removal and pH levels.;
, Find out if you need a license or certification in your area. Some states require you to obtain a license to clean public pools. Other states even require certifications to clean private pools.
 Most pool boys typically use pool chemicals, a skimmer and a net.
 If you are just starting out in this industry, you may be able to hold off on purchasing items if your clients allow you to use their supplies. However, you should invest in supplies once you make some money from your pool boy position.
 Most pool boys use a truck or van to transport their large equipment, such as skimmers and vacuums.
 Most pool boys wear minimal clothing, such as shorts or a bathing suit. Lightweight clothing that covers the skin will provide necessary sun protection.
 Cash and checks are typically the easiest methods of payment, but accepting credit and debit cards may expand your customer base. Get a merchant account if you want to accept credit card payments.



Create marketing materials. Consider marketing pieces like business cards, flyers, posters and postcards. Order business cards that feature your name and phone number. Flyers, posters and postcards should list your services, prices and contact information.
Distribute your marketing materials. You can go door-to-door handing out flyers or business cards, or mail postcards directly to addresses in your local area. Post your marketing materials on bulletin boards at local stores.
Provide your marketing materials to local pool supply stores. Meet with each store's owner or manager, and let them know that you are a pool boy looking for new clients.



Access online job websites for pool services. Online job sources may offer leads for short-term independent contractor jobs or full-time positions with pool cleaning companies.
Read the newspaper classified ads. Homeowners typically use the newspaper to advertise when they need their pools cleaned. Public pool owners often use classified advertising to attract potential employees and contract workers.
Contact local pool cleaning companies. Local companies might need to fill an existing pool boy position or add to their staff.

