;
,, You can change the color of the circle by clicking on it with the Selection Tool, and choosing the Fill color in the Color palette (Window – Color), and Stroke color to None. It will be the Matryoshka’s headscarf.
 Make a second circle, smaller than the first with the Free Transform Tool and holding Shift. It will be our Matryoshka’s face.
 When you are drawing overlapping shapes in Flash on the same layer and with same color, Flash will convert these shapes in one. To pick the color from the headscarf, use the Eyedropper tool.
 You can still change the face or headscarf shape separately, because we draw them on separate layers.
 Create the new layer. Choose the Brush tool and change the size if you need. With the Zoom Tool you can zoom on the face. Start to paint the eyes and hair, small mouth and two dots for the nose. You can fill the lips and eyes with the color using the Paint Bucket tool. When you are ready, and want to see the rest of the stage, you can scale your Workspace back.
, To select shapes on the stage, use the Selection Tool and hold and drag around the shapes, or select each shape holding Shift key. You also can select a layer, and it will select all the shapes on that layer.
 Then, we need to select these shapes and copy and paste them on the same layer.
 If you want to select particular layers or shapes not touching rest of the picture, just lock the layers that you don’t want to use.
 You will see that shape of the sarafan will be on top, it is because our layer is on top of the other layers. Simply drag the layer down to the desired position.
 Create the new layer, and draw one or two flowers with the Brush Tool. When using the Free Transform Tool, change and copy the flowers. Keep your flowers on one layer and move the layer down and on top the sarafan layer. We finished with drawing part.
 For example, I added some details to headscarf. To prepare the Matryoshka for animation we will change the shapes to movie clips. I will show you how to do that and how to animate Matryoshka in next tutorial.

