 Review the reasons why the two of you became friends with benefits to begin with instead of an “official” couple. Now ask yourself how the situation has changed:Have either one of you met someone new whom you’d rather be with?
Is your casual arrangement growing into something too serious for you to handle?
Are you unsatisfied with keeping things casual?

, Break-ups between committed partners traditionally warrant a face-to-face meeting or a conversation over the phone. If you feel that you should honor your preexisting friendship with the same respect, break up in person or over the phone so you can talk it over immediately. But since your FWB situation is (or is supposed to be) more casual, feel free to send the message via text or email.Just be sure to use straight-to-the-point words so there is no room for misinterpretations, since you won't be there to clarify. Instances where text or email might be preferable include:When you feel like your resolve might weaken in direct conversation.
If your FWB has a track record of being obstinate, manipulative, or slow on the uptake.
If you are in a long-distance relationship, have conflicting schedules, or face some other obstacle that makes seeing each other in person a chore even in the best of times.
 If you want to ditch the benefits but keep the friend, share the truth with them. Keep your friendship intact by communicating honestly. Let them know exactly how things stand so the two of you can figure out how to move forward as pals.Soothe their feelings by emphasizing what was positive about this time together, while making it clear that it has come to an end:


“What we have is obviously a lot of fun, but now that So-and-So and I are getting serious, it’s not really fair to them for us to keeping doing this.”
“I really enjoy what we have, but I feel like we’re becoming a little too involved, and I’m not ready for that.”
“I thought I could handle keeping things casual, but now I think I’m expecting too much, which isn’t fair to you.”

, Even though you and your FWB had a less than serious relationship, it was still a relationship,so expect all the awkward feelings and situations that follow a traditional break-up. Give your ex-FWB (and yourself) some alone-time to adjust to your new dynamic.Resist the urge to “force” your friendship.


Allow yourself to experience the sense of loss.
Spend more time with other friends and family.
Avoid hanging out with your ex-FWB right away, especially in situations that often led to the two of you cashing in on your benefits.
 A lot of FWB situations suffer because one or both friends keep their lips shut rather than risk the good time that they’re having.Whether or not this applied to your own relationship while the “benefits” part was still active, talk openly with your friend now in order to strengthen your friendship. Don’t pretend the whole FWB phase never happened. Catch and resolve issues that may develop after the fact before they grow into more serious problems.


If you feel jealous when they start dating someone new, admit to it. Even if you’re the one who broke things off, you’re still human, and the quicker you can laugh about it with your ex-FWB, the better.
If you feel tempted to relapse, or feel like your friend is still trying to claim benefits from you, talk about it so you can set up clear boundaries for the both of you to follow.

