 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the chicken, set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) and allow it to preheat. Next, line a baking sheet with foil and grease it lightly with butter.You can substitute parchment paper for the foil if you prefer.
You can also use nonstick cooking spray to grease the sheet if you prefer.;
, For the popcorn chicken, you’ll need 4 thinly sliced chicken breasts. Use a pair of kitchen scissors to cut the breasts into bite-size pieces.While kitchen scissors makes cutting the chicken a little easier, you can also use a knife.
 Add 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons (31 g) of honey mustard, 2 teaspoons (11 g) of salt, and 2 teaspoons (6 g) of garlic powder to a medium bowl. Whisk the mixture together until it is smooth.You can substitute dijon mustard for the honey mustard if you prefer.
You can add your favorite spices to season the chicken. Cayenne pepper, black pepper, and onion powder are tasty options.
 You’ll need 2 ½ cups (312 g) of plain bread crumbs to coat the chicken. Pour them into a shallow dish so you can easily bread the chicken pieces.You can use either store-bought or homemade breadcrumbs to coat the popcorn chicken.
 To begin coating the chicken, place all of the pieces in the egg mixture. Stir the chicken around in the mixture to ensure that it’s fully coated.Allow the excess egg mixture to drip off the chicken when you remove the pieces from the bowl.
 After the chicken is coated with the egg mixture, use a pair of tongs to place several pieces in the breadcrumbs. Toss them in the breadcrumbs to ensure that they’re coated on all sides, and repeat until all of the chicken is done., Once the chicken is coated, place it on the prepared baking sheet. Bake them in the preheated oven for 20 minutes. Halfway through the cooking time, though, flip the chicken pieces over so they cook on both sides.Make sure that the chicken pieces aren’t touching when you place them on the baking sheet.
The popcorn chicken should be crispy and golden brown when finished baking.
 When the popcorn chicken is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Use tongs to transfer it to a serving platter, and serve it while still warm with your favorite dipping sauce.Honey mustard, barbecue sauce, ranch dressing, and ketchup all make delicious dipping sauces.

