 Whether you went to school or developed your skills through online training, programs that provide technical knowledge usually also have staff who can help you find a job. Since programs want to be able to show that their participants can easily be hired, they’ll work with you to identify positions you’re interested in and qualified for. Reach out to your program’s administration offices directly.
 Break out your least wrinkly collared shirt and practice your networking handshake. There are several high profile e-commerce conferences each year. These provide ample opportunity to stay up-to-date on industry knowledge, meet colleagues, and even find work opportunities.For example, 10-X E-Commerce Event (February, Florida), eTail conferences (various, global), eCommerceFuel Live (October, Tennessee), and Mivacon (March, California) are all great options.
 The most important part of your resume as an e-commerce professional is your work experience section. Use this section to draw a potential employers attention to the diversity of your skills and experience. Start sentences or bulleted points with action verbs that convey the successful execution of various tasks. In particular, use “analyze”, “consult”, “track”, “plan”, “develop”, “resolve”, and “improve” wherever possible.Use the past tense for action verbs that describe your accomplishments at previously held positions, and present tense verbs when discussing positions you still hold.
For instance, include things like, “Supervised the development of program that helped identify unapproved downloads of our products” or “Recommended various protection options and compiled cost-benefit analysis for each option.”, Given the immense demand for E-commerce project managers, many positions are frequently posted on online job posting websites. In particular, visit websites that cater to business professionals, such as LinkedIn. Don’t just look for specific positions to apply for. Get a good idea of which types of companies actively hire for the types of positions that appeal to you, and visit their websites directly.