 Some homes may have 1 large main breaker box as well as smaller branch breaker boxes.;
, A tripped breaker is halfway between the on and off position.


Before assuming a circuit breaker needs to be replaced, try resetting the breaker by turning off all lights and unplugging all devices on that circuit. Then turn the back to the on position.
Some breakers must be turned all the way off before they can be turned back on.
Test the circuit breaker by turning on the breaker, and then add the devices 1 at a time. If the light or device becomes operable, then a voltage tester is not needed.
,


This should be the large flip switch located above or below all the other smaller ones. It should also be labeled "main" or something similar. The main breaker typically has the largest amperage rating of all the breakers in the panel.
, If there is evidence of rust, charring, discoloration, moisture, or other contamination, DO NOT proceed, and call an electrician immediately., The safety of these panels is highly debated. Research the issue, and contact an experienced electrician for advise. Decide what to do based upon the information you find., Wear insulated lineman's gloves and use insulated lineman's tools. Wear rubber-soled shoes and safety glasses, and stand on a rubber mat., If there is water or another liquid present, do not proceed. Call a licensed electrician immediately. Also, be sure that there is plenty of clearance above, below, to the sides of, and in front of the panel., Use the left hand rule when opening the panel to prevent injury in the event of an arc flash.
, Look for signs of rust, moisture intrusion, pest intrusion, loose wires, melting, discoloration, charring, heat marking, multiple wires under one screw, aluminum wiring, wiring with damaged insulation, knob and tube wiring, strange modifications, debris, and multiple colored wires connected to each other. If ANY of these conditions are found, or if another type of strange thing is found, do not proceed. Call a licensed, competent, and insured electrician.,,,, The replacement breaker must have the same amperage and be the same type (unless using "classified" breakers) as the previous breaker. Snap the circuit breaker back into the same place as the old on the panel.
, Do not over tighten, but do not leave too loose either.
 If any of the original screws were lost, replace them with FLAT-ENDED MACHINE SCREWS. Using pointed wood screws may damage wiring inside the panel.
