 The sound and smells of your sleep environment can affect your dreams. If you hear a movie in the background, for example, your dreams may take on certain themes of the film. Try to control your sleep environment as much as possible to influence your dreams as you choose.Avoid unwanted background noise. This might mean turning on a white machine. If you want peaceful dreams, consider playing soft, soothing music or other gentle sounds in the background while you sleep.Smells can also affect your sleep. If someone is cooking bacon early in the morning, you may dream of bacon. Try to fill your room with smells that remind you of what you want to dream about. For example, maybe you want to dream of childhood Christmases with your family and you associate the smell of pine with that time period. Try to get a pine-scented air freshener. Smell is very heavily linked to memory. If you're striving to dream of a certain person, dabbing some of the perfume or cologne they wore in life on your wrists before bed can help., If you frequently sleep on your stomach, understand this can affect your dreams. As your breathing may become short, you're more likely to have sexually charged dreams. If you do not wish to have an erotic dream, avoid sleeping on your stomach., Certain cheeses can affect dreams. If you eat cheese, you can use cheese to your advantage when it comes to influencing dreams.


One study showed some correlation between cheese and dream types with a variety of participants. Blue cheese tended to result in bizarre dreams. Cheddar cheese resulted in people dreaming of celebrities. People eating Red Lancashire cheese had peaceful dreams about past memories and events.If you use cheese to alter your dreams, take precaution. Cheese can sometimes cause indigestion, resulting in sleeplessness. If you choose to eat cheese before bed, consume a small amount., Your mood can have a profound effect on your dreams. If you are sad or depressed, the colors in your dreams may be muted or subtle. If you go to bed anxious, you might dream of disasters like tornadoes or floods.