 Consent is important for anything you ever do in an intimate setting with a partner. Make sure, in no uncertain terms, that your partner is a willing participant in any tickling fun you engage in.
 Tickling stimulates the hypothalamus, which is the part of the brain that controls our body temperature, hunger, and sexual behavior.Some people therefore find it to be sexual turn-on. If you both are game, tying up your victim will leave him fully exposed and prevent him from retaliating, running, or defending his tickle spots, making the tickling more intense.


Tie him up to a chair, for example. Have him sit down in a chair and then run a length of rope around his body and the back of the chair, with his arms underneath the rope. Don’t knot it too tightly, however.
The best way to tie your victim up in a spread-eagle position with his hands above his head and his feet pinned down. You can try this on a bed. If he’s willing, have him lay down and then tie each hand to a bedpost with rope. You can also do this with handcuffs.
 Blindfolds in general are popular erotic accessories.They will also heighten the reaction to sensual tickling in the same way that an ambush does: by surprise. When he can’t see you, he can’t prepare himself for a bout of tickling, which increases the sensation.


If he agrees, put a sleep mask over his eyes. You could also use a length of bandage or other material.
Using a blindfold while tying up your victim can double the pleasure. Consider doing both at once.
 The soles of the feet contain concentrated bundles of nerve endings, over 200,000, which make them very sensitiveand, in many people, ticklish. Target the feet, especially if your victim is bound and blindfolded.


Some people think that silky socks like nylons, stockings, and pantyhose make their feet more ticklish than when bare. This may be because the socks heighten sensation.
Experiment! Try tickling your victim's feet both bare and with stockings to see which is the more effective. Sit on his legs and tickle his feet.
Stocking can also serve as binding and blindfolds in a pinch, as they are flexible and strong.
 Some people also think that baby oil heightens the sensory experience of tickling. If open he is open to it, apply some of this oil and then resume your routine.


Baby powder also apparently works in the same way.

