 Are you feeling negative or fearful about something? Is this feeling located somewhere in the body, e.g. in the stomach or your head? If so, direct your attention to this feeling and continue to keep your attention on the this feeling for a moment. Attention is Light; and Light is Alive. It is a powerful and elegant tool of transformation.;
, Intend that the negative feeling--whether it's fear, disappointment, embarrassment, confusion, etc, be transformed. You may hold your hand (or not) over your stomach or head wherever you are feeling the discomfort as you consider this.
, Directing attention and sending light are identical and are done with a simple thought or words, such as, "I send light to feeling disappointed or rejected" or whatever the feeling demanding attention.
 In a relaxed moment, for instance just before going to sleep, make a note on a small pad about this feeling--as well as any other negative feelings you may be having. For instance, write "I am feeling embarrassed about an incident at work today." Then, have the intention of sending light to that feeling. You may do this with any feelings that presently concern you. Nothing is too small. Remember: "If it is important to you, it is important." It is all one. The small and the great; so let's start small.
 Now, review your present-time relationships, both professional and personal. This process can morph into fun and that is what life is about. It's about feeling happiness for yourself and everyone with whom you come in contact. Send light to any relationship that you wish to harmonize. Send light to your boss, employees, mother, father, friend, lover and even that stranger you met at Whole Foods. Then make a note on the pad and have a good nights' sleep. (Remember to have the intention of dreaming ever more beautiful dreams).
 The next morning--if you remember, review the notes; send light to them; and go about your business. Notice any changes during the day. Notice, for instance, if you are feeling more at ease and less embarrassment. Notice if there is more lively and friendly interaction with those relationships.
 Even the smallest change is progress. It is very important to recognize small changes.
 This is not to be denied. When you put your attention--your light--on feelings and relationships, you have the power to transform them. Now record these changes--however small--and express gratitude.

