 Dogs can be great family pets as well as great tools for protecting your property from intruders. Some dog breeds are better for property protection than others. With the proper training, quality guard dogs will bark, bite, intimidate, and chase intruders away. In general, the best dog breeds for protection include:Bullmastiffs
Doberman Pinschers
Rottweilers
German Shepherds
Akitas

, Do not simply purchase the first dog you find. Dogs need to match the personality of their owners and you need to make sure you purchase a dog that you can take care of. For example, guard dogs are very active and need to be exercised often. In addition, they can be aggressive towards others if not properly trained; therefore, it is important you shop around until you find the right dog for you.


Additionally, while it is always nice to adopt a dog from a shelter, these dogs often need extra training due to possible emotional and physical problems that arose before you owned them; therefore, it might be a good idea to purchase a puppy from a reputable breeder if you are purchasing a dog for home protection.
 When you find a dog that matches your personality, your lifestyle, and your family, you need to train them properly. If you have the money, consider taking your dog to a professional trainer. Most communities will have dog trainers you can hire. A lot of dog trainers may even specialize in training guard dogs.


Make sure you have the time and dedication necessary to train a dog properly. Simply making your dog aggressive is not safe for you or good for the dog. Keep in mind this is a guard dog, not an attack dog. An attack dog, like dogs used by police, requires a great deal of training and is likely not appropriate to keep in a home.If you do not have the funds to hire a professional trainer, you can certainly work to train the dog yourself. Start by teaching the dog basic obedience (i.e., sit, stay, leave it, and bark). Next, teach your dog impulse control, which means obeying your commands when others are in the house. You also need to teach the dog about their territory, which involves walking the dog around the house and your property daily. Finally, teach the dog to protect your property by going through the process with them. Have someone come up to your house as if they were going to break in. Teach your dog how to react to these situations and repeat the process.