 Body scan meditation can also help you remain in the present moment. Focusing on the present can help aid in depression. Many people report feeling more relaxed after a few weeks of practicing body scan meditation. The first step in body scan meditation is lying down. Choose a comfortable space, like a mat or your bed., Spend some time focusing on your body. Then, set your intentions for the exercise. Your intention is an aim or purpose that embodies how you want to live your life. It could be something like, "Open my heart," or "Have compassion for myself." Your intention should always be positive.How does your body feel against the mat, bed, or floor? What body parts seem tense? Is there anything pressing into your hips or back? Imagine softening those areas, making them feel more relaxed and comfortable. Relax any body parts, like the jaw or shoulders, that seem tense.The point of body scan meditation is to clear your mind. Spend a moment stating your intentions in your head. Agree to let go of the past and future and allow everything but your body to fade into the background., Once you're comfortable and relaxed, begin the scan. Body scan meditation is the practice of placing hyper focus on one area of the body at a time.


A body scan is sort of like taking a tour of your body. Do not picture your body parts or move them. Simply notice how they feel.Start with your feet. Are your toes colder than the rest of your body? Are you wearing socks? If so, take stock of how the fabric feels against your skin. Move up to the foot and then the leg.As you scan your body parts, allow them to disappear. Let your toes fade from awareness as you explore the rest of your foot. Let your foot slip from your mind as you move up your leg.Travel up the body until you reach your head, allowing your body to gradually fade away as you go., Once you've reached your head, it's time to connect your body back together. Start with the head. Feel the head connect to the neck, the torso, the arms, and so on. Then, feel your skin all around your body. Allow yourself to feel a physical sense of wholeness.