 Usually, the best way to impress someone is by not trying too hard. Just be yourself - she’ll probably be able to tell if you’re trying to put on an act. While it’s normal to be nervous, just try to have fun when you talk to her., If you really want to impress her, give her a compliment that shows that you pay attention to her. Instead of dropping a stereotypical pick-up line, say something specific that shows you’ve noticed something unique about her.

For example, if you saw her earlier that day, you could say, “I really like how you wore your hair today,” or “You made such a great point in history class - you’re definitely one of the smartest people I know!”

, Who likes chatting with people who only talk about themselves? Impress her by showing that you’d like to get to know her better. It’s fine to tell her things about yourself, especially if they relate to something she’s told you, but just try not to dominate the conversation.You could ask about her hobbies, her favorite places to be, if she has siblings, or what songs and bands she couldn’t go without.
Try to respond to her answer instead of asking one question after another as if you were interrogating her. For instance, if she said she loves the beach, you could say, “Me too, but only the ocean. No lakes for me!”

, Starting a deeper conversation will show her that you really care about understanding who she is as a person. After some small talk, or after you’ve had a few superficial conversations, try to find a topic that’s close to her heart.You could ask questions about her goals, passions, and dreams, like “What are three things you want to accomplish in life?” Try asking about the qualities she looks for or admires in a person, about her favorite childhood memory, or what the most important thing in the world is to her.
 Have patience and give her time to respond before sending another message. In addition, most people prefer one longer message instead of a bunch of messages with just a couple words.Keep the memes to a minimum, too. It’s one thing to send a funny GIF that relates to your conversation, but don’t spam her with tons of random stuff.