 Some shy guys are observant and likely to pick up on the smallest signals of flirtation that others might miss.


Play to this strength of his by using body language to flirt with him and communicate that you like him. People’s body language can convey interest or disinterest in another person. Lean forward and make eye contact with him.To communicate interest, keep your body language open. Smile when you see him. Smile a lot and big. Look him directly in the eyes when you first smile, and then quickly glance away, looking down while still smiling.
When talking to him, keep your feet pointed toward him not away from him. Don’t crowd his space too much, but square your body toward his. Laugh at his jokes.
Don’t cross your arms or your legs as this can be a sign of closing off and can signal a lack of interest to someone who’s paying close attention. Touch him lightly on his shoulder.
 The shy guy might be insecure and he might not be sure you were really flirting with him the first or even the second time you do it.


If you smiled at him in the hall, he might think you were just being nice until you do it the third time or more.
The key here is to send him the signals more than once so he grows confidence in the fact that, yes, he’s actually getting them.
If you pursue him too aggressively, he might back away, so do this subtly. The art of flirtatiousness is to remain a little mysterious while still accessible.
 It’s a sign a shy guy likes you if he communicates with you by text or email a lot, but doesn’t talk to you. His friends might tease him when you’re around because they know he likes you.


That might just mean that he’s less comfortable with verbal communication. Reach him through pathways that are in his zone of comfort. Some shy guys are deep thinkers who may respect wordplay.In addition to texting and writing him, click like on his pictures on Facebook or add a breezy and positive comment to a post he’s made.
Use emojis to flirt. Don’t be afraid to text him something first, just keep it light. Can you believe how hard that assignment was? Could be a good opening. Send him a friend request.
 In order to , make sure you’re around him more often, just do it in a subtle manner.Sit a little closer to his table in the lunchroom, for example. If you know he walks his dog in the park every morning at a certain time, go jogging there.
Put yourself in situations where you can easily strike up a conversation. Sit just beneath him at an athletic event or school dance, for example.
If he’s older, show up at the coffee shop where he works on his computer in the mornings and sit at the table next to him.

