 If you have a prompt, you should carefully analyze it by defining the key words and asking problematic questions about them. For example, a problematic question (a key word) is the one that is relevant and provokes disagreement. However, since no question has a universally accepted answer, can we classify problematic questions as a separate group? (a problem). Note that the prompt question should have no more and no less than two opposite answers, so that you can make your opinion either in favor or against the claim. This is necessary when you don’t have a ready-made prompt and the assignment requires you to compose it by yourself.Here is a prompt randomly taken from EssayDB.net;
, Define the unfamiliar terms in your prompt. Find out how they are related to each other and some other concepts. Try to find the comments from different parties with different interests and opinions.
 You will need to be objective, but also decisive. It’s the best practice to mind your stance but remain open to new perspectives.
 This may take up the form of a table. The left column is for the issues that may incline the reader to your position. The right column is for the points that stand in the way of your claim.
 That is to say, organize your supporting material according to the accepted requirements to the structure of a discussion essay. Basically, you need:


an introduction where you introduce the issue and present your viewpoint in a thesis statement
a paragraph for the arguments for your position (the left column)
one more for the arguments against your position (the right column)
a conclusion where you make a synthesis of the arguments given and affirm your own claim.


In our case, you may tell why the question about Baudrillard’s theory is formulated this way. Then, you proceed to advocate that photography is, say, a mechanism of simulation rather than its casualty. You give the counter-arguments, refute them if possible and synthesize what you’ve learned in a conclusion.
You may want to make the structure more complicated by discussing one issue after another, so that each of your paragraphs contains the arguments both for and against your claim.
 Rely on credible sources only. Cite the primary source if possible (in our case, cite Baudrillard). Try to remain neutral and present the opposing viewpoints in equally detailed way.
 If possible, do this a day/a night after you finished the work. This way, your mind is refreshed, and you can notice more.

