 Assuming that you already have your Raspberry Pi, you will have to get a Micro SD card (depending on what version of Raspberry Pi you have).The ‘class’ of micro SD card you will get is based on what you are using it for; the higher the class will result in the speed that is outputted. A class 10 MicroSD will result in 48mb/s. For space or size, some things are a given that you will have to hold your operating system (which is not a lot of space), so if you are just using it for basic computing tasks then an 8 GB is recommended.
You will need a micro USB to power your Raspberry Pi, it needs to at least be 5v powers supply (power block) and it is always a good idea to have a good quality micro USB cable, remember your powering a whole computer; not just a tablet in sleep mode.;
, When the download is finished install the SD formatter and run the program. Make a new volume, make the size the whole SD card and format it. After the download is finished, then unzip the files and place them inside your MicroSD.,, Unzip the file and place the contents of the folder onto the MicroSD card., It is located on the underside on the motherboard. When you place the MicroSD card into slot it will click when it reaches the ideal place., You have some choices, for video you can use the black video cable to hook up older style TVs. There is also a HDMI port for newer style TVs and also if you get a HDMI to DVI-D you can hook it up to almost every style of monitor., Internet access is not required to use the Raspberry Pi but to install Kodi you will need to have internet access. As of the current version there isn’t a Wi-Fi adapter on the Raspberry Pi. It does have a gigabyte Ethernet port though.

Also there is a Wi-Fi dongle that is available for the Raspberry Pi but it does not come with the actual computer unless you have purchased the starter pack off of the website.
 The best scenario is to use a wireless mouse and keyboard because the raspberry pi does not have a lot of power running to it. Because of this, flashy high power consumption gaming mice and keyboards should not be used. Wireless works best because it’s not powered by the actual computer they have batteries or some other power solution running them., There is no switch to flip in on or off., The screen should flash with a spectrum of colour and then you should see the Raspberry Pi logo followed by a small box asking you what operating system you would like to install. If the internet is not plugged in or active then there will only be two options. If it is working then you should see a lot of options for operating system., The only thing you should have checked will be OpenELEC_Pi2. Do NOT pick OpenELEC_Pi1; this is the older version and may not be compatible.
, Under System, go to the tab file system. When you enter the file system interface and choose your USB.
