 Manufacturers often put warnings like “wash with like colors” or “color rubs off” on the labels of garments that are at risk of bleeding in the wash. If the label is unclear or your garment is old and you’re not sure whether it will bleed, set it aside to be tested. Testing your clothes for dye bleeding beforehand will help you determine if you need to take extra precautions when washing them., Colorfastness indicates how well a piece of clothing maintains its dyes. You can test for colorfastness by ironing some white fabric onto a damp portion of your garment. If the white fabric absorbs any color, the garment is not colorfast and it is prone to bleeding in the wash. , You can also check to see if an article of clothing is colorfast by placing it in a bucket or sink of soapy water. Let it soak for about 30-minutes and then check back. If the color of the water has changed, the garment is not colorfast., You’ll want to take extra care when washing these garments to prevent any unwanted dye bleeding or dye transfer. Wash these clothes separately -- or even individually -- to keep your wardrobe looking bright and new., Besides separating colorfast clothes from non-colorfast clothes, it’s always a good idea to separate your dark clothes from your lights, and your white clothes from your colors. This will help in preventing dyes from one article of clothing from transferring to another in the wash. , Washing your laundry with hot water can cause more dye bleeding and transferring. Using cold water will help maintain the brightness and color of your wardrobe. If you have to use hot water to remove a stain from a colored garment, wash the stained article of clothing by itself to prevent its dyes from transferring to your other clothes.
 Color catchers are sheets that you can put in with your laundry that collect loose dyes that escape your clothes. They help prevent dyes transferring from one garment to another, so your new white shirt won't accidentally turn orange., Depending on the type of fabric your garment is made of, you might be able to use a dye fixative to help prevent bleeding in the wash. Dye fixatives help set loose dyes so they don't wash out or transfer to other fabrics. , Friction causes the fibers in your clothes to wear down, which leads to more dye bleeding and fading. Avoid excessive friction by using the lighter wash settings on your machine and adding fabric softener to your load.Turning your garments inside out can protect the outside of your clothes from friction, helping them stay brighter and less-worn looking for longer.Wash rough garments like jeans together in one load to prevent them from wearing down the fibers in your other clothes. , The more you wash your clothes, the more likely they are to fade and bleed. Instead of washing all your clothes after one wear, see if you own any pieces of clothing that can get multiple uses before you throw them in the wash. 