 Normal skin is picture-perfect: it typically doesn’t get flaky, oily, or dry patches. It’s usually balanced and is not too sensitive or easily irritated.You won’t see too many imperfections with normal skin, so you’re usually less prone to acne breakouts.;
, Visible pores typically accompany oily or combination skin, and tight pores go with dry skin. Normal skin usually means your pores are barely visible and don’t make your skin feel tight., Normal skin usually means a radiant complexion. While your skin isn’t shiny with oil, it isn’t dull and dehydrated either. Instead, it has a healthy glow without requiring any makeup., With normal skin, you should cleanse your face once in the morning and once in the evening. Be sure to choose a cleanser free of damaging sulfates.A gel or foaming cleanser is often a good option for normal skin.
Avoid bar soaps, which can strip even normal skin of moisture.
 Normal skin can benefit from the hydrating properties of a gentle, non-irritating toner. Toners can help close up pores and moisturize your skin, giving you a healthy glow and a refreshing feel.Look for a toner with antioxidants, such vitamin C, vitamin E, or green tea.
Stay away from toners that contain alcohol. They can dry out normal skin.
Most toners are liquids. Apply it to a cotton pad or ball and smooth it over your face without rinsing it off.
If your toner comes in a spray bottle, mist it over the face and wait for it to be absorbed before moving on with your skincare routine.
 Antioxidants can help protect the skin from environmental stressors, calm the skin, and give it a more youthful appearance. Use a lightweight serum to deliver powerful antioxidants without bogging it down.Some antioxidants to look for in your serum are vitamin C, vitamin E, resveratrol, retinol, and/or green tea.
A serum is the best way to deliver antioxidants to your skin because they can actually provide up to 70% active ingredients.
Check the instructions for your serum regarding how often to use it. In many cases, once a day is sufficient, and you should usually use the serum at night.
 You may not want to slather on sunscreen every day, but you should wear sun protection daily. Kill two birds with one stone by applying a moisturizer with built-in SPF to keep your skin looking its best.Opt for a moisturizer with a SPF 30 for daily use.
 Ideally, the night cream will be the moisturizing and firming kind and include beneficial stem cells. The latter can stimulate the production of collagen and thus increase skin elasticity., Luckily, normal skin typically doesn’t have many problems. Maintaining a skincare routine will keep your skin healthy and glowing, and can also prevent visible skin changes that occur due to age, such as spots or wrinkles. Most importantly, be sure to always cleanse your face at the end of the day if you wear makeup. Even normal skin can suffer from clogged pores if you go to bed with heavy foundation, powder, and concealer on it. If you’re too tired to wash, use makeup removing cloths to quickly cleanse your skin.
 If you sometimes get a dry patch or some oiliness here and there, you may not have 100% normal skin. If that’s the case, use beauty products that are aimed for normal-dry or normal-oily to keep it balanced.You should also stay away from abrasive or irritating products, including those with alcohol - they’ll do your skin no good, especially if your skin is between two types.
 Because normal skin doesn’t usually experience many problems, it’s important to take note of any changes that do occur. If you notice discolorations, bumps, or textural changes in your skin, visit a doctor to ensure that they’re not serious., Oily skin typically a shine to it due to the overproduction of oil, which may get worse with stress or humidity. If that’s the case, you likely have oily skin as shine is not associated with other skin types.An easy way to tell if you have oily skin is to wash your face. If your skin gets shiny and greasy within an hour of cleansing, you likely have oily skin.
The increase in hormones during puberty often leads to oily skin, so teenagers usually have this skin type.
 If you have oily skin, your skin will feel greasy when you touch it. You may even have an oily residue on your fingers afterward.Having to use blotting papers or sheets continually throughout the day can be an indication of oily skin.
 If you have oily skin, you’re probably used to acne, even if you’re an adult. Your hair follicles become clogged with oil and attract bacteria. That leads to inflammation, which can manifest itself as pimples, whiteheads, and blackheads.Oily skin can experience wide spread breakouts all over the face or just suffer acne in the oiliest areas of the face, such as the forehead, nose, and chin.
 Because excess oil can clog the pores, they typically have an enlarged appearance when you have oily skin. If you notice these, it’s very likely that you have oily skin.You will usually notice enlarged pores on the nose and cheeks, but you can have them anywhere that there’s excess oil on your skin.
 The key to caring for oily skin is to clean it frequently to remove excess oil, dirt, and bacteria. Ideally, cleanse your face at least twice a day: once in the morning, once at night. You should also wash your face after working out. Choose a gentle, water-soluble foam or gel cleanser so you don’t strip your skin completely of oil. Be sure to choose an oil-free formula as well.
Avoid cleansers with fragrances because they may irritate your skin and cause breakouts.
 A gentle, effective toner can remove any lingering dirt and oil after you wash your face and help diminish the appearance of enlarged pores. They can also lightly moisturize the skin so you don’t need a separate moisturizer.Choose an alcohol-free toner that contains antioxidants such as green tea or retinol for oily skin.
Most toners are liquids. Apply it to a cotton pad or ball and smooth it over your face without rinsing it off.
If your toner comes in a spray bottle, mist it over the face and wait for it to be absorbed before moving on with your skincare routine.
 A lightly hydrating product is all oily skin needs. If it has salicylic acid, which can clean your pores from the inside out, all the better! Apply your moisturizer after cleansing and toning your skin.Select an oil-free moisturizer to ensure that it won’t clog your pores.
A gel-based or serum moisturizer is often a good option for oily skin
Sun protection is important for oily skin, so you can use a lightweight moisturizer with SPF30 or use a dedicated sunscreen with SPF30 because it will deliver some moisture. Choose a sunscreen with a matte finish, though, so your skin doesn’t look greasy.
 While your pores are here to stay, you can help minimize their appearance with regular exfoliation. Instead of a harsh scrub, though, use a gentle exfoliator with salicylic acid, which can exfoliation the surface of the skin as well as the lining of the pores.Unlike scrubs, which are manual exfoliants, salicylic acid is a chemical exfoliant so you usually leave it on the skin to slough off the dead cells.
For oily skin, a liquid salicylic acid product is usually the best method of exfoliation.
 A good, oil-control foundation primer will keep your makeup looking great and won’t dry out your skin. Powder makeup is absorbent and can soak up any excess oil that remains after you clean your face.Make sure you’re using oil-free makeup -- it won’t clog your pores, and any acne medication you use will still be effective.It’s also important to look for makeup products that are non-comedogenic, which means that they do not clog your pores.
It’s also a good idea to carry blotting papers with you when you’re wearing makeup. They can soak up excess oil from your skin so you don’t have to add another layer of powder, which may make you look cakey.
 If this is within your means, try to get extraction facials monthly. A licensed professional will massage your skin to remove the gunk that’s clogging up your pores to leave your skin feeling fresh and clean for a few weeks., Heat up some water and put your face over it, taking care not to burn yourself. Do this before you cleanse your skin or apply any product so the steam can soften your skin and prep it for any subsequent treatment.Drape a towel over your head when you’re steaming your face. That will trap the steam so it’s more concentrated on your skin.
You can also use a steam room or sauna for steaming your face.
Alternatively, you can also use low-level LED light therapy to correct damage made to the surface of your skin, including your pores. It may take a while for you to see results.Never pick at your pores; it can lead to scars and possible cause an infection.
 You don’t want to add more oil to your skin than is necessary, so incorporate oil-free sunscreens, cleansers, lotions, makeup, and hair products in your routine.That can help prevent your clogged pores and breakouts., When oil and dead skin cells combine, they form little dark spots on your skin. A clay mask with kaolin, a drying mineral, can help clean out your pores and absorb oil if used regularly.In most cases, using a clay mask once a week is sufficient to keep oily skin in check.
 To fight breakouts, look for a serum containing benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid. These ingredients will penetrate your pores and target your pimples to help get rid of them quickly.Don’t pop or pick at your pimples. You can cause additional inflammation, infection, and even scarring.
 Dry skin often results in flaky or peeling bits of skin. If you notice these on your face or in some parts of your body, like elbows or knees, you likely have dry skin.The skin will usually have a rough texture that you can feel when you touch it.
 With dry skin, you’ll typically notice small pores that make your skin feel tight or rough. Your skin can often crack if it’s dry, which can in turn lead to irritation and itchiness.Dry skin is more likely to feel tight and itchy in cold, dry weather.
 Dull and red skin are usually indicators of dryness. These may get worse depending on the weather, how long you shower, or the ingredients your skin products include.Cold winter weather usually makes dry skin more dull and red.
 Hot water can be relaxing, but it also strips your skin of its natural oils, leaving dry skin even more dehydrated and irritated. Lukewarm water will be comfortable for bathing, but still leave your skin with its natural moisture.It’s also a good idea to bathe less frequently if you have dry skin.
Don’t scrub your skin when you’re bathing because it may irritate your skin and make the dryness worse.
 For dry skin, you want a cleanser that will replenish moisture as it cleans. Look for a rich, moisturizing body or face wash with natural oils that won’t strip your skin.Look for creamy cleansers that contain beneficial natural oils, such as argan, avocado, jojoba, almond, coconut, or olive oil.
Stay away from irritating ingredients, such as sulfates or alcohol.
Bar soaps are usually too drying for both dry skin on your face and body., Immediately after washing your skin, apply a thick, rich moisturizer while your skin is still damp. Your skin will be better able absorb and lock in the moisturizing ingredients when it’s still wet.You can gently pat your face dry with a clean towel after cleansing your face isn’t dripping when you apply the moisturizer. However, don’t dry it completely.
Choose a moisturizer that has natural plant oils, such as argan, avocado, or olive, as well as antioxidants, such as vitamin C or green tea, to help soothe your skin.
Look for a moisturizer with at least an SPF30 or a separate SPF30 sunscreen to apply after your moisturizer to ensure that your skin is protected from sun damage.
 If your skin is Sahara-dry, it’s time to break out the heavy moisturizing creams after patting dry. Creams with heavy emollients mean you won’t have to re-apply moisturizing lotions every few hours.Apply your body cream liberally twice a day.
Some emollient ingredients to look for in your body cream include plant oils, shea butter, mineral oil, petrolatum, cocoa butter, and fatty acids.
 If you wear makeup, opt for the kind that will hydrate your skin -- the last thing you want is makeup that’s going to cake or flake. During the day, you might choose to just wear tinted moisturizer. Foundation should be liquid or cream.Avoid powder products, which will sit on your dry patches and bring attention to them.
Foundations that are marketed as “hydrating” or “moisturizing” are best for dry skin.
Look for makeup that has a dewy or radiant finish. That can help perk up dull, dry skin.
It’s best to apply foundation to dry skin with a sponge or clean fingers. Using a brush can actually accentuate flaky areas and make the makeup cling to them.
 Very dry air can damage your skin, so if your skin is particularly dry, a humidifier can help. It add moisture to the room you’re in so you can run the humidifier during the day and at night as you sleep to replenish any lost moisture.A humidifier is especially helpful in cold weather when you have the heating turned on in your home and the air is usually drier.
 Perfume, antiperspirant, and harsh soaps can all dry out your skin. Try to limit your use of perfume, replace harsh soaps with mild cleansers, and opt for deodorants without antiperspirant., You may think you have naturally dry skin, but if you get regular breakouts, it’s unlikely that you do. The products you’re using may be the cause of instead. Stop using them for a couple of weeks to see if there are any improvements.For example, acne spot treatments are often very drying and may create flaky, dehydrated patches.
 Certain health problems, such as kidney disease or diabetes, can cause dry skin. For skin that won’t respond to moisturizing treatments, it’s best to see a doctor and rule out any medical causes, particularly if you have other risk factors for these conditions.Even if there is no medical cause for your dry skin, your doctor may be able to recommend an effective moisturizer, particularly if you have thinner skin.
 Your T-zone is the area of your forehead extending down your nose to your chin. If you have combination skin, this area will typically be oily.Pay attention to any breakouts in these areas. They indicate that you have clogged pores in the T-zone, which is often a sign of combination skin.
You may have enlarged pores and acne in your T-zone as well.
 Combination skin means you have a blend of oily, dry, and normal skin types. While your forehead and nose may be oily, your cheeks may feel dry or cause you no issues.In addition to your cheeks, the sides of your face may show signs of dry or normal skin.
 Not all people with combination skin have dandruff, but it’s a common condition if you have a mix of dry and oily skin. Examine your scalp to see if you notice any white flakes., For combination skin, a gentle, water-soluble cleanser is your best bet. Wash your face twice a day to remove excess oil and soothe any dry, flaky patches.A lotion or gel-based cleanser usually works best for combination skin.
If you need an extra bit of cleansing in your T-zone, you can use a soft-bristled cleansing brush in those areas.
 Don’t follow up your cleansing with a moisturizer meant for normal skin. Instead, use a moisturizing lotion with ingredients that are mattifying, such as silica, and hydrating, such glycerin. These will target both your oily and dry zones.You may prefer to use two different moisturizers -- use an lightweight, oil-free formula for the T-zone and a richer lotion for the dry spots.
 Your T-zone will benefit from a clay mask with oil-absorbing ingredients, and your dry areas will soak up the ingredients in a moisturizing mask. If you get both dry patches and breakouts, the masks can help keep your skin in line.In most cases, using each type of mask once a week is enough to maintain healthy skin.
 Because the aim with combination skin is to achieve a balance between oiliness and dryness, jojoba oil is ideal. It is an oil so it hydrated the skin, but it is very similar to the natural oil in the skin so it isn’t as likely to clog the pores.Opt for 100% pure jojoba oil for the best results.
You can use jojoba oil on both your face and body. Massage it into the skin until it is fully absorbed.
 If you have larger pores than you’d like, use products with exfoliating ingredients to keep your pores unclogged. Keep in mind, however, that no product has actually been proven to shrink pores. They just minimize their appearance temporarily., If you are experiencing breakouts, don’t apply your acne treatment product with salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide all over your face or it may irritate the dry patches. Dab the product only on affected areas so you treat the acne without damaging the rest of your complexion., Some people with combination skin have patches of dry, flaky skin on their head. Target dandruff by using a shampoo designed specifically for the condition. Use the product according to packaging instructions .Some dandruff shampoos require daily use, while others recommend bi-weekly treatment.
 Apply light to medium pressure while brushing your fingers across your cheek. If your skin turns red, then it’s likely sensitive. You may also notice your skin turn red when you apply cleansers, moisturizers, serums, and other skincare products.If you notice that you’re flushing and blushing without reason, you may have rosacea, which is usually sensitive as well. Bumps and pimples may also be a telltale sign of rosacea so consult your doctor if you’re concerned., Your skin is sensitive if most products you apply cause a burning or stinging sensation. You may be using products that are too harsh, and are irritating your skin. For example, you may be washing with a cleanser that’s too drying or using too many anti-aging products.
 As is the case with dry skin, flaky patches on your skin are often a telltale sign of sensitive skin. If your skin has a rough, uneven texture, it can also be a sign of sensitivity., You don’t want to unnecessarily aggravate your skin, so test out any new products on a small, inconspicuous area before slathering them on. Wait 24 hours to determine whether your skin will react negatively to the product. The inside of your wrist or elbow, as well as behind your ear, are good place to test products for a possible reaction.
 Your cleanser should not contain ammonium laureth sulfate or sodium lauryl sulfate. These ingredients break down the lipids in your skin and allow irritants to get in. Opt for a gentle, water-soluble cleanser that is fragrance-free.If your skin still reacts negatively to washing, use your cleanser only once a day.
Use your fingers - not a scrubbing mitt - to slowly apply the cleanser to your skin.
Use warm, rather than very cold or hot, water to wash your face. Extreme temperatures can irritate your skin.
 When moisture escapes your skin, it leaves it unprotected and ripe for cracks and flakiness. A nutrient-rich serum can replenish your skin’s damaged protective barrier so it’s less likely to be irritated. Choose a serum that was specifically designed for sensitive skin and has vitamin C to maximize the benefits.
 Sensitive skin is especially at risk for inflammation due to UV rays. If you experience redness, sunscreen can prevent it from getting any worse.Sensitive skin usually responds best to physical sunscreen rather than chemical sunscreens. That means you should avoid ingredients, such as avobenzone, octinoxate, and oxybenzone, in favor of natural minerals, such as zinc oxide and titanium dioxide.Be sure to use a sunscreen with SPF30 or higher.
 It’s important to learn what ingredients to avoid when you have sensitive skin. Check all of your products’ labels to make sure that you are using a potentially irritating products.Some ingredients for sensitive skin to avoid include parabens, phthalates, propylene glycol, and sodium lauryl sulfate.
Keep in mind that "paraben" doesn't always appear by itself. It usually is part of a longer ingredient, such as methylparaben, propylparaben, and butylparaben.
 Many skincare products use menthol, alcohol, or fragrances in their ingredients to give them a pleasant scent. However, these can easily irritate sensitive skin and cause itchy, red flare-ups so you avoid them.It’s also a good idea to avoid harsh skin exfoliators, such as aluminum oxide crystals or pumice.
 Sensitive skin can have many triggers, from allergic skin reactions to environmental factors. Try to avoid these as much as possible and seek treatment if you have a condition that leads to skin sensitivity.For example, if you have atopic dermatitis or eczema, talk to your doctor about a corticosteroid cream or ointment prescription to treat the condition.
If you notice that your skin gets extra sensitive if you spend the afternoon in the sun, try to limit your sun exposure. Stay in the shade, wear protective clothing, and slather on natural sunscreen made specifically for sensitive skin.

