 Many people who have an addiction often live in denial of it. Knowing what signs to look for can help you in your efforts to get them the help they need. Some common signs of alcohol abuse include, but are not limited to, the following:


Irritability
Mood swings
Relationship problems
Complaints from coworkers and teachers
Legal trouble,
Increased tolerance to alcohol
Drinking to cope with life or to feel normal
Neglecting responsibilities.;
, Drinking switches from a social activity to a problem when it starts to take over aspects of a person’s life, such as work, personal relationships, responsibilities, and safety.
 Personal appearance can also start to decline due to poor hygiene habits one can experience when addicted. They may not shower for several days in a row, or have wrinkled, musty clothing. They may also start to drink earlier in the day or before driving, and usually by themselves.
 Showing withdrawal symptoms such as trembling, nausea, headaches, anxiety, jumpiness, or fatigue after going without a drink for a period of time indicates that they have grown physically dependent on the alcohol.If you start to notice several of these symptoms together, it may be time to consider hosting an intervention.
 It’s also a good idea to look into your insurance plan and see what type of treatment they will cover, if any. From there, you can start looking into different treatment facilities and programs, as well as fellowships in your area that will be able to be a support system for your loved one.


The more you know about what your loved one is doing and where they can find the best help, the better. Be wary of treatment places that offer a “miracle cure” or a “quick fix”. Make sure you have fully and thoroughly looked into each place you are considering.
 Based on the information you have been able to gather, you should plan where, when, and who will attend the intervention. Consulting with a professional interventionist is recommended, they can help with any and all of the above steps, and may even be able to attend the intervention itself. The more you know and prepare, the smoother the process will go.
 When thinking about people who will attend the intervention, you should ensure that they are aware of the situation, are willing to stop enabling the addiction of the loved one, and that their presence will not distract from the main purpose of the intervention in any way. You also don’t want to overwhelm your loved one with a large group of people. Invite a small group of five people or fewer.


If there’s someone you believe your loved one should hear from, but they are not able to make it or you believe their presence would be a distraction, you can have them write a letter that someone in attendance can read out loud for them.
 The intervention should also take place in a private place, with no outside interruptions or diversions. An intervention is not something that should be a public forum or a spectacle for outsiders to witness. It should be a private, intimate meeting of family and close friends expressing their love, support, and concern for their loved one and encouraging them to get help.


It is also very helpful to meet with those attending the intervention (minus the loved one in question) beforehand to go over specific talking points and who will say what. You can even write notes on what you want to say and keep them with you for the intervention.
 Whatever way the intervention ends you will have to have a plan in place for after the fact. Making travel arrangements, including who will travel with your loved one to the treatment facility you decided on after the intervention, is always a good idea. It helps ensure that your loved one doesn’t have time between the intervention and leaving for treatment to run away, hide, or use again.


You can also make the necessary arrangements for anything in your loved one’s life that needs to be taken care of while they are away, i.e. pets, children, house sitting, etc. Have a plan in place for all those details that might make them nervous to leave, or that might give them an excuse to stay, so that they can go to treatment and know that everything is being taken care of back home.
 Some examples may include asking to move out if they still live with you, taking away visiting rights with children, or refusing to lend them money unless you know for sure that it's money for treatment.
 Without telling your loved one why, invite them to the pre-determined time and place and start the intervention. Let them know of your concerns and love for them, and present them with the treatment plan you have created. Do not tell them what you will do if they don’t go unless you are really willing and able to follow through on it.
 Do not say things that would make your loved one feel guilty or that would open up past arguments. Stay focused on the plan and on letting your loved one know you care and that they have a place to go and get help if they so choose.
 If they’re in treatment, make sure to keep up on their progress and make yourself available for any family therapy the facility may ask you to participate in.
 You can also seek out therapy and support of your own to help you through this difficult time.
 There are fellowships for families in the same position as you. You can seek them out and get the support and understanding you need while learning everything you can about relapse prevention, including what to do if your loved one experiences a relapse. Have a plan in case such a thing were to occur.
 Through it all, continue letting your loved one know you care and will support them in their recovery journey. Know that by taking care of yourself through seeking support and knowledge, you are better able to help them.

