 If possible, don't even bother to engage with your haters. Bullies often feed upon the thrill of provoking a reaction. Quite often, haters are trying to validate themselves by making you feel bad. This can spiral into a vicious circle where the hater insults you, you react, and the hater reacts to your reaction.Bullies are a special type of hater. For someone to be a bully, their actions must be repetitive and there must be some type of power imbalance involved.While all bullies are haters, not all haters are bullies. For example, your little brother can call you names without being a bully, since you're probably bigger and stronger than he is. Likewise, if a classmate says one nasty thing to you, then she isn't a bully. In general, passive methods are better when dealing with bullies, while confrontation may be best to address other kinds of haters.
If your hater is annoying you in class, pretend you can't hear him or her. If your hater provokes you or tries to get your attention, do not respond in any way.
Remember that ignoring hate is not best in all circumstances. If the person who hates you starts to physically or verbally assault you, it is best to get other people, especially an authority figure like a teacher or work supervisor, involved.;
, Self-confidence is your best weapon against a hater. Laugh off insults, drop witty comebacks, and stay positive. If you don't let your confidence slip, a hater is more likely to get frustrated simply start leaving you alone.For example, if someone insults your art, take the high road. Try saying: "I'm sorry you feel that way, but art is subjective. I'm just doing my best to improve, though, so I would appreciate any constructive criticism you may have."
If someone calls you "weird," you could say: "Maybe a little, but I like who I am. What's wrong with being weird?"
When you are walking by someone who hates you, don't look down or lean the other way. That kind of posture tells the hater that you're afraid, that you're giving the hater what he or she wants. Instead, stand up tall with your head held high.
 This does not mean that you should hide from anyone. You should never let bullies rule your life. Simply try to put yourself into situations that don't require you to interact with these haters.


When you're young, you will especially get a lot of hate from people who don't understand your interests and passions. Instead of hanging around these sorts of people, look for ways to pursue these passions outside the scope of their negativity.
If you are dealing with especially malicious haters in one of your classes, ask if you can transfer to a different one. If you are facing haters in a club or group, consider whether you can find another group that is not so negative.
If you know that a particularly nasty person is always in the same spot every day, do not go to that spot. Find a way around or ask a group of your peers to go past the spot with you.
Avoiding the haters is also a great way to boost your self-confidence. This gives you an opportunity to pursue your interests without the flood of negative thoughts.
 If your haters are saying that you can't do something, the best way to shut them up might be to show them up. Do the thing that they say you can't do, and do it well. Use their hate to fuel your drive.


For example, if your haters tell you you'll never be good at sports, you can prove them wrong by working hard. Join a team in a sport of your choice if you don't already belong to one and throw yourself into practice.
If haters think you are too scared to talk to your crush, let that motivate you into finally asking him or her out.
Be aware that proving haters wrong does not always make them stop. In some cases, your success could make the haters even more jealous. This is not a reason to keep yourself from succeeding, but don't do anything just to show them up. Live life for yourself.

