 SPF stands for sun protection factor, and it measures the potency of sunscreens. For daily usage, an SPF of 30 is sufficient. If you know you’ll be spending time outdoors in the bright sunshine, bump up your protection to an SPF of 50.It’s important to remember that even if you aren’t in direct sunlight or getting a sunburn, you are still receiving radiation from the sun. Don’t wait until you have a blistering sunburn or premature wrinkles to start slathering up!


There are sunscreens on the market that boast SPFs of up to and even over 100. However, SPFs above 50 offer minimal benefits.;
, Don't forget your ears and neck! Use a generous amount, about half of a teaspoon, and apply more if you don’t feel fully covered. This is the most important product you’ll use on your face, so don’t skimp. Use a mirror to make sure you don’t miss any spots.


Experiment with different types of sunscreens from the drug store or even your local beauty supply store. While some may feel heavy and thick on your skin, there are also lightweight lotions and serums on the market that are perfect for makeup wearers., It may feel like more product than you’re used to applying to your face, but keep patting!By patting the sunscreen into your skin, rather than rubbing it, you will avoid irritating your skin. It will also ensure that your sunscreen is applied evenly over your face.Give your sunscreen three to five minutes to soak in fully before beginning your makeup routine.If you want to use a tinted SPF, layer it on top of a normal sunscreen. Cosmetic products with sun protection aren’t as effective as products geared solely toward sun protection. Use a tinted SPF product as extra protection, rather than your sole protection.
 Trade in your powder foundation for a liquid or cream foundation. This will blend most naturally with the texture of the sunscreen and prevent you from getting the dreaded “cakey” appearance.You can use a liquid bronzer and blush for a full, sun-kissed look– without the sun damage! Apply your eye makeup as you normally would.


If you have to find new makeup products that you work better with your sunscreen, make the sacrifice. It’s a minor expense now, but you’ll be rewarded with taut, young-looking, and cancer-free skin as you age.
It's not recommended to mix your sunscreen with your makeup or moisturizer. It may save you some time, but there is always a risk that two products won't react well to each other. You can also dilute the sunscreen and reduce the amount of coverage you are getting., For sunscreen to work most effectively, you need to apply it straight to your bare skin. In other words, you need to apply it before your makeup. If you have a face of makeup on and are going out into the bright sun, you’ll need to remove your makeup, apply sunscreen, and then re-apply your makeup if you like.


This can be time-consuming and inconvenient, but it’s the only way your sunscreen will be fully effective. Take the time to apply your sunscreen properly now and avoid yourself the hassle of covering wrinkles and sunspots later.
 Most sunscreens on the market are chemical, which means that chemicals in their formula actually prevent sun from hitting the skin by absorbing the rays. Physical sunblock, however, works by creating a physical barrier between the skin and the sun.Because the makeup won’t allow your skin to absorb chemical sunscreen, it won’t be effective protection. Physical sunscreen can still work over your makeup to deflect the sun’s rays. Physical sunblocks come in powders, creams, and sprays, so choose whichever will be easiest for you to apply., Because your makeup is already applied, a spray sunblock will be your best bet to avoid ruining it. To apply it properly, close your eyes and hold your breath. Press down on the nozzle, and apply it by spraying back and forth over your entire face. Spray more than you think you need, because spray sunscreen don't cover quite as well as creams and lotions.Don't touch your face at all while the spray dries. If you touch it, you risk rubbing it off in spots and compromising the sun protection.
Another spray option is a makeup setting spray with SPF. Like the spray sunscreen, this shouldn't be used as your only form of sun protection, but it's great for touch-ups. Not only do makeup setting sprays with SPF protect your skin from the sun, they can actually mattify and moisturize your skin at the same time., This is another option that you can apply on top of makeup. Unlike sunscreen spray, however, you will need to touch your skin directly, which may or may not mess up your makeup. By dusting the powder over your entire face, you block the sun from reaching your skin. Additionally, the powder can even be applied to the hairline to ensure there are no gaps in protection., Physical sunscreen rubs off more easily than chemical sunscreen. Because it physically protects your skin from the sun, your face needs to be totally covered for it to work. Cream and powder sunscreens should be reapplied over your makeup every two hours, while mists and sprays should be reapplied every single hour.