 If you need tips for game play, you can skip this. You can also modify the controls if you don't like the originals.;
, Using your map is an easy way to avoid tanks and infantry if necessary. When you are assigned to defend or capture a CP (Command Post), a tank can be a good way to do it. If you run into a wall of troops, throw grenades and start shooting. It may take few lives to wipe out the troops, but you'll get more reinforcements for each completed objective. One of the easiest ways to do well is to get awards. Space is a good place to get lots of awards.
 Then head straight to the control center. Shoot out the auto cannons and take out a few pilots. Then roll/sprint to the shield room, which is straight ahead. Use timebombs or grenades and rockets to take out the shields. Using timebombs is a better option if the hangar is not heavily guarded, because it takes 8 rockets (or 6 rockets and 6 grenades) to destroy the shields (without the damage increase award) but only 4 timebombs. This will take more ammo than you have, so use the ammo droid located in the command center (repair it, if you have to) or kill some foes to get more. By this time, the auto cannons are probably back on, so shoot them again.
 Destroy the auto turret defense mainframe. That's the big cylinder in front of you. This won't gain you any points, but it disables the auto turrets of the ship, so you and your teammates will have an easier time flying near the ship.
 Shoot the auto cannons. The reason for shooting the auto cannons is to protect yourself and each time you do this it gives you 1 point and you can even get awards (Energy Regeneration, Damage Reduction, Damage Increase, Precision Pistol or Elite Rifle) if you destroy them enough times. Blow up the engines. If you haven't died yet, you should get the award for endurance, guardian and maybe war hero.
 Shoot them if they have come back or ignore and run past them. Load up on ammo and health (it can be helpful if you hide behind the wall while doing it, because it is safer and the game only measures distance from droids, it doesn't matter if there is a wall between you and them, you will heal and your ammo will be replenished anyway). Go into the room on your left. Take out the auto cannon and at the end of the room, there should be a big screen. Blow it up.
 If not, shoot more foes/auto cannons. Now exit the control room and enter the hanger. Find the health/ammo droids and shoot enemy planes. Try to wait until pilots are just getting in them or near them to get more points. If done right, you should be close to winning. Do this 64 times to permanently get the fore-mentioned awards.
 But for more powerful Jedi/Sith, use EMP launchers, Arc Casters or rockets to kill them. Mines work well also. The last strategy works well for the Jedi masters on Coruscant in campaign.
 It is always possible to beat it. If it wasn't, it wouldn't be on the game. Try new ways of going at the objective. If your troops run out, try to complete other objective as fast as possible, so you don't lose troops.
 If you're playing in Jabba's Palace or Polis Massa or any level with close quarters, bounce grenades off the wall. You can also stand next to a frequently used doorway and lay waste to your enemies with a shotgun or any other gun. Those doorways are called choke points.
 If you run into a tank and your playing as a sniper, you will most likely die. If you are near a CP, run up to it and press E or enter and pick the rocket trooper and go to work.
 This way you can go out with a bang take some bad guys with you.
 If you are wounded badly, turn tail and retreat to the nearest pair of droids and reload. If are the class with a recon droid, use it while you heal and reload.

