 Using your sewing machine to sew on buttons is easy, but you will need some special materials and tools to get started. To sew buttons onto a piece of clothing, you will need to have:buttons
garment you want to sew buttons onto
sewing machine
button attachment or some tape;
, If you have a button attachment, then you can slide that piece onto your sewing machine foot. Depending on the design of your sewing machine, you may need to remove the foot before you can use the button attachment. Check your machine user guide to be sure.








If you do not have a button attachment, then you can just hold the button in place on your garment using a bit of tape or by pressing the button down with the ankle of the machine.To use tape, place the button on your garment wherever you want it to go. Then, apply two pieces of tape along the edges of the button. The tape should hold your button in place as you sew.
 Once your button is in place, you will need to check the position of your needle. But before you do this, make sure that your stitch type is set to zigzag and the stitch width is set to zero.








Setting your machine to the zigzag stitch is important because the needle has to go back and forth through he button holes.
You will likely need to adjust the width before you can begin sewing the button, so do not begin sewing yet.
 After you have your machine on the proper settings, use the hand crank on your machine to slowly move the needle down towards your garment. However, do not push the needle down all the way. Just look to see where the needle would come down if you turned the crank all the way. Then, use this position to help you adjust your stitch width.








Increase the stitch width a little at a time until the needle is coming down right over the button holes on both sides of the button. When the position looks correct, then you will be ready to sew.
Keep in mind that if you have an advanced machine with a button setting, then checking the stitch width may not be necessary, but it is still a good idea., Since you do not want the fabric to move while you sew on a button, it is best to drop the teeth before you start sewing.With some sewing machines, the teeth will drop automatically when you select the button function. However, if your machine does not have a button function or if the teeth do not go down when you select the button function, then you will need to lower them manually. Check your user guide for instructions on how to do this.
 Before you start sewing, make sure that your button is exactly where you want it to be on the garment. Double check the position to be sure. You may even want to place a couple of pieces of clear tape on either side of the button to ensure that it will not move from this position.You can also use a water soluble marker or some tailor’s chalk to mark where you want your button to go. Just position your button and then draw four dots around the edges of your button. You can refer to these dots as you sew the button in place.If you are sewing on multiple buttons, then you may want to position all of them at once. You can use a ruler to ensure that they are in a straight line.
 It is important to go slowly when sewing on a button with a sewing machine, or your needle may come down onto the button instead of going through the button hole. If this happens, then your needle is likely to break. Apply gentle pressure to the foot pedal of your machine.








You can also turn the wheel on your sewing machine to stitch by hand if you are worried about breaking your needle.
Make sure that you stitch through the holes in the button several times. Go in and out of the holes and garment cloth several times to ensure that the button is securely attached. The button may seem a bit tight when you are done, but it will loosen up over time.
 After you have sewn on the button, you will need to cut the excess thread from your button. There will be a piece in the front of the button and in the back of the garment cloth. Use the loop in the back of the garment cloth to pull the front piece through to the back.








Trim both pieces of thread so that you only have about four inches of thread extending from the button. You may also want to tie a knot in the end of the thread for security.If you have gone through the button several times with thread, then it should stay in place for a long time, but it will loosen up eventually and a knot may prevent the button from falling straight off.
If the thread will not easily pull through to the other side, then you can also thread it through a needle and then insert the needle through the fabric underneath the button. Then, pull the thread through to the other side of the fabric.
 After you have completed this first button, you can repeat the process with any other buttons that you need to sew onto your garment. If the button that you are sewing on has four holes, then you will need to rotate the fabric and repeat the process on the other two holes.








You should be able to use the same settings, but always check by hand cranking the wheel first.

