 If no arrest has been made, many states allow you to swear out an affidavit attesting to the injunction violation. An affidavit can be valuable where you have no hard evidence to prove the violation. The clerk of the court that issued the injunction will have the appropriate paperwork.You may want to call the clerk's office before you go there in person to find out what sort of documents you will need to bring with you. Typically you will at least have to bring a copy of the injunction.
If the violation occurred in a different county than the county where the court that issued the injunction was located, you should go to the clerk of the court with jurisdiction over the county where the violation occurred.
The clerk will assist you in preparing your affidavit, but keep in mind they cannot provide you with legal advice, only instruct you on the procedural requirements for completing your affidavit.
The clerk also can let you know what the proper procedures are for enforcing an injunction in that court.
Keep in mind that if you have an injunction from another state, there may be additional documents that must be filed before you can have the injunction enforced in the state courts where the violation occurred.
 An attorney can help you navigate the court system and enforce your injunction effectively. In many states you may be entitled to an award of attorney's fees from the restrained person if they ultimately are convicted of violating the injunction.Although you typically are not entitled to a court-appointed attorney, there are numerous nonprofit organizations that may connect you with a volunteer attorney to help you.
You also may be able to get assistance from your local legal services office.
If criminal charges are filed, the prosecution of the case will be taken over by a district attorney at no charge to you. However, if you end up having to file a civil action you may need legal assistance.
 Any documentation or other proof you have of the injunction violation, such as a voicemail message, should be mentioned in your affidavit. Paper documents such as a letter from the restrained person typically can be attached to your affidavit.Take care to preserve any evidence of the violation, even though your first impulse may be to destroy it. To be used as evidence in court, it must be preserved in its original, unaltered state.
For example, if the restrained person sends you an email, don't delete the email even if you print it out. A print-out of an email doesn't contain all the same information that the email itself does, and that information can be used to authenticate that the email did indeed come from the restrained person.
At a minimum, you'll need a copy of the injunction, which you typically must attach to your affidavit.
 Your affidavit should describe the conditions of the injunction and provide a clear factual account of the encounter that constituted a violation of those conditions. You also should describe your actions after the incident occurred.Make note of the specific conditions of the injunction that the restrained person violated through their actions.
Include as many details as possible, including the date, time, and location of the incident.
Describe the incident in chronological order, and stick to the facts as much as possible.
You can state how the incident made you feel, particularly if the person instilled fear, but avoid making opinionated remarks or speculating on the restrained person's motivation or intent.
At the same time, keep in mind that in most cases criminal sanctions are only available for intentional violations, not accidental or coincidental violations. If you have any evidence or factual knowledge that the restrained person acted with knowledge that their actions were in violation of the injunction, you should include this in your affidavit.
 Typically an affidavit must be signed in the presence of a notary public. The notary verifies your identity and serves as a witness to the signing of the affidavit, but they don't have to read the affidavit or know any of the details of your situation.A notary public typically is available at the courthouse for a small fee. You also may be able to find a notary public at your bank, since they often offer notary services free of charge to their customers.
In some courts, you may sign your affidavit in front of the clerk rather than seeking out an independent notary public.
After you've signed your affidavit and had it notarized, make at least one copy of it for your records.
Depending on the court's rules, the clerk may want additional copies from you. The clerk can make copies, but typically you'll be charged a fee per page.
 Once your affidavit is completed and signed, you must take it back to the clerk's office so it can be properly filed with the court and law enforcement. Typically it will be turned over to the district attorney's office or the local police department so charges can be filed against the restrained person.Typically there are no fees associated with filing an affidavit in support of a violation of an injunction.
Once you submit your violation to the clerk of the court, the information regarding the violation will be forwarded to the district attorney's office. A district attorney will take charge over your case at that point.
 A police officer or district attorney may want to meet with you to discuss the contents of your affidavit. If the restrained person is arrested, you also may be called upon to serve as a witness at trial.If your affidavit and information about the violation is forwarded to the district attorney, they typically will contact you first for additional information.
You typically can call the clerk to check on the status of your case or get information about what's being done regarding the violation.
If no criminal actions are taken, you may have to file a civil contempt action to enforce your injunction. The clerk will let you know if you need to go that route.

