 Your plants will be ready to harvest 2 to 4 months after starting the flowering stage. There are two methods to determine when your plant is ready to harvest:Pistils (the white hairs on the flowers) – Wait until new white hairs have stopped growing. Harvest when 50-75% of the hairs have darkened for the highest THC level. Harvest when 80-90% have darkened for more CBN, which has a relaxing effect.
Trichomes – Trichomes are the "crystals" or glitter that accumulate on your buds during the flowering stage. Use a magnifier to examine the ones with mushroom-like heads on the ends. Harvest when most trichomes are milky or cloudy for the most intense high. Wait until they are amber for a more relaxing, narcotic type high.
 Using a sharp knife, cut the plant off at the stalk above the ground. Remove the large fan leaves. Using scissors, cut each branch from the plant. Handle them gently so as to not lose any trichomes (the clear buds that contain THC).Leaving the smaller leaves on the plant will result in a slower drying time, which means more flavor and potency.
 Hang the branches upside down with plenty of space between them to ensure even drying and to prevent the growth of mold. Keep them at room temperature to prevent drying too fast, and use a fan to promote air circulation (don't point the fan directly at the marijuana). You'll know your marijuana is dry enough when the smaller stems crack instead of bending when you flex them. Drying usually takes about a week., Use small scissors to remove any remaining leaves shielding the buds. (These trimmings contain some active ingredients and can be used in cooking.) Separate the individual buds from the stems and place them in 1 quart mason jars so the jars are about 75% full.
 During curing the marijuana will very, very slowly continue to dry out, and compounds that give it a grassy smell and taste will break down. The key is to try to keep the air in the jars at 60-65% relative humidity (RH). You'll want to open your jars at least once a day for the first 1-2 weeks to ensure they are curing properly and to allow for air exchange. A hygrometer can help you get accurate RH readings. Leave it in the jar for 24 hours to get an accurate reading.Wet buds (over 70% RH) – If buds feel damp to the touch take them out to dry for another 12-24 hours. Wet buds in a jar run the risk of growing mold.
Moist buds (65-70% RH) – If you shake the jar and some buds stick together, then they are too moist. Take the lid off the jar for 2-4 hours.
Sticky buds (60-65% RH) – This is the zone where you want your buds to be. Buds feel a little sticky. They are neither wet, nor dry and crumbly. They do not clump together when you shake the jar.
Dry buds (less than 60%RH) – If the buds feel brittle and crumbly, then insert a 62% Humidipak to restore moisture. Continue opening the jar once a day.
 After the first 2 weeks, your jars should all be in the cure zone (sticky, 60-65% RH). You can now open them once a week to check on them. After 4-6 weeks, you can start opening them once a month. You should cure for at least 3 months, but buds will continue to improve for up to 6 months. After that, you'll want to put them in long-term storage.
 Make sure your buds are not wet, or they will mold in long-term storage. Humidity should be 62% or slightly less.Short-term storage (under 6 months) – Put the buds in an airtight container, such as the mason jars or a Ziploc bag. Store in a cool, dark place.
Long-term storage (over 6 months) – Consider vacuum sealing your buds to ensure they retain flavor and potency.

