 Discuss some of your other options that exist for the other nearby Walt Disney World parks or local attractions in the area. With other major possibilities being the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, and Disney's Animal Kingdom and the mess of water parks and other activities that Disney sponsors, decide if Disney's Hollywood Studios is your best choice.


Realize that Disney's Hollywood Studios mostly tries to give people the "lowdown" on how certain things of the movie industry are produced for use on the big screen. They do have a few thrill rides here, but the thrill ride sector is still in it's infancy here.;
, Disney's Hollywood Studios doesn't have a monorail station to this park, so you'll either have to take a car or Disney's Magical Express bus to this park. The address to the Disney Hollywood Studios is located at 351 South Studio Dr, Lake Buena Vista, FL 32830.. The cost to park your car at the Magic Kingdom will run you about $17 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle). Depending on how far into the lots it took you to get to park, you could be located in either the Film, Music, Stage, or Television parking lots that are located on campus. ,, Take a map and review your options in each area.
 Pass through and to the right at the first corner, as the hub of the park will be slightly straight ahead after this section has come and gone.
 This section is filled with two major "wild" thrill rides this park carries.
 Brave it, and entice yourself into riding.
 Both of these two buildings are at the farthest edge of this section of the park.
, Fantasmic, the Disney Hollywood Studios nighttime spectacular show down along another long stretch of walkway here can be seen on most nights (even further out than the Tower of Terror).
 Near the hub you will find this area called "Echo Lake". It has a marsh-like lake with a green dinosaur named Gertie, which houses an ice cream shop. He was added here as a tribute to a lesser known animation, but was one of Walt Disney's primary influencing sketches., You'll hear and get to sing along with a few favorites from the Frozen movie. , This building is located right next to the building for "Frozen Sing-Along Celebration". After the show, usually you will hear an announcement inviting you to go meet the snowman.,, But be careful, as there are two separate rides nearby to one another - one is more thrilling than the other rather tame line ride. Don't try to scare your little ones if and when you go on the scary line. Warn the Disney Cast Member, otherwise you'll be put on the wrong one and end up scaring those young ones who shouldn't have been "scared" to begin with.


The two lines do come together past the point of the scare to present the history of movie-making.
, You'll see a limited number of attractions there.
 If you do mind, you can pass this and continue on walking towards Streets of America.
 You'll come to a section of the park called Streets of America.
 Muppet Vision 3D, while well inspired by the antics of The Muppets from The Muppet Show is very funny, it is well liked by all who come for a visit.
 Action! Super Stunt Show that features several "takes" of cars and dangerous activities you wouldn't traditionally see. All people portrayed are actors who know their skit/routine well and know just how to perform these tricks without injuring themselves, and have protectant on as a "just in case" measure for the scenes involving fire.
 In one area you'll see the next and last of two more sections.
 You'll watch commentaries on Walt in Walt Disney: One Man's Dream.
,,