 In general, different dresses flatter different body types. If all your bridesmaids are different shapes and sizes, let them pick out dresses cut to flatter their personal style in one color. This way, everyone can choose a dress they feel comfortable in, but will still match to a degree.Think about what your wedding colors are. If your colors are, say, pink and black, have everyone wear pink.
Consider how specific you want to be. Do you want everyone to choose a shade of pink they like or would you rather everyone went with a specific shade?
You can pre-select options at a bridal boutique. For example, have a few options for your bridesmaids available to choose from. This way, you can pick dresses that you know are similar cuts and colors while still giving your wedding party some choice.;
, In general, blue is a versatile color that comes in different shades. Blue can be flattering on a variety of skin tones and hair colors. Blues also tend to go well together, even if people are picking different shades. If you want the same color, but different styles, blue can be a great option., Not everyone has one single color for their wedding colors. You may simply be going for an overarching color scheme. If you just want a particular scheme, think about shades of neutrals. While neutrals sound dull, varying shades of browns, blacks, and grays can look flattering on the wedding party.A neutral scheme also allows some variation when choosing dresses. You can, say, have half the party in solid black dresses and the other half can wear striped gray and black dresses.
Neutrals also go with a lot, allowing your bridesmaids to express themselves with accessories. If your maid of honor's favorite color is green, she can easily pull of a emerald necklace with black bridesmaids dresses.
 Green and blue is a great general color scheme to follow for a wedding party. Instead of having bridesmaids choose the exact same shade for their dresses, let them pick something along the blue/green spectrum. Dresses can be shades like green, blue-green, aqua, and turquoise.You can add things like yellow-greens and clover shades in accessories to add some variation. For example, bridesmaids can carry bouquets of tulips or wear yellowish necklaces.
 If you want, you can have bridesmaids wear different colors that go together great. For example, half the party can wear blue while the other half wears yellow. This way, bridesmaids have options if they don't like one of your wedding colors. Think about what your wedding colors are, and let bridesmaids have a choice between these colors rather than forcing them to wear one or the other.