 Foods with lots of sugar can cause acne. Numerous studies have found that low-glycemic index foods can help reduce acne.Low-glycemic index (GI) foods release sugars into your blood more slowly. Low GI foods include:


Most vegetables
Most fruit — Mango, banana, papaya, pineapple, raisins, and figs have medium GI
Brown rice, barley, and whole grain pasta
Bran cereals, rolled oats
Whole wheat, whole grain breads
Nuts
Legumes and beans
Yogurt

, It also acts as a natural antioxidant.You can take a supplement or get Vitamin A through your diet.


Vegetables are high in Vitamin A. Try dark leafy greens, carrots, broccoli, red peppers, summer squash, and pumpkin.
Eat fruit like cantaloupe, mangoes, and apricots.
Legumes have a good amount of Vitamin A.
Meat, especially liver, is a good source of Vitamin A., Omega-3 fatty acids are supposed to help control the production of oil. Omega-3 fatty acids are most commonly found in food: fish oils and fish, such as salmon, sardines, mackerel, whitefish, and shad; nuts, like butternuts and walnuts; seeds, like flaxseeds, flaxseed oil, and chia seeds; and avocados.You can also take a supplement.
 It helps boost the immune system, reduces inflammation, acts as an anti-microbial, and reduces oil production.The best place to get Vitamin D is from the sun. Go outside and sit in the sun for about 10 to 20 minutes. If your skin is darker, spend more time in the sun.
You can get Vitamin D through foods. One of the best places to get Vitamin D is through fish, like salmon, tuna, mackerel, and cod liver oil. You can also eat eggs, mushrooms, and oysters. Many foods are also fortified with vitamin D, like milk and cereals. Go easy on the milk because it can cause more acne.
You can also take a supplement., If you eat a lot of dairy, that may be adding to your breakouts. Try limiting dairy foods in your diet.Substitute these foods with more vegetables or fruits.
 Garlic is thought to have antibacterial, antioxidant, antiviral and anti-fungal properties and may be helpful in preventing acne.Garlic should be consumed raw, if possible, to receive the full benefits.