 This is probably the most effective home remedy, but there are significant downsides. Hydrogen peroxide can dry out your dog's skin and fur, burn your dog's eyes, or even bleach the dog's fur to a slightly lighter color. These risks are minimal if the solution is applied correctly, but you may wish to use a safer method on an uncooperative dog that will take a long time to wash.


Some people find this method quite effective, especially when applied multiple times. However, for a direct skunk spray or a thick-coated dog, you may need a commercial cleaning product to remove the last vestiges of the smell.
 Skunk odor can easily rub off onto clothing. Put on disposable gloves and some old clothing before you begin treating your dog.


You can often remove skunk odor from clothing in the laundry, by mixing ½ cup (120 mL) of baking soda mixed with ordinary laundry detergent.Using clothes you don't mind throwing away if necessary is still recommended, just in case. Do not mix "skunked" clothing with an ordinary load of laundry.
 Pour clean, cool water over the dog's eyes if they are red and irritated from skunk spray. A turkey baster or garden hose without attachments may be helpful if the dog is shying away from the water., Mix together ¼ cup (60 mL) baking soda, 2 tsp (10 mL) dish washing soap, and 4 cups (960 mL) 3% hydrogen peroxide.If you do not have these materials, you may find them at a drugstore, or baking soda at a grocery store. This needs to be mixed directly before use, as it will quickly break down if left alone.


Double this recipe for a large dog.
If you only have more concentrated hydrogen peroxide, dilute it with additional water before adding to the other ingredients. For example, mix one part 9% hydrogen peroxide with two parts water to get 3% hydrogen peroxide. Stir thoroughly, then use 4 cups (960 mL) of this mixture in the above recipe.
 If weather and space permit, tie the dog up outside in a washtub. Skunk odor can easily spread to furniture, but if you need to wash the dog inside, lay down old towels or newspaper around the tub to make cleanup easier in case the dog struggles or jumps out.
 Wearing your disposable gloves, pour a little of the mix at a time on the dog, and massage it into the dog's fur, as though you were shampooing it. Start at the collar and work back to the tail. Keep the dog dry, as the hydrogen peroxide is less effective when wet., If the face smells of skunk, tilt the dog's chin upward, so the liquid will run back to his neck, not forward into his eyes. Apply the peroxide with an old sponge, carefully, to the dog's chin, cheeks, forehead, and ears, but do not apply near eyes and nose.Optionally, you can protect the dog's ears by gently putting a cotton ball in each ear.Do not push them in far or jam them in hard. Some dogs (and people) dislike the feeling of liquid in their ears, so this may cause the dog to struggle less.
 Hydrogen peroxide may bleach your dog's fur slightly if left on too long, but it needs to be given some time to break down the skunk odor. Although this mixture is dilute, it should not be left on for longer than four minutes to reduce the chance of this happening.Hopefully, you will notice the smell lessen during this time.
 If you notice the smell has considerably decreased, but is not completely gone, let the dog dry out and apply the same mixture again. If the odor is not significantly reduced, however, you may be better off trying a commercial pet-safe skunk odor remover, or another home remedy.

