 There's over five varieties serving many riding styles.


Cross Country, or XC, is a type of riding that accommodates long rides over many different types of terrain: from steep climbs up a dirt fire road to a long narrow smooth descend on a single track trail. If you like long uphill and fast downhill rides, then this is the type of riding for you. Cross country bikes are usually lightweight with 2"-4" of front suspension and steep head-tube angles for easier handling.
All-Mountain, or AM, is a model between the cross-country and free-ride. Oftentimes, there can be steep downhills combined with small drops and some jumps. If you care more about the descent, but still want the ability to climb, AM is probably the bike for you. AM bikes usually have about 5" of front and rear travel paired with a set of hydraulic disk brakes and slacker head-tube angles for more slow-speed stability.
Four cross, or 4x - 4x, is BMX racing with a mountain bike. Bikers race on a smooth track with 4 people. If you like riding downhill, but can't handle the obstacles than this might be a good choice. FR bikes have the most suspension of all because of the high drops and hard landings it must handle. A slightly steeper head-tube angle than DH bike allow for better handling.
Dirt jumping. This bike is a lot like the BMX in that you go maneuver big jumps. You can also use this model for urban riding; for example, it will allow you to go down steps and jump off ledges. If you like to play on your bike, both dirt jumping and urban biking are for you. Dirt-jumping bikes have low frames and small front travel for a stiffer response.
Downhill, or DH riding is all about speed. People have been known to go over 60 mph (97 km/h) on this bike. DH is one of the most challenging types of mountain biking because of the speed and the obstacles involved. Often, the trails can get steeper than 45 degrees with a large drop or jump at the bottom. What makes this kind of riding even more challenging are narrow single track trails, which you will often encounter. Most downhill courses are found on mountains for skiing and snowboarding. Take your bike with you up on the lift and go for the rush of the speed ride! DH bikes have about 8"-10" of travel, hydraulic disk brakes, and a very slack head-tube angle.
Free-ride, or FR, is a cross between downhill and dirt jumping. Most free-riding places can be found at downhill courses. With free riding, you drop off cliffs and man-made obstacles. In fact, mountain biking pros go to the desert and jump of cliffs 80 feet (24.4 m) high or more. Free-riding is popular in the north (places like British Columbia). If your middle name is Danger, this is for you.;
, Look at reviews from experienced riders. Bargain hunting at large, discount one-stop stores is not recommended. Speak with pros and purchase accordingly.
 Essential for this kind of biking are a strong core (the mid-region of your body), as well as solid thigh muscles, glutes, as well upper-back and upper-arm muscles.


A combination of isometric and aerobic activities is recommended. Pilates is excellent choice, too.
A regular brisk walk on the treadmill with a high inclination is also great training.
 This is excellent preparation.
, The following obstacles are fairly common when riding off-road trails and tracks:


Switch backs: a sharp turn on a trail.
Baby heads: rock garden with loose rocks.
Roller-coaster: a long bridge with sharp turns, sometimes elevated.
Teeter-totter: an uphill path that shifts in the middle to a downhill inclination. It can also be elevated.
Trash: don't be surprised if you run into such things as old sinks, ovens, and other discarded stuff. People have been known to haul the junk they can't sell or get rid of into the woods. I have even seen an old Volkswagen Beetle in the middle of the trail to be ridden over, which could also be great fun for the experienced.
Nails: watch out for them! Nails are not fun.
Hanging logs: logs that have fallen on the trail.
Log piles: man-made piles of logs to ride over.
Ladders: man-made obstacles to ride on.
Rock gardens: a bunch of rocks in the middle of the trail.
Skinnies: a 2x4 ridden over like a bridge. They are sometimes elevated.
, Practice lifting your front tire on this flat surface, which will help you get over hanging logs and log piles. Your back tire will go over most obstacles that your front tire cannot handle. When going over hanging logs, lift your front tire up to the middle of the log. When you going over hanging logs, it is best to go at medium speed. When going over log piles, think of them as moguls; all you have to do is carry some speed and ride over them.
 Practice tricks on your bike, such as: wheelie, stoppie, bunny hop, fast maneuvering, etc. These tricks will help you to climb on obstacles, such as rocks with greater ease and confidence. Practice in a daily basis and utilize all the off-road spaces you are able to find to practice. Test your new skills often on the off-road tracks.
 Try only the kinds of jumps that match your level of skill. Don't go for the 8-footer right away!


After completing a jump, remain standing on your bike to keep air flowing through your lungs.
After you get used to jumping and landing standing, start practicing popping of the jump. To pop off a jump, carry a good amount of speed standing up on your bike. Once your front tire is at the top of the jump, push down hard on your suspension and pull up. You will get much more air this way.
 Drops are an important part of free-riding. When you go off drops, maintain a speed of 5–7 mph (8.0–11.3 km/h). If you go too slowly, your front tire will point straight down and you will fall.If you go to fast though you may end up overshooting the landing and really hurting yourself. So be sure to find the right speed for the drop. If you do not have a great deal of space to gain speed, try a wheelie near the end of the ledge so your front tire does not go hit the ground first.
