 If you don't have a garden or forest nearby, ask your parents to take you on a day trip to a national park.If the forest is near a motorway, shoreline, or other potential danger, make sure everyone knows how to stay safe.


If you've had rain or fog, bring along a couple tarpaulins to use as a dry floor and rainproof cover., A living tree with a Y-shaped split near the ground is ideal for building a den, since you can use the Y branch as a ceiling. Boulders and other natural structures can also work, but avoid caves or hollows that look like they may be used by an animal.


Don't use a dead tree, as the branches could break and collapse your den.
Bushes and thick plant growth can be home to ticks, which can cause nasty diseases. Check the local wildlife warnings from the park service to see whether bracken is safe to use in your area.
 Look for fallen, unbroken branches that feel solid, but not heavy enough to cause injury if they drop on someone. If there aren't many of these around, tie smaller branches into bundles, or bring bamboo poles, broom handles, lightweight chairs, or other materials from home.Never break off a living branch. Interact with the forest respectfully, without harming the environment.
 A sturdy tree branch or leaning tree makes a strong frame for your den all by itself, but there are several other techniques you can use:


A sturdy branch can be wedged into a rock pile at a slant, but must be firmly in place before you continue.
Three branches can be wedged against each other to form a triangle, with a little trial-and-error. Add more branches one by one to form a circular den.
If you have rope or strong string, lean branches against each other in a tent shape, lay out a branch across the top, and tie them all together along its length. This may take several people.
If you have a tarpaulin, tie each corner to a tree to make a ceiling. To prevent sagging in the rain, place a small rock in the center of the tarp from underneath, tie it in place, then attach a long rope and hoist the center by tossing the rope over a tall branch., Den-building is a great open-ended activity for kids to explore on their own. Some kids may just want to lean a few sticks on to the frame to hide underneath, while others will interlace branches in new and creative shape. Rope is handy to have around in case a structure needs more support, but with experience the builders can make dens using nothing but the natural materials around them.
 To make a camouflaged or weather-resistant den, cover both surfaces with leaves and twigs. Sweep out the floor of your den to make it more comfortable. You can even make a garden outside the den by "planting" pine cones or colorful leaves, and surrounding them with a fence of twigs or stacked rocks.

