 When purchasing dry food, the first two to three ingredients should be animal proteins. Meat contains a lot of water. Therefore, the first two ingredients listed need to be proteins to ensure that your dog gets its daily intake. The proteins should be either whole, fresh meats, or meat meal.For example, the first two ingredients on the list should be “chicken meal,” “beef meal,” or “lamb meal.” Not “poultry meal” or “meat meal.” Unspecified meats on the ingredient list signify low-quality meat.
 Choose a dog food that contains whole, unprocessed grains, vegetables, fruits, and other food products. Unprocessed foods are more likely to have their vitamins, enzymes, and antioxidants intact as opposed to processed foods.Some examples of great all-natural brands are Champion petfoods', Orijen, Diamond's Taste of the Wild, Merrick, Artemis, Bench and Field, Natura's California Natural, and Wellpet's Wellness. You can find these at specialty pet stores, as well as regular pet stores.In general, try to avoid big name, commercial brands such as Beneful, Iams, Pedigree, Purina, and the like.
 Similar to human products that claim to be “natural,” dog foods that claim to be “natural” can still contain unnatural ingredients and products. These are ingredients like animal by-products, chemicals, preservatives, and artificial colors, flavors, and sweeteners.


Make sure to always check the ingredient list before buying your dog food.
Avoid brands that list "meat" as their main ingredient. It should be as specific as possible, for example, "lamb meal."

, Another great way to find out how to provide your Pomeranian with a quality diet is to ask other owners for suggestions. Find out what kind of dry (or wet) dog food Pomeranian owners feed their dogs, and why. It is worth asking why because there is a degree of variability in every Pomeranian's diet. Therefore, what works for their Pomeranian might not work for yours.


You can ask, "What kind of food do you feed your dog, and why?" "Do you ever cook homemade meals for your dog?" "Which brand of dog food do you use, and why?" or, "Which brand did not work well, and why?"

