 This step doesn't include prescriptions, because before taking prescriptions you should give over-the-counter products a try first.


Mandelic acid and salicylic acid are known to be two of the most effective cleansers available.Mandelic acid is unique because it's the key ingredient in all sorts of products, including moisturizers and eye-lift creams, however salicylic acid is present for the most part in cleansers only. Using a mandelic acid cleanser and moisturizer is recommended in this article due to its outstanding results, and fast treatment of all skin types affected with acne.Mandelic Acid products treat acne effectively, because it's antibacterial, anti-inflammatory and lipid permeable, and as a bonus, it has anti-aging and wrinkle healing properties too.
Salicylic acid on the other hand, works by loosening the plug which forms in the pore, by softening the keratin. Keratin and sebum are both responsible for clogging the pore, which causes a pimple.
Mandelic acid is often purchased online through reputable suppliers, whereas salicylic acid can be purchased over-the-counter in most department stores.
Contrary to popular beliefs, you do not need to wash your face anymore than once per day with a cleanser. Many people feel the need to scrub hard as if they're trying to clean "dirt" off their skin; dirt does not cause acne. Give the cleanser and moisturizer a go for 2-3 weeks, if there is no improvement in your skin and it continually gets worse, then take a trip to the doctor's office and start with prescriptions.;
, Topical prescriptions are generally prescribed before oral medications for mild-moderate acne. However, depending on the severity of your acne, or the time frame, it may be wise to skip this step and go straight to oral prescriptions. Topical prescriptions include benzoyl peroxide, azelaic acid, retinoids, topical antibiotics.


Benzoyl peroxide works by killing the bacteria in the pores which are responsible for acne. Benzoyl peroxide is also available without a prescription at lower percentages.
Azelaic acid works by halting the growth of bacteria which will slow the growth of acne.
Retinoids are vitamin A derivatives which help expel plugged material in the hair follicle.
Topical antibiotics work by killing Propionibacterium acnes bacteria.
 The more common oral antibiotics include tetracycline, minocycline, doxycycline, and bactrim. Remember don't stop using the cleanser and moisturizer at this point, even if you're not getting the results you want. Bactrim tends to be the most effective oral antibiotic, so it would be wise to give that a try.Bactrim is a great antibiotic and clears up most people's acne in a couple of weeks. Most bactrim doses last for 1-2 months. If bactrim combined with cleansing and moisturizing does not work for you, then go back to your doctor and it's up to his wonderful judgment to do some more trial and error. If after failed attempts by your doctor to solve your acne he may already recommend the next step, or you will have to take the initiative.
 It's recommended to do a bit of research before actually starting this step, because there is a lot of controversy surrounding Isotretinoin; some is true, some is not. You will still be using your cleanser and moisturizer of course for this step too. Isotretinoin will clear your acne; it is one of the few acne treatments that is virtually guaranteed to work.Your doctor may not be willing to prescribe you Isotretinoin and may refer you to a specialist called a dermatologist. A dermatologist is a doctor who specializes in the treatment of skin. Again you are going to suggest Isotretinoin to him. If all goes well then you will be prescribed a dosage based on your body weight, and for a period of 5 months. Your acne should be cleared after 3-4 months into using Isotretinoin. Isotretinoin will dry out your skin because it works by supplying your body with high amounts of Vitamin A, and that causes your Sebaceous Glands to shrink, which therefore solves the problem of acne.

