 If you have a concept in mind, sketch the basic shape. Take into consideration the yard layout and your budget, which will dictate the size and style of the pond. Calculate your budget by making a list of the materials you'll need.


Search Internet sites and home and garden magazines for concrete pond plans. Visit parks or friends' yards for ideas.
To build a concrete pond, plan carefully. If necessary, revise the plan before breaking ground to avoid extra costs.
The proximity of the house and your property line may determine the dimensions and location of the pond. Keep in mind zoning ordinances and easements.;
, Ask the building inspector at city hall about restrictions or requirements, like permits or surveys. Also schedule an inspection from the utility company to examine the area before beginning the project.


It's imperative to locate any water pipes or underground gas, electrical, or communication lines before digging.
 Prepare the yard by clearing away rocks, debris and other obstacles. Any trees or bushes should be completely uprooted to prevent roots from growing back and cracking the concrete.
 If you're going to build a concrete pond on a large scale, you'll need to rent a front end loader, and hire a concrete truck for delivery. On a smaller scale project, an electric concrete mixer, shovels, hoes, and a wheelbarrow could suffice.
 Regardless of the dimensions, keep any dirt, debris, rocks, etc. from falling back into the hole. Be sure the rim is level all the way around. Pack the earth down by driving around the rim.
 Place a layer of plastic around the perimeter of the pond, covering the dirt. Stretch wire around entire perimeter. Depending on the size of the pond, also use chicken cage wire for reinforcing.


Install re-bar or fence wire above the ground with stakes. This allows the metal to dry in the center of the concrete, giving extra strength.
 Keep the consistency a bit thick to line the sloped edges of the pond. Ideally, the sides should be hand mixed, as many concrete truck drivers keep the mixture "wet," which could cause it to run.


Concrete pond walls and floor should be around 4 inches (10.2 cm) thick. Follow additional instructions from the concrete manufacturer.
 Use a screed (a board or strip of metal) to smooth and level the concrete. Use trowels for a smooth finish. Depending on the temperature and humidity, hardening usually occurs within 2 hours of initial mixing. Leveling and smoothing should be complete by then.

