 The National Retail Federation (NRF) and the American Purchasing Society (APS) are professional organizations for purchasers and buyers of all fields. These organizations offer networking opportunities, career boards, professional development, training and scholarships. They will also help keep you informed about trends in your field.You can join these organizations at any point in your career.
 The NRF currently offers a Customer Service and Sales Credential, an Advanced Customer Service and Sales Credential, and a Retail Business Credential. It usually takes 40-60 hours to study for your exam. Purchase your training materials through the NSF website. You can also find sample test questions and detailed information about the test. It costs $90 to take the exam.If you have questions about the NRF certifications, you can call 1-844-673-3926 or email nrffoundation@castleworldwide.com.
You must take the test at an approved Castle Testing Center. The NRF maintains a list of testing centers.The Retail Business Credential will no longer be offered as of 12/31/2016.
 APS offers five different certifications, the Certified Purchasing Professional (CPP), the Certified Professional Purchasing Manager (CPPM), the Certified Green Purchasing Professional (CGPP), the Certified Professional in Distribution and Warehousing (CPDW), and the Certified Professional Purchasing Consultant (CPPC). The CPP is the best choice for a fashion buyer. You must have 3 years of experience or a bachelor’s degree and 2 years of experience to sit for the CPP exam. You must take a 3 week online course called “Preparation for Certified Purchasing Professional Exam” before taking your CPP exam. The course includes an instructor and study and study guide. You will take the exam online at the end of the 3 week course.
If you are an APS member, it costs $294 to take the exam. The exam costs $500 for nonmembers.
For more information about the AFP certifications, call 1-630-859-0250 or email propurch@propurch.com.
 An internship is one of the best ways to get your foot in the door in the fashion business. Internships look good on your resume and allow you to get hands on experience in the industry. Most of these are unpaid internships. Here are some places to find an internship:Fashion intern websites such as Freefashioninternships.com and Internqueen.com.
Directly contacting a retailer, department store, or independently owned fashion store and asking if they have any internships available.
Visit the career center at your school and talk to your professors.
 Create a resume and include fashion industry keywords such as market strategies, consumer assistance, market planning, menswear, women’s wear, and athletic apparel/footwear. Use these phrases to describe your work experience. If you worked at an athletic shoe store and helped customers, you would use the phrases “athletic apparel/footwear” and “consumer assistance” to describe your job responsibilities.When you use keywords in your resume, your resume is more likely to make it through the electronic screening process that many companies use.
Also include any computer programs that you have experience with. Buyers often use Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Word., Find an entry level position as a retail salesperson, junior buyer, assistant buyer, or any other position in the retail or fashion field. If you were able to get an internship, the company may hire you as an employee once your internship is complete. If you do not get a job through an internship, you will usually apply for these jobs online.


You can find jobs on large job search engines, professional organization websites, and company websites.
Your school’s career center and faculty are also good resources for finding jobs.
 Understand the company’s typical customer and the price points (the retail price of a product). You should also research the company’s competitors, latest products, and how they fit into the larger fashion world. Because buyers need strong analytical skills, you may have to do a math test as part of your interview process.If you have very strong analytical skills make sure your prospective employer is aware. This may set you apart from other candidates.
 An interview outfit in the fashion industry is different than interviewing for a corporate job. You should look professional and neat, but you should also show off your personal style. Your favorite outfit that makes you feel confident and look like yourself is a good choice.You can accessorize and play with color for your interview out. Denim is also acceptable.
Avoid wearing a suit or leggings.

