 While it’s okay to conduct your research online, over the phone, or via email, it’s often to your advantage to conduct the rent negotiations in person.It’s much easier for a landlord or property manager to dismiss your questions over the phone or in an email.
Setting up an actual appointment is more professional than dropping by unannounced, and it demonstrates that you respect the person’s time.
 When you arrive to view a prospective apartment or negotiate with a landlord, dress professionally. This will help show that you are a responsible tenant who will clean and care for the place you would like to rent.Landlords will treat you with more respect and take your requests seriously.
It can also make a good impression to arrive in a clean car.
 Arrive prepared with references, pay stubs, and bank balances, which emphasize you have a stable job and sufficient income to afford this apartment.Although it's usually part of the rental application process, you can also encourage the landlord to conduct a background check, credit check, and employment verification. This will reinforce that you are an ideal tenant with nothing to hide.
If you are on good terms with your current landlord, ask them to write a short letter explaining that you are an excellent tenant who pays their rent on time and takes care of the rental unit or property.
 Landlords want tenants who are honest, reliable, and who will be good stewards of the property. To emphasize this point to a prospective landlord or property manager, mention some of your positive qualities. Here are a few good facts to highlight if they apply to your situation and lifestyle:You always pay your rent on time or even early.
You are a nonsmoker.
You are a graduate student or professional who works hard.
You do not have pets that might damage the apartment.
You are quiet and courteous.
You plan to live in the complex or unit for more than one year.
 If you do not have a good credit score, are between jobs at the moment, or don’t make enough money to qualify for the rental, you might need to arrange for a co-signer on your lease. A cosigner, or guarantor, is a third party who agrees to pay rent if you are unable to do so.From a landlord's perspective, this will help you seem like a more reliable tenant and a secure investment.
Although a prospective landlord might tell you that you need a co-signer, you can also mention this option during the negotiation process.
Landlords and property managers often look for tenants whose monthly income is at least three times the cost of the monthly rent.If you don’t qualify based on this criterion, inquire about the possibility of a co-signer or guarantor.