 If you're not a regular player, you may not have a lot of choice in how you pick your darts, as you'll be left to rely upon whatever loaners you can pick up. When choosing your loaners, first make sure that all three darts are of the same weight and design. Buying your own high-quality darts is best, however. See the Tips below for more advice.

Check to make sure the flights are all in one piece and at least similar in shape.










 


Check that the tips are not bent (they don't have to be super sharp to stick in most bristle dartboards) and that the shafts (the part to the rear of the dart that holds the flight in place) are screwed into the barrel (the part you grip when you throw).












;
, Many oches will be ruled, so take note of where you stand so you can stand there again next time.
 Place your rear foot in a location that distributes your weight easily. If you wobble when you throw, you need to spread your feet further apart!








,,, There are many different methods for gripping the dart, so choose one that works best for you and remember it. When selecting your grip, consider that you want the dart stable in your hand and parallel to the floor - or tilted slightly upward - upon release. You also want a clean release, so try to keep as little of your fingers touching the dart as possible. Resist holding the dart like a pencil, as the friction of your fingers can cause the dart to veer off target. Some people spread cue chalk on the fingers of the throwing hand to help with grip.
 Don't hop, bounce, dip, or dive! You want the dart to release at the same point in your throw every time and extra movement will make that nearly impossible! Throw your dart with a smooth, fluid motion. Don't flick or jerk it at the board. You do not need to hurl the dart with great force to make it stick! Always follow through with your hand. This will stop the dart flying left or right. Don't move your head.
 Pick a spot and try to hit it. If you don't, that's okay. What you're looking for here is precision, not accuracy. Your hand and eye will slowly correct for your throw as you play, improving your aim.









Try to have your eye / throwing hand in a line that is central on the dartboard. All you need to worry about is the height of the throw to hit a 60 (in theory).

