 Your feelings are important--the heart knows best. Do you feel like there is a connection, that there is a spark to be nurtured? Or do you feel flat, uncomfortable and fairly disinterested? Trust your feelings.;
, There are a lot of tell-tale signs that indicate the probability of it not being worth asking for a second date:


Your date did nothing but talk about themselves all night - if you felt like the audience all date, this isn't a good start.
Your date did nothing but preen themselves all night.
Your date told you all their problems and had nothing positive to say.
Your date discussed ex's.
Your date kept answering the cell phone to talk to other people; even worse if your date behaves very mysteriously about who is calling, or keeps nicking off to talk.
Your date disappeared for a while, with no explanation, or your date spent most of their time with his friends, avoiding you.
Your date turned up drunk, or got drunk during the date.
Your date criticized you.
Your date cursed constantly.
You find out that your date lied about who they really are, or about their interests.
Your date refused to tell you where they live; that is just plain weird!
Your date is dull, whining, or focused on the past.
Your date fails to make eye contact with you.
Your date orders for you without asking you what you'd like.
You find out your date is in the middle of a messy break up but keeps going back to his ex.
You discover that your date is married, is dating someone else, or wants an "open relationship".
 These can include:


No return phone calls, texts, emails, whatever (face it, their just not that into you).
There was no mention of a wish for a second date from either of you.
Your date hurries the occasion (for example, rushes to get the bill, hurries out of the cinema and hails a cab home immediately, etc.).
A date is arranged but your date fails to show. This is a big sign that it's not worth trying again.
 The right person shouldn't be a mountain of effort, elusive, challenging, bossy, or mean. The right person will meet you halfway. If this isn't the case, don't waste your time and get on with your life.


Don't judge yourself by a failed first date. Romantic chemistry often takes a number of dates to build, and it's not possible to judge yourself as having done something wrong from a failed first date. If the chemistry isn't there, or the date isn't with you on the same mental plane, that's as simple an issue as it gets. It's not about your worth.
Don't assume that not wanting to date a person a second time is wrong. If it doesn't feel right, the sooner you finish it, the better and you can continue searching for the person who clicks with you.

Stay positive. Dates that end in a fizzer are simply paths meandering off the main road to your true love. You're learning, your dates are learning, and you'll get there soon enough.

