 You can mix a variety of fruits straight into the batter, such as blueberries, strawberries, or even peaches. It is a common misconception that pancakes must be sweet. You could also stir in finely chopped vegetables and crumbled meat to make a more savory pancake., Grate vegetables or puree them using a food processor. Then, add this mixture into your meatball base. Once you cook the meatballs fully, you will barely be able to notice the changes. In fact, it may lead to a moister final product.Carrots, squash, apples, and even potatoes are all good options to add into meat mixtures. This step would also work for a meatloaf or meat patties.
 Vegetables and savory botanical fruits such as tomatoes and peppers both go well with eggs. Chop up a variety and then toss them into some scrambled eggs. Experiment with different combinations until you find a few recipes that you prefer. This makes a healthy, filling, and creative breakfast or snack.The standard southwest omelet with eggs, cheese, mushrooms, bell peppers, and onions is always a good option.
 Salads get a bad rap for being boring, but that doesn’t have to be the case. You can experiment with various types of greens, such as kale. You can top the salad with fresh vegetables or fruits, such as strawberries or even cucumbers. For an extra flourish, try out different nuts as toppings., Going meatless for one particular day each week could cut down on your expenses, while also giving you a great chance to boost your produce consumption. Use this as an opportunity to get creative with a main dish. Look for vegetarian recipes online for guidance.Veggie pizzas and egg dishes are great meat-free options.
 Read through the recipe, looking at the vegetable amounts suggested. Take this suggestion and increase it by at least twice as much. It may change the texture and flavor of the dish, but the health benefits will be worth it. Try this with your favorite recipes, such as marinara or chili, in order to make it more appetizing.Soup recipes are a great way to increase your veggie intake. In a white bean soup, for example, you could add double the kale and other chopped vegetables, such as zucchini or peppers., Whenever a recipe calls for a carb, put a veggie in its place. Make veggie pasta by cutting down large strips of zucchini or squash. You can also use spaghetti squash as a long pasta substitute. Mash cauliflower to make a mashed potato substitute. You can even form mashed veggies into cakes and grill them with a bit of olive oil.Use lettuce or cabbage leaves as a substitute for bread, filling them with something like chicken salad.