 Locate the crown at the side of the watch. Pinch it between your fingers and lift it straight out as far as it will go.


Wait until the second hand reaches the 60th second mark (the 12th hour mark) before pulling out the crown.
Make sure that you pull the crown out as far as it will go. You should hear two clicks; do not stop at the first click. Note that all hands should stop moving when the crown is in its "out" position.
 Turn the crown toward you until the hands of the clock move forward to the correct hour and minute.


Note that the hands should move clockwise or forward.
Turn the hands until you see the day and date change. As soon as these digits change, the clock is set to midnight of the indicated date.

Note that this date does not need to be the current date. You simply need to reset the clock to midnight during this step.


Continue turning the hands forward until you reach the correct time. For AM time, simply rotate the hands until they reach the correct time. For PM time, you will need to advance the hands past the 12-o'clock position once more before rotating them to the correct time.
To prevent the minute hand from advancing when you set the time, rotate it roughly five minutes past the correct time. Carefully turn the minute hand back to the correct minute marker by rotating the crown in the opposite direction.
 Use your fingers to push the crown all the way back into the side of the watch.


Make sure that the crown clicks into the watch as far as it will go. You should hear two clicks.
The hands will start moving again, indicating that the time has been set.
 Use your fingers to pull the crown out to the halfway or intermediate position.


You should only hear one click. The hands of the clock should continue moving and the watch itself will continue to tell time.
 Rotate the crown in one direction until the correct date appears.


If you have a model that tells both date and day, rotate the crown in the opposite direction until the correct day appears.
 Push the crown back into the side of the watch as far as it will go.


You should hear one more click.
At this point, both the time and date (or date/day) should be set.

