 What one person considers a long distance might not be so long to others. As a rough guide, you might consider travel to be "long" if it's more than 8 hours by air, more than 6 hours by train, or more than 4 hours by car. However, what feels "long" depends on regional attitudes. In the USA, an 8 hour flight might seem long.


To Australians, who frequently fly direct to Europe or the USA, 18-24 hours is long but commonplace. An English person may feel a 1-hour drive is "long", while another traveller may complete a longest single car drive from Brisbane to Sydney totalling 15 hours. A trip is "long" when you make special preparations for it because you feel it is necessary due to the length of time you will be travelling.;
, Okay, the travel itself might be a drag, but your mindset will make all the difference. If you're excited about where you're going and what you're doing, the trip can be well worth it! Try to reframe your perception of the distance to avoid being overwhelmed by it; if you can't do that, at least focus on the end goal being worth it!

, Generally, dress for where you're going to, not where you're coming from. An Arran sweater is a trap in a Singapore summer. Be comfortable. Use layers so that you can adjust to varying levels of air conditioning in airports, planes, stations, trains, cars, and so on.


Wear something with front pockets or have a bumbag or fanny pack so things are easier to reach (e.g. sweets, lozenges, headache pills, ear plugs, napkin).
Wear a suit if you have immediate business commitments, but try to hang it up, if in first or business class, or carry it on board in a half-length suit bag that will fit without crushing in an overhead locker.
Consider wearing an angler's jacket. These waistcoats have multiple forward pockets perfect for holding, and easily reaching, all your nick-nacks. When a meal or beverage comes, your paperback slips in a pocket. Your passport is handy. You can slip off the jacket at customs without having to unpack it.

