 The ATIN is a temporary number for children in the process of adoption who will not qualify for a SSN by the time the first tax return of the adoptive parents will be due. The ATIN is only valid for 2 years without an extension, and it not valid for claiming the Earned Income Credit on your taxes. If you are eligible for the EIN, but are disqualified by the use of an ATIN, you can amend the appropriate taxes once the adopted child has been issued a SSN. (See how to amend a tax return at https://www.wikihow.com/Amend-a-Federal-Tax-Return.) The application process for an ATIN is similar to that for an ITIN but requires relevant adoption documents.
 Receiving an ATIN requires completing the Application for Taxpayer Identification Number for Pending U.S. Adoptions (W-7A). This fairly short form is available online for downloading and printing on the IRS's official website at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fw7a.pdf.
 Write legibly in blue or black ink or type the answers on the form. Enter the parents’ last and first names and SSN as they appear on the tax return in section 1. If the parents file a joint tax return, list the person who appears first on the tax return in line 1a.


If only one parent is adopting the child, leave line 1b blank.
If either parent’s name is changing between the time you file this form and the last tax return, ensure you have officially changed your name with the Social Security Administration. If names and SSNs do not match SSA records, processing of your form will be delayed.
 Only enter a PO Box if the post office does not deliver mail to your street address. If this address is different than the address on your most recent tax return, you should also file Form 8822, Change of Address.
 Enter the child’s name as it will appear on your tax return in line 3a. If you know the child’s birth name, and it is different than the name the child will be using on your tax return, enter that birth name in line 3b.


Enter the child’s date of birth MM/DD/YYYY format (2-digit month, 2-digit day, 4-digit year) in the appropriate space. Then check whether the child is male or female in section 4.
Enter the child’s place of birth in the appropriate space in section 4. If the child was born in the US, enter the city and state. If the child was born in a foreign country, enter the city, province/state, and country of birth. Do not abbreviate in this block.
 Enter the name and address of the adoption placement agency as well as the date they placed the child with the new parents for adoption in section 5.


Both parents must sign and date this form. Include a daytime telephone number with area code. #*By signing the form, the parents swear that the information included is true and correct to the best of their knowledge. Knowingly providing incorrect information can subject them to criminal penalties, including perjury.
 Documentation proving that the child has been placed with you for the purpose of adoption must accompany this application. If it is a foreign adoption, contact the IRS at 512-460-7989 to see if your foreign documents will require an apostille or consulate legalization.


The following are common examples of appropriate documents, but you may contact the IRS to see if other documents will satisfy the requirement:

A copy of the placement agreement entered into between you and an authorized placement agency
A copy of the document signed by a hospital office authorizing the release of a newborn child from the hospital to you for legal adoption
A copy of the court order or other court document ordering or approving the placement of a child with you for legal adoption
An affidavit signed by the adoption attorney or government official who paced he child with you for legal adoption pursuant to state law


If you adopt a foreign child who will be accompanying you to the US, you will also need to provide proof the child can/has entered the US legally with one of the following:

The child’s permanent resident card
The child’s certificate of Citizenship
The child’s passport with “I-551” stamp



, Make a copy of all attached documents and the application for your records. Mail the original application and original documents to: Department of the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service, Austin, TX 73301-0066.
 It usually takes 4-8 weeks to get an ATIN. If you have not received a letter with your ATIN within 8 weeks, call the number above to check on your application. If your application is denied, follow the instructions on the letter telling you why it was denied.

