 If you are widening the doorway for wheelchair access, the width of the doorway should be a minimum of 40 inches (101.6 cm), but 4 feet (1.2 m) is better, if possible.;
,


Insert a chisel or pry bar beneath the outer edges of the jamb or trim.
Place a shim between the tool and wall to prevent marring of the drywall.
Push down on the tool’s handle to pry the casing or trim away from the wall.



Pick a small block of wood as a template. Place it against the wall near where you will be cutting to widen the doorway and trace around it with a pencil.
Cut along the traced lines with a rotary cutting tool. Wear eye protection while using any cutting tool.
Take out the drywall piece and insert a small mirror. Look for electrical wires, pipes or other things that you might need to avoid while cutting.
,,


Cut through the nails that secure the doorjamb to the rest of the framing with a reciprocating saw.
Cut through the nails at the foot of the studs.
Pull the studs from the existing doorway.
Use a Japanese saw to cut the baseboard from the floor. Be careful not to mar the floor.
Pry the baseboard from the floor using the same technique as you did on the door casing and trim.



Cut 2-by-4-inch boards for the new doorway. Remember to make the top stud short enough to fit between the longer vertical studs.
Secure the new stud in place by driving in wood screws at an angle, or nailing them.
Install the new header. Insert shorter studs, or cripple studs, between the header and the top of the framing. Secure them in place with screws.
,


Place new doorjamb on the top of the doorway.
Stand the new side pieces in place. Slip in shims behind it and nail the side jambs in place.
Cut off the ends of the shims that extend beyond the doorway with a saw.



Cut the ends of the casing at a 45-degree angle with a miter saw in the upper corners.



Apply joint compound to the joints with a putty knife.
Cut and press paper joint tape into the joint compound. Apply a second coat of joint compound on top of it.
Sand the joint compound after it dries.
,,