 There are dozens of wonderful characters to choose, from Cinderella (the most famous of them all) to Jasmine to Belle. Figure out which one you relate to most or simply like the best, and plan to dress up like her.


If you feel like a more classic princess approach, go with Cinderella or Sleeping Beauty's Aurora. They share that timeless princess style that includes elegant ball gowns and perfectly coiffed hair.
Princess Tiana is a Disney character with a hardworking attitude, ambition and a sassy southern personality. She wears a pale green and yellow nature-inspired gown.
Belle has a bookish personality and a gorgeous yellow gown.
Snow White's blue, red and yellow dress can be found in any costume shop.;
, Merida is the fiery red head from the movie Brave. While she doesn’t take any flack from her family, she’s still sweet and lovable. Consider this princess if you're a bit of a rebel.


Merida wears a floor length, long-sleeved blue dress with white lace embellishments around the collar and elbows, as well as a thin brown belt and matching boots.
Start working on your Scottish accent now to go along with your costume.
 Some may forget Princess Fiona's character as she's not the conventional beauty, but she's incredible. She's the leading character in one of the most popular modern-day fairy-tales, Shrek. Her story has a twist though, as Princess Fiona Lillian is cursed to live as an ogress. While she may be waiting on her prince, she's not afraid to throw a few punches of her own and take charge.


Fiona wore a velvet, long, long-sleeved dress with a gold belt and flats.
If you are really committed to the character, think about all the fun you'll have painting yourself green!

, Though she has an itty-bitty frame, this fairy-tale princess has a huge heart. You may remember that this character wasn't a princess by birth, but she became one when she married Cornelius, the prince of fairies.


Her look featured a tri-colored, floor length dress. The top third was white with cap sleeves, while the bottom was light blue and the wide sash was teal.
Fairy wings would really make this costume stand out.
 Dressing like this magnificent character from The Swan Princess would allow you to wear two costumes instead of one. Remember, the golden haired princess, has the capability to turn into a swan during the day and return to her human form at night. She's brave and speaks her mind but with a gentle touch.


Her main outfit was an all-white dress with bright green accents around the neck and shoulders. The puffy sleeves were gathered in sections with matching green ribbon and belt which hung to the floor.
 The headstrong leader from Antz is somewhat strict and stern but it all comes from a good place. This princess is tough and willing to protect her ant hill at all costs.


For this look, you can get away with wearing an all brown dress or brown shirt and pants.
This option is a good choice for the dancer in you, as Bala loves to boogie.
 Princesses aren’t just limited to the big screen in an animated feature, of course! There are plenty of real-life princesses with amazing style to choose from. Here are just a few:


Kate Middleton is real-life royalty based in the United Kingdom who has stolen hearts by marrying Prince William. She exudes grace and poise.She prides herself on being a real woman with accessible style. Try wearing a knee-length lace wrap dress, which is a go-to of hers.
Princess Charlene, the princess of Monaco, became royalty after marrying Prince Albert II. She's been photographed wearing everything from long gowns to pants suits to a fitted dress.
Princess Stéphanie is the wife of Guillaume, Hereditary Grand Duke of Luxembourg. She is a member of one of the oldest royal families in Europe. To dress like her, you'll need bright colors and short kitten heels., Nearly every princess, real or fictional, has dazzled her court in a ball gown. This is possibly the most princess-like garment you can throw on. Depending on the princess of your choice, choose the dress accordingly.


Cinderella wore a blue ball gown, matching headband and iconic glass slippers.
Belle wore a sunshine yellow gown with matching ribbon in her hair and bright red lips.You may be able to find something at a costume store or a second-hand shop that fits the bill.
Consider making your own costume so you can also add a little personalization.
 Princesses can't wear ball gowns every day, but even their casual clothes have an elegant touch. For example, Princess Jasmine didn’t wear a ball gown, but that didn’t make her any less royal. Her look consisted of sky blue silk pants and belly-baring top.


If you can’t track down what you’re looking for, think a little outside the box by wearing similar items. For example if you do like Jasmine, wear a light blue dress, matching flats and chunky gold jewelry.If you prefer Ariel, put on some green pants, a purple top and seashell jewelry.
Kate Middleton dresses casually all the time but makes it chic. She's been seen wearing a fitted pair of jeans and three-quarter length sleeve top multiple times., These small, extra additions will really make your costume stand out and become more believable. For example, how will everyone know you’re a princess unless you wear a tiara or crown? The sparkly head piece creates an instant regal effect and people will begin to bow in your presence.


Adding gloves and a wand will only add to your look. Find these items to complement the ensemble.
Find the perfect pair of shoes like Cinderella's glass slippers or Snow White's black patent leather shoes.
If you're dressing as Merida, you'll definitely need a bow and arrow.
Going as Princess Bala will require a cute antenna headband.
Remember to add tiny green ears to your costume if dressing as Princess Fiona.
Princess Stéphanie loves to rock a big hat. They always match her ensemble perfectly and add flair to her look.
 Not every princess wears a ton of make-up. This is especially true for real princesses like Kate Middleton. Look at various pictures of the royal figure and consider which one will work best for you.Princess Charlene is also rarely seen wearing a lot of makeup. Evening events is the only exception to this. Then, she has soft eyes and cheeks with a bright red lipstick.
For a more general princess-like makeup look, go with rosy cheeks, bright eyes and soft pink lips.Paint your face green for an authentic Princess Fiona look.
Add stunning, long lashes to enhance a Princess Jasmine costume.
Princess Merida rocked soft, naturally looking makeup and peach lips.
 It will only take a few minutes to recreate some of the iconic dos. For example, Elsa from Frozen simply wears her hair in a loose French braid. Belle, on the other hand, sections her hair in two parts. She’s pictured with a high, loose bun tied with a gold ribbon and the remaining strands drape over her shoulder.


Princess Rapunzel has extremely long locks. To steal her style, add blonde extensions.
Princess Leia from the movie Star Wars, has one of the most memorable hairstyles of all. With a center part, she created to two ponytails on both sides of her head. Then, she wound each one to form giant buns. This is a must for this character.Recreate Snow White's soft curls using a curling iron or rollers. Have two big, loose waves towards the front to frame your face. The rest should flow towards the back and be tight to make a curly bob of sorts. Add a red headband to finish it off.
If simplicity is what you’re after, try the Pocahontas hair style. She has a natural look with a center part and straight strands.
Steal Princess Charlene's short, sophisticated pixie that shows off her long neck.
 By doing this, all your friends can dress up as their favorite princess too. It will be a ton of fun to see all the ideas everyone came up with and how they executed their vision.


Even the guys can get in on the action. Encourage them to show up in their best prince costume.
 Why dress up like a ghost or vampire when you can be a princess for a day? Stores will have plenty of options during this time of year. You’ll undoubtedly be able to find everything you need.


Because this is the dressing up season, think about looking for wigs to really put your costume over the top. Find a bright red wig like Princess Merida and add loose waves to reproduce her style.
 With all eyes on you, head down the aisle in the most magnificent gown you can find. You can even arrive in a horse-drawn carriage and have a castle-shaped ice sculpture for the full effect.


Copy Princess Diana's infamous ball gown wedding dress when she married Prince William. The full skirt, outrageously long train and floor length veil still makes headlines.
No princess would be caught without her jewels. Find sparkly bracelets and earrings that will enhance your joyful glow.
 Whether your school’s theme is “A Time to Remember” or “Under the Sea,” a princess-style dress will make a huge impression on your friends., No need to search for an excuse to dress up like a pretty princess. Kate’s everyday looks can be stolen easily. Choose modest outfits that are well-tailored to fit you like a glove. Carry a small clutch and wear your hair down. Choose items in the same color scheme as some of the characters you want to mimic.

