 You and everyone else will go through the same thing, the same journey, on the same road. Let that be a source of strength to you.;
, The honeymoon phase has the purpose of bringing and keeping the two of you together but it cannot last, for it is often too all-consuming and keeps you from looking outward to other relationships and parts of your life, such as work and general commitments. To be whole, eventually the honeymoon phase must pass. Moreover, part of the change is that your desire has been fulfilled. From the first kiss, all the way to the walk down commitment land, now you have each other and the rest of your life is vying for attention again.
 As the two of you settle into reality, you will begin to see that your partner is just like you, with all the quirks, forgetfulness, or imperfections, from complaining to struggling with life as you do. As each of you seeks to restore your sense of self and determine your comfort zones, the habits you both have will surface, the things you tried to keep unnoticed will reveal themselves and things left unsaid earlier suddenly need urgent expression.


The basic habits of feeling at home are likely to arise once the honeymoon is over. This includes such things as belching, farting and picking of the nose; leaving the toilet seat up or tossing clothes on the floor; staking out territory in certain parts of the house such as the kitchen, the TV remote, the reading nook; and other such things you may never have thought through until now.
It's time to work out who is responsible for what. Who will do the dishes, who will take out the garbage, who does the weekly shopping, who will get the car serviced, etc. If neither of you make clear commitments and divvy these things up fairly between you, it may be a time of resentment or even arguing.
Bills become a part of your lives. During the honeymoon, they got paid and nobody said anything. Suddenly you are both responsible for the bills coming into the house and it's not always as it seems in your head. Once again, without clear discussion on who is responsible, arguments may arise.
 Relating to others can be another area that shocks you both back into reality after the honeymoon. When you only had eyes for each other, it was hard to fit in friends and even family, and excuses were probably made to avoid other people much of the time. When the honeymoon is over, you often feel less needy for one another but far more needier to reach back to those people you've been neglecting. This is a good thing, as you're broadening your circles and establishing the basis for being connected with others again. However, the process of re-establishing your ties can cause tension in the relationship if you aren't clear with each other. Instead of assuming it's okay to go on all-night benders with your old mates or that it's okay to organize your vacation with a friend, both of you need to talk about your expectations and wishes for how to fit your other relationships around your marriage.
 If you push them away, ignore them, or become negative about the changes, you will find the transition from honeymoon phase to real life a hard one, and things left unclarified and unexpressed will ultimately haunt you and undermine your relationship. It is far better to discuss the changes you notice openly, to clarify the boundaries each of you prefers and to be honest about how the changes make you feel.
 Acceptance of the routine of a relationship is actually the key to lifelong contentment with each other. The routine is a sign that both of you are settling down to everyday life––together––in a healthy and realistic manner. When you stay positive and realize that this is just part of your daily lives, you will be ahead of the game. There is nothing fancy or dreamlike about having a partner. It is about working things out together. Not in a blaming, irresponsible way, but in a mature way. And the mature way is to keep open the channels of good talking and to ensure that there is plenty of discussion.


Your marriage is like running a business––you have meetings to talk about; things you encounter or things you face. Indeed, a good marriage has many of the hallmarks of a good business partnership––trust, openness, tackling challenges before they turn into unmanageable problems and planning ahead for the things you both want from life.
 Make time to pursue some shared interests that both of you find fun and enjoyable. If you and your partner have a great friendship to start with, then it is easier, as trust and faith have already been built in.
 No one is perfect, and no one is going to give and let you be happy all the time. Allow for differences of interests, of opinion and of preferences. Neither of you is a clone of the other and by ensuring that each has space and the freedom to pursue different interests for some of the time, you'll both have plenty to talk about and you'll both feel fulfilled. Your relationship benefits from respecting each other's independence as much as acknowledging your togetherness.


Allow your partner some alone time, because spending every minute together will only increase your chances of falling out and feeling smothered.
 That, in turn, will release your partner to do the same. It is not one tying the other, but it is two people in the car together going somewhere or nowhere.
 Talk or do whatever it takes to make your end of the relationship as best as possible. This means not bottling up resentments or anger but finding the earliest possible opportunities to address the things that bother you in constructive ways. If you don't feel you can talk to your partner about something, find a trustworthy friend, sibling or counselor to confide in, someone who can help you to decide how to move forward and eventually address the issue with your partner.
 This might be a marriage vow renewal, a special ceremony honoring the two of you or a trip away to somewhere that both of you hold dear. Whatever you choose to do, make this recommitment time focused just on the two of you, to rejuvenate a little of that honeymoon magic that you both once felt, to restore a frisson of the excitement of young love back into your relationship. If you do this every few years or so, it will help both of you to remember what attracted you to one another and why you are both so willing to keep making this commitment for the rest of your lives together.

