 Use your sense of humor to make jokes and tell funny stories. Talk about interesting people you encounter or funny things that have happened to you.


Don’t joke so much that everything you say is a joke. Remember, she’s just getting to know you, so show her that she can trust what you say.
You might tease her a little, but don’t be mean. Be sure to listen carefully to her response. If she seems to get colder when you tease her, let up.
 Flirting over the phone doesn’t work as well when you’re talking about heavy or controversial topics. Choose topics that are easy to talk about, such as movies or travel.


You can also follow up on something that you talked about in a previous conversation., When you’re just getting to know someone, you don’t want to offend her or making her feel uncomfortable by talking dirty. You’ll just come across as a creep and she’ll want to get off the phone.


When you get into a relationship with this girl, then you can think about making the conversation more risqué, but only if she’s comfortable with that. For now, however, keep it clean.
 You may have just met this girl and you exchanged phone numbers. Talking about your initial meeting is a good topic of conversation to lead with. Talk about something funny that happened when you were together, or talk about the people she was with.Show interest in her life, although be careful about asking too many questions about her friends. She might get the wrong idea and think you’re more interested in one of them than you are interested in her.
 Use your phone conversation for a dual purpose. You’re re-establishing the camaraderie and attraction that you may have started in person by getting to know this girl. You can also use the phone call to set up a date to meet in person.Make a light joke. If the girl says she’d like to meet at 3 o’clock, you can say, “I don’t think I want to stuck with you all day. Let’s meet up at 3:03 instead.”

, It sounds cliché, but try to be yourself. If you are trying too hard or being false, it will come across in the phone call. Keep yourself relaxed and natural.