 This is done by pressing the button. This is found at the bottom of the interface on the right hand side of the screen. Clicking it will take you to the options menu.;
, Once in the options menu, there are a series of slidebars that you can use to adjust lighting and volume.


The bar is used to control screen brightness. This is only there to compensate for screen-brightness on your computer in general. Sliding the bar to the right will make the in-game screen brighter, going to the left will do the opposite. You can use this to simulate night and day.
The bar is used to control the volume of the in-game music. Setting the bar to the far right will completely mute the music. This is useful if you are listening to your own music through another application. Sliding the bar to the right will increase music volume.
The button will change the volume of sound effects. These include the sound made when you correctly enter your bank pin, wood-chopping sound, mining sound, etc. If you don't want to hear these then slide the bar to the left. Otherwise slide it to the right.
The button is used to change the volume of ambient noise. (Birds twittering, signs creaking, etc). If you don't want to hear them, slide the bar to the left, otherwise to the right.
 Below the slidebars are button which can also be used to control in-game features. These are:


The button controls whether or not you need two buttons on your computer mouse. By having it on, it means that a left-click automatically does the first thing on the options list, while the right-click brings up a list. Turning it off means that every time you click it brings up the list of options. This is very useful if you are using an iMac, as the Mice don't always have two buttons.
The button is used to toggle Chat-Effects on or off. Chat-Effects are when people use a code to make their speech more unique. (For instance text animation, colors, flashing text, etc). This button doesn't seem to have much of a purpose, as all it does is either allow you to see Chat-Effects or not. If you toggle it off, and type in a code, you can still read the writing as if the toggle was on, its just the effect doesn't appear.
The is used to split private chat from normal chat. If this is toggled off, private chat appears in purple under the normal chat box. If on, it appears in blue at the bottom left-hand corner of the game screen. It is recommended you toggle it on, as it makes it easier to see what your friends are saying, especially in crowded areas where lots of people are talking.
The button is used to toggle whether or not you can accept help from other players. ('Help' covers Teleother spells, Health Paks in Castle Wars and most of the Lunar Spells). If this is toggles off, the spells will not work, or the other person's efforts to cure you will not work. If it is on, you will be able to benefit from other player's generosity. It is recommended you keep this on, as there are only positive benefits to accepting help.
The button is used to toggle Run on or off. When Run is on, you will move quicker until your Run Energy is used up. The Run Energy is shown as a percentage on the button. Your run energy will decrease as you run. The rate at which it decreases is determined by your Agility level and how much weight you are carrying. This button is the only reason most users regularly access the Options menu.
The button is used for accessing your House Options menu. When you click on this a whole new menu screen appears, asking you whether you want to Kick Guests Out of your House, Go into Building Mode or Leave Your House. It will also tell you how many rooms are in your house. This is only any use when you are actually in your House, which is a Members-Only feature.

