 Before you baby-sit, take time to reminisce on the things you loved to do as a child, the games you played, the shows you watched and what made you laugh. Pack some things you could do together with the child like favorite books, markers or a kickball.;
, Some ideas could be: watch a movie or show you enjoyed as a child, play with play-doh, paint, draw and create, use your imagination for pretend games, play traditional games like Hide and Seek and Red light Green light. Children love to laugh so feel free to be as silly as you like!

, Children are often easily impressed; use your skills to entertain the child. Maybe you know how to make a few paper origami shapes, or know random facts about space. You will have fun as you see the child take an interest in your passions and idolize you for your talent.
 If you don't have an account, then just search online for ideas like, "Babysitting Crafts Pinterest".
 Bring along your own craft materials so that it all seems new and exciting to them. Let them keep their creations once made, they'll love that.


Refer to craft books. There are many books like, "365 things to make and do" that you can flip through and pick out fun crafts to make and do, with or for the children.
 Be bold, colorful, and bright. This will give the children the sense that you are fun to spend time with.
 Every child loves it when older people are nice to them.
 If you have a room in your house you don't go into, such as a family room, loft, or basement, clean it up and make it fun! Some things you can make are:


Dollhouses. Along with some homemade yarn dolls, or even ones you would like to donate!
A fishing game. Cut out pieces of paper shaped like fish, color them, and glue paper clips to them. Take some sticks, tie some string around it so it looks like a fishing pole, and tie a paper clip at the end. Then take a bowl and decorate it and put the "fish" in it.
Mini clay settings. Use oven bake clay to make settings like farms, cities, and towns.
Sponge Jenga. Instead of wooden blocks, cut up sponges and stack them.
Bottle bowling. Take two liter bottles (6 or 10) and paint them. Then take a rubber bouncy ball, small enough to fit in one hand, and bowl away. Or, you can use oven bake clay for mini bowling.
Take an old entertainment center and make it a play kitchen! Search online for images, "DIY kids kitchen".
 Or you can buy a set. Whenever a child is good, let them pick out a prize. Or start a ticket system. Depending how much you babysit, each week pick a ticket and the ticket with the child's name on it gets to pick out a prize. They will get a ticket when they are good.
 Talk calmly to children and listen to what they have to say to minimize bad behavior. Use distraction to stop their negative actions and bring things back to being fun again.



Read bedtime stories. If you babysit the child when they go to bed, read them a story and make them a small snack like toast or a banana.
Make brushing their teeth fun by singing a song.
, You can be fun, but remember, everything comes with a price. Just watch over them while you can and make sure they do what they are supposed to do, and you could get recommended by the parents of whom you are babysitting for.
