 If a dog is coming at you and your dog looking like it might want an interaction or a fight, you should try to get you and your dog out of the way. The best way to do that is to distract your dog with treats, which is why it's important to carry treats with you when you're out and about with your dog. Hold the treats up for your dog to see, making sure to get in its line of sight. If you need to, reward your dog with a treat every step or two to keep the focus on you., The best thing to do with an aggressive dog, particularly if you have your dog with you, is to get away from it if possible. Walk quickly to a place that hides you, such as a car or even a fence. If you can get out of the dog's line of sight, you're better off., Running will encourage the dog to come after you. It'll think it's time for a chase. Therefore, just try to walk in a quick and determined manner. Jogging may also encourage the dog to come after you and your dog., If you can't get enough distance between you and the approaching dog to be on the safe side, you'll need to stand your ground. Get your dog to sit and then step between your dog and the approaching dog. Hold your hand out, and say a command like "stop" or "sit" in a loud, deep voice. Use a common command, as the dog is more likely to respond., If the dog stops at all, throw some treats in its direction. Often, the dog will stop to hunt around for the treats, giving you a break in the action. Use the opportunity to take yourself and your dog away from the situation., You can use things like air horns, loud whistles, and even umbrellas to distract a dog from attacking. The first two rely on noise to distract the dog. Opening up an umbrella in the dog's direction can scare it enough to make it back away., If you try to get between two dogs who are gearing up for a fight, you could find yourself with a serious injury. Getting yourself injured is no way to save your dog because then you have to deal with treating your own wound.The best way to break up a dogfight is to find someone to help you. Each of you should grab a dog by the back legs, lifting up and pulling back to remove them from the fight. Try to move the dogs as far away from each other as possible. If you can only do one dog, pick the one that's being the most aggressive.