 The oval should be at least 7 inches (17.8 cm) wide by 5 inches (12.7 cm) tall, or large enough for your face to show through from the inside. Sketch it out using a pencil.Make sure that the hole will be able to line up with your face when you put the bucket on. To gauge where the hole needs to be, hold the bucket upside-down in front of you, with the bottom of the bucket even to the top of your head. Quickly mark the point that is even with your eyebrows and the point even with your bottom lip. Draw your oval based on those marks.
 Position the tip of a nail somewhere along the oval outline you just created. Use a hammer to strike the nail into the bucket just far enough to create a hole.Remove the nail once the hole has been created.
 Wedge a pair of sharp wire cutters into the pilot hole created by the nail. Carefully cut around the entire oval outline.Remove and discard the plastic oval you cut out.






If the edge seems too jagged and potentially dangerous, cover it with strips of white duct tape.
 Use a ruler and a pencil to measure out two 2 inch by 9 inch (5.1 cm by 22.9 cm) rectangular pieces from a larger sheet of white foam board. Cut these rectangles out using a craft knife.Use the craft knife to carefully round off the lower corners of both rectangles.
 Use white duct tape to adhere the top of each foam rectangle to the inside of the helmet.The two rectangles both be positioned toward the back of the helmet. When you slip the helmet on, these rectangles should slide just behind your shoulders and onto your upper back. Their purpose is to serve as braces that can help keep the helmet straight on your head.
 Take a standard dish towel and roll it up crosswise (widthwise). Wrap this cloth around your forehead, creating a ring, and tape the ends of the ring together with duct tape.The ring should be loose enough to slide on and off your head without difficulty.
 Use more duct tape to attach the towel ring to the inside top of the bucket. The center of the ring should match up with the center of the bucket., Slide the helmet bucket onto your head with the opening in front of your face. The towel ring should rest on your head, and the foam braces should land behind your shoulders. If everything feels right and the helmet feels stable, it's ready to wear.

