 Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments fall into one of two categories: debit and credit payments. Transferring money between bank accounts is considered a debit and can be completed fairly quickly. Different banks sometimes have different ACH payment procedures that you will need to follow in order to transfer your money. ACH payments are extremely common and are used in different forms to direct deposit paychecks, pay bills online and transfer money between accounts.Tell your bank you would like to execute an ACH transfer and they will walk you through the steps if you would like to do it over the phone.
Banks often charge fees for ACH transfers. The fee is usually under ten dollars, but ensure you find out exactly what the fees will be.;
, You will need, at minimum, the bank account and routing number of the account you wish to transfer money to. You can find these numbers on the bottom of a check you have for the receiving account. The account number is on the bottom right and the routing number is on the left. If you are sending the money to someone else, you will need to get this information from them.Routing numbers are often available online. The routing number is an identifier for the bank your account is in, so try looking on their webpage to locate it.
You will also likely need the name of the person on the account you are transferring the money to if it isn’t your own account.
Be careful when sharing any banking information with other people. Do not provide your account numbers to people you do not have sufficient reason to trust.
 An ACH transfer can overdraw your account if the funds are not available, which may incur overdraft fees from your bank. Before executing an ACH transfer, be sure to verify that you have the money in your account.


Make sure any deposits you need to make the transfer have cleared.
Ensure there are no outstanding debits that haven’t posted yet that could bring your balance below the amount you are transferring.
 Many banks with online banking allow you to complete ACH transfers simply by filling out an online form, but you may prefer speaking to someone over the phone or in person. Regardless of the method you use to convey the information, you will need to provide your own account information and the recipient account and routing number. Make sure to specify how much you would like to transfer.Many banks allow you to set up automatic, recurring ACH transfers for recurring bills or transfers to a savings account.
 ACH transfers are slower than wire transfers, but usually cost less. It can take up to three business days for the money to reach the recipient account. The time and day you send the money can affect how long it takes for the funds to arrive. Submitting an ACH transfer late in the day may mean the process won’t begin until the following day and weekends do not count as business days. As a result, using an ACH transfer late on a Friday can mean waiting up to five days to receive the funds (longer if there are any holidays).Remember that weekends and federal holidays do not count as business days.
If the money does not post in the other account within three days, contact the sending bank to see if there has been an issue with the transfer.

