 Golden Retrievers are large dogs, so you don’t want them running around wherever they want. Work on leash training your dog. Start by taking them for short walks. If they start to pull on the leash, stop walking and stand there. Don’t move or let the dog go the way they want. Start walking again when they come back to you, sit, or let some of the tension from the leash.Reinforce the positive behavior of not pulling on the leash with praise or treats.
If your Golden Retriever gets too excited and starts jumping around before you place the leash on them, wait until they calm down to put the leash on them.
 Teaching your Golden Retriever to sit is important. The sit command is the basis of almost every other command that you teach them. You can use the sit command to enforce basic obedience.Tell your dog to “sit” as you hold a treat over their head. Move the treat back and forth until they sit. You can also push their hind section down to achieve the desired action. As soon as they sit, give them verbal praise and let them eat the treat.
Eventually, stop moving your dog and instead use a hand signal or verbal cue. The dog should respond and sit, or learn it with repeated practice.
 Teaching a Golden Retriever to come when you call them is important to your dog’s overall behavior. It can help keep them out of trouble and improve their life since you can take them more places.Use positive reinforcement to get your dog to come. They should associate coming to you with praise, treats, or toys.
Say the word “come” as you walk backwards. The dog should want to follow you. Say the word once before you move backwards. This helps your dog associate the verbal command with the desired behavior.
Keep moving backwards until your dog gets to you. You want the dog to understand that they have to come all the way to you.
Add additional distractions, like toys or food, as your Golden Retriever gets better at the command.
Make sure to only say the command once. Repeating it makes it lose meaning for the dog. If the dog won’t come to you, try running farther away or tempting them with a treat. As soon as your dog comes to you, give them praise or treats.

