 In addition to what drugs and alcohol can do to your body, they also wreak havoc on your emotions. Take note of any mood swings (becoming angry or sad out of nowhere) or attitude changes (such as becoming suddenly manic). If these happen very frequently, there may be a problem.If an employee comes to work with an angry attitude, but shifts into a extremely upbeat mood (like the flip of a switch), take note of this.
Note any major mood changes when the employee returns from lunch.
If an employee can go from laughing to crying, or cheerful to upset with very little stimulus, make note of this as well.
 In the throws of addiction, an individual will begin to cut ties with those around them. Whether these are work contacts, social acquaintances, or both, notice when an individual seems to be growing distant from those around them and withdrawing from the social world.Notice their absence at social functions and work parties.
Notice when they no longer stay in touch with clients or co-workers.
 When a person is experiencing addiction, they are doing constant mental gymnastics to justify their behaviors to themselves. As such, they are particularly on edge and defensive about the subject of addiction (even when the addict in question is not themselves). Watch out of these defensive attitudes; they could be a bad sign.If the subject of addiction causes them to sweat, grow tense, or become angry, this can be a sign of defensiveness.
 The way a person’s eyes look can sometimes signal intoxication. Bloodshot eyes, glassy/unfocused eyes, large or constricted pupils, and severe bags under the eyes can all be indicative of intoxication or frequent drug use.Crying, illness, or certain medications can also affect the appearance of someone’s eyes.
 Both intoxication and withdrawal can cause noticeable “unsteadiness” in a person. If an individual is shaking, trembling, or sweating, they may be experiencing drug or alcohol withdrawal. If they are unable to walk straight or appear clumsy, an individual may be intoxicated by alcohol, opiates, or other depressant drugs., While experiencing addiction and frequent intoxication, individuals are prone to accidents and injuries. They are more likely to break things, and to visit the hospital. If you suspect substance abuse in someone you work with, take note of how often accidents and injuries occur.Notice if a co-worker commonly has bandages, or complains of illness.
Notice if they visit the doctor/hospital several times in one month, or once a month for several months in a row.
Any number of health problems can lead to doctor/hospital visits, so do your best to respect the individual’s privacy.

