 You can be a role model in so many different ways. Consider this, however: if you do decide to help out kids, be sure you're doing it for the right reasons. Helping kids just because you want to be viewed as awesome is a little bit like going on a diet because you want people to like you, not because you want to be healthy.


Volunteer as a teacher. Teach kids how to read, how to perform basic math, or how to value exercise. Hold onto your patience and remember that not every kid learns material the same way!
Be a mentor to a kid. In the same way that you might have needed a mentor, kids need mentors, too. They want reliable information about relationships, drugs, careers, and life. You can be that source of guidance for a child you take a liking to.
Carve out time just to hang out. If you're happy, positive, responsible, and mature, kids will be happy just to hang out with you. You won't have to do much to be awesome in their eyes. Lend them a bit of your time and you may find that simply hanging out can be lots of fun.
 How often do we complain about about politics? All the time. How often do we do anything about it? Not very much. Running for office is a great way to make a difference in your community by testing your political chops. Plus, who can say that they actually ran for office? That's pretty awesome!


If you're younger, think about getting involved in student government. It may not have the reach that municipal, state, or federal government has, but it's just as important to the people around you. You'll learn a whole lot more about yourself the more you participate.
 There's no legal responsibility to be charitable, but there might be a moral responsibility. If you were helped out by someone on your life journey, or if you just believe in the principle, think about paying it forward. Help the less advantaged find their way.


Get connected through your local church group. If you're part of a community of believers, ask members of your church if they know how you might get involved in charity work. Often, your church will have programs or information about how normal people can best help.
Consider making a microloan. A microloan is a small amount of money ($20, for example) that you lend out to other people through a lending institution. The people who get the loan are usually from very poor countries; they use the money to build hospitals, schools, generators, or simply to farm. After they have used the loan, you get the money back. It's a great way to make a difference around the world.
Do random acts of kindness. Hold the door open for a person struggling to make the bus; give a homeless person the rest of your take-out lunch; tell your colleague how much you value their hard work. These small acts of kindness take almost no energy or resources to complete, and can have a huge impact.
 What do you believe in? Do you believe in animal rights? Get involved in PETA or a similar organization. Do you believe in fighting global warming? Get involved in green energy solutions. Do you believe in basic financial literacy? Get involved in guerrilla economics. Whatever it is you believe in, being awesome is all about showing the world what makes you tick.

