 To make bath time safer and easier for your clumsy dog, you should use some kind of nonslip surface. This will ensure that your pup won’t slip and hurt itself in the slick bathtub or on the wet bathroom floor.Try using one of those nonslip bathmats that go inside of bathtubs. Or you could place a towel inside the bathtub and one on the floor just outside of the tub.
 Pick up your dog and gently place it in the tub. Make sure your dog is face down so that it can stand on its feet in a comfortable position during bath time.If you have a small enough dog, you can bathe it in the kitchen sink instead of the bathtub. Just make sure your pup fits safely in the sink.
You can also get in the shower with your dog to bathe it so you don’t have to worry about trying to stay dry during the process.
 Put some dog shampoo in your hand and begin lathering it all over your dog’s coat. Gently work the soap into the fur. Speak gently to your dog while you are doing this to reassure it during this time that it is probably uncomfortable.Make sure you use dog shampoo when giving your dog a bath because it will not dry out your dog’s skin and coat like people shampoo will.
 Use the shower head to gently rinse the shampoo out of your dog’s coat. Use your hand to help clean the hair. Make sure that the water pressure isn’t too forceful as this could make your dog uncomfortable.If the shower head is too startling for your dog, you can rinse it off using a cup. Fill the cup with water and pour it over your dog’s soapy coat. Use your hand to help get the suds out. Repeat this until all the shampoo is out of your dog’s coat.
 Take your dog out of the tub and use a towel to lightly dry the dog off so it isn’t just dripping wet. Don’t rub the dog too hard with the towel. Be just firm enough to help remove some of the excess water.Some people like to use blow dryers on their dog after a bath, but the noise and sensation can be startling to some dogs. So it is probably best to just towel dry your clumsy dog.

