 Insert your coins, cash, or player card into the machine. Press the “Bet Max” button to bet the maximum amount of money possible. This is the only way to be eligible for the jackpot or to spin the Wheel of Fortune.Look at the indicators and make sure your bet is valid each time you play, that each bill and ticket is accepted.
 Pull the lever or press “spin” to start gambling. Each type of slot machine has a different winning combination to get the jackpot. To spin the Wheel of Fortune, you have to land on a “spin” picture (old style), or 3 SPINs on a payline (new style). Keep gambling until you either lose all your money or come out ahead.


Trust your instincts. If you’re not feeling lucky, either switch to another machine or take a break from gambling.
Never gamble with money that you can’t afford to lose. Never bet with rent money, mortgage, utilities, car payment, or other funds you need to live. Do not use credit cards for cash advance; there are fees and the interest rate can approach 50%.
 If you land on the “spin” picture you’ll have an opportunity to spin the Wheel of Fortune. Some machines have a special “spin the wheel” button while others let you press the regular “spin” button. After you press the button, the large wheel over the game will begin to turn. Whatever dollar amount the wheel stops on is yours to keep. The wheel sections may be stated in dollars or credits; multiply credits x the machine denomination to determine your winnings.


The lower maximum bet machines will have lower dollar amounts on the Wheel of Fortune, and vice versa. A new version of the $100 Wheel has a top spin prize of $40,000!

, Any amount won that exceeds $1200 will be a hand pay; the machine will lock up and flash its candle, and an attendant will come over to handle the win. If you win the progressive jackpot, you can choose to accept your money in payments over time or as a lump sum. If you accept the money in payments, you will lose less to taxes. However, most experts say to choose a lump sum. Even though you will lose a larger amount to taxes, you can invest a larger sum of money at once and make it all back .