 In order to install an app designed to stealthily save Snaps, you'll need to allow apps to be installed from unknown sources (i.e. not the Google Play Store). This is because Snapchat has gotten Google to pull these apps from the Google Play Store.;
, This will open the Security menu for your device.
 You'll be asked to confirm that you want to allow this. Confirm to enable installation of apps from unknown sources.
 This is the Casper.io app's APKMirror site. Snapchat had the Casper developers pull their app from their website, but you can download it from APKMirror, a trusted Android app repository.
 Tap the download button next to the newest version of the app. Make sure you get the latest available version, as older versions typically won't work anymore.


After tapping the Download icon, you'll have to tap "Download" again to confirm. Your browser may prompt you to accept the download, which you should do.
 Open your notification screen and tap the Download Complete notification. This will start the installer for Casper. It will install just like any other app once you've allowed apps from unknown sources.
 In order to use Casper, you'll have to provide a Google account and password. This is necessary in order to access the Snapchat services. The Casper developers themselves recommend creating a new account just for Casper for trust reasons.Creating a new Google account will only take a minute or two. See Make a Google Account for detailed instructions.
 You'll need to provide your Snapchat username and password so that Casper can log in with your account.
 You'll need to enter the username and password to proceed. After entering this, Casper will log in and authenticate with Snapchat.
 Once Casper loads, you'll see a list of all of your recent Snaps. You can also open the menu by tapping ☰ to select any Stories you have access to. Tap a story to see all of the individual Snaps in that story.
 This will let you view it in Casper. The other person will not be notified.
 You can view the Snap as many times as you'd like without using Replays.
 This will add it to the Saved Snaps section of the menu, allowing you to quickly find it again whenever you'd like. Again, the other user will not be notified that you've saved their Snap.
 You'll be able to find all of your saved Snaps here. They're also saved in the "Saved Snaps" folder in the "io.casper.android" folder on your device.
 Keeping Casper up to date is essential to keep your account from being locked out. If you intend to use Casper on a regular basis, you should check the Casper page for new versions.

