 If you are shy, people might not want to talk to you as much, and the year will just be harder. Making friends will be easier if you talk to others, and teachers will look at whether or not you are participating in class. Even saying "hi" to someone could start a new friendship. If you're trying to make friends, give everyone (even the people you don't like) a compliment every day. Try to keep in mind that your classmates are probably just as nervous as you are.;
, Be polite, friendly and helpful.

Don't be a teacher's pet. Don't be a suck-up or others will talk about you behind your back. This does not mean that you should take advantage of your teacher. You can still be nice, offer help, and participate in class. Do this often enough and you might become the teacher's pet without being viewed as a "goody-two-shoes". Doing the right thing is always good as long as you aren't acting like a show-off.






You'll most likely end up with a teacher that you won't like. Try to do your best to give her/him a chance. Maybe, if you get to know them better, you'll see that they're a lot cooler than you originally thought. If, for some reason, you still aren't their biggest fan, don't make a big scene about it. In most cases, you'll only have to deal with them for a year, so just make the best of the situation. Whatever you do, don't spread rumors about your teacher. They will most likely get back to her/him, and she/he won't be any more likely to treat you kindly. At the end of the day, they're your teacher and you need to respect them.
 It also helps you gain a good reputation.


Remember that not everybody can be your friend.






If a bully is being mean to you, ask them to stop and tell the nearest teacher or adult.
 Find someone who does something you like, whether it's soccer, violin, or dance. They won't get bored of you and abandon you for a new friend. Try playing together once you get to know them. See a movie if you two like the same one, or have a sleepover/hangout at your house.
 They can tell you what to expect.
 If you do not pay attention, you're going to have a very hard time. Lots of times the teacher will call on people who are zoned out. If you don't understand something, raise your hand and ask a question, or simply ask the teacher to repeat what they said.


If you are embarrassed to ask a question in front of everyone, try asking your teacher after class. You'll still get the answer, and nobody else will have to hear your question.
 Homework is necessary to practice what you've learned in class. While nobody much likes doing too much homework, it does have this useful purpose. You could tell the teacher that you'll do better in class if (s)he gives out homework passes, but don't push your luck too much and don't be rude about it.


If you have a mean teacher, do not give up. Try your hardest and show some respect for the teacher. She/he might lighten up with you. When they yell, listen to what they are saying, and maybe you'll know what to do better.






If you are getting yelled at, don't be embarrassed. Try to tune the teacher out. It will end soon, and nobody will remember. Besides, nobody can be perfect, and now you'll know to learn from your mistakes.






If a kid tries to unfairly get you in trouble, ask a friend to get them in trouble.The teacher won't believe you after she believes someone else.
 Before you know it, the school year will be over, and you can go back to summer awesomeness!

