 Eye contact doesn’t always indicate that someone is trying to hide something from you or that they’re being sneaky, especially in young children. If a child student avoids eye contact, it may indicate (as with some older children or adults) that they are shy.Avoiding eye contact may also indicate that the child did something that they feel badly about, such as knocking something over or wetting their pants.
If your child student won’t make eye contact, stay positive and reassure them. You might say, “I know that you are feeling badly, and I want you to know that everything is okay. I care about you and want to talk about what’s bothering you.”

, Children learn how to communicate from the adults around them, especially body language. Just like with adults or older kids, children that stands with their arms folded are comforting themselves. They may or may not know that they’re feeling apprehensive, or that folding their arms is a reassuring and comforting maneuver.Don’t force a child to uncross their arms or approach something that makes them apprehensive. Instead, tell them “Take your time. You’re safe and I’m here with you,” to encourage them to warm up to a person or object.
 Children may scratch their heads because they itch, just like anyone does. When children in the classroom scratch or touch their heads it might also be their way of expressing confusion. If you see a child scratch or touch their head, pause and ask if they understand the lesson.“Bobby, can you please ask me a question about this? It would be very helpful if you did so that we can make sure that everyone understands what we’re talking about. Maria, I’d like you to think of another question about this lesson that we can answer after Bobby’s question.”

, If you have a child student that grabs their crotch or sits on one leg and rocks back and forth in their chair, ask them if they’d like to use the restroom. They are likely aware that they have the urge to use the bathroom, but might not be comfortable asking to go.Other signs include pointing to the crotch, crouching, standing in a corner, or even squatting.
“Ravi, I think that you’re telling me that you need to go potty. Great job communicating what you need! Let’s try and go now and then we can come back and join the class.”

