 Squats are a classic exercise that can strengthen your hips and core. Work squats into your regular workout routine to strengthen the muscles around your hips. To start, stand with your feet shoulder width apart and hold two dumbbells at your sides.Choose a weight you feel comfortable with for the dumbbells. If you're just starting out doing squats, you will probably need to start with a light weight, like something in the 2 to 5 pound range. Talk to a trainer at a gym, or your doctor, to figure out a safe weight for you.
Pull your back up straight as you tighten your core. Bend your knees to lower your body. Take a quick look at the tops of your shoes when you are at the bottom of the range of motion. You must be able to see the tops of your shoes, or this means that your knees are coming too far forward in the squat.
Keep lowering your body until your thighs are roughly parallel to the floor. Then, return to the starting position. You should repeat this exercise 10 to 12 times.;
, Lunges are another hip and thigh strengthening exercise that can improve the appearance of your hips. To do lunges, start with a dumbbell in each hand. Choose a weight you're comfortable using. Take one step forward with your left foot.With your left foot forward, bend your knees. Slowly lower yourself to the ground.
Use your feet to push yourself back to the starting position. Repeat the exercise with the other foot.
You should repeat this exercise roughly 10 to 12 times.
 Yoga involves a variety of stretching and poses that demand a lot from the core muscles, so it can also be a great way to keep your core strong and help your hips appear bigger. Try enrolling in a yoga course at a local gym or community center if you want to make your hips look stronger and bigger.If you can't afford a class, there are many yoga routines you can find online. You can also purchase DVDs. However, be careful when doing yoga alone. Build up to the more difficult poses, and do not do any pose that makes you feel uncomfortable.
 Planks are a great way to tone your core muscles and get a flatter stomach, which may help to make your hips seem bigger. Work on doing planks a couple times a week as part of your exercise routine.To do a plank, lie flat on an exercise mat. Keep your elbows under your shoulders and clasp your hands together just under your chin.
Prop yourself up to form a bridge with your body running from your shoulders to your toes. Support your weight with only your toes and forearms on the ground, squeezing the muscles of your chest, abdominals, lower back, buttocks, and legs. Hold this position for 10 seconds when you're first starting out. Eventually, you will want to build yourself up to 3 minute planks.
 You may choose to strap ankle weights to your lower leg for this exercise. You can buy these at a gym or sports equipment store, but make sure you start out with a lower weight. Lie on your side. Have your legs stacked on top of each other and place your hand on your hip.Lift your leg until it's at a roughly 45 degree angle with the floor, and then lower it back down. Repeat 10 to 12 times. To build muscle, do three sets of 10 to 12 repetitions.
Switch sides after you finish a set on one leg and repeat with the other leg.
As with squats, the amount of weight you need depends on your fitness level. It's a good idea to start small. Talk to a doctor or trainer about a safe weight for you.
If you feel like you need more resistance, then you can try holding a dumbbell just above your knee as you lift. This is a good way of increasing resistance without risking injury to your knee.
 It might seem counterintuitive, but strengthening the muscles in your shoulders will make your waist seem smaller, which may help to make your hips look wider. Try doing some simple shoulder exercises like the overhead dumbbell press, dumbbell pec flyes and dumbbell rear flyes to achieve this effect.