 When advertising an open position, you should avoid words or phrases that indicate you prefer younger employees.Be careful with words that might be considered euphemisms for youth. For example, stating that you want to hire a "recent college graduate" typically is understood to mean you are looking for someone in their early- to mid-20s. Instead, describe the job as "entry level" to indicate that you're looking for someone who's just starting out in your business, regardless of his or her age.
Focus your requirements on skills, education, and experience rather than benchmarks that could be tied to age. If it's important to you that someone recently graduated because you want the information learned to be recent and up-to-date, you should advertise for someone who keeps abreast of issues and developments rather than a recent graduate.
You also should review any printed job applications you have and remove any lines or questions that relate to an applicant's age. If there is a minimum age that is legally required for a job, you can ask the applicant to verify that he or she is at least that age without asking for the applicant's exact age.
 Anyone making employment decisions should have limited discretion in evaluating employees subjectively.Provide specific objective criteria for assessing new hires or candidates for retention or promotion. Keep in mind that some criteria such as "flexibility" are loaded terms that can easily be interpreted to mean you prefer younger employees.
Make sure anyone who interviews employment candidates isn't mentioning age or anything else such as race, religion, or ethnicity during job interviews. If the candidate mentions any of these characteristics, the interviewer should simply make a note that it was mentioned by the candidate, but not remark on it to the candidate.
 Any new employment requirements or decisions regarding groups of employees cannot have a disproportionately negative effect on older employees.For example, if you're making a decision to lay off a certain number of workers in a department, your criteria for deciding which employees to keep and which to lay off generally shouldn't result in more older workers being laid off than younger ones.
You can run employees through your criteria hypothetically to analyze the impact. If the criteria result in a significantly larger number of older employees being laid off than younger ones, figure out how you can lessen that by changing your criteria.
If the disparate impact is unavoidable, make sure you document the business purpose of the policy or practice in a specific way.
 Make sure your policies address age discrimination and discuss the acts that are forbidden by law.Give written handbooks to all employees. If you update a discrimination policy, provide a written memo with the changes to all employees.
Your written policies should stress that they supersede any oral statements to the contrary by managers or other staff.
In addition to the handbook, find other ways to make sure employees are informed of your anti-discrimination policies and know who is designated to handle complaints of discrimination.
For example, you may want to provide training seminars to educate employees, including managers and supervisors, about the protections of anti-discrimination laws and how to identify discriminatory acts or practices.
 Written documentation of steps taken to investigate or resolve any age discrimination complaints is essential to defense against an age discrimination claim.Have anyone interviewing an applicant take written notes during the interview so you have a written record of anything communicated to a candidate.
If an employee complains about a discriminatory incident, investigate it promptly and document your investigation in writing. These documents can later prove your actions if the employee tries to say he or she complained and nothing was done.
Any written documentation that potentially could help you in a discrimination lawsuit should be kept indefinitely. When in doubt, print copies of emails and place them in a file – particularly if you have software that deletes old emails after a period of time.