 Ghirahim will start testing your fighting skill during the beginning of this battle and will not attack you unless you do absolutely nothing. Walk up to him and take out your sword and shield to attack. Ghirahim will reach his hand and a red glowing sphere will emit from it. Basically, he’s trying to copy your movements so that he can grab your sword and use it against you; if you try to randomly hit him here, he’ll just grab your sword and attack you with it.;
, Mesmerize his hand to copy your movements. Then, stop moving your sword to allow Ghirahim to stop as well, and slowly move it the opposite position from where his hand is. Immediately attack him with your sword from that direction and repeat. If he successfully grabs your sword anytime, just raise your sword up or shake the Wii Remote to let go of his grip and start over.
 After using this strategy three times, Ghirahim will get accustomed to it and prevent you from hitting him. Now, all you’ve got to do now is to move your sword over to the exact position his hand is after you mesmerize and stop his movements, as opposed to swinging to the opposite position. After, just attack him with your sword by slashing him in the opposite direction of how you slashed him before. Repeat this process three more times to anger Ghirahim and to force him to change his fighting tactics.
 By this point you should already get used to fighting him this way and Ghirahim knows this too. He will then snap his fingers and summon a sword with magic to match your own and begin attacking. Here is where you have to be extremely careful of his attacks. Ghirahim will step back, crouch, and place his sword in front of him; this is a sign that he will perform a dash-attack. This attack will do a lot of damage to you if you aren't careful! When he comes running, the moment he comes to swipe his sword to attack, counterattack with a shield bash. If done quickly, he will become stunned, allowing you some free time to damage him a lot with your sword. You can also use a spin attack if you’re not so great at shield-bashing or if you don’t have one equipped with you.
 Another one of his attacks is summoning a column or row of small daggers (or kunai knives) and throwing them at you. Whichever way he throws it is whichever way you strike them back with your sword (i.e., hit up or down for vertical, and hit left or right for horizontal.) You can also dodge them or shield bash the daggers, but they will do no damage to them, so use that to your advantage if you want to quickly defeat Ghirahim.
 His two final attacks involve him ambushing you and striking his sword to injure you. When Ghirahim teleports, quickly run or dodge as he will appear behind or beside you and quickly strike back. Depending on how he holds his sword is how you must slash him with yours; if not, then you will get attacked by him unless you dodge his attacks. If he holds his sword vertically, attack from left to right or do a vertical spin attack. However, if he holds his sword horizontally, attack up to down or do a horizontal spin attack. (You can choose to run away from him to avoid heart loss but the battle will just take longer to beat.)

, Ghirahim will use these four attacks randomly, so be prepared to know what to do when he uses one of these attacks. Ghirahim may also use these attacks in consecutive times in a row and then switch to another attack and repeat, so always pay attention. When he starts ambushing you or using daggers to hit you more often than normal, then you know you are halfway to defeating him. If he starts using dash attacks a lot, you are almost done beating him. Destroy the pots surrounding the arena if you’re having trouble to restore your health and remember to use heart potions and revitalization potions if necessary. Use the Guardian Potion only if you are having extreme trouble defeating Ghirahim.

