 Setting your objectives is the first step towards knowing the direction of your post. It can help you narrow down your general ideas and choose the most relevant ones that are also aligned with your interests. It's important to match your interests with your goals to ensure your blog's relevance and longevity.

What do you hope to achieve for the business through use of a blog?
What sorts of stories and posts will you share on a regular basis? Will you mix tales about how your company is progressing with instructional content on using your products or services? Will you share anecdotes or human interest stories? Will you write about the readers personal concerns and offer advice?
Is community service going to be a part of your brand? Do you want to provide updates about donations, volunteering, assistance overseas or sending of care packages, and so forth?
Who will be the face of the blog? The CEO, marketing, staff writers or even handpicked customers?
Will you run competitions, quizzes and reader stories as part of the blog?;
, Knowing your niche market is vital in researching and writing about what they want to read. This means getting information beyond their age brackets and financial capabilities. Identify their consumer behavior and various preferences that can help you determine the right blogging topics to write about in order to connect with them. It also helps to stop viewing them as consumers and to think of them as people like you, people with wants, hopes, desires, dreams and needs. In what ways can your company meet just a small portion of such needs or wants?, The main purpose of having a blog is to promote your business to your target market. So, you must know what they would most likely search for on the Internet that is likely to also send the readers to your website. Your blog should provide value to your target readers, such as posting articles that are interesting, informative and address their main concerns directly and without nonsense or puff., Creating a central theme can help in getting your audience to relate with your brand on an intimate level. Having a blog that carries a consistent theme helps your readers to think of your brand when they come across topics that they need to learn about, motivating them to visit your blog. Keep your posts consistent to make your brand and its message complement each other.

If, for instance, you had a call center business, you could use customer service as your recurring topic. If you had a juice business, you could use recipes as your recurring topic, or health tips. If you had a farm tractor business, you could use tractor repairs and maintenance as recurring themes.
 It's not enough to just hand out your company wisdom, know-how and suggestions. It is also important to interact with those reading the blog, to treat them as valuable sources of spreading the message that your company is interested in its customers as people. Talk to those who leave comments and thank them for their ideas, suggestions and feedback. Even the negative comments provide a platform from which to thank them for feedback and to show how well you handle complaints as a company.

Be sure to train all of those who run the blog with proper handling of comments and complaints.
Run competitions for readers to get involved in. Your products or services make wonderful prizes and a great incentive for readers to spread the word about your company's actions through social media. Try to link some competitions with rewards for sharing the links elsewhere too.

