 The accommodations will depend on which beach you go to. For quieter country towns, you may be able to get a cottage, shack, bed and breakfast, etc. right on the beachfront. However, this can be both expensive and booked out if you don't plan early enough. Plan ahead with plenty of time to spare for popular places.


If you find the accommodations unavailable within your price range, look further afield; accommodations that are within 10 to 30 minutes walking distance from the beach are generally suitable, and you'll keep fit getting to and from the beach.;
, Both exist and both will have options for staying close by. However, the crowded option will tend to be booked out faster, while the more secluded option might have fewer places to stay, and also be booked out. The trick is to book ahead in plenty of time!


City beaches tend to be crowded, while country and wilderness beaches are often a lot more secluded. Which do you prefer? Each has its different benefits.
 Some beaches have local camping grounds nearby. This can be a beautiful way to enjoy the sounds of the beach while having a very small outlay on your accommodations. Most of your fellow campers will be of the same mind as you, so you might meet some new friends too.
 This option requires finding suitable parking places but this can be a great way to move from beach to beach, right along a coastline if you want to see as much as possible.

Be aware of local regulations with respect to parking or "freedom camping". In many places, the more overcrowded and the more pristine place both suffer from a desire to regulate who simply chooses to hang around for no cost.
 Be sure to help out in the house and shout them a meal out now and then, to pay them back for their generosity.
 If you're really keen to get away, go to a tropical island and book a resort stay. Many such resorts have miles and miles of beachfront that is exclusive to the resort. You'll get fed and looked after too, making this the ultimate in vacation time.
 You'll need swimsuits, flip flops or sandals, shorts or skorts, large hats, t-shirts and a lightweight jacket for those rarer cooler days., This is for when you head away from the beach for a night on the town or at the local restaurants.
 You might also like to bring along some hair conditioner or even something to help lighten you hair under the power of all that sun.


Always take your sunscreen to the beach. That way, you can reapply it every few hours, as needed.
 This includes beach or picnic blankets, throws, umbrellas or beach tents and small folding chairs. Bring along whatever you like to make your "kingdom on the sand" that denotes your chosen spot for the day.
 This will depend on what you like to do but can include sports gear, puzzles, an e-reader or novels, tanning items, camera/movie camera, writing tools, toys, etc.
 Some beaches allow Fido to have free rein, while dogs are banned at other beaches. Find out in advance, to avoid disappointment. Fido won't appreciate being tied up at the shack all day while you're all out having fun.


If bringing your pet, pack pet supplies such as drinking bowls, toys and favorite treats.
 This can be very helpful for the person who doesn't like to focus too much on the tedium of packing; images will direct you to gather the right things swiftly, then you can get back to planning what you'll do all day at the beach.
 You can play beach volleyball, tag, ball games, running games and swimming games at the beach.
 Build a large bonfire and throw a party. Just be sure it's legal to have both a fire and alcohol at your party.
 If you are all good swimmers, have a few swimming contests. Always stay between the flags. If there are no flags or lifeguards, know the signs of rips and bad seas, and avoid them.
 Make your sandcastles as elaborate as you possibly can. Hold sandcastle competitions with friends. Take digital photos and share on Instagram and Pinterest., Try to frame the photos using palm trees, boats or other interesting elements, as miles and miles of endless sea can be a bit tedious.
 If it's a popular beach spot, it'll have a night life which you can sample as well. This will make for a busy vacation––all day on the beach, all night eating and dancing!

