 When the voice in your head sounds like Eeyore, it's pretty hard to get pumped up. But when it's saying things like, "9 AM -- BE AWESOME. 10 AM -- Dominate gym class LIKE A BOSS. 11 AM - Rock the chemistry test," it's pretty hard to not feel like the Energizer bunny. So get to training your head for energy. It's here to pump you up, even if it doesn't sound much like Arnold Schwarzenegger.


The idea here is to A) talk to yourself in exclamation points -- with enthusiasm, with excitement -- but also B) talk to yourself positively. It's very hard to get enthusiastic about failing or things not going your way. So to energize your thoughts, think brighter.;
, There's a reason we wear black to funerals! Turns out wearing bright colors can make you happier and more energized. In other words, hyper!So if you were thinking of going goth, sorry. You'd be better off going Rainbow Brite.


Looking at bright colors can do it, too. It's as if the bright colors cue your brain to get ready for fun and excitement. No wonder adults get tired -- they're constantly around blacks, blues, and tans. They need a little orange in their lives!

, Okay, that's probably the funniest thing you could do. But really, getting wet at all alerts your system, waking up all your senses. Showers can actually get your metabolism going! So go splash some water on your face or go puddle jumping -- it's all good!


It also wipes away stress, almost literally. So if you're feeling worried about something (which can be a total drag), aim for the water. Maybe life should be one giant pool party, huh?

, If prom were to happen every day, it wouldn't be special. Very few people would get excited and the buzz it cultivates just wouldn't be there. But when dressing up (even if it's not prom) rolls around only once every so often, it creates this intangible excitement that you can't help from feeling energized about. So take this Friday night to get dressed to the nines!


You don't have to put on a prom dress or tux to see this effect. Just throwing on nice clothes can put you in a good mood, especially if your friends are doing it too. When it comes to effects like these, there's definite power in numbers!

, Turns out plopping yourself down in front of the TV is more than just relaxing -- it's energy-zapping and turns you into a vegetable.You end up not wanting to do anything but sit there and the cycle just gets worse. So if there's a show you absolutely have to watch, watch it, but then get up off your butt!


Instead, try playing games -- even if it's just Words with Friends on Facebook! It's the same relaxing stuff, but it keeps your brain entertained and just plain going -- instead of zoning out and shutting down like it does when you crawl in front of the tube.
 We've sort of touched on this already, but let's lay it on the line: it's super hard to be hyper when you're down in the dumps. When you think of a sad person, are they running about, flailing their arms, screaming for the hilltops, and being, well, unstoppable? No. Never. So if you want to get hyper, you'll need to beat those nasty thoughts into submission. There's no room for worry, regret, or sadness here. You need a reason for that pep in your step!


So whatever makes you happy, do it. Dance naked in your living room. Spend the night baking 3,197 sugar cookies. Play online chess for 4 hours and then do your homework. If it gets your endorphins going, it's good.
 Studies show that eating a good, healthy, protein-packed breakfast (think oats, egg whites, and lean meat) versus, oh, say a package of donuts can have a lasting, energizing effect all day. You'd think the sugar in those donuts would get you going, and it does -- until you crash a couple hours later (and then you're hungry again). So eat a healthy breakfast for the sake of your entire day.


In addition to eating a healthy breakfast, it's also important to just eat breakfast. It gets your metabolism going, your body revs up, and you're ready to tackle the day. If you don't eat, you may feel sluggish and that afternoon siesta may turn into a lost evening., Caffeine and sugar are standards that will pump up your activity level. The form you choose is one of personal taste but energy drinks, coffee, soda and candy are great sources. If you had the time to plan ahead, you might want to “carb load” the night before to give your body that extra boost so you can last longer.


Of course, with things like this, you will experience a crash. It could be minutes later, it could be hours, but it'll happen. The solution is not to consume more. That just will make the next crash worse!
Be careful with caffeine pills; do not take more than one. Your heart will start going crazy and you'll feel like death's knocking. Be aware of the dangers of crushing and snorting caffeine pills (or any pills for that matter). It is not advised and can cause you bodily harm.
 You know that whole "sitting in front of the TV makes you want to sit in front of the TV" thing? The opposite is true, too. When you exercise, you get your blood pumping, your juices flowing, your body ready and raring to go -- making you more hyper, even though you've spent your energy working out. You'll feel good, you'll feel energized, and you'll be healthier!


Did we mention that exercise releases endorphins, your get-happy hormone? Talk about killing two birds with one stone!

, This one is definitely a no-brainer. If you want to have some serious stashes of energy, get 8 hours of sleep -- or get however many your magic number is (somewhere between 7 and 9, probably). When you're not fully rested, just making it through day can be a challenge, much less being excited about it.


Keep the same sleep schedule as much as possible. Your body gets used to when it wakes up and goes to sleep and if you mess that up, it gets messed up. It'll be a lot easier to wake and be happy about it when you've woken up at that same time all week.
 Being hyper originates between your ears. It's a mental thing, but it does take cues from your body. So put on some music that excites you for a good start. Move with it.


If you’re into very active video games, those are good, too. Who says it's only music you can rock out to? Killing zombies is a rhythm all its own, after all.
 Being hyper with people has a purpose: to get excited together and to play and work together. The energy of many can create a wonderful thing! You're not a chaotic mess. You have a purpose: fun and energy!


Consider being hyper while alone sometimes, too, so that you can try your best in conditioning, running, jogging, or practicing individual skills of a sport like basketball -- dribbling or practicing three point shots at your speed without fighting the big D.
 Choose a place where being hyper is acceptable; the mall is probably a bad choice whereas a skate park might work fine. Gathering up your friends and going to the old folks home won't be the best use of your time. Aim for places that won't get you shushed or kindly shown the door.


Large, open areas are best. Think parks, the beach, fields, or places dedicated to athletics like the basketball court or pool.
 Get your friends excited with you. Hand out the candy; get the others to buy energy drinks and sodas with vitamins and caffeine. Hyper activity is contagious so you will all “feed” off each other; you will all enjoy it more if you’re all sharing the experience.


If someone's not up to snuff, get 'em there! Don't nag or make fun of them, simply invite them to have as much fun as you're having. Nagging or teasing just brings your positive energy (and the energy of the group) down.
 Release that pent up energy! Run, jump… just do it! Being this way can actually become an almost spiritual event (think Native Americans dancing all night to the beat of drums). The more you do the more amazing you’ll feel. Dance like nobody’s watching. Why would you dance any other way?


Just a friendly reminder: release that pent up energy in legal ways. Having the cops show up on the scene is the worst kind of buzzkill there is.
 Your body has a huge store of endorphins running through it – if you just quit you’ll experience a “drop” that you will not enjoy. You warmed up by preparing – cool down before you stop. You wouldn't land a plane suddenly; think of your body the same way.


Take a minute to reminisce with your friends. Laugh about it. Eat some decent food (meaning not candy and Mountain Dew) and take in the day. Phew!

, The longer you wait, the more energy you will build up to be hyper. Think of it as something to look forward to! Now how will you make it even better next time?


Consider inviting more people, too! The more the merrier. And if you can't wait that long, think about getting hyper on your own time. A little practice can't hurt!

