 Most people might call you things such as "poor". You might not understand what this means to you when you first start. Try to understand that they only call you that because they think that they are cooler than you and that they are above you. But, in reality, everyone that plays are on the same level.


If you have questions, go to the Help Center. Many familiar woozens to Woozworld will be there to help.;
, Wooz can now only be purchased with real money. But, don't worry. If you want wooz, watch the videos in between units. While that usually that only gives you 1 or 2 wooz, that's better than nothing right? Beex is just as important as wooz. Most people have 6 million beex already! Beex is pretty easy to earn, so you should be collecting that as well. Beex can be used to buy most things, but if you want to wear something that isn't your level you should consider buying it with wooz.
 Twin Games, Revenge Game, Spin the Bottle; there are so many to choose from. Games can help you earn wooz. If people are about to leave the game, you usually ask them "Buy, trade, or out?". Then, they can either leave, trade you expensive clothing/ furniture, or buy something from a shop pods. Either way, at the end of the game you should have a little more beex than you have before, or a few more items. Make sure you get a rich prize to give away, or else people will call you a scammer. You can play games yourself to win a prize, which you can give away at your game.
 It changes by the minute. Things may be expensive, and this is where the wooz comes in. The more up-to-date you are, the more people will add you and start having conversations with you.
 Many people who have made it big on Woozworld are stuck-up and snobbish. Don't be one of those people. Don't discriminate between "rich" and "poor". Don't give people the cold shoulder if they don't have the latest hairstyle. It may make you seem cool at first, but you'll start losing friends, and people will probably start gossiping about you with other woozens and making up things that aren't true. Woozworld is usually gossip central, so watch out.
 Woozworld shouldn't be about making it big, it's fun! Do what you want to do, as long as it doesn't hurt others.

