 This will make fixing the chain easier and prevent the bike from rolling around while you work. Flip the bike so that it rests on the seat and handlebars, setting it down gently to prevent scratching or scuffing.


Bike stands hold the bike right-side up in the air and are great for maintenance. However, since most chains slip on the road you will likely not have access to one.;
, Derailleurs are the small machines on your front and back gears that physically move the chain from gear to gear. Note where it is currently resting by looking down the derailleur -- it will be lined up with the gear. You want to put the chain back on this gear.


The front derailleur, right next to the pedals, looks like a little metal bracket that hovers over the gear the chain should be on.
The rear derailleur, found by the back wheel, looks like a small mechanical arm. This arm slides back and forth underneath the cassette (collection of gears) to move the chain. It will be underneath the right gear.
Many bikes will tell you the gear number on the handlebars, but you need to know how to read them to make sense of it:


The left hand adjusts your front gears. 1 is the gear closest to the bike, or smallest gear.

The right hand adjusts the back gears. 1 is the gear closest to your bike, which is the biggest gear., This is the small metal arm next to the cog on the bottom of the derailleur. There is usually a little metal square right next to the cog that lets you push the derailleur without getting too greasy. It should fold gently towards the front of the bike so that the chain hangs with a lot of slack.
 Pick up the chain with 2-3 fingers and drape it on top of the appropriate gear. You should have enough slack to get 10-15 teeth on the gear into the groves of the chain. Slowly release the derailleur once you have some teeth in place.
 As you pedal, you'll notice that the teeth you attached manually will guide the rest of the chain back into place. Keep pedaling for 2-3 more rotations to make sure that the chain is securely in place.


Make sure you are pedaling forward -- the back wheel should move as you pedal.

