 Bullying is peer-to-peer abuse and should not be tolerated. It is very important that you let your parent know that you are being bullied.Parental support protects teenagers against bullying.If you have parents or guardians, tell them after school.


Remind yourself that it's not snitching, especially if you're being repeatedly bullied or are in physical danger (being threatened or involved in fights).
Your parent may want to get your school involved, or get you into therapy.;
, School intervention is very important in helping to reduce bullying.If the bullying is happening in school or during a certain class, you can discuss the issue with your teacher.


If you want to speak to the teacher yourself, try to get the teacher alone so that others will not hear the conversation. Good times are before or after class. Another option is to schedule a private time to meet with your teacher one-on-one. Say something like, “Ms. Teacher, I’d like to speak with you in private about something. Can we schedule a time to meet?”
Tell your teacher about what has been happening and ask for help resolving it. Make sure the information is kept a secret from those who bully you. You do not want the person who bullies you to find out that you told someone; this can increase bullying. Ask the teacher to keep the information confidential and anonymous. You can say something like, “Mrs. Teacher, I have been bullied during your class and I’d like your help in dealing with it. I really want you to keep this confidential though, because I’m worried that the person who bullies me will find out. Can you keep it a secret from this person that I told you?”
Your parents or guardians may want to call the school and arrange a chat with your teachers. Be open to this experience. Chances are, this could help.
 If you are open to it, speaking to a counselor at school can also be a helpful resource in solving the conflict between you and the person who bullies you.A school counselor can help you develop a plan to deal with the bullying, use conflict resolution to help solve the issue, or refer you to a licensed therapist.


Ask one of your teachers for a pass to speak with your counselor. Or, go speak to a school counselor during a break between classes. You should then be able to get a pass back to class once you are done talking to the counselor.
The counselor will keep your information a secret because information said to a counselor is considered confidential. The counselor may tell your parents or the principal to get additional help and support for you, but she will not tell other students or teachers anything you have said.
 The more people who are aware of the situation, the safer you will become.Let neighbors, friends, and other family members know what is occurring. These people can help keep you safe if you need somewhere to go or someone to talk to.
 If you are feeling anxious, stressed, depressed, sad, or fearful about the bullying situation, it can be very helpful to seek therapy. Your school counselor can refer you to a therapist. A therapist or psychologist may even work in your school.


Your parents will need to sign paperwork for you to have therapy. Speak to your parents or guardians about your interest in therapy.
 If you feel like you don't have anyone to turn to, there are confidential organizations that are there for you.


If you are an LGBT youth experiencing bullying, contact the Trevor Project at 1-866-488-7386. You can also chat with a trained counselor on their website 24/7.If you are considering harming yourself because of bullying or anything else, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255) 24/7.If you live in the UK, contact BullyingUK's helpline at 0808 800 2222or the National Bullying Helpline at 0845 22 55787.If you live in Australia, contact the National Centre against Bullying, 24/7, at 1 800 55 1800 to talk to a trained counselor.