 You may think of push ups as an arm exercise, but they also home in on your pectorals, the muscles in your chest. Working out the pectoral area strengthens and enlarges the chest and can make breasts appear fuller and larger. As a bonus, your arms will get trim and muscular, too. Do 3 sets of 15 push ups at least every other day to start. As your arms and pecs get stronger, increase the number of push ups per set.


Lie stomach-down on the floor with your arms bent at your sides and your palms flat against the floor.
Push up with your arms to raise your torso, keeping your knees straight and your toes on the floor. Continue pushing up until your arms are straight. If you want, keep your knees on the floor to make the push ups less difficult at first.
Lower yourself slowly back to the floor, then repeat. Focus on flexing your pecs as you go.;
, This is another great chest workout that creates, bigger, stronger pec muscles and pushes out your breast tissue.Pick out dumbbells you can comfortably lift for 3 sets of 8 - 12 reps. Using 8, 10 or 12 pound weights is a good place to start. Two or three times a week, do 3 sets of 10 dumbbell chest presses. As you get stronger, increase the number of reps per set.


Lie back on an incline bench. Hold the weights at your sides.
Lift the weights toward each other over your chest, straightening your arms, so that the two ends of the weights touch each other.
Slowly lower the weights down and repeat.
 This type of exercise requires contracting your muscles without extending them, and it's particular good for boosting the size of chest muscles.For this exercise, all you need is a hand towel. Do it at least three times a week for best results.


Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart.
Hold the hand towel in front of your chest with both arms outstretched.
Pull on both sides of the towel at the same time, contracting your chest muscles in short bursts.
Keeping the towel taut, continue pulling it in a pulsing motion for three minutes.
 The hormone that produces female breasts during puberty stops being produced around the age of 18 or 19. After that, you can supplement your estrogen supply by eating a lot of soy products such as soy milk, tofu, soy beans, and soy cheese.Breast enhancement pills are made with estrogens derived from herbs to achieve the same effect., If you're dieting and exercising to keep yourself thin, your regimen is affecting your breasts, too. Eating more calories will lead to bigger breasts, if you're willing to get a little bigger in other places, too. Becoming pregnant is another way to get a big breast boost naturally.

