 Sometimes, you want to make eye contact with him, flirty too. Put your hands on your hips and look sexy-bored. If you feel uncomfortable doing that (know that if you do this too sexily, other guys will come towards you), do a flirty-sexy-bored look at him, making direct eye contact with only him. If you don't want to ask him, out of nerves or fear of rejection, don't worry. If he doesn't come, try it on another cute guy.;
, If he hasn't come first, maybe you should go. If he's moving around a lot, maybe he's trying to get your attention or trying to get another girls' attention (or trying to find someone, or see something). Go up to him and say, "Hey, what's up?" and make a little conversation. Don't ever first come out with, "Will you dance with me?" He'll have too much pressure and most likely say no. Only after your small talk, ask him, and he's most likely to say yes because he would know that it's okay.
 Sometimes flirting works. Flirting is a little confusing, as if you're supposed to use pick-up lines or talk in a sexy voice, but it's actually really a cute position, a sexy voice, and nice eye contact. If he's talking about something boring, nod your head so he feels he's not boring you. If he's talking out of breath, he probably likes you. If he's talking like he wants to speed things up, you start talking, and it always gets you the boy. If he seems unhappy with the conversation, that means he is in a rush to dance or wants to do something else. Ask him to dance! Say, "Hey...I was wondering...do you want to dance? If not, it's okay."

, This is the sulky part of dances. If he says no (most likely not) he was a jerk, for one, and he is someone you never should have crushed on. But most likely, he was hoping someone else was going to ask him. If you're okay, ask him who he wants to dance with and say you'll convince her to dance with you so you two can be friends. If he says: "No one," don't ever ask him why he never wanted to dance with you. Just say: "Oh, okay, because , I think he wants to dance with you." Be nice!

, You've been accepted to dance. When dancing with him, there are many ways to dance such as: grinding, slow dancing, freestyle, etc. First, see how he goes off. If he's waiting for you, start with grinding- kind of being weird and funky and interesting.


Grinding is basically moving your hips in a sexy way, but he's uncomfortable at times Move him around tightly. Boys will grab your hips sometimes, and there will be a crowd of people around you. The guy you asked to dance will most likely want to dance in a crowd, not just the two of you. Sometimes you'll dance and he'll be behind you, so don't worry about trying to make a good impression. He's trying harder!

, If he tries kissing you, think as he leans in. If you want him to be your first (or another) kiss, then go ahead. If you don't know if he'll be your boyfriend, and he's known to be a player (or you don't want to kiss him), then be careful and say: "Gotta go... bye!" and leave, but not in a hurry. Maybe hug him quickly as a "thanks for the dance" gift.
 After he says no, if you feel really terrible, and maybe you're partners with him in a class (or have a class with him, or you might be locker buddies), then try doing a mind-reach. It's where you think of something else, erasing your memories of what just happened. Try asking another person, and try someone "easy", someone you know will say yes. If they say no, then don't think you're ugly or stupid. They are ugly and stupid! Just go to your friends and dance with them, and maybe sit at a table or talk, lying on the wall, and tell them what happened and ask them what to do. If they say: "Let's dance it off, okay?" do that! It's a great way to clear your mind and focus on the music!

, You'll most likely have thoughts rushing through your mind like: "Oh my gosh, what just happened? Did I just dance with a boy? Is he my boyfriend? IDK what to do!", either after the song ends and switches to Taylor Swift or a slow song, or after the dance because you might be all excited. Eek! Just calm down, and don't go and tell all your friends because he might not be your boyfriend and everyone might think that, and he might not want to be if he thinks you made up the rumor saying he was your boyfriend.
 If your stomach is rushing with butterflies because you think he might say yes, calm down (because if he says no your stomach will hurt and you'll want to go home) and relax, because it also causes you to freak out and think twice. Who knows, maybe he was going to ask you.
 If you guys were grinding, and all the sudden the music switches to slow songs, turn around and look at him (because most likely he was grinding the back) and ask: "Should we...? If not, that's fine." If he says: "Oh, no," or "NO!", then just say: "Okay," and move to the seating (there is probably seating). If not, move to the walls. If he says: "Sure," or "Okay," then wait until he either puts his hands around your neck or your hips. If he doesn't, then start with the "white girl tap," where you move your foot slowly and smile, and act good.
 If he fast songs you, like jumping up and down and smiling, then do it with him, unless you're in fear of "bouncing". If you are, then just move your hips and slowly grind (you might get him and the crowd to, also), so relax with it.
 If he isn't dancing with you, and is turned around, dancing with his friends or another girl, slowly dance/move away. If he asks why you stopped and left him at the dance floor, say: "I felt sick," "My stomach hurt," or "I had to go to the bathroom.". Try not to hurt him, and don't say: "Because you weren't dancing with me! Because he won't like you and you won't have a chance with each other. Just smile and say: "Want to dance now?" and if he says no, say: "Okay," and ask another boy or your friends to dance.
 If he's a bad dancer, just have a fun time with it. Kind of laugh with it, and if your friends say: "Oh my gosh, you guys were adorable being terrible dancers!", say: "I know . . . isn't my boyfriend cute?" or "I know . . . but he's unique. That's why I like him!" If it's a slow song and he's stepping on your feet all the time, and it hurts, ask him to "follow you". If he doesn't, separate and start the "white girl tap", tapping your feet left and right and smiling. It'll make you guys look cute together!

, If he's being rude, commenting on your dancing (even if you are bad), sometimes it's best if you say: "Well, if I'm so terrible, you can find another girl to dance with, and comment on her." and if you're in high school (and old enough to curse), say: "Well, maybe you should stop commenting on girls' dancing and have fun." And if he "tattles" on you, don't worry. Reject everything or accept it, and the teachers will let you back in.
 If he asks you to be his girlfriend at the dance, at the middle of the dance, the end or the beginning, smile and either say yes or no. If you say yes, then he'll be happy. If you wanted to dance, say yes! It's what you've wanted, right? If you say no, and ask to be just friends, he's gonna be depressed the whole dance. So say yes and break up with him by saying: "I was thinking about it, and I don't want to," after the dance or at school the next day. Maybe you should give it a chance to see if he's a good guy.
 If you guys danced, there's gonna be some rumors. Be the rumor patrol! If he's making them up, ask him to clear them nicely, and if he says no, then just tell everyone the truth (especially "Gossip Girl") and if someone randomly made them up, smile and deal with them. At the end, say "whatever" to them if someone bothers you.
 If you see your crush/cutie/eye-candy dancing with someone else, relax. Find someone else to dance with, and don't let it ruin your day. He's probably having a good time, and that's his wishes. Don't turn it into "everything sucks" and ruin your friends' time complaining about it.
 There will probably be a big group of random 6th, 7th, or 8th graders, or in high school, 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th graders, and if you get rejected or can't find someone you want to dance with, move to the grinders. If a cute boy you see happens to move to that group, too, maybe you should ask him.
 Don't forget to have fun because you can ask him to meet you somewhere and dance then!

