 Unplug the laptop, wait a few minutes, then plug it into an outlet in a different room. Some users report that a laptop power adapter can temporarily stop working to protect itself from a perceived issue with the power supply.If your battery is removable, take it out while the power source is disconnected. Hold down the laptop's power button for two minutes, put the battery back in, and plug it in to a new outlet.;
, Examine the entire length of the power cord for tears, dents, and worn-down insulation. If you notice any, or if the power brick is warped or smells like burnt plastic, the cord is probably faulty.You'll need to purchase a new cord for your laptop.


Check your warranty before replacing any parts. The cost may be covered under some circumstances.
 If the cord's attachment to your laptop wobbles or feels loose, there could be a problem with the connection. Unplug the cord, remove debris with a wooden toothpick, and remove heavy dust build-up with compressed air.


Bent pins and other damage issues are model-specific. Take the laptop or cord to a computer repair shop. You can look up your model online for repair instructions, but this can be difficult without proper tools, and may void the warranty.
 Shut down the computer, unplug it, then remove the battery from your laptop. The battery can usually be accessed from the underside of the laptop, and may have a lock you can turn with a coin, or release by lifting a lever. Leave the battery out for ten seconds, slot it back in, then start up your computer. Plug the laptop in again after start-up and wait ten seconds to see if it works.


Not all laptops have easily accessible batteries. If there is no obvious battery compartment, just restart your computer without removing the battery.
 If your laptop battery feels very hot to the touch, excess heat could be interfering with the charging process.Shut down the computer and let it sit for several minutes to cool down. If you haven't cleaned your laptop vents recently, blow a can of compressed air into the fan vents at an angle, in short bursts, to remove some dust.


Do not blow directly into the fan vents, only at an angle, or you could damage the fan.If you are comfortable disassembling your laptop, you can use the compressed air to blow away internal dust directly. Look up a guide to disassembly for your model before you begin, and work on a large, clear surface. This will likely void your warranty.
 Shut down the computer, remove the battery, and plug the computer in. If the computer won't turn on, you probably need a new cord. If you can start it up again in this situation, the charging issue is probably due to the battery itself, or your computer's interaction with the battery. The methods below may fix the problem, or your battery may be dead and require replacement.


If your laptop battery is not removable, skip this step and try the methods below before taking your laptop to a computer repair store.
 Sometimes the adapter (the box in the cord) is faulty, or despite your best efforts you can't repair a loose plug. Try borrowing a friend's charger, or asking an computer store employee to test your charger. If your charger is faulty, buy a new part from a computer or electronics store., Go to Start → Control Panel → Power Options. There may be a "low battery level" setting at too high a level, which can cause your computer to shut down instead of charge.The simplest way to deal with these settings is to restore them to the default. If this does not fix the problem, continue on below

, First, open "Device Manager". This can be found most easily with a Windows computer by using the search function, or by navigating to Start → Control Panel → System and Security → Device Manager., When the list has loaded, expand the "Batteries Tab".
 Right click "Microsoft ACPI-Compliant Control Method Battery," then select "Update Driver Software."Follow the instructions that appear.
 Shut down the computer and start it up again, so the driver will take effect. If the laptop still won't charge, repeat the "Update driver" step on every entry in the Battery section, then restart your computer a second time.
 If you still cannot charge your laptop, try right-clicking "Microsoft ACPI-Compliant Control Method Battery" and selecting "Uninstall." When the process is finished, click the button on the toolbar that says 'Scan for hardware changes" Alternately, you can open the "Action" tab and press Scan for hardware changes. Restart your computer once the driver is reinstalled.


This step requires an internet connection on your laptop.
 Open Systems Preferences from the Dock or your Applications folder. Click on Energy Saver and check both the "Battery" and "Power Adapter" setting tabs. In rare cases, a sleep setting set too low can look like a battery charging issue.In most cases, you'll need to try the additional steps below.
 Use one of these methods to reset the SMC, which controls battery management, battery status light:Laptops with a non-removable battery: Shut down the computer. Plug it into a power source. On the built-in keyboard, press the left-side shift control option keys and the laptop power button at the same time. Release the keys at the same time, then turn on your computer.

Laptops with a removable battery: Shut down the computer and disconnect the power cord. Remove the battery. Press and hold the power button for five seconds. Reattach the battery and power cord attached to an outlet, then start up the computer.

