 Before choosing a certification, think about what sort of work you want to do and where. Some places, including gyms and clubs, will not hire you unless you have a specific certification. When deciding upon a career path, ask yourself these questions:


Do you want to work for a gym, a club, or own your private business?
Do you like working with elderly, adults, or children?
Do you like working with healthy individuals or those who are recovering from an injury?;
, Different types of careers need different types of certifications. Here are some examples of certifications and the sort of work associated with them:American Council on Exercise (ACE) certifications are useful if you want to educate people on fitness and teach them how to eventually perform the exercises on their own.
American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) certifications are useful if you want to work with people who are recovering from illness or an injury and need to improve their strength and mobility.
National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) certifications are useful if you want work with people who wish to improve their strength and fitness. Clients are usually athletes, both student and professional.
National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) certifications are useful if you want to help people improve their strength and mobility. These people can be healthy individuals or those recovering from an illness or an injury.
 Before you can start meeting the requirements of the certification you chose, you will need to make sure that you can afford it. Preparing for your certification can be very expensive, especially if you are required to attend additional classes and workshops. Fortunately, there are many ways you can fund your certification:


Consider a temporary job. This includes working retail and office type jobs, working at a college, university, or high school, or being self-employed.
Consider asking a gym to help fund or sponsor you, especially if it is a gym you want to work at.If you have to earn a 4-year college degree or a 2-year Associate's degree in order to meet the requirements of the certification, try to get a scholarship or financial aid. There are many websites and organizations that offer scholarships. Your school should also offer scholarships and financial aid as well.
 Once you have decided on a certification, it is important to review the requirements and make sure that you meet them. Some certifications may require additional training, courses, advanced degrees, workshops, and even memberships, while others are less demanding and will be content with just a high-school GED and some training experience.If you do not meet the requirements, you may have to attend additional classes or workshops.


If you are eager to begin working as a personal trainer, consider going for the easiest, least-expensive certification first. This will allow you to get "your foot in the door." You can always get another, more prestigious certification later when you have more time, money, and experience.
Be sure you have a certification in CPR and/or AED, as almost all personal trainer certifications require it.
 Once you have chosen your certification, you will need to prepare for the exam so that you can pass it. The exams can be very difficult, and often cost hundreds of dollars; sometimes you have to wait weeks before you can re-take a failed exam. Here are some ways you can prepare:Consider enrolling in a college or university and getting a 2-year Associate's degree or a 4-year Bachelor's degree..
Consider attending some short courses. Sometimes, the organizations that offer the certifications also offer some classes designed to help you prepare for the exam. These courses are tailored to the requirements of the exam, and generally last a few weeks to several months. They can be taken in person or online.
Consider attending some workshops. Like the short courses, workshops are often conducted by the same organizations that provide the certifications and exams.
You can also consider reviewing sample questions and topics, purchasing the appropriate textbooks, studying the course material, and taking practice tests on the internet.
 After you have prepared and studied for your certification, register for the exam and take it in the time allotted. Most exams are between 2-3 hours long, and you have to take them within several months of signing up.


Keep in that some certifications require you take re-certify every couple of years, while others will require you to continue attending courses and workshops.
 Before you can get hired at a gym, club, or therapy center, you will need to build your resume through experience. Even if you choose to create your own business and work independently, it is a good idea to have some experience. Having some experience will reassure clients that you are both competent and knowledgeable, and it will help convince clients to employ you as their personal trainer. Getting initial experience may be difficult, especially if you are just starting out, but fortunately, there are many ways in which you can build it up:


While in college, consider applying for an internship. This internship should be at the sort of place you plan to work at later. If you want to work as a fitness trainer at a gym, consider an internship at a gym. Similarly, if you want to work with patients recovering from injuries, consider an internship at a hospital where you help patients recover their strength and mobility.
Volunteer at a gym, club, or therapy center. You may be doing the work for free, but you will get both invaluable experience and references.
It can even be as simple as helping a friend or family member set and achieve a weight-loss or fitness goal. Personal stories like these are also great for cover letters., Working at a gym or club has both advantages and disadvantages. Evaluate the advantages and the disadvantages and their levels of importance to you. If some of the disadvantages deal with something that is important to you, then working at a company may not be the right choice for you. Here are some advantages and disadvantages of working at a gym or club:


Finding clients will be easier. Some of them might already be assigned to you by your employer, while others will be attending the gym you are working at. You do not have to actively seek out clients.
You also will not have to rent a studio. On the other hand, you will be stuck with whatever equipment is provided. You also will be stuck with the building, so if it lacks air conditioning, there is little you can do to change that.
Another disadvantage is that you will have less flexibility when it comes to choosing your work schedule.
Lastly, you will have little choice when it comes to choosing your salary and the insurance provided to you.
 Working privately also has its advantages and disadvantages. You will have more control over what hours you work, where you work, how much you get paid, and what insurance you get. Unfortunately, you will also have to put in more effort when it comes to finding clients. Evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of working for yourself, and decide whether or not the time, money, and effort is something you are willing to sacrifice for the benefits.


One advantage to working for yourself is that you will have control over your salary and what insurance you use.
Another advantage is that you will have control over what days and hours you work. Keep in mind, however, that the hours you work will also determine how many clients you get. Most people work during the day, so scheduling yourself during the day may not get you many clients. Consider scheduling yourself in the mornings before people go to work, and the evenings after people leave work.
You will also have more control over where you work and what equipment you use. Unfortunately, if you are renting a private studio, you will have to pay the rent and buy the equipment (but you can also add that much-desired air conditioning). If you are working at a client's house, you won't have to pay rent or buy equipment. You can, however, advise your client what to buy.
Finding clients will be difficult. You will have to learn how to market yourself well, and actively seek out your clients.
 Whether you are working for a corporation at a gym or a club, or for yourself, you want to be insured. Insurance will cover you financially if you injure yourself and cannot work for a few days, weeks, or months. It will also protect you if your client gents injured.If you are working at a gym or club, you may already be covered by the company's insurance plan. It is a good idea, however, to review the insurance plan so that you know what and for how much the plan is covering you for.
If you are self-employed, you will need to purchase some sort of an insurance plan. You may also want to consider General Liability insurance. Under a General Liability insurance, you will be protected in the event a client is injured in your studio, but you will not be held responsible if a client gets injured on his or her property during a training session., This does not necessarily mean that you should abandon everything else and focus solely on your specialization. While it is important to know various aspects of physical fitness and training, it is also a good idea to specialize on a particular form of exercise or equipment.Doing so will allow you to become an expert in this area, and might even make you more sought-after by interested clients.


For example, you can focus on training just the upper body, specifically on the abdominal muscles.
You can also focus on one particular piece of equipment, such as dumbbells, and incorporate them into your exercises.
 The blog does not have to be a bunch of "Choose Me as Your Personal Trainer!" advertisements. Instead, consider using your blog as a workout journal where you record your daily or weekly workout routines followed by the results. People will read your blog and follow your progress. They may consider contacting you to help them workout plan for themselves. They may even refer to you one of their friends!

, Much like blogs, social media can help others discover your business and learn more about it. Create an account on various social media websites and post daily or weekly updates on your workout regime followed by the results. You can also consider posting your clients' progress as well, but be sure to ask your clients first if they are comfortable with this.
 If you do not know how to code a website, you can either create one using a program or hire someone else to do it for you. Use this website to discuss yourself, your work, and your clients' success. Consider including the following sections:


A biography where you discuss yourself, your background, and your goals.
A section where clients can post their success their stories. Seeing others meet their goals will convince potential clients that you know what you are doing and that you can help them.
A question and answer section where you answer fitness-related questions on a weekly, monthly, etc basis. This will show others how knowledgeable you are. They will both trust and respect you.
 Optimizing your website for search engines can help people find your site sooner. This is important, because most people do not click past the first page of search results. The higher up your website is on the search results, the more likely someone will see it, click on it, and find your business.
 When you are up and about running errands, don't be afraid to strike up conversations with others. Do not blatantly advertise yourself and ask people to consider you as their personal trainer; instead, let the conversation take a more natural course. For example:


If you meet someone at the bar, consider asking the person about his or her job. This may lead him or her asking you about your job. They might become interested in becoming a client, and if they aren't, they might know someone who might want a personal trainer.
 A great place to advertise your business is on the internet. There are many websites that are specifically designed for such advertisements. Another option is to frequent fitness-related forums and advertise there.


If you join a website or forum, be sure to read the rules. Some have guidelines regarding where and how you post your advertisements. The last thing you would want is to get banned!

, Many newspapers and magazines not only have a section for advertisements, but are available both on the internet and in paper format. This means that twice as many people will see your advertisement. Consider sending your advertisement to your local newspaper or fitness magazine.
 There are many public places that allow people to post fliers for their businesses. Consider designing a few fliers on your computer, printing them, and then posting them in public locations, such as libraries, cafes, and community centers. Be sure to ask for permission before posting any fliers.


When designing your flier, consider including your contact information on little slips of paper that interested clients can then tear off and take home. This will help customers who do not have a pen and paper to copy down your contact information. It will allow allow potential clients to take several copies to distribute to others who might also be interested.
 There are many places to find clients, both on the internet and off the internet, and it is important to frequent those places.


If you wish to find clients on the internet, consider joining websites related to fitness, weight-loss, and physical therapy. These sorts of websites are frequented not just by fellow trainers and their clients, but also people seeking trainers.
If you wish to find clients off the internet, consider frequenting gyms, community centers, and parks. Some people might try to join a gym seeking to improve their strength and overall health, but they may not know where to begin. If you see someone looking lost, uncertain, in-confident, or desperate, approach them and converse with them. They may decide to chose you as their personal trainer.
 Simply posting an advertisement at a community center or on a website will not be enough; over time, your advertisement may get taken down, lost, or buried beneath other advertisements. It is important to revisit the places you distributed your advertisements and update them with new ones. It is also important to continue updating your website, blog, and/or social media account.
 Even if the organization that certified you doesn't require continuing education, you should still keep up-to-date on the latest developments in the field of sports science. Not only does this introduce you to new techniques that may benefit your clients, it also means you're more likely to be able to answer your clients' questions, whether they come from honest curiosity or an urge to stump the trainer.
 The more, diverse experiences you have in the fitness field, the longer your list of qualifications gets and the better you'll be able to connect with like-minded clients. Here are some examples of specialties that you can explore:


Various types of yoga
CrossFit
Zumba
Boot camp workouts

, Clients are much more likely to trust a trainer that follows his or her own advice and has the results to prove it. The more practice you have under your belt, the more chances you have to see first-hand what works and what doesn't. In other words, practice what you preach.
 Word-of-mouth advertising from satisfied clients will help you get more clients. Contact local gyms to inquire about training in their facility. Local rehabilitation clinics are another potential source of clients and referrals. Often, clients who have finished with physical therapy still need guidance and encouragement to stay active, healthy and complete a full recovery. Ask clients to refer friends, distribute fliers to local weight-loss groups and put brochures up on public bulletin boards.
 Some need careful, constant supervision, while others may want to be educated so they can become self-sufficient exercisers themselves. Make it standard policy to have a goal-setting session with each new client to make sure you're both working toward the same ultimate goal. This will not only help you connect better with your clients, but it will also help you get more referrals from satisfied clients.

