 Think about what your husband likes to talk about, think about the things he is talented at, take note of what he does in his free time. Sometimes people have a difficult time reflecting on their own interests, so it can be helpful to hear input from a person that they trust. If you notice, for example, that in his free time he typically likes to take things apart to see how they work, maybe your husband's passion is something such as engineering.This doesn’t mean you need to tell him what his passion is; however, if your husband asks for help, you can use this type of thinking to come up with ideas and suggestions. For example, you could say, “Well, I notice that every time a TV program about cars comes on, you always stop to watch it. Maybe that is something you are interested in.”;
, Maybe you already know what you are passionate about. Maybe you are passionate about animals, so you spend your weekends at the animal shelter helping out. Maybe your passion is architecture so you made a career out of it. Regardless of what your passion might be, or what you do with it, it may be helpful for your husband to learn about how you figured it out for yourself.


Some people find their passion by accident or without really trying to figure it out. If this is the case for you, then that is wonderful. However, keep in mind that it probably won’t really be helpful for your husband. That doesn’t mean you have to lie about it, but you can say something like, “I don’t really know how I figured out my passion for animals. I was always around them so it sort of developed on its own. I think I’m just lucky, though. I think most people really have to get out there and try a few things before figuring it out.”
By saying something like this you are being honest with your husband without being discouraging.
 If your husband brings up that he is trying to figure out what his passion is, and asks you what you think he might be good at, it is important that you don’t just tell him what he should do. Nobody likes to be commanded to do something, and he may be more open to your ideas if he sees them as suggestions.


For example, you could say something like, “I notice that you really seem to enjoy talking about birds. Do you think you might be interested in trying out bird watching?”

, One great way to help your husband find his passion is to try out new things together. Try doing something together that he thinks sounds interesting. Try to think of some things on your own that seem like they could be interesting, and suggest trying it out together. You may think of something that has never occurred to him before. Trying things together can be fun, and if your husband is feeling unsure of what he wants, it may make the process seem a little less intimidating.


For example, maybe your husband thinks he could be passionate about helping out children. Suggest going to a children’s hospital to volunteer. Consider trying out a program such as Big Brothers Big Sisters, which will give him an opportunity to spend time with a child who needs a mentor.Come up with your own ideas too. For example, maybe you think your husband could really enjoy baking if he gave it a try. Suggest baking a cake together, or trying a baking class together. Maybe your husband never really thought about baking, but will really love it.
Another advantage to this is that there is research that shows that couples who try new things together tend to be happier than those who don’t., While trying things out together is great, there may be some things your husband would rather do on his own. He may want to prove to himself that he can do something without anybody else’s help, or he may just need some time on his own to really think about whether or not he enjoys something.Try not to take it personally if your husband says that he wants to do something alone. This doesn’t necessarily mean that he wants to do it without you specifically. Remember that some people need more alone time than others, and most everyone needs a bit of time for themselves.
 When you are very close with someone it can sometimes be difficult to listen without interpreting everything they say as it pertains to you. However, this often leads to arguments and misunderstandings. When your spouse talks to you about some feelings he has, try to remove your own ego from the conversation. Instead, listen openly to his feelings and try to put yourself in his shoes. If your husband is telling you that he feels as though he doesn’t have a purpose, it’s unlikely that he is saying this to hurt you. He may not even be thinking in terms of you and him, and may simply be saying he wants to have something of his own to feel passionate about.When you are listening to your husband, let him talk without interrupting him. Reassure him that you are there to support him in any way you can. Try to stay positive. Ask him if there is anything you can do to help him find his passion, and take note of what he says.
Remember that sometimes people just need to let their feelings out, and that your husband may not necessarily be asking for advice. If you aren’t sure what he wants, just ask. For example, you can say, “I hear what you’re telling me, and I can sympathize with how you’re feeling. Would you like my advice on the matter, or is it more helpful for you if I just listen?”

, If your husband does want to hear your input, be honest, but also try to stay positive and encouraging. If your husband wants to find his passion, then that is a great thing. Not everyone takes the time to reflect on matters such as this, so there is no reason to discourage him from doing so.When you do give advice, try to be thoughtful before answering. If he asks you what he should do, but you don’t know, then say so. For example, you can say, “I don’t really know most people find their passion. Maybe we can try to think of ways to figure this out together. Would you like that?”
Try to remember that advice isn’t always wanted or even needed.
 Nobody wants to be nagged regardless of what it is about. If your husband is trying to figure out what is really important to him in life, then hearing you constantly nag will only make the whole experience tense and unenjoyable. On top of that, he may come to resent you or may start to feel as though he cannot make you happy. Try to remember that people take action when they feel they really need or are ready to.For example, if your husband has said he wants to try something, it is good to encourage him, but then let him do it at his own pace. You don’t need to remind him every day about what he said he was going to do.
On the other hand, don’t feel as though you can’t give a gentle push or reminder when your husband seems to be putting something off. For example, maybe your husband is thinking of going to a carpentry workshop that happens every Wednesday night, but you notice he always finds an excuse to get out of it. Encourage him to give it a try next time even if it is a bit nerve-wracking.
 This may seem obvious, but in many close family relationships, it can be easy to forget. Treat your husband with kindness and respect. Don’t say things to your husband that will make him feel bad. If he tells you about his day, try to listen and be happy for him. If he tells you about something new he is trying, don’t tell him you think it is stupid or silly (even if you actually do).Being kind to your husband can help make him feel loved and appreciated.
There are lots of little ways to be kind to someone close to you. Kindness plays a huge role in a successful marriage whether or not one person is working on finding a passion.
Some examples of things you can do include telling him you love him or that you appreciate him, you can wish him a nice day and give him a hug before he leaves for work, make him his favorite meal, let him choose what you watch on TV. It doesn’t have to be something huge, but it will give him a reminder that he always has someone there willing to support him.
 Being patient with a spouse can be challenging as it is. This can be even more challenging when one person is trying to find their way in life, while the other has it all figured out. Remember that finding a passion often means trying several things to see what fits and what doesn’t. It is a learning process, and can sometimes be a bit scary. Therefore, try to be patient with your husband while he figures things out.Obviously, this depends on what type of “passion” your husband is trying to find. If your husband is simply trying to find a new hobby he feels passionate about, it may not be that difficult to be patient. On the other hand, if your husband is trying to find a career he feels passionate about, you may need to practice a bit more patience.
Remember that being patient is a skill. Some people are naturally more patient than others, but just because you don’t believe yourself to be patient doesn’t mean that you can’t become more patient.
 Try to remember that finding a passion is more difficult for some people than for others. You might have figured everything out very quickly and easily, but that doesn’t mean your husband will be able to also. It may not always be easy to do, especially if your husband comes up with lots of different things he wants to try, some of which seem a bit “out there.” Remind yourself that it means a lot to your husband to have you in his corner.Sometimes it is easier to be understanding than at other times. Remember to take time for yourself when you need it. If you are feeling frustrated and having a difficult time being understanding, try doing something you find relaxing so you don’t react out of negative emotions.
 In a marriage, when one person is struggling to figure something out, the other spouse may often feel resentful or not cared for. While you may be doing your best and making a lot of sacrifices so that your husband can find his passion, you should also remember that you are important too. It is important to be honest about it if you feel as though you aren't getting the care you need. This doesn’t mean that you need to be negative, but only that you should remember to talk about your needs too.You can say something like, “I know you’re struggling to figure things out right now, and that is hard. I hope I can support you as much as you need. Lately, I’ve been feeling a bit left out of your life. Do you think we could do something together? Maybe we could go on a date this weekend?”
Saying it like this shows your husband that you’re not trying to ignore what’s going on in his life, but that you also feeling a bit down. By making a suggestion on what can be done about it, your husband is less likely to feel defensive because he sees that you are trying to stay positive.
 When you start feeling impatient, try to remind yourself that your husband is probably struggling with this too. Losing your temper, being impatient, or failing to try and understand his feelings will only make him feel worse. This is especially true if your husband is searching for his passion in terms of a career.


Doing this does require some practice. You may not always get it right, and that’s OK. Try to practice catching yourself before you say something impatient or harsh to your husband. When you catch yourself, think about his feelings and how what you want to say might make him feel.
One way to become more aware of your husband’s feeling is to try and put yourself in his shoes. How would you feel if you felt like you lacked something to feel passionate about? What would you do to try and find that passion? How would you want to be supported while searching for something to feel passionate about?

