 Your introductory paragraph should be three or four sentences that address what you will cover in the essay; in this case it would be leadership.


A good way to grab interest in the introduction is to provide an anecdote from your life that shows leadership. You could write something like, “My leadership abilities were on display when I confronted a classmate who had been bullying a friend.”
Alternatively, you could mention a great leader from history who has inspired you. It could be something like, “General Eisenhower showed great leadership when he gave the order to launch the D-Day invasion.”

, Explain what it is about leadership that you will be writing about.


Your thesis statement should appear in the introductory paragraph of your essay, usually as the last sentence.If the application asks a direct question about leadership, you will need to answer it. That will form the basis of how you craft your thesis statement.
A thesis statement should be debatable; you should take a side. An example would be, “A leader can be any individual whose characteristics and qualities people admire and try to emulate.”
Some examples of strong thesis statements are: “The most important trait for a leader is ambition;” “All strong leaders are good communicators;” and “Every great leader has overcome failure in his or her life.”
The rest of your essay should offer supporting evidence for the argument(s) you make in your thesis statement., The body text should support the argument outlined in your thesis statement. Following your introductory paragraph with three paragraphs of body text, and then a conclusion, allows you to follow the classic format for a five-paragraph essay.Each paragraph of the body text section should contain a different argument/evidence that supports your thesis. The first body text paragraph should feature your strongest arguments.
Each paragraph of body text should be between three and five sentences long.
Throughout your body text, be sure to offer examples and anecdotes that boost your arguments. For instance, if your thesis is “ambition is the most important characteristic of leadership,” give examples of how you or strong leaders throughout history have embodied this trait.
Use the information you gathered during your research when writing your body text.
If the essay application defines different requirements for your essay, such as longer or shorter, follow those instead of the five-paragraph model.
 Your final paragraph is your last chance to convince your reader of your arguments.Your conclusion should feature a re-phrasing of your thesis statement, as well as a summary of your supporting arguments.
Finish your conclusion with a final thought on the topic.
Do not introduce any new evidence in your conclusion.