 It's much easier for the body to run on one night of no sleep than one night of no sleep and one night of bad sleep, so make a plan to sleep as much as you can the night before.


Sleep in the night before. If you wake up close to noon, you'll be less tired when it's time to start really staying up.
Try not only waking up really late but going to bed a bit late the night before. If you go to bed at nine at night the night before, your body will start getting tired around that time.
If you can, take an extended nap a few hours before you plan to stay up. This will give you an extra boost of rest and energy.





;
, If you want to pull an all-nighter, you have to eat three healthy and balanced meals the day before you try to stay up, or your body will feel tired from unhealthy foods or fatigued from undernourishment. Here's what you should eat the day before:


Have a big, healthy breakfast. Eat healthy carbs like oatmeal or wheat-based cereal, proteins like lean turkey or ham, and some fruits and vegetables. Add a yogurt or cottage cheese to your meal.
Have a healthy lunch. Eat a sandwich with wheat bread, a hard-boiled egg, or a big salad with avocado, carrots, cucumbers, and tomatoes. Whatever you eat should give you a boost of energy without making you feel sluggish.
Eat the right dinner for staying up all night. This will be the last meal you eat before you prepare to stay up all night, so make it count. Avoid greasy or fattening foods that will make you feel bloated or heavy. Instead, eat some chicken or turkey, couscous, whole grain pasta, fruits, and vegetables. Make sure you have some carbohydrates for energy, and some proteins like soy, chicken, or ham.
Avoid heavily caffeinated or sugary foods. If you drink coffee all day or eat sugary snacks like candy, then you'll be crashing and ready for bed after dinner.
 Prepare a kit of healthy snacks that you can eat if you get hungry throughout the night, and leave some healthy foods in your fridge if you know you'll be spending the night at home. Here are some foods you can stock up on as you prepare to stay up all night:


Some healthy veggies. Carrot sticks and celery are a great snack that won't make you tired. You can even eat the celery with a bit of peanut butter.
Some healthy fruits. Apples and bananas are easy to carry and will keep you energized.
Some nuts. Almonds, walnuts, and cashews are a delicious and nutritious form of protein.
If you're staying at home, make sure you have some chicken, tofu, or turkey in your fridge, as well as some healthy pasta or couscous that you can cook in a pinch.

