 You should never have any thing like an AK-47 or a machete, but just have certain items that you can defend yourself with.;
, A baseball bat (to hit or block with.) 2.) Some sort of heavy object, or ball. 3.) Some sort of spray, such as pepper spray (to drive away, or temporary blind them.)


Anything hard can help you significantly, unless you aren't that strong. You can use lighter objects are still effective, and can help defend yourself.
 If you don't have any of the items listed before, your body can still be an effective weapon, if you know how to use it right.
 This is something that you may not know: panic isn't the worst thing to have in a difficult situation. Ever heard of "adrenaline"? Most people have, but for those of you that don't know what it is, basically it is a rush of energy that runs through your body and you sort of gives you an extra sense of awareness.
 If you think it's something unusual, call the Emergency Services! Even if it isn't anything to concerned about at the moment, still call! The Emergency Services are specialized in emergency situations. The person from the Emergency Services should give you valuable tips or instructions on what to do, depending on your situation.
 If someone gets into your house, don't confront them at the time of their arrival. Assess your situation. You most likely won't know who it is that's in your house, but try to figure them out. Are they men or women? Next, try to figure out if they are concealing any lethal weapons. These assessments will help you have an idea of whether they're male or female, and what weapon(s) they might have. This will help you SIGNIFICANTLY because you now have an idea of what to do. If they are a male, one weak spot that everyone knows about is the groin. For women, well, that's a different story. Women have more strong spots than weak. If he/she has for example a gun, you know not to let them know where you are. If you do, they will immediately go to where you are, and attack you.
,