 Is it very common for siblings to think of themselves as being in competition with each other for everything from their parents' affection, to the last slice pizza, or the best grades. Try not to compare yourself with your sibling, but understand that you have different strengths and weaknesses. If you support each other you will develop a better relationship than if you are constantly trying to better each other.If your brother gets the best grades in maths, don't judge yourself against this, but think about what you do well.
For example you could say to yourself, "my brother always get high grades in maths, but I always win races at school"., An important part of any relationship is having clear and well-understood boundaries for behaviour. This is especially important for siblings who spend so much time together and grow up together. Your parents should help outline what is not acceptable and you have a responsibility to stick to this.If you feel like you don't understand the boundaries or that your sibling is not respecting them, be honest and open about it.
It's important to be able to recognise the boundaries without your parents' intervention.
For example, if your brother is annoying you, you can walk away. If he follows you, he may have crossed the boundary.
 If you are jealous, annoyed or frustrated it can be very easy to lose your cool and lose your temper. This will most likely inflame a situation and make it worse. If you can control your temper you will be better able to defuse a problem without it escalating. If you reach boiling point, take a deep breath and a step back.


Try to work out what has provoked you and why. Are you annoyed with your sibling or more annoyed with the situation?If you can recognise when your sibling is becoming irritated, step away and don't provoke them.
You could say to yourself, "I know he is angry when his voice gets louder and his cheeks turn pink, so I will walk away".
 As you get to know your sibling better you will gain a clearer understanding of what things irritate him the most. If you want to stay on good terms and have a good relationship you need to respect him and not provoke him. You can say "I know he gets annoyed when I go on about soccer all the time, so I'll talk to somebody else about the last night's game".


If your brother gets annoyed with you leaving lots of mess or not clearing away your toys, try to understand his concerns and be considerate.
 Siblings spend a lot of time together and it can be hard to escape sometimes, so it's crucial that you each respect each other's space. Everyone needs time to do their own thing and to be alone.If you share a room it's even more important that you respect everybody has a right to their own space and understand the boundaries.Sometimes you might want to play with friends rather than your sibling. This is perfectly normal, just be sensitive and take it as a compliment that your sibling wants to spend time with you.

