 It’s helpful to have your materials close by and ready for you to quickly and easily make the frame. You can get these materials at your local craft store.


4 wooden dowels that are 3/16 inch in diameter
Hand saw
Craft knife
String, twine, or fishing line;
, The vertical support of the kite will measure 24 inches. The horizontal support of the kite will measure 20 inches. Make sure to ask an adult for help when cutting the dowels.


Measure the lengths of the dowels.
Mark the dowels with a pencil at the desired length.
Cut the dowels with a hand saw to prevent splintering.
 Use a craft knife to cut small notches into the ends of the dowels. Cut a notch on each end of the dowel perpendicular to the length of the dowel. The notch should go across the dowel, not be in line with it.


Craft knives are very sharp, so make sure to get an adult to help you with cutting or cut the notches for you., Use a ruler and your pen, pencil or marker to make measurements on the two dowels.


On the 24 inch dowel, make a mark 6 inches from one end.
One the 20 inch dowel, make a mark 10 inches from one end.
 Line up the two marks you made on the dowels by placing the shorter dowel on top of the longer dowel perpendicular to it. The two dowels should make a cross.
 Use the string, twine, or fishing line to tie your dowels together where they meet in the center. Tie the string in a knot around the two dowels and then wrap the string around the dowels making an “x” shape as you wrap.


Hold the dowels perpendicular in a cross shape as you wrap the string around them.
Make sure you are wrap the string tightly.
Tie a knot in the string after you have securely fastened the two dowels together.
Do not cut the string off after wrapping the dowels together, you will string the frame together next.
 Bring the string up to top of the dowel cross and wrap it around the notch at the top.


Pull the string around each of the four ends of the kite frame in a clockwise direction.
Wrap the string around each dowel as you go around the frame.
Bring the string back to the center to tie it off around the “x” in the center.The string should be in the shape of a kite.
Pull the string tight as you pull it around the dowels so it is taut.
 You can make the sail of your kite from several different materials. Decide what look you want for your kite. Some materials can be decorated to make your kite unique. You can use any of the following:Heavy duty garbage bag
Lightweight paper
Lightweight fabric
Newspaper
Plastic bag

, You should have all of your tools and materials gathered in one place before you start a project.


Material for the sail
Scissors
Strong tape

, Lay the kite frame down on the sail material, and trace a slightly larger kite shape. The outline of the kite should be 1 to 2 inches bigger than kite frame. Use the scissors to cut out the kite shape on your sail material.
 Fold the edges of the sail over the string on the frame and secure it with strong tape.


Reinforce the top and bottom of your kite. Use tape to reinforce the top and bottom tips of your kite by placing 1 to 2 extra pieces of tape across them.
 Having all of your materials in one place before you begin will save you time as you are finishing up this project.


Pen
String
Ribbon
Tape

, A kite’s brindle is a string that extends the length of the frame and has the flying string attached to it.Use a pen to poke a small hole in the top and bottom tips that you have reinforced with tape.
Cut a 2 foot piece of string
Tie the string in a knot around the top hole. Tie the other end to the bottom hole.
 Hold the kite up by the brindle. Find the point along the brindle where the kite hangs parallel to the ground; this is the spot where you want to attach the flying string. Tie the end of the string in a knot around the brindle. You will hold the rest of the string when you are flying the kite.
 Attach the ribbon by tying it to the hole at the bottom tip, or by taping it to the bottom.


Your tail should be about 6-20 feet long depending on the weight of your kite.
Cut small pieces of ribbon to tie bows around the tail.
Experiment with different lengths of tails for maximum stability.
 Take your kite out on a windy day to watch it fly! Bring tape with you to help fix any damages that might occur while flying or landing.

