 Begin making the red curry paste by using a food processor or small blender to grind the dried chilies together, then sprinkle in the salt. You can also use a mortar and pestle if you wish. Stop grinding when the chilies turn into a thick, smooth paste. Then add garlic and blend until smooth again.If you don’t want to make homemade curry paste, you can also buy Thai red curry paste at a Thai grocery store or a large Asian specialty store. This is a good option if you don’t have access to hard-to-find ingredients like fresh lemon grass.;
, Slice the root ends off of the fresh lemongrass and dispose of them. Remove the outer leaves that stick out from the rest of the plant. Then slice the lemongrass crosswise into thin slivers. Add the slivers of lemongrass to the chilies along with a pinch of turmeric.Grind in a food processor or using a mortar and pestle until smooth.
 Spoon in the three tablespoons of shrimp paste to the mixture and blend until all the ingredients are combined. Now that you are done making the curry paste, scoop it out so you can use it., Prepare the chicken and eggplant by cutting them into bite-size pieces, about an inch long. If you can’t find small Thai eggplants, use a half of a regular eggplant., Place a large pot over medium low heat and pour in a ½ cup of coconut milk. When hot, drop in the red curry paste and break it up using a large spoon. Stir and mix until the coconut milk and paste are combined., When the coconut milk and curry paste mixture starts to bubble, drop in the chicken and stir continuously, coating the chicken in the red sauce., When the chicken starts to turn white, add the eggplant along with the rest of the coconut milk, 2 cups of water and the fish sauce., Let the curry come to a boil, then keep cooking until the eggplant turns dark and the curry has thickened, about 15-25 minutes. Taste the curry and adjust if needed.If the curry is too thick, add more coconut milk or water, depending on how you want the flavor.
Add salt or pepper to taste.
 Once the curry is done cooking, wash the kaffir and basil leaves and remove them from the plant. Add the kaffir leaves to the pot and stir to mix, then add the basil. Serve the Thai red curry on top of a hot rice and enjoy!The kaffir and basil leaves will wilt and become integrated into the curry.

