 References can be given to potential employers in 2 different ways, and it is up to you to identity the potential of a bad reference.


Reference letters or contact information you submit. The point of a reference is to back up your qualifications for the job. Before you ask someone to be a reference, you have to determine if this person will say positive things about you. Look back on your working relationship thus far. Is there any reason this person may not provide a good reference? Were there any working or personal issues in the best, even if you think they were resolved? If you have any doubt that this person will mess up your chances to get the job, do not use them as a reference.
References sought solely by the potential employer. This can include previous supervisors, colleagues, or previous HR representatives. You have less control over this type of reference because you never know who and when they will contact these individuals. If you have had any issues with a potential reference contact, try to take measures listed below to minimize your risk of damage to your candidacy.;
, Contacting HR or looking in your employee handbook will help you understand each company’s policy on reference checks, also called employment verification. To reduce their liability, your current or previous companies may only provide certain information if contacted by a potential employer. A potential bad reference may not be a concern (unless they breach company policy) if the company is only allowed to confirm certain information such as the following:


Dates of employment
Title
If you left on good standing
Your pay

, You can have a friend or a reference-checking service contact your current or previous employers in order to find out what is said about you. If there is a strong potential to have a bad reference, it is best to probe deeper than general questions about title and dates of employment.


Asking about your abilities, skills, work ethic, punctuality, and character (whether they are allowed to answer or not) will let you know what will be said to real employers and allow you to plan for the bad reference.
 By providing ample information from other good references, you may eliminate the need to contact a potentially bad reference. Providing contact information and reference letters from a mix of current and previous supervisors, colleagues and mentors may eliminate the need to contact anyone further.


Three to five of these types of references should be good.

