 Medicaid benefits are distributed by specific state agencies that are responsible for administering the federal Medicaid program. If you have applied for Medicaid and you are denied, you will receive a written notice of the decision. The notice will generally include information about what you applied for, why you were denied, and what you can do to appeal the decision.Each state will have different notices with different information included. Make sure you read your notice letter carefully to determine how you need to proceed.
 Most states will provide you with a hearing request form when they send you your written notice. If you did not get a hearing request form, contact the responsible state agency and ask for one. Instructions about filling out the form will usually be included on the form itself.


For example, in North Carolina, your hearing request form must be mailed or faxed to the appropriate agency within 30 days from the date the denial letter was sent to you.
If you fail to file a timely appeal, you may lose your right to do so later., Within a short period of time after you file your appeal (25 days in North Carolina), you will usually be contacted about taking part in mediation (a form of alternative dispute resolution). In a lot of states, the mediation will take place over the phone. It is usually voluntary, which means you do not need to take part in it if you do not want to. Before taking part in the mediation session, prepare by doing all of the following:Decide who will be involved in the mediation. While a lawyer is not necessary, if you have one, you need to inform the mediator as soon as possible.
Gather documents, which will include records documenting your medical needs.
Request documents. You are entitled to see all of the information that was used to make the determination against you. Call the agency responsible for the denial and ask for their case file on you.
Share documents with the mediator ahead of time, which will help move the discussions forward.
 During mediation, the mediator will talk with you and the agency to try and come up with unique solutions to your dispute. The mediator will not take sides or inject their own opinions. If you are offered an acceptable resolution, you might choose to accept it. However, if you do not settle, you will simply move on to the hearing., Whether you take part in mediation or not, your hearing will have to take place within a certain amount of time after you file your appeal letter (55 days in North Carolina). Some hearings will be over the phone while others may be in-person. To prepare, gather evidence, which might include witness testimony, records, documents, or other objects relevant to your case.


Some states will require you to hand over evidence ahead of time so the other side can prepare. States might also require you to bring copies of anything you plan on presenting so every party can get a copy.Make sure you understand and follow the rules laid out by your state. Contact the responsible state agency if you have any questions.
 At your hearing you will be required to show that the service you are requesting is medically necessary and that you should have gotten it when you asked. Both sides will have an opportunity to speak at the hearing, and the procedures will vary by state.


Address the administrative law judge (ALJ) in a professional manner and make your case as succinctly as possible. Make things easy to understand for the ALJ so they can rule in your favor., Once the hearing is done, the ALJ will issue a decision regarding your case. Each state will have different timelines, but in North Carolina, for example, the ALJ must give you their decision within 20 days of the hearing. The judge will look at your evidence and determine whether the state agency denying you benefits:Acted erroneously
Acted arbitrarily or capriciously
failed to use proper procedure
Failed to act hen they were required to act
Exceeded its authority

, If you were successful at your hearing, you will not need to bring a lawsuit in state court. However, if your hearing ended and you were still denied Medicaid, you can appeal that decision to your local state court. In North Carolina for example, you will need to file a petition for judicial review within 30 days of receiving the ALJ's decision.


The court will be bound by the evidence you presented at your hearing unless extraordinary circumstances exist.
If you plan on going to court, consider hiring a qualified lawyer.