 The gift of flowers is a great gesture to show a girl you care. Flowers are beautiful and can have an enticing aroma that will make a girl feel special.Buy her a few of her favorite flowers or a few exotic flowers instead of a generic bouquet. This is more personal and will make a girl feel like you took the time to pick them out for her.
 Creating a memory with a girl by taking her somewhere special will help her make a connection with you. Take her somewhere unique that she isn’t used to going, or plan a fun filled day with interesting activities for her.Take her to a field or up a mountain to go stargazing one night. Bring a couple of blankets to sit on and stay warm with. You can also bring a small picnic to share.
Plan a day volunteering at an animal shelter. Shelters are always looking for volunteers to play with the dogs, so show her your compassionate side by volunteering. There’s nothing sweeter than playing with a puppy.
 Using your individual talents to surprise a girl will show her why you are a catch. She should appreciate the time you took to create something special for her.Write a song for her and perform it, or handwrite the lyrics on nice paper for her.
Choreograph a dance to perform for her, or take dancing lessons and take her out to show off your skills.
If comedy is your thing, invite her to an open mic night. Get on stage and perform a stand up set. Just make sure you don’t make her part of any of the jokes.
 Everyone wants to be loved differently and enjoys receiving love in different ways. Learn how she wants to be loved and speak her language to make her fall for you completely. The five love languages provide various ways to show your love:Acts of service - Doing favors and helping out with her needs
Gifts - Small gifts, flowers, or tokens of your appreciation
Words of affirmation - Tell her you appreciate her and compliment her strengths
Physical touch - Give gentle caresses, hugs, or massages
Quality Time - Set aside time that is devoted only to her

