 There are a few wax options for making candles, and beeswax, soy, and paraffin are among the most popular. Beeswax candles are a natural air purifier, but the wax has a high melting point and must be mixed half and half with an oil, such as palm, to lower the melting point.Soy is a great vegetable wax option for candles, and is readily available online or at craft stores.
Paraffin wax is a traditional choice for candles, but paraffin is a petroleum product and can contribute to poor air quality.
Another option is using leftover wax from other candles. Store the wax from candles you burn until you have enough to make a new candle.
Two cups (227.5grams) of wax will yield an eight-ounce candle.;
, Along with your wax, you will also need a wick, jar, double boiler, and a clean, dry towel. For a scented or colored candle, you’ll also need dye and fragrance.


Be sure to buy lead-free wicks. If your wick isn’t attached to a metal base (called a tab or sustainer), be sure to purchase one separately.
For the jar, you can use a recycled candle jar, mason jar, cleaned out glass jar from the kitchen (like a salsa jar), or even an old metal tin.
You’ll also need something to stir the wax and secure the wick tab in place, such as a spoon, chopstick, or skewer. You can also use a clothespin or pencil to secure the wick in place while the candle sets.
For scented candles, you can either use your favorite essential oils or fragrance oil. For colored candles, you can purchase dye chips, blocks, or liquid.Scents and dyes can be found at most craft stores or candle suppliers.
 Fill the bottom of the double boiler with about an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Place the top portion of the double boiler in position and put in your wax. Heat it over medium heat.


If your wax came in a large block, cut it into smaller chunks before melting it.
Always use the double boiler method to melt wax, and never try to melt the wax faster at a higher temperature. Wax has a low flash point and can catch fire.If you don’t have a double boiler, you can place a large, heat-safe glass bowl on top of a metal saucepan and use it as the top portion of the double boiler.
 As the wax melts, hold the wick by the base and dip the wick in and out of the wax quickly.Straighten the wick and allow the wax to dry. This will keep the wick straight and make it easier to position in the bottom of the candle jar.
 Dip the base of the wick into the wax, pull it out, and then position the wick base in the bottom center of your candle jar. Use a spoon handle, chopstick, or skewer to press it down until the wax dries, holding the wick in place.Lay a clothespin, chopstick, pencil, or skewer across the rim of the candle jar. If you’re using a clothespin, simply clamp the wick into place so it is straight and centered. If you’re using a chopstick, wrap the excess wick around the chopstick to keep it in place, straight, and centered.
 Stir the wax every so often as it melts. As it’s continuing to melt, chop your dye block or chips into small chunks (if you’re using them). Consult the manufacturer’s instructions regarding how much to use based on the amount and type of wax you’re using.


Once all the wax has fully melted and it’s become a clear liquid, remove it from the heat. Add in the dye and stir until the dye has melted and been dispersed evenly throughout the wax.
 Once your wax is off the heat and dyed, allow it to cool for 20 to 30 minutes before pouring your candle or adding fragrance. This will prevent the wax from cracking down the center of the candle, and prevent the fragrance from burning off.For an eight-ounce candle, add about 10 to 15 drops of fragrance and stir to evenly distribute the oil., Pour the wax into the jar, making sure you don’t pour wax all over the top of the wick. Fill the jar, leaving about one-quarter inch of space between the top of the wax and rim of the jar (this may not be necessary if you don’t have that much wax). Wrap the jar with the clean towel. This will prevent the wax from cooling too quickly, and prevent the candle from shrinking and cracking., Let the candle set for about 24 hours. This will give the wax time to fully dry, and give the dye and fragrance time to bind with the wax.


Once your candle has cured, remove the towel, remove the clothespin, and trim the excess wick to one-half inch.