 Sometimes it is neglect that can make you distant from your daughter. Hug her (not too much, maybe for 5 seconds) and comfort her. Tell her she is beautiful. Heal small hurts at random times every day. If either of you are sad or stressed comfort each other once again.;
, Teenage girls always have the desire to have relationships with boys, whether it's just friendship or crushing. If your daughter is comfortable with you, she will tell you once she's make a new guy-friend or likes a particular boy.



Get to know her, know her weaknesses and strengths and what makes her happy.
Be interested in what she tells you. Do not look worried or angry. Ask her about the boy, or even ask to meet him. Then decide whether she should hang out with him or not.
 Don't be nosy though, that can really bug your teenage daughter. Also, if she seems like she doesn't want to answer your questions, stop asking and wait for another time, teens can get moody, just like the rest of us. Some examples of questions to ask are:


What is your favorite book?
What is your favorite movie?
What is your favorite color?
What is your favorite song/album/singer/band?
What do you like to do in your spare time?
Where's your favorite place to shop?
What is your favorite animal?
What is your favorite or least favorite food?
Or you can just make up your own questions.
 Get to know the top models, the gossip, the fashion, the makeup, the top singers and actresses. Just don't copy your teen, after all she is trying to find herself!

, That's the most important thing a parent should do.
 If she has a boyfriend, be supportive. Once you've met the boyfriend and gotten to know him, and feel like he's the right sort, you can let her go on dates with him. If you did not feel like the boy is trustworthy, tell your daughter the reasons why without exploding or banning the relationship.
 Give her her own space to grow but also kindly clarify the boundaries. Know that she may sometimes test these boundaries and that is when you need to remind her that she is aware of the boundaries and that they need to restored.


If you disagree with your daughter's choice of clothing, tell her face to face. Be reasonable. Talk to her about the problems with how clothing can be suggestive and the things that certain people may assume of some types of clothing.
 In other words, never be the type of parent whom your daughter would be scared of.
 Even though she may pretend she doesn't like it when you clean her room, she really does. Some random acts you could do are:


Cleaning her room/bathroom
Cooking her an unforgettably tasty meal
Buying her some make up you think she would like
Buying her some clothes/jewelry she would enjoy

, Let your daughter know you trust her. And actually do trust her. Once she sees that you find her trustworthy, she will feel more likely to trust you.
 In this way, you will be respected too.


Make each of her birthdays extra special, by taking trips, or by having amazing parties.
 Take her somewhere she would like, for example to the mall or a music concert. *Take your daughter to places she has never heard of before and see if she finds new hobbies and good new experiences.


Take her shopping at her favorite stores.

