 With offensive headers, you score by jumping up and using your forehead to re-direct high balls. It’s a perfect goal for two people to score together, with one player assisting and one scoring. Together, you’ll put balls in the net that would otherwise sail over the top goalpost., You should keep your eyes open and trained on the ball from the minute you get ready to head the ball until you’re ready to celebrate or shed a few tears. This will not only help you shoot accurate goals, it’ll also keep you from crashing into other players. If you jump up high enough, you may also need your eyes to help you land on your feet safely., If you open your mouth when you head balls, you may it shut it randomly when you make contact with the ball. This could cause you to bite your tongue or hurt your jaw., As you get ready to head the ball, it’s important to keep your body straight and lined up with the goal. You’ll be using your your abdomen and back muscles, as well as the muscles in your neck to score. If you twist your body, the amount the power in your strike will be limited by your compressed core muscles., In order to get the ball into the net, you’ll need to head it in that direction. Jump up so that your eyes are above the ball. This will let you control your header and attack the ball with your forehead from above., Move your head forward quickly to attack the ball with your forehead. Use the middle of your forehead (right above your eyebrows) to head the ball, since this is the largest and flattest surface on your head. This spot will give you more control over the direction of your goal.Don’t be afraid of the ball. Remember that heading the ball is one of the most effective -- and coolest -- ways you can score a goal. Be positive and follow through with confidence in your game.Be sure not to hit the ball with either the top or sides of your head. You won’t be able to keep your eyes on the ball or the goal with these approaches. This will make your headers harder to control and more inaccurate.
 Most offensive headers involve you shifting a high ball so it goes straight into the net. To point the ball downwards, hit it right in the middle with your forehead. If your forehead connects with a spot too high on the ball, it may go straight down into the ground. Too low, and the ball will soar right over the top goalpost., Engaging your core and neck muscles will improve the strength of your attacks and the accuracy of your headers. As you get ready to jump up and hit the ball with your forehead, arch your back while thrusting your shoulders forward. This should get you on your way to racking up the points.