 Name the character, define the character's background and locate the character in the story.;
, Don't give them present day clothes like skinny jeans and halter tops. That just doesn't fit into a plot. Also, the OC shouldn't have the perfect body, so don't give your OC too many muscles or curves, or it just won't look right. The OC shouldn't have unnatural hair colors, like neon green or pink. Unless the character has a lighter tone like Sakura from Naruto, keep things natural.
 A thing that a lot of people do is have some tragic past or an abuse story. If you're going to do this, don't overdo it. A good thing to have is an actual living family or family member, this will give your character a relatable situation.
 Have your OC build and form a bond with the character, and don't make their relationship perfect. Remember all character couples fight, so make their relationship healthy.
 If you don't have flaws, they'll seem perfect and that is, for anyone but the most narcissistic among your readers, absolutely impossible to relate to.


A flaw can be physical or mental.
The character could have a scar of some sort or they could be emotionally unstable.
 Don't make the OC into someone everyone wants to be and be with. Real people and OCs alike have flaws and that is what makes the OC appear natural.
 The seven deadly sins are greed, envy, wrath, sloth, lust, pride and gluttony. Any of these can be applied to a character to create one or more flaws which would set them back.

For example, a greedy character could be endlessly grabbing money for himself, and refusing to do tasks that he wouldn't get paid for.
An envious character could be jealous of others and be constantly trying to hurt them.


These traits could be written as ending badly for the character, and they would have to work hard to get themselves out of trouble. This kind of writing is character forming and makes people warm to your character a lot more if they have to work to overcome flaws and therefore earn their happy ending.

