 Research has shown that when kids complete chores, it results in benefits like higher self-esteem, greater sense of responsibility and better frustration coping.Additionally, doing chores also helps you feel more connected to the family, and offers a wonderful opportunity to connect with your sibling over a shared task.


When your parents assign a task for you to do individually, offer to help your sibling so that you have a chance to talk. Say, “Hey, we can get the garage cleaned much faster if I help Toby… Is that cool with you, Toby?”

, Although you and your sibling may have huge differences in your interests and personalities, you can get closer to a sibling who ignores you by showing interest in one of their hobbies. Participating in a shared hobby — or a newly discovered hobby — offers you the chance to work with your sister or brother and create lasting memories.Suggest to your brother or sister that you would love to start playing basketball, going swimming, or learning the guitar. If they are highly experienced, you may even ask if they could teach you. This gives you the chance to work with them, and them the chance to proudly display their skills. “I really admire your commitment to learning guitar. Can you spend a few hours each week teaching me?”
Or, you can say “Hey, Rachael, I heard they are offering a new dance class at the Y. I thought it would be fun if you and I went. Are you interested?”

, A divide may exist between you and your sibling because you seem to live two separate lives with very little overlap outside of the family unit. Even if you and your sibling are completely different, you can foster a deeper bond by showing support for them.


When you know your brother has a big chemistry test coming up, offer encouragement by saying "Hey, I know you're going to rock this test tomorrow." Or, even better offer to call out some terms for him to define and help him study.
 If you and your sibling are adults who live in different households, it can be a challenge to find meaningful ways to connect. Use the entire family as a way to forge a deeper bond with your distant sibling. Plus, family gatherings offer a positive social experience for both adults and children.Make the suggestion that you would like to start having Sunday dinners together. Say, "Hey, everyone... I was thinking that it would be nice if we started eating dinner together on Sundays. I miss you guys and I want us to spend more time together."
Then, use this opportunity to connect with the sibling who is ignoring you. You might suggest "Hey, Tom, why don't you join me in setting the table," in order to strike up a conversation with your sibling.
 Your sibling will have a deeper respect for you if you demonstrate that you respect them. Respect doesn’t mean that you have to agree with your sister or brother on every subject, or suck up to them. Instead, it means showing consideration for their feelings, privacy, personal space, interests, and beliefs.For example, if you tease your older sister about being a vegetarian, she’ll view you as immature or uninformed and persist to ignore you. If you show respect for her choice by asking more information or trying to understand her perspective, she may be less inclined to ignore you.

