 At the beginning of the year, you will want to talk with the teacher about when they would like to have classroom parties. Some of the parties will be dictated by the school calendar. For example, your children’s school may have specific dates on which they celebrate occasions like Halloween or Thanksgiving. Determine what days the teacher will need your help and put it on your calendar.If you know ahead of time, it may be useful to let parents know at the beginning of the year what dates you will need volunteers.
 Once you have determined the date of the party, you will want to contact other parents about volunteering. You will likely need someone to bring a snack and paper goods like plates or napkins. You may also need another parent to help you organize and run the party. Begin soliciting volunteers at the beginning of the year or at least a month in advance of the party.Be sure to talk with the teacher about their expectations for the party. Be respectful and considerate of the teacher’s requests.
When asking for volunteers, you might want to say something like “would anyone be available to help with the Halloween party?” or “would someone please volunteer to bring treats for the Halloween party?”

, Depending on the classroom policy, the teacher may ask you to bring a snack for the class to enjoy. You can bring this snack yourself or delegate the responsibility to another parent. The snack should be a healthy treat that is safe for all of the children to eat. Be sure to discuss snack ideas with the other parents and the teacher.Some schools do not allow outside food. Be sure to talk with the teacher before bringing any food to the classroom.
Try to find a different parent to make or bring snacks parties. It is important that all of the parents participate.
Be sure to check about any student allergies before you plan the treat. Consider getting a list with the children’s food allergies at the beginning of the year.
 As part of the festivities, the teacher may ask you to organize an activity for the children to participate in. This should be a fun and inclusive activity that is appropriate for all of the children to play. This activity could be a short game or a small craft. You may choose to create the activity yourself or delegate responsibility to another parent.Be sure to consult with the teacher and the other parents about activities prior to the party.
If possible, try delegating activities to multiple parents. It is important that you or certain parents avoid monopolizing classroom activities.
If you are making a craft, you may want to test it out before the party to make sure it is not overly complicated or boring.

