 Dip your brush into the acrylic liquid first and then into the acrylic powder to form an acrylic ball. Place the ball on the nail or on a nonstick sheet of plastic or on a piece of aluminum foil.Use the brush to shape the ball into an oval. Then, use the brush to form the rounded edges into two pointed ends.








Repeat this process so that you have two ovals with pointed ends.;
, Next, you will need to turn the oval shapes into bow ends. After you have created two oval shapes with pointed ends, use the brush to fold the shapes in half so that the two pointed ends are matched up. Slide the brush under the pointed edge of one of the bows and use the brush to lift the pointed edge and bring it over to the other pointed edge.








You can create two or four bow ends for your bow. Two bow ends will form a more basic bow, while four ends will result in a more elaborate, fancy bow.
You may want to allow the oval shapes to dry partially before you start bending them, but do not wait too long or you may not be able to bend them. Just wait a few seconds after forming the shapes.
When you are finished bending both shapes, move the pieces closer together. Place the two bow ends so that their points are aligned and facing each other.
 To connect the ends of the bow, you will need to make the bow’s central dot. This dot will go on top of the points of the two bow end pieces to connect them. Dip your brush into the acrylic liquid and then into the acrylic powder. Then, place the dot between the two bow ends so that it is covering up their points.








Shape the dot as desired.
 To finish your bow, you will need to create a rectangular shaped central piece that looks like a small rectangle. Dip your brush into the acrylic liquid and then into the acrylic powder to form a ball. Then, place the ball on a non-stick plastic work surface and begin to shape it into a rectangle.








As you shape the rectangle, try to make an indentation in the center part of the rectangle so that the long edges are a little raised up. You can do this by pressing down in the center and pushing in the long edges with the brush.
Place the rectangular piece over the central dot so that the indented side is facing up and the raised long edges are aligned with the bow end pieces. Tuck the short edges of the rectangular piece under the central dot.
 If you did not create the bow on a nail already, then you will need to transfer it to a nail when you are ready to apply it. Allow the bow to dry for a few seconds before you transfer it.








Dip your brush in the acrylic liquid and then the acrylic powder and just get a small amount of each on the brush. Place this acrylic dot on the nail.
Use your fingers to pick up the bow and transfer it to the nail. Press down gently on the bow to secure it in place. Then allow the acrylic to dry for a few minutes.
If you are worried about the bow not sticking, then you can also add a little more acrylic under the bows of the nail to make it extra secure.
 You can wear the bow as is or you can use nail polish to decorate the bow. For example, you can paint the bow with nail polish or use nail polish to add a design, such as polka dots.








Make sure that you allow the nail polish to dry completely before touching the bow.

