 Time and time again, studies have shown that taking care of your body promotes strong mental health. Make sure you eat well, exercise regularly, and check in with your doctor about any problems or concerns. Interestingly, the inverse is also true, and good mental health leads to better physical performance.


Sleep regularly, and for at least 6-7 hours a day.
If you drink or smoke, do so in moderation. Never use substances as a crutch.
 It helps to talk and laugh with people instead of being left with your own thoughts all day. Not only does being social have proven mental health benefits, it can also lead to opportunity and advancement, which many people find fulfilling.


Keep in touch with old friends and family.
Search your area for groups and meet-ups centered around your interests. For example, if you speak a foreign language, consider joining a discussion group.
If you don't like large groups, make an effort to see a close friend once a week.
Even working in a cafe or walking through a crowded park can expose you to other people and potential friends.
 It is easy to get dragged down in a sense of negativity, but laughing away accidents and misfortune is one of the best ways to stay sharp and sane. Humor can 're-set' negative events in a positive light, removing the stress and worry while finding the upside of the situation.Laugh at yourself. While you don't want to be self-critical, you shouldn't take your life so seriously that you don't enjoy it.
Inject humor into conversations by telling jokes or asking people "if anything funny happened to them recently."
Gravitate towards people who like to laugh. Laughter is contagious, so join people who laugh a lot or tell jokes.
 Buying "stuff" doesn't contribute to lasting life satisfaction. Experiences like vacations, family dinners, or the arts, have been shown to increase happiness, sociability, and well-being. , Being charitable has a profound impact on your life as well as those in need. Get a present for someone who needs a pick-me-up, but don't expect anything physical in return. Bringing happiness to others will bring it to you as well.
 Educating yourself gives a sense of fulfillment and purpose, and let's you take control of your life and sanity. By expanding your horizons, you open yourself to new opportunities for happiness, and often learn about yourself in the process.


Enroll in an online course of at community college to help regain sanity in your career.
Ask your friends and neighbors to teach you their favorite hobbies or crafts.
Pick up an instrument or start making art. Learning to be creative may free your mind from the practical worries of life.
 Write down your goals and, more importantly, write down the steps you can take to realize them. Many people feel lost when they think about the future, causing undue stress and insecurity. If you break your goals up into small, manageable tasks you will tackle them more easily. Celebrate when you hit milestones.


If you want to become a writer, start by freewriting 30 minutes a day. Then, set a goal to write and revise one full poem or short story. Decide to start a blog after you've written 10 articles. Having these concrete benchmarks makes the end goal seem more attainable.

