;
, If you want to go with a prearranged tour, then you might as well contact multiple sources and compare the fares.
 It might save you up to 60% overall.
 You can arrange your own private tour without the need to be included in a big group.


Almost all other nationalities can travel in and out Iran freely without need to be part of a tour.
If you want to travel independently and are not American (Americans need to be in a prearranged guided tour) then you should try to get your Visa from a travel agency in Iran. It usually costs around $50.
 You can choose to visit beautiful provinces such as Isfahan, Fars, Gilan, and Mazandaran or a beautiful island like Kish as all of them have their own special things such as delicious foods, historical places, beautiful nature, seas and beaches, etc. each with a different climate., These really help with the overall planning process and can help you estimate prices.
 Most hotels in Iran will accept you without a reservation (unless you are planning on staying in a four or five star hotel).

The average hotel fare for a room in Iran costs around $20 in a one-star hotel, $30 in a three-star hotel, $40-50 in a three-star hotel, $50-90 in a four-star hotel and $100-250 in a five-star hotel. These fares are per night and can be divided in half if you go with a friend.
Single rooms are 30% cheaper.
 Royal Safar, Taavoni #1 and Seiro Safar all provide good services at a very low cost (around $1 per 100km). Other means of transportation is relatively cheap, too., Use guidebook first and then maybe other sources such as WikiTravel.,, It is safer.
 Go to the countryside and villages. Hike, ski and take as many photos as you want.
 It is quite unusual based on the western culture to do that. But in Iran (and some other cultures), this is just a common act of hospitality toward strangers. You get so much hospitality, friendship and good food and that probably you don’t want to go back to your hotel any more!

, It is cheap and gives you tons of minutes.
,,,,