 For the first few days after the owner has died, it is important to maintain the dog’s routine as much as possible. Older dogs tend not to do well with new habits, schedules, or activities, and the owner’s death may have already disrupted their life. Try to feed and walk the dog at the same times as the old owner did.If you do not know what schedule the old owner kept, you can develop a new schedule for the dog. Keep a consistent routine for the first few weeks that the dog joins you. The dog may also prompt you when they expect to be fed or taken outside.
If there has been upheaval in the dog’s life since the owner died (for example, if the dog has been passed around by family members or if you adopted the dog from a shelter), setting a routine will be even more important for the dog. Make sure that you stick to the schedule to help the dog ease into their new home life.
 If you knew the old owner, you may be grieving yourself. This is understandable. Do what you have to so that you can grieve in your own, personal way. This will in turn help the dog by providing a loving, happy home for them.Avoid mourning in front of the dog. Dogs are very sensitive to grief, and they may exhibit signs of mourning if they understand that you are grieving. While it is all right to cry a little in front of the dog, you may want to step into another room to mourn privately., During this time, you may notice that the dog is whining, crying, or acting out. While you may want to give the dog a treat during these episodes, you should avoid rewarding them for this behavior. The dog may learn that they will earn treats if they whine. Instead, reward the dog when they are being good, such as when they are quietly resting.For example, you may notice that the dog is sitting outside of your bedroom door at night and whining. Instead of waking up to comfort the dog, go back to sleep. In the morning, you can pet and talk to the dog. If they are well-behaved, give them a treat with their breakfast.
Good times to treat the dog are when the dog is resting quietly, when the dog is sitting with you, or right before you leave the house.
 While a new dog companion might provide company for the dog, many older dogs do not do well with a new younger dog in the house. While some older dogs may enjoy having a puppy around, others may snap at the younger dog or bully them. Consider carefully whether a new dog is appropriate for the older dog.If a friend or family member has a puppy, ask if they can be introduced to your older dog. This will show you how well the dog deals with energetic puppies. If the older dog plays, cuddles, or gets along with the puppy, you might consider getting a younger dog.
Another option is to adopt an older or senior dog. Try to find one with a similar temperament. See if the dogs can meet first before you adopt to see if they are friendly with one another.