 Decide the types of foods you will serve your guests. For example, determine if you want to serve a full meal or just snacks at your party. Next, choose if you want foods from a specific country or with a theme, especially for a dinner party. For overnight guests, plan all meals for their visit. Keep meals and snacks relatively simple so you can focus on entertaining.Along with the food, decide which drinks you will serve.
If you are budget conscious, figure out what you can afford and focus on making that wonderful.
Set out snacks and drinks in your guest room for overnight guests so they won’t need to find their way to the kitchen for a midnight snack.
Ask about food sensitivities and allergies and plan your meals and snacks around those. If you make something a guest can’t eat, point out that food to them in advance.
 Make a playlist for your party. You can do this on your phone, computer, or tablet using apps like Spotify, iTunes, Google Play, or YouTube. Choose the music that will help you set the mood you want for your party. When you’re ready for the party, hook your device up to your stereo.Plan a long enough playlist so you have music for the entire party.
Mix up the type of music you play during the party. For example, you might want to start with something really upbeat, and then play mellower music at the end of the night to wind things down.
Use an app that lets guests choose songs from your playlist, like Jukebox Hero.Hire a DJ for a large party if that fits in your budget.
 Plan to show your guests a good time. Help people interact at your party with games or by making a space for dancing. Plan some conversation topics or interesting questions, especially for a dinner party. Overnight guests do not need to be entertained constantly, but you should plan some things to do together.Be prepared to get the dancing going and to start the games at your party.
Set up a board game during coffee and dessert at a dinner party.Ask party guests to dress according to a theme, like a beach party, or plan a mystery party.
For overnight guests, prepare a list of local entertainments and things to do in your area. Plan at least one outing with them, for example to the zoo or a local farmer’s market.
Make plans for entertaining overnight guests at home, like a movie night.

