 Identify a cause you believe in and locate a related volunteer organization in your area. For instance, if you’re passionate about animal rights and environmentalism, you could volunteer with your local animal shelter or conservation group.;
, Taking time to consider occasions in which you acted out of spite, hate, or anger. Thinking about these failures, both big and small, and recognizing that you were in the wrong, will lead you to act in a better, more loving way in the future.While you should not hold on to or obsess over your mistakes, it is important to reflect on them to discover how you can respond in more loving ways in the future.


For instance, if you got angry at a coworker and yelled at him, think the situation over to find out both how you can make it right and how you can avoid repeating the same mistake next time.
Perhaps you’ll conclude that when you feel angry, instead of responding immediately, it’s best if you take five minutes to practice deep breathing exercises and calm down before confronting someone who frustrates you.
 When you are around people who are full of love for you, themselves, and others, you will have a hard time not becoming more loving yourself. Find friends who support you and minimize the time you spend with negative, spiteful individuals.
 Even if someone blatantly disrespects and dislikes you, you should be prepared to forgive them. To be more loving, you must let go of hate and anger. This applies not only to others, but to yourself, as well. Don’t hold on to your failures. Learn from them, then let them go.


Picture your negative memories and thoughts as little red balloons. In your mind’s eye, imagine you’re letting them go and watching them float up into space until they are out of sight.
 At the end of each day, write down the best things that happened during the day in a journal. Writing down information makes you more likely to retain it, so by writing down positive experiences, you’ll be able to act in a more loving way. For instance, you might write, “My friend Abu is so kind. I am thankful to have a friend like him.” Actively making a note about your appreciation for your friends, family, and coworkers -- as well as nonhuman good things like animals, the sun, and earth  -- can help you become more loving.

