 Insert a miniature hula hoop into the sweater through the bottom opening. Use a hot glue gun to hold the fabric to the plastic hoop.


Fold the bottom of the fabric over the bottom and inner side of the hoop, then glue it to the inner side or top of the hoop. The entire hula hoop should be covered and hidden by the sweater.
Alternatively, you could wrap the bottom of the sweater around the hoop and hold it in place with a few loose stitches.;
, Put on the sweater and stand in front of a full-length mirror. You'll decorate the sweater while it's on your body.
 Pin the metallic garland to the bottom of the sweater on one side of your body. Wrap the garland up and around your torso until you reach the space just beneath your arms.


Wind the garland up and around your torso like you would wrap garland around an actual tree. You'll need to pin it in place at various points as you work to prevent it from falling off.
 Pin the garland to the bottom of one arm, then wrap it all the way around and down the sleeve. Repeat with the other arm.


Try to wrap the garland in even layers around both arms. The positioning doesn't need to match precisely, but it should be close.
You may need someone else to help you pin the garland onto your sleeves. If you don't have a helper, you might need to take the sweater back off to work on the arms.
 Pin one end of the jingle bell garland to the bottom of the sweater on one side. Wrap it all the way around the bottom opening, pinning as needed, until the opposite end meets the starting point.


Only wrap one layer of jingle bells around the bottom opening of the sweater. Trim off the rest of the strand to use for your sleeves.
 Pin any excess jingle bells to the sleeves, doubling over the metallic garland you already attached.


Try to keep the same amount of bells on each arm. You may need to cut the remaining strand in half before pinning each half to its respective sleeve.
 Use safety pins to attach the white pom-poms to the body and sleeves of your sweater, spacing them apart at even but unmeasured intervals.


These pom-poms will serve as ornaments, so arrange them as though you were placing actual ornaments on an actual tree.
 Remove the ornament hooks and replace them with safety pins. Pin the ornaments to the body and sleeves of your sweater, spacing them apart evenly but without a set pattern.


Don't be afraid to rearrange some of the pom-poms you already placed to make room for the red ornaments. Continue rearranging as needed until you achieve a look you feel happy with.
 Hold your arms up, forming a point above your head by pressing your palms together. Look in the mirror to determine where any gaps or cluttered clusters might be and adjust accordingly.
 Use another safety pin to attach the point of the star to the opening of one sleeve. Allow the star to hang loosely.


When you bring your palms together above your head, the star hanging off your sleeve will turn into the tree topper of your sweater.
 The sweater is now finished. When you're ready to show it off, hold your arms above your head, forming a point by pressing your palms together. Doing so should create the silhouette of a Christmas tree, complete with decorations and a festive tree topper.

