 Guys will definitely want to get to know your personality first, guys like a girl for 80% personality 10% common things and 10% looks. So get their friendship by having a few laughs and showing that you're happy to see them.;
, If you see them at the corner of your eye looking at you, it's a sign that they may like you. If they stare into your eyes for only a little while and then look somewhere else on you it means that they are checking you out, remember do not walk away, they want to scan you down so they can remember what you look like with ease.Never EVER talk about boys unless they bring it up, guys want to feel like they're the only guy you know! If they blush, stutter, or say stupid things it means they're falling for you. CAUTION: REMEMBER, ONLY ASK THEM OUT IF YOU "KNOW" THEY LIKE YOU, NOT JUST IF YOU "THINK" THEY LIKE YOU.
 Or, wear clothes that suit their personality! if you're planning on wearing makeup, don't use anything but mascara, eyeliner may be too emo and other makeups are just plain gross. NO LIPSTICK, guys sometimes wonder what it would be like to kiss you, and if they see them kissing you with gross slimy wet lipstick smeared on each others faces, they'll lose their interest.
 Green just got boring and purples looking annoying now, what are your thoughts on the colors these days huh? Girl: I dunno

, Yes, that's how it works. When they ask something like: "What's your favorite kind of food?" don't say texting: "I dunno they're all good...hotdawgz?" say: "GREEK FOOD!!! i love Greek food! It's so darn yummy! XD" or in real life: "Ummmm... probably Greek food, it's pretty good..."

, When you're planning on making a move, go on Facebook or txt, guys hate awkwardness. And ask to play truth with them, they will 99% of the time say "sure!" now play with idle questions like: "How many girlfriends have you had?" or "Do you like the color pink secretly?" And then finally: "Who do you like?" If they say a different girl, sorry no luck. BUT, if they say you, say, well, i like you too.. so you wanna go out sometime? But if they say oh i like my mom my dad and my cat and my teacher and my friends and Homer Simpson, because they pretend to take the question literally, it either means they're hiding the truth, or they're too shy to admit their feelings for you.
 They don't want any walking towards each other awkwardly.

