 Doing so will smother the crumbs with butter, which is essential for the crust.


Don't make the crumbs extremely small; crumbs the size of a chocolate chip would work well.
One of the ways to crush the graham crackers (and a bit fun) is to smash the crackers with a rolling pin. Put it inside a bag first to prevent some mess if you wish.;
, Keeping mixing until smooth, which takes about one minute. Add lemon zest and juice then whisk until the mixture becomes smooth.


Once the water in your saucepan simmers, adjust the temperature to low heat and then place the bowl on the saucepan.
The bowl must be able to fit on the pan without touching the water.
 The process should take about 10-15 minutes, or alternatively you can whisk the mixture until it is pale and coats the back of a spoon. Turn the heat off and mix in butter, adding one tablespoon each time. This allows the piece of butter to melt before adding another one.


You will know when the mixture is ready if it feels thick when you pull your whisk through it. The trail of lemon curd that dangles from the whisk shouldn't disappear immediately.
 Pour the strained mixture in a bowl. Enclose the bowl tightly with plastic wrap to the extent where a tiny portion of the wrap happens to touch the curd.
 Whisk sugar, egg whites and cream of tartar inside a together (use the bowl of your standard mixer if you have one). Put the bowl on top of simmering water, then constantly whisk the mixture until all the sugar dissolves and the egg whites are warm when you touch them. Process takes around 3:00 - 3:30 minutes.


Test it by rubbing part of the mix between your fingers; there shouldn't be any grittiness from the sugar.
 Make sure the stand is fitted with a whisk attachment and a whip. Start off slowly, and gradually get faster until the mixture is stiff and glossy. This process takes around 10 minutes. Add vanilla extract then stir until all is combined.
 Place meringue inside a different piping bag with a star tip.


Put the ingredients in this order: graham cracker crumbs, lemon curd and meringue.
Add the ingredients again in the same order. Before you know it, a feast has appeared before your eyes! Well, not a feast - just a small tasty dessert. Enjoy!

