 Fitness boot camps are often run by professional trainers and military personnel combined. Thus, the term "boot camp" because they will put you under a strict program that combines different exercise regimes, promotes good nutrition, aims for fat loss, and emphasizes team work.;
, Ask them what you can realistically expect and ask them where you are likely to slip up and how to avoid that, if possible. Getting honesty up front is important.
 You will be placed on a strict diet and nutritional plan that will be closely monitored. It is customized for you, so avoid sneaking anything into your diet that will spoil its outcomes.
 Fitness boot camp will save time only if you are prepared to put in the time for the camp. This means canceling other obligations until you get through it successfully.
 You will be exposed to many different types of exercise techniques and regimes. They may not all be to your liking but variety is key and each type of exercise is targeted at your fitness needs, so throw yourself into it wholeheartedly.
 Since a fitness boot camp does training in groups, this means that you will be assigned to a group that you will be working out with over many weeks until your reach your goals. This also means that since you will be together most times, you all have the task of motivating one another to achieve objectives. You will find that as time passes, you will get closer to your workout group members and they will act as the biggest source of support when exercises get harder and when you feel like you can no longer persevere. Motivation and encouragement from your support group will be the most helpful factor for your fitness program success.
 In the beginning you may feel that you will not be able to keep up with the program. But as time will progress, the fitness program will allow you to test out new skills, meet new people, and reach weight loss goals. You will find that as your weight goes down your self-confidence will go up. Because a fitness boot camp program is so challenging and difficult, finishing one will definitely give you the self-confidence you need in tackling other obstacles that you have in your life outside your fitness issues.

