 Many people use TVs as a way of calming down or entertaining a child, but you can use music for the same purpose instead.Whether you're at home or in the car, chances are you have access to music. Simply let it play in the background while you two go about your daily business and your child will be automatically immersed.


You do not necessarily need to purchase any new music in order to introduce your child to music. Take advantage of your own music collection, free services like YouTube and BandCamp, and commercial radio.;
, Although lullabies are often thought of as being for babies, there's no reason you can't continue to use them for your toddler. After reading them a bedtime story, try singing a lullaby to them every night as part of your daily routine. Research suggests that music with a slow beat may help people sleep; coming from a caregiver it can be especially soothing., Whistling is a skill that many grown ups take for granted but is one that we need to learn in order to be able to use.It's a fun and free way to pass the time, and another activity you and your child can experience together. It's also a great way to help teach them the first basics of notes, range, and beat lengths.To whistle, simply purse your lips and blow air through them.
 Certain children's books have been written in such a way to have or be songs themselves, like "Puff the Magic Dragon" and "Baby Beluga." Between the musical element and the pictures in these books, young children find them captivating. They usually come with a cd so that you can both learn the song's melody and lyrics to sing together.
 While it's better in general for young children to not watch too much TV, most people have at least one set in their households and use them on a daily basis. Choose programming that incorporates songs for educational purposes, like "Sesame Street" or "Dora the Explorer," or shows and movies with minimal talking and classical music such as "Tom and Jerry," "Looney Tunes," or "Fantasia."


Educational songs have obvious benefit, but classical music has been scientifically linked to boosted physical performance, eased chronic pain, better sleep, improved moods, reduced stress, and even heightened intelligence.