 This app resembles a tuft of grass atop a block of dirt.;
, It's in the middle of the screen.


Minecraft PE will place your phone or tablet in landscape mode, meaning you'll need to hold it horizontally rather than vertically.
 This will load your last-saved position in the world.


Your selected world must be in Survival mode, and your difficulty setting cannot be "Peaceful".






You can also tap Create New near the top of this page and then tap Generate Random at the top of the following page to customize a new world's settings. You'll tap Play on the left side of the screen to launch this world.
 There are a couple of different ways to obtain food in Minecraft:, No matter where you start in the game, you'll be within a short distance of animals or oak trees.

Kill an animal and pick up its dropped items. You can kill an animal by repeatedly tapping it so that it flashes red.
Only oak and dark oak trees drop apples. None of the other trees yield edible items.
 Especially early on in a game, your best bet is either to find a pig, a sheep, or a chicken and repeatedly tap it until it dies, or to find an oak tree and remove all of its leaves. You can remove leaves by tapping and holding a chunk of them until the circle around your finger completely fills up. This should (rarely) drop apples.

Foods to avoid include rotten flesh (from killing zombies) and spider eyes (from killing spiders), since these items will poison you.
You don't need any tools for these steps.
 You can do so by tapping its icon in the hotbar at the bottom of the screen, or you can select it from your inventory by tapping … on the far-right side of the hotbar and then tapping it in your inventory., Your character will move the food toward their face, and after a few seconds, the food will disappear. You will also gain some of your hunger bar back.

Remember, you can only eat food when your hunger bar, which is in the top-right corner of the screen, is at less than 100 percent; otherwise, your food will simply act as a tool with which to hit blocks.
 To cook food, you'll need a furnace, wood or coal, and a piece of meat or potatoes. Furnaces require a crafting table for their construction, as well as eight pieces of cobblestone.

To create a crafting table, chop one block of wood.
To mine cobblestone, you'll need at least a wooden pickaxe.
Chop an extra block of wood for the furnace's fuel. This will cook one item. Alternatively, chop two extra blocks of wood: cook one to make charcoal. Charcoal will cook 8 items.
 It's on the far-right side of your hotbar at the bottom of the screen., You'll find this option on the left side of the screen, just above the tab in the bottom-left corner., The 4 x button is on the right side of the screen, and it has the wooden crate's icon to its right. This will convert your one block of wood into four wooden crates., It resembles the tab you're currently using. This will create a crafting table., Doing so will place it in your hand.

If the table isn't in the hotbar, tap … twice, then tap the crafting table icon.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen., Doing so will place the crafting table on the ground., This will open the crafting table's interface, from which you can select a furnace., It's a grey stone block with a black opening on its front., Doing so will exit the crafting table interface., This will place it in your hand.

Again, if the oven won't fit, tap … and select it.
 This will place the oven on the ground., This will open its interface. You'll see three boxes on the right side of the screen:


Input - This is where your food goes.

Fuel - You'll place your wood here.

Result - The cooked food will appear here.
 Doing so will place it in the "Input" box., This will place the wood in the oven, thereby starting the cooking process., Once an item appears in the "Result" box, your food is done., This will add it back into your inventory., You can do so by tapping its icon in the hotbar at the bottom of the screen, or you can select it from your inventory by tapping … on the far-right side of the hotbar and then tapping it in your inventory., Your character will move the food toward their face, and after a few seconds, the food will disappear. You will also gain some of your hunger bar back.

Remember, you can only eat food when your hunger bar, which is in the top-right corner of the screen, is at less than 100 percent; otherwise, your food will simply act as a tool with which to hit blocks.
Cooked food restores more of your hunger bar than raw food does.

