 Fruit is a great source of vitamins for your guinea pig. However, while your guinea pig might enjoy fruit, you should only use it as a snack or a treat. As a result, you don’t need to buy nearly as much fruit as vegetables. And for many people, fruit you have around the house already may be used. When shopping for fresh fruit, consider:


Apples.
Blueberries
Oranges.
Pears.
Peaches.;
, Unlike fruit, you can feed your guinea pig large amounts of vegetables every week. When buying vegetables, consider:


Carrots.
Green peppers.
Radish tops.
Cucumbers.
Brussel sprouts., Pelleted foods are a mix of hay, vitamins, and other food sources that serve as a staple in your guinea pig’s diet. They are much healthier for your guinea pigs than other types of food because they are not dyed with artificial colors and flavors.


Focus only on corn-free and seed-free pellets.
Pellets enriched with vitamins are okay., While your guinea pig will be getting some hay in his or her pellets, fresh hay is an important element of a guinea pig’s diet and overall health. This is because guinea pigs need hay in order to keep their teeth from overgrowing. In addition, hay keeps their digestive system clean.


Be aware that a lot of hay sold at large chain stores is not high quality hay. Try to buy fresh hay at pet stores or at farm supply stores.
Timothy hay is perfect for adult guinea pigs,
Baby and pregnant guinea pigs will need alfalfa hay, which has a higher vitamin and mineral content in it., At the start of every day, you should put out fresh vegetables for your guinea pig. And since vegetables are an important part of your guinea pig’s diet, you need to make sure that he or she has plenty of vegetables throughout the day.


Feed your guinea pig about one cup of vegetables for every two pounds he or she weighs.
Break your vegetable servings up into at least two. This way, your guinea pig will have fresh and unwilted vegetables throughout the day.
Whenever you provide new vegetables, remove any old, uneaten, or spoiled vegetables from the previous serving., While fruit is important and can provide your guinea pig with badly needed vitamins, you need to limit his or her consumption of it. Fruit should be served to your guinea pig as a treat, not as a main course.


Limit fruit treats to once or twice a week.
Try to only feed your guinea pig one or two tablespoons of fruit for every two pounds that your guinea pig weighs.
Only provide fresh and washed fruit to your guinea pig., Providing fresh hay throughout the day and week is extremely important for your guinea pig’s health. Since hay can accumulate bacteria guinea pig waste, you’ll want to remove old hay periodically and replace it with fresh hay.


Don’t be afraid of giving your guinea pig too much hay. More is always better than less.
Make sure your hay has not been sitting around the house too long., At around the same time you serve your guinea pig vegetables, you should also serve fresh pellets. This is important as pellets are the foundation of your guinea pig’s diet.


Provide 1/4th to 1/8th cup of pellets per day.
Amount fed will vary based on size and age of the guinea pig.
Feel free to divide pellets up into 2 or 3 servings if your guinea pig tends to overeat or eat it all at once.
Serve the pellets in a ceramic bowl., You also need to make sure that your guinea pig has plenty of fresh water. Fresh water is essential to your guinea pig’s diet and will help with digestion of hay, pellets, and the other food you provide. As a result, monitor water closely.


Consider using a plastic drip bottle.
Provide a water bowl, too.
Check your guinea pig’s water at least once a day.
Change and clean your guinea pig’s water bowel and drip bottle a couple times a week.
 Guinea pigs of different ages have different dietary needs. As a result, when thinking about and formulating a well-balanced diet for your guinea pig, you need to think about their age.


If you adopted your guinea pig as a baby, then you should have an accurate idea of his or her age.
If you don’t know your guinea pig’s age, consult a veterinarian or someone with specialized knowledge.
When establishing your guinea pig’s age, you don’t need to be exact. Just be able to classify your guinea pig in one of several stages of life, including: baby, youth, adult, or senior., Depending on sex, your guinea pig’s dietary needs will vary. Sex is also important when determining your guinea pig’s age. While for the most part, male and female guinea pigs require the same nutrition, there are a couple things you should consider.


If your guinea pig is pregnant, you’ll need to alter her food mix.
If you are trying to breed your guinea pig, you should probably alter the breeding pig’s diets to increase their vitamin intake., Your guinea pig might have special, individual, needs that will impact his or her dietary needs. As a result, you need to consider any special or unique factors that could influence your guinea pig’s health or diet.


Does your guinea pig have any chronic medical problems?
Does your guinea pig have any disorders or other unique factors that might impact his or her dietary needs.