 It is amazing how many people ignore this simple greeting. If you are shy, however, this is a great, low-pressure way to show that you are interested in making friends and being kind. If you make eye contact, simply say hello to someone. There is no pressure to lead to something bigger, but it opens the door for a more sociable relationship.


If they say hello back, introduce yourself! Say your name and ask their name as well.
 This shows that you are interested in them and are sincere about becoming friends. Remembering someone's name is a small but crucial step to creating a lasting friendship.This small step may seem obvious, but remembering and saying someone's name shows you care and makes them feel valued -- a key part of improving your social life., When you are first meeting someone there is a wide variety of things you still have to learn about them. Instead of being daunted, look at this as an opportunity. There is a ton of topics you can cover, and there are very few wrong topics. While you might steer away from hot button issues like religion, politics, or sex, there is still a lot to talk about:


"What do you do for a living?"
"Did you grow up here?" If the answer is no, ask where they grew up.
Comment on the location -- have you both been here before? Were you introduced by a common friend?
"What do you like doing outside of work?", It is impossible to relax when you are telling yourself to relax. Instead, focus on the other person in the conversation. Listen to them and be curious about their life. Ask questions and get to know them. You don't need to share your life story with someone right off the bat to make conversation, you just need to be able to thoughtfully listen.


Follow up questions are key. If you ask "What do you do for work," you can follow up with "do you enjoy what you do?" This keeps the conversation rolling fluidly forward.
Being an active listener takes the pressure off of you to keep talking, which makes it easier to hold a conversation., When someone asks you a question, don't dismiss it and move on to another question. Take some time to elaborate on it. Give your opinion, tell a short, related story, or give some reasoning or background behind your answer. Aim to talk for 1-2 minutes before asking them a question or switching the subject.This allows the conversation to flow naturally. The more you talk, the greater the chance you'll inspire another question or a new topic to discuss, as long as you still take the time to listen to their answers., Flirting, whether with potential dates or friends, is simply a way to show your interest in someone. It feels good to hear a genuine compliment, and it creates a bond that can move beyond acquaintances and into friendship. The compliment does not have to be huge -- a simple "I love that scarf," or "that's a really good point" is a nice, light way to be a friend.


Make sure you compliments are genuine, as people will be turned off if you seem like a "suck-up," or brown-noser.

