 Not only is this better for your health but it's also kinder for the environment.;
, A line of ants can be dealt with effectively and quickly so as to kill those in the line and deter any others from continuing to follow the trail. It is recommended to begin with locating the entry point first and creating a barrier straight away, such as a line of petroleum jelly, upturned duct tape or talc, so that the ants outside stop using the entryway. Then, try one of the following methods to deal with the ant trail:


Dip a sponge into soapy water. Simply wipe the sponge down the trail, collecting ants. Rinse them down the drain. Rinse and repeat as often as required until all ants in the trail have been removed.
Spray the trail with all-purpose cleaner or a bleach solution. Wipe it up with a wet paper towel. Spraying the nest can be effective, but you really want to make sure you get them all, otherwise killing part of the colony can simply encourage certain species to establish new colonies, which is counter-productive to you.
 Colonies regularly send out lone ants to check for food sources. If you see an individual ant strolling across your coffee table, don't let it make it back to the nest alive. It'll tell the colony where you spilled the apple juice. If the scout made it back to the nest and brought back some friends, they'll be following a scent trail, single file. Unless you're ready to bait them, kill them all quickly.
 You'll need to use an attractive poison bait to get the ants scurrying home with new "treats" from their food hunting missions. Mixing boric acid powder or borax with water and sugar is the most common bait.Boric acid affects ants both externally (when in powder form; similar to diatomaceous earth) and internally (when ingested).Make a mixture of 1 cup water, 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons boric acid.Wait for the ants to show up. Don't lure new ants with the bait because you could attract new colonies. Once there's a trail, place the bait next to it (not on it, or else you'll interrupt their march home). You can also place it in a safe part of the pantry where ants appear to be congregating.
If you have pets and/or children around (see Warnings below) use the bait in a jam jar where ants can go to seek "food". Screw the lid tightly and seal with adhesive tape. Pierce the lid with two or three small holes large enough for ants, and smear the outside with a little bit of non-poisoned bait to advertise the contents for ants. If you're concerned about the jar getting knocked over and the poisoned bait spilling out, loosely pack the inside above the bait with cotton balls.You can mix peanut butter as well. Ants' cravings vary depending on the needs of the colony (sometimes they want sweets, sometimes they want something oily), so providing both will increase the likelihood that they'll take the bait. Once they've had their fill, remove all bait which may lose its poison when weathered, but still attract ants. You don't want to attract a neighboring colony.
 Use 1 tablespoon of peanut butter, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 2 teaspoons of borax, 1 teaspoon of water. Mix well. Place a small amount on little pieces of cardboard where the ants are active. Watch them swarm it and carry back to nest.


If it kills them too quickly, try 1 1/2 teaspoons of borax. You want them to carry it back and kill the colony and the queen.
 Sprinkle and vacuum a little talcum powder or diatomaceous earth to finish them off in the vac and in the trash where you dispose of it. This second step is important to make sure that you don't provide the ants a new home inside your vacuum cleaner.
 Get a spray bottle, making sure to wash it out very well, and place about a teaspoon of rubbing alcohol and about a teaspoon and a half of dish soap. Then fill the spray bottle with water about an inch (2.5cm) away from the top and close it up tight. Shake the solution until bubbles start to appear and then you're ready to spray! Because of the alcohol in the solution, the ants will stay clear away from it.
 These are reported to kill ants for 6 to 8 months, with the downside being that you may have to stay out of the place you fumigate for anywhere from a few hours to a few days. Search online for product reviews and inquire at local home improvement stores. Make sure you know the volume of the place you need to fumigate. If you're concerned about the use of potentially harmful chemicals in the home environment, this is not the approach for you and should not be used, if you have children, whose immune systems are still developing.

