 It's important to make sure you're choosing an appropriate username for your blog as it will reflect the first impression of your business. This will be covered in further detail in Step 3.;
, The Dashboard is the interface WordPress uses for making all changes to your blog. WordPress has a video when you first sign up that will help get you started with its basic functions. You can use 'Pages' to place important information at the top of your blog, 'Categories' to keep your posts organized, and 'Widgets' (found under 'Appearance') to connect your blog to other social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter.
 Turning yourself into a brand will make you stand out among other freelance editors. Consider the way branding works outside of freelance editing: are consumers more likely to buy a “Dawn” dish soap product, or are they more likely to buy a knock-off brand? Turning your business into a brand name will help make your work easily recognizable. Clients will feel comforted by the familiar appearance of a logo that is directly associated with your work.


What kinds of clientele would you like to bring in? Everyone looks for specific styles that fit with their needs. Ask yourself: "How should my brand reflect me and my specialties? Do I specialize in short stories or poems? Books or brochures? Blogs or news articles?" Your branding should not only reflect who you are as a person but also the clients you wish to serve.
What name do you choose to go by? You can always go by your real name, but sometimes we find that our real names do not lend well to branding. For instance, Christine Smith wants to start a wedding photography business, but the name Christine Smith does not flow as well as she’d like it to. She thinks about her middle name, Melissa, and decides to instead go by Christine Melissa. This softens the name to make it more suitable for a wedding photography business, but still remains true to her real name and her real nature.
Create a logo for your name. This logo will be used often, and should reflect your personal and professionalism. You can hire someone to design your logo or you can make it yourself using a program such as Adobe Photoshop or Gimp.
Repetitiously use the logo. This logo should be nice enough to put on your blog, resumes, and business cards. This will make your documentations uniform and easily recognizable.
 Though you have to buy the function that enables you to fully customize your layout, you can still design your own header and ensure you’ve chosen colors that are professional. You can also utilize the Categories and Pages to keep everything organized.


The layout should be personal to you. You are advised away from using pre-made layouts, because everyone else will have the same layout as yourself. WordPress has tutorials on how to make your own CSS, or you could hire someone to make one for you. Remember though that customizable layouts must be bought.
Navigation should be so simple that it takes less than three clicks to get to your desired area to prevent potential clients from getting lost or confused.
Put the most important of information in separate pages, such as resume information. This will be talked about more in Step 5.
Keep your posts organized by category. Notice common trends between some of them (such as articles and opinion posts) and separate them accordingly. Try to give each category an eye-catching name, such as “Writing Workshops” or “Editing Works.”
Are the colors you’ve chosen for the layout too bright or mismatching? If you’re going for a professional look, it’s probably not the best idea to choose a bright pink with purple polka-dots. You want your layout to be striking, but not so outrageous that future clients won’t take you seriously.
 This includes an About page, contact information, and a Resume page.


Your “About” page should be accessed from the top of the page. Make it apparent that you are a freelance editor and that you are currently looking for clients.
Contact Information should be easily accessible. It should either be placed in its own page, or within the About page. Be wary of the emails you provide. It would be in poor taste to use “hottiemctottie@xyz.com” as opposed to “exampleblog302@xyz.com”.
Give your resume its own page. Your Resume should contain concrete examples of your work, including portfolio work.
 Posts should be regular and relevant to your profession, and should always be double-checked for spelling and grammatical errors. Here are some ideas for finding relevant and interesting content.


Keep yourself updated with the editing/writing world by searching for relevant news via a search engine such as Google or Bing. Talk about conventions and organizations that you admire, are a part of, or would like to attend.
Write about your own personal experiences that pertain to editing, but keep them fun and professional. This will create a personal feeling for your blog and will help potential clients feel more connected to you.
Give personal advice aimed towards other editors that reflects your knowledge of the industry. Potential topics: How to stay motivated when facing a harsh deadline or How to get over obstacles that stand in the way of your goals.
Review a book you’ve recently read.
Write about other blogs. If you find a fun blog or an interesting person, don’t hesitate to write a review about them. This is also an excellent way to build up your networking. If you’d feel more comfortable asking them permission first, then send them a friendly message. If they decline, then find another person who would not mind being written about.



Set personal goals for yourself, such as having 5 posts done in one month. WordPress has a post count that can help you monitor these goals.
Keep yourself honest by saying on your blog how often you intend to post. Will you operate on a Monday Wednesday Friday schedule? Or Tuesday Thursday? Find what days you have the most time and then make it clear that you “Update Tuesdays and Thursdays” at the top of your blog.
Write about things you find interesting. If you force yourself to write about things you do not find interesting, then you may lose motivation to write.
Keep a journal of ideas for days when you feel stuck on what to write. You might be surprised to find an excellent idea you’ve jotted down weeks ago.
 This is a strategic step that will help build a community around your blog. As long as you’re an active participant in updating your social media sites and in interacting with others, you should be able to build up a solid reader-base.


Attach your blog to outside social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter. This can be done with the use of the widgets. You can also include this information where you’ve provided your email.
Link to other blogs and sites of related interest. It is likely the administrator of the site will appreciate the exposure and then add a link back to your site. If you feel more comfortable, you can ask them beforehand if they don’t mind you linking to them. Never assume that the favor will be returned, though, since it is in poor taste to expect them to feel the same way. Place these links in their own page titled “Helpful Links” or “Affiliates.”
Write reviews of blogs you particularly admire. Again, if it would make you feel more comfortable, feel free to ask them permission first.
Comment on other blogs often. Try to engage in intelligent conversation. Be sure to double-check your grammar and spelling.
Interact with your readers in the comments often. Again, double-check your grammar and spelling.
Always be on the look-out for new opportunities to socialize and build your network. Above all, communicate.

