 If you think you may have tonsillitis, you might need special medication or even surgery to remove your tonsils. Only a doctor can tell you for sure and make an official medical diagnosis. Make an appointment with your general practitioner or an ear, nose, and throat specialist to get your condition evaluated. If your child is experiencing symptoms of tonsillitis, get an appointment with their pediatrician as soon as possible.
 Your doctor will likely have a number of questions for you and will expect you to ask questions in return, so be prepared.


Know roughly when your symptoms began, if any over-the-counter pain relievers have improved symptoms, whether you've ever been diagnosed with tonsillitis or strep throat before, and if symptoms affect your sleep. These are things your doctor will want to know to help with diagnosis.
Ask your doctor about the best course of treatment, how long test results will take, and when you can resume normal activities., Your doctor will perform a variety of tests to diagnose tonsillitis.


First, there will be a physical exam. Your doctor will look in your throat, ears, and nose, listen to your breathing with a stethoscope, feel your neck for swelling, and check for enlargement of the spleen. This is a sign of mononucleosis, which also inflames tonsils.Your doctor will probably take a throat swab. They will rub a sterile swab over the back of your throat to check for bacteria associated with tonsillitis. Some hospitals have equipment that can get results in minutes while, in other cases, you might have to wait 24 to 48 hours.Your doctor may order a complete blood cell count (CBC). This provides a count on different types of blood cells, showing what levels are normal and what are below normal. This can indicate whether the infection is caused by a bacterial or viral agent. This is usually only used if the throat swab test is negative and the doctor wants to determine the precise cause of tonsillitis., Depending on the cause and severity, different treatments will be recommended by your physician.


If virus is the cause, at-home care is advised and you can expect to feel better in 7 to 10 days. Treatment is similar to the treatment of any cold. You should get rest, drink plenty of fluids, especially warm liquids, humidify the air and suck on lozenges, popsicles, and other foods that cool the throat.If the infection is bacterial, you will likely be prescribed a round of antibiotics. Make sure to take all the medication as directed. Failure to do so can result in the infection getting worse or not healing.If your tonsillitis is frequently occurring surgery to remove the tonsils might be a possibility. Tonsillitis is usually a one day surgery, meaning you will be home the same day you go in.