 Studies have found that listening to music you like can alter your mood and alleviate depression. Create a playlist if you have the means and include uplifting, positive songs.


Listen to this song as an example of one you could use, Smile Please by Stevie Wonder
;
, Cleansing your body can also cleanse your mood. Try begin with hot water and slowly increase the amount of cold water. Shifting from hot to cold water will increase your blood circulation and freshen your energy. , Deep breathing has a naturally therapeutic, stress-reducing quality that can help you with the rush of stress hormones that a bad day can bring about. Read our article for tips on deep breathing exercises: Breathe Deeply


, Even though you may not feel like it, getting up and moving your body will help stimulate blood flow and the release of endorphins, the well-known “feel good” hormone. You don't have to run a mile.


Perform a simple routine of light squats, push-ups, and easy stretches. This will stimulate happy hormone production, increases blood flow, and boosts your mood., Formulating your problems into words can help manage anxiety, reduce stress and cope with depression.Write whatever feels right.Your journal doesn't need to follow any particular structure.Let the words flow freely without worrying about spelling mistakes or what other people might think.You could also try addressing a letter to somebody. Be as open and honest with your writing as you can. If writing a nasty letter to someone is what comes out, then let it out, but keep it to yourself if it might hurt somebody's feelings.
 Dance therapy has become more popular as a treatment for depression amongst the psychiatric community. Dancing can cause a range of benefits from granting you a greater calm and elevating your mood to an expanded sense of fulfillment and control.Dance Professor and Therapist, Miriam Berger, says, "Dance allows people to experience themselves in ways they didn't know they could."You don't need to concern yourself with performing a proper dance. Try shutting your bedroom door and get as loose as possible with your moves.
Anything goes.
Be as silly as you want. It will only help lighten your mood and might cause you to laugh it off.
 Pets can contribute to powerful mental and physical health benefits. Dogs in particular are known to reduce stress, anxiety, and depression, ease loneliness, encourage exercise and playfulness, and even improve your cardiovascular health.Pets are never critical and don’t give orders. They are usually loving and their mere presence at home can help provide a sense of security.If you don't own a pet, then consider a neighbor or friend's pet. You could even look into visiting a pet shelter or inquire about fostering an animal.
 Walk barefoot in the grass and feel the earth underneath you. Being stuck inside all day without direct exposure from the sun can actually make a bad day even worse. Grounding is the practice of exposing yourself to the ground, usually with your bare feet to help stimulate energy, improve immune function, and boost happiness. 