 Put Wailord and Relicanth in your group. They are necessary in order to complete the Sealed Chamber puzzle. You will also need the ability to Surf, Dive, Dig, Strength, and Rock Smash. The Fly ability will also make your life a little easier.;
, In order to access Regirock’s lair, you’ll need to solve the Braille puzzles in the Sealed Chamber. The Sealed Chamber can be accessed by Diving in the middle of the rock formation in Route 134. The rock formation can be found towards the bottom of the Route, about halfway through.


In the Sealed Chamber, walk to the Braille sign at the far end of the cave. Stand in the middle and use Dig. This will open a door into the second room.
Walk to the back of the room. In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, place Wailord as the first Pokémon in your party and Relicanth as the last one on your group. In Emerald, place Relicanth first and Wailord last.
Read the sign at the back of the room, and you will receive a message that doors have opened somewhere far away. If your party is not set up correctly, you will not receive this message., Regirock is Level 40, and has a high defense, so get ready for a long battle. Be sure to have enough healing items if you don’t think you can last too many hits, and make sure to stock up on Great and Ultra balls. You’ll want to have at least 10 of each, preferably more.
 Travel to Mauville City. Go north to Route 111 and then walk to the top-right corner. You will need to use Rock Smash to pass through the big rocks, and eventually you will come upon a desert area to your right.


Walk down immediately after entering the desert area and you will see a door in the middle of a ring of rocks. This is the entrance to the Desert Ruins.
 There will be a large wall of Braille. Stand facing the center of the Braille sign.


For Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, walk right two spaces, and then down two spaces. Use the Strength skill. A door will open in the Braille sign.
For Pokémon Emerald, walk left two spaces, and then down two spaces. Use the Rock Smash skill. A door will open in the Braille sign.
 Before starting the fight, save your game in case you accidentally knock out the Regirock and need to reload. Walk to the center of the room and talk to the statue in the center. This will start the battle with Regirock.


Get Regirock down to around 5% health or less. Start using Great Balls and Ultra Balls to try catching the Regirock. This can take a significant number of balls until it is captured.
If you have a Master Ball, you can capture the Regirock immediately.

