 When mapping out the path of your water feature, consider bends in the stream and waterfall drops. A natural looking stream channel should appear “ageless,” as if it has always been there. To best accomplish this, choose a location with a slope. If you don’t have much of a slope to work with, as an alternative you can choose to create water flowing from a boulder or rock grouping. You can also create a subtle rise in elevation with a well planted landscape berm or rock out-croppings that blur the transition from flat to slope.
Note: Make sure that the water feature is following the appropriate length and width determined by the selected system. It is crucial to follow the size restraints for sufficient water storage. To ensure accurate length and width during excavation you can use tools such as marking paint to mark the determined path.


Select a Spot for the Filter Tank. In this installation the Filter Tank can be located remotely from the end of the water feature. In relation to the end, the top of the Filter Tank can be placed even with the ground level around the water feature (at grade) or it can be placed downhill from the water feature (below grade)
Choose the Intake Route. The Filter Tank can be positioned as needed to avoid an obstacle, keep it out of the lawn, or be best aligned with additional water storage tanks. The intake route is that of the pipe between the Fixed Skimmer and the Filter Tank. With this type of system you can place the Filter Tank away from the water feature enabling you to customize your intake route to best fit your landscape.
Common Intake Positioning: Intake routes for 4” IPS pipe (up to 80 GPM) and 6” IPS pipe (up to 200 GPM) can have the intake pipe run straight and level up to 50 feet (10ft less per bend).;
,


Option 1: End in a stream. To end your water feature as shown below to the left, excavate 6” deep at the same width as the stream.
Option 2: End in a Vanishing pool. Excavate 9” deep to allow a 3” deep vanishing pool. If there is a waterfall above this, the length of this area should be at least 1-1/2 times the drop of the waterfall to contain the waterfall splash. For installations using the T390F Filter Tank, excavate 10” deep to allow a 4” deep vanishing pool.
 The skimmer pocket is located at the end of the water feature. (Refer to the Photo on the right)

, (Refer to the Photo on the right)

, Excavate the Stream Channel. A natural looking stream shows signs of erosion from years of water carving a path through the landscape. Avoid a “flying stream look” where water runs over the surface or appears elevated without any aging or character. The following instruction is a general reference to keep the water flow within the stream channel and help you build a natural looking water feature. While excavated depths will vary with each installation, the excavated stream depth should never be less than 6” deep. The excavated depth should increase where the stream drops. This will not only keep the flow of water within the stream, but also create the illusion that the water feature is a natural part of the landscape, not an addition to it.
 Depending on how the rocks will stack up – the top spill rock can rest (A) on the top of the step, (B) rest on a slightly notched shelf, or (C) for short drops, simply extend up an inch or two in front of the step.
Thick weir rocks may require a slightly recessed shelf to reduce the thickness of the weir. The back of the weir should match the gravel depth being placed in the stream channel.
 Excavate a Shelf for the Waterfall Starter


Choose option A or B.
 Make sure the excavated channel is free of rocks, sticks and roots that could puncture the liner. Where several layers of rocks will be stacked, a slight amount of wetted sand can be added to make a smoother subsurface.
Lay the fabric underlayment. Excess fabric should be used for cushioning large rock placements.



Lay the rubber liner over the fabric. Be sure that no rocks fall between the layer of underlayment and the liner, as this could damage the liner and possibly cause a leak.
Center the liner from top to bottom and from side to side. Don’t be in a hurry to cut off the excess liner, as it can be trimmed later. Always allow a little extra liner to overhang the sides. Up to 6” of excess liner can easily be folded under as the final rocks are being placed.
Avoid making lateral folds that can traverse water over the side wall. Keep in mind that all water that laps or splashes against a sidewall must be able to flow back into the channel. Be very attentive to this when placing the rocks.
Waterfall drops bunch and gather liner from the sides, so give yourself plenty of liner to work with in these areas.
, Cut off the ports that you plan to use, either before or after placing the Filter Tank.
 Now that you have established where finish grade will be around the water feature you can excavate for the Filter Tank. Dig the hole so the top rim of the Filter Tank is level with the lowest edge of the water feature. Note: When excavating make sure to plan for the Filter Tank and any Expansion Tanks. Make sure the Filter Tank and any Expansion Tanks will fit within the excavated area with about 6” of room for connection fittings.


Allow room for 1” of compacted sand below the Filter Tank. This cushions the bottom of the Filter Tank and also makes leveling easier.
, Connect the Filter Tank to any additional Expansion Tanks. The Filter Tank (shown right) has an Expansion Tank connection port on the front of the tank.
 If the Filter Tank is level with the water feature, dig the intake trench so the pipe will be level.
Below Grade:

When the top of the Filter Tank is placed lower than the rim of the vanishing pool, the rim of the pool becomes your reference point. To find the penetration point of the intake pipe, measure down 8-3/4” for 4” and 6” pipe and 10-3/4” for 10” pipe. Elbow down accordingly to connect to the Filter Tank intake port.
Place the Flex-Coupling over the intake port and tighten the stainless steel clamp.
Insert the intake pipe into the coupling and tighten the stainless steel clamp.
 Note: Allow an expansion fold below the pipe.
With scissors, cut out the traced circle from the liner.
Stretch the liner over the pipe; this creates a tight sleeve band around the pipe.
Place the flex-collar over the rubber band and tighten.
Connect the Flex-Coupling to the pipe.
Insert the skimmer outlet to the Flex-Coupling.
 Then firmly backfill over the intake pipe so that it will stay level when it comes time to fill the system with water.
, At the top of the stream repeat “Connecting to Liner” (section 6-2 and 6-3, steps 1-5) using the smaller tracing disc and 3” pipe included in the Waterfall Starter Kit. Step 6: Insert the Waterfall Starter outlet to the Flex-Coupling.
 Place rock on top of the Waterfall Starter so the source of water is hidden.
 At each waterfall drop, place a strip of concrete over the extended fabric to force the water flow over the weir rocks.
 The overflow allows excess rainwater to go out of the overflow rather then puddling up at the base of the water feature.


How the Overflow Works: When the system is turned off, water in the stream refills the Filter Tank and Expansion Tanks to the bottom of the “Overflow” port. Rainwater will replenish any evaporation loss until the water level in the Filter Tank rises to the bottom of the overflow. Excess Rainwater will now flow out the overflow to prevent a standing pool of water from developing over the top of the gravel when the system is not in use.
Drain Options.
Drain to Daylight. Route the overflow pipe to drain onto an existing slope. This is suggested when you have a slope in your landscape that supports excess water run off.
Drain to Storm Drain. If you can’t drain to above ground, tie the overflow pipe into an existing yard drain or downspout drain.
Note: If neither of the above options are possible, excess Rainwater can be drained into a gravel swamp at a location away from the Filter Tank.
 Make sure the intake pipe has been backfilled. If you are installing an optional Auto-Fill or Pump Shut-Off, these should be positioned (see section 10) before adding water. Fill the system to the bottom of your overflow and turn the pump on.
 Water should return to the Filter Tank before all the water is pumped out of the tank. If you run out of water this indicates you are short on containment. If you intend to turn the system off regularly, additional water storage should be added (Expansion Tanks).
 Adjust the Skimmer Height. Trim or lower the skimmer as needed to accommodate the pumping volume. You do not want the operating water level flowing over the top of the liner. The operating water level should be no closer than 2” from the top of the liner.
To Lower the Skimmer. The Fixed Skimmer is designed to be lowered in two ways. The Eccentric Coupling can be rotated to lower the operating water level (A), and for high flows the Fixed Skimmer opening can also be cut down (B). Either or both of these adjustments will lower the operating level of the vanishing pool.
To Raise the Skimmer. To raise the skimming depth, simply rotate the Eccentric Coupling.
 The Fixed Skimmer can be hidden with natural elements or finished with a Stainless Steel Grate (use the riser kit if there will be leaves falling into the stream).

Make sure all water flowing down the stream is contained within the liner.
Make sure there is at least 2” between the top of the liner and the operating level of the Vanishing Pool. If not, raise the liner accordingly, shorten the height of the skimmer, or reduce the pumping volume.
Make sure that the system can be turned off and then turned back on without having to add water.
Make sure that the terrain around the Filter Tank is graded so surface water does not collect around it.

