 After you have considered how your friend treats you, you may feel ready to make a decision about whether or not the friendship is worth continuing. Review your concerns and weigh them against the positive aspects of your friendship to help you make your decision. If the friend has done some things to upset you in the past, then you might decide that you want to keep the friendship as long as your friend is willing to make an effort to change some things.


For example, if your friend always wants to discuss her problems and never listens when you need to talk, then you might say something like, "I want to continue our friendship, but it seems like we are always focusing on your concerns. If we are going to continue out friendship, then I need to know that you will make an effort to listen to me when I need to talk."

, Once you have decided to end the friendship, you need to formally follow-through. In some cases, it may be okay to let a friendship simply fade. However, if you have had a long friendship, see the person often, or decide to end the friendship after a horrible betrayal or indiscretion, it’s better to do the deed in person.Invite the person out for lunch or coffee so that the two of you can talk face-to-face.
 Don’t beat around the bush. Explain to your friend why you asked him or her to talk.


You might say something like “I know you’re wondering why I asked you here today. I wanted to discuss our friendship…”

, Even if the person did something terrible, there’s no use accusing or chastising the person for the wrongdoing.If you have made the decision to end it, simply say that and then explain your reasoning. Take ownership for how you feel. Try not to attack the person, but the behavior. Use “I” statements."I" statements provide a way for you to express yourself in a non-threatening way. Instead of using "you," which has the tendency to cause defensiveness, starting a statement off with "I" allows you to take ownership for how you feel without blaming.
Try this approach “I think we need to end our friendship. I have been consistently hurt by you spreading rumors about me and I cannot do it any longer. I wish you well.”

, Of course, the response will not change your decision, but it is considerate and polite. The person may become defensive or angry, and that’s okay. You cannot control the reaction, but you should still stick to your guns.Allow the person to vent any frustrations or respond how they would like. If necessary, simply repeat yourself by saying “I’m sorry, but we can’t be friends anymore.”

