 Established by Bill and Melinda Gates, this scholarship offers a certain number of students of African-American, Asian and Pacific Islander-American, Hispanic-American, and American Indian descent full scholarships to the school of their choice. To apply, you must be recommended by a teacher and fill out an application here. You'll need to do this after having applied to and been accepted to a school, as well as applying for the FAFSA.


Ron Brown Scholars are available specifically to students of African-American decent, between 10 and 20 each application year. This foundation provides $10,000 scholarships on a renewable basis, meaning that the total scholarship can be worth up to $40,000 dollars over the course of a four-year degree.
 By completing a project in science, technology, mathematics, music, literature, philosophy, or a miscellaneous category called "Outside the Box," students under the age of 18 can qualify for a scholarship anywhere between $10,000 as a Davidson Fellow and $50,000 dollars as a Davidson Fellow Laureate for use at the school of their choice. You can apply here.
 If you've demonstrated serious advanced abilities in science and technology, the Siemens Corporation holds a yearly competition in which science, mathematics, and technology students may compete for scholarships up to $100,000 for the national finalists. You need to register your project online in May, and the project will be typically due at the end of September. You can register your project here.


The Intel Science Talent Search is another science and technology competition to which you can apply for your same research materials. To apply, you'll need to answer some essay questions, provide a recommendation from a teacher, as well as a transcript.Then you'll fill out the application online and upload your research reports and other materials.
Many of the same students are finalists for both of these competitions, making them an excellent resource for students with an excellent mind for research and an interest in science.
 This is the easiest scholarship to apply for outside of the university. By signing up for and scoring highly on the pre-SAT, you'll automatically be considered for a National Merit Scholarship, which are awarded to students who demonstrate excellence.

