 Sometimes, you'll need to give her several apologies before she accepts that you're truly sorry. That's okay; the more thought and effort you put into your apology, the likelier she is to forgive you.
 Give it to her in a romantic way, such as hidden in a nice bouquet, or delivered personally by one of her best friends. The letter can say something like this:


Example: "I know that a letter can't fully make up for what I did. I also know that a letter won't fully capture how I feel and what I have to say. What I do know is that I messed up. I can't imagine not being with you. You're who I dream of when I go to bed, and who I think of when I wake up in the morning. You're everything. Nothing I do now will make up for what I did, but I can tell you that I'll never make that mistake again. I promise from the very bottom of my heart."


, Be careful, because some girls hate other people knowing all about their relationship. Use your discretion before a public apology. Consider this, too: she might feel like you are using public pressure to force her to forgive you, as in "Oh, how could Sarah not take him back? Look how sweet he is to her!" It might ultimately be better to keep these things between you as a couple.


Go for the straightforward public apology. Just go up to her when she's with a group of friends, have something prepared, and bare your heart. Look her deeply in the eyes when you apologise, and focus your attention solely on her.
If you're feeling really creative, try using a flash mob to apologize to her. Flash mobs require a lot of work and preparation, so be sure it will work if you do decide to pull it off.
 Girls love these three things. Be sure to write a short message to her; flowers and chocolates without a message apologizing again takes a lot of the emotion out of it. Remember, you want emotion!

, Songs about missing people, having wronged people, or just songs about guilt and shame would work too. Of course, any song that has significance to you as a couple would be nice. You could try changing some of the lyrics to fit the situation.


Alternately, make her a mix. A mix is a little less personal, but with the right care and thought, it can help you get your message across. Pick both songs you know she loves and songs you think she hasn't heard.
 Leave it for her, or record yourself saying it on her answering machine. Make it heartfelt and very emotional if you can, something like:

