 Ask yourself why you are thinking about your girlfriend's past relationships. Identify whether you are thinking about them due to her behavior or your own. Is your girlfriend constantly bringing up her exes in conversation? Or perhaps you are creating this problem for yourself, by comparing yourself to the ex in your mind?


To help you figure it out, try writing a list of what comes up. Next to each item on the list, write what was happening right before, what you did as a result, and what you could do differently., In the past when you have talked about her old relationships or been overwhelmed with thoughts about them, see if you can pick out any patters or themes.Identifying any themes or patterns may help you determine why it is bothering you, or why it keeps coming up in conversation. When her past relationships come up, what are the usual topics?Is it more often focused on her sexual experiences with her exes? Perhaps there is something in your intimate relationship that you or she would like to work on or change.
Does it have to do more with how she felt or feels about her exes? Maybe you are feeling insecure about your relationship, or she is feeling disconnected from you and is craving closeness.
It is about how her family felt about a past relationship? Possibly you do not feel comfortable around her family, or she is experiencing some anxiety about introducing you to them.
 The emotions you experience may help guide you to what the real issue is. Here are some examples of how identifying what you are feeling can lead you to a deeper issue.Do you find you are comparing yourself to her exes? You might be feeling inadequate of down about yourself. Consider your self-esteem and whether it could use a boost!
Are you worried that your girlfriend will "go back" to her ex? You might be feeling anxious. Consider the trust between you both and see if you could address any issues.
Do you get upset or angry when you hear about their relationship or things they have done together? You might be feeling jealous. Consider how secure you feel in your relationship and maybe talk about any insecurities you are feeling.
 Chances are, even if you have not talked about it yet, she knows there is something bothering you. Consider how you might be making yourself and your girlfriend feel.


Is it setting her up to feel guilty? Remember the past is the past and she can't do anything to change what has already happened. Neither can you.
Is is leading to fights or hostility between the two of you? Feelings of anger and resentment could be resulting from the thoughts and the complications it is causing in your relationship.
Are you both happy in your current relationship? What are you both doing to try to help?

