 Many wiccans and other neo-pagans believe that wood felled by a storm is imbued with supernatural powers. Whether or not that's true, it's also just a good way of collecting wood. Head out to the woods after a particularly windy storm to look for pieces of wood that speak to you.
 In magic, staffs are traditionally symbolic of male energy and are often linked to the wind and sun. Often, they're made of hickory or oak, significant for their strength and durability, but a magic staff can be made from any kind of wood that feels right in your hands. It's something you're going to be using for your own practice, so it's important to get something that feels right, and seems significant to you, for whatever reason.


When you find a prospective staff, sit with it. Hold it in your hands. Try to get a feel for its energy. When you hold the right one, you'll know it. Ideally, your staff will be 3–5 feet (0.9–1.5 m) in length.
 Use a knife and sandpaper to remove the bark and smooth the surface of the wood. Use long even cuts with a very sharp knife to keep the staff as clean and smooth-looking as possible. Be very careful while using the knife. Let your staff dry thoroughly and remove any orangish bark that builds up as it rests.
 Depending on your practice, you may have a particular ceremony appropriate for the purpose or charging an object or blessing it in preparation for magic. Light candles, cleanse the area, cast a circle, do whatever needs to be done to prepare for the ritual.


When meditating, consider the natural elements, the earth, sunlight, and water that went into the creation of the tree that yielded this staff that you'll use. Thank the tree and meditate on its gift., Pyrography is done by heating a metal object, usually a needle for even a soldering iron, and burning patterns into the raw wood. On a magic staff, this can be particularly useful as a way of imbuing it with symbolic powers.


Generally, you'll want to avoid artificial sealants and finishes on your magic staff. Some practitioners believe this can limit the power of your staff by restricting the natural properties of the wood. To be on the safe side, leave it unsealed.
 It may be advantageous to adorn the top of your staff with a similarly-charged or related crystal or other gem to make your staff more powerful. If you wish to do so, carve a small diver into the top of your staff and smooth it to the shape of the gem you hope to place atop it.


Don't glue or otherwise permanently bind it to the staff. Instead, lash it with leather thongs or bindings, to remove it for particular uses if necessary.

