 When you are done, take the paper away, and set it aside. You only need to trace one foot, because you can easily flip the pattern over.

Avoid going too far under your arch. To prevent this from happening, look down at your foot while you are tracing it; if you can't see what you are drawing, you are going too far under your arch.
 Use a thin, flexible piece of paper for this; a cheap fabric, such as muslin, would also work., Start tracing at the arch, and finish tracing on the other side of your foot. This will create the top pattern piece., Your original pattern lines probably look very sketchy, especially for the top pattern piece. This won't give you very nice slippers. Smooth and straighten your paper out, then carefully trace around the lines you drew, leaving behind a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter border). Make the curves as neat as possible.

If you added bumps for your toes, be sure to omit them for the final pattern.
 This is your chance to make any necessary changes. If the pattern is too small, or doesn't fit right, you will need to make another one. If the pattern is too big, cut it down a little bit smaller, and try it again. If the pattern fits just right, you are ready to move on!

Pin the pattern together ¼-inch (0.64-centimeters) from the edge.
 You can use plain felt from the arts and crafts store, but nice, 5-millimeter thick felt will not only last longer, but it will look and feel better too. Remember to reverse the pattern for your other foot. Here's what you need to cut:

Sole: 2 pieces per slipper. They can be the same color or contrasting colors.
Toe: 1 piece per slipper If you used two different colors for the sole, consider matching the toe piece to one of them.
 If you used two different colors, put the contrasting color on top, so that it will stand out against the toe piece., Start by pinning the top-center of all three pieces together. Next, pin the bottom corners of your toe piece down to the inner and outer arch of your sole pieces., You can do this by hand or on the sewing machine. If you are doing it by hand, consider using a heavy-duty thread, or even embroidery thread. You can use a thread color that matches the felt, or even a contrasting color.

If you are using a sewing machine, you can use a basic stitch for something plain and simple, and a zigzag stitch for something fancier.
If you are doing this by hand, you can use a straight stitch for something easy, and a blanket stitch for a nice, rustic touch.
 Your slipper is officially complete. Now, all you have to do is repeat this method for the other one. You can leave your slippers as they are, or embellish them further with small decorations, such as:

Add some simple embroidery to the toe piece using embroidery thread in a contrasting color.
Stitch some designs onto the toe piece using seed beads.
Add a blanket stitch to the raw edge of your toe piece. This will look great if you used a blanket stitch on the rest of your slipper.
Stitch or glue on felt shapes or appliqués.

