 Make sure your hands are thoroughly cleaned, as this will be your mixing tool.;
, This is a typical amount for most turkey sausage recipes.
 This will include: 2 tbsp. (30 mL) chili powder, 1 clove of garlic (minced, either with garlic mincer or by hand), 2 tsp. (10 mL) cayenne pepper, 2 tsp. (10 mL) onion powder, 1 tsp. (5 mL) crushed red pepper, 1 tsp. (5 mL) dried oregano, 1 tsp. (5 mL) paprika, 1/2 tsp. (2.5 mL) sea salt, 1/4 tsp. (1.25 mL) marjoram, 1/4 tsp. (1.25 mL) thyme, 1/4 tsp. (1.25 mL) black pepper, and 1/8 tsp. (.625 mL) fennel seeds. To ensure an accurate and evenly combined seasoning mix, use a wire whisk until the seasoning colors look even throughout the bowl. The garlic clove will stick because of the moisture, so be sure to mix thoroughly.


An easy way to mince garlic without a garlic mincer is to place the clove under a butcher knife and slam a closed fist (side of pinky finger down) onto the knife. Be very cautious when using this method that the butcher knife does not slip from your grip or that you slam your hand onto a sharp edge.
Season to your desired taste. If you prefer your turkey sausage not as spicy, try less cayenne, paprika, and crushed red peppers. Also, experiment with other flavors such as minced onion, cumin, nutmeg, ginger, basil, and sage to create your perfect seasoning combination.
 Sprinkle the seasoning mix over the ground turkey sections.
 Be sure to meticulously combine the seasonings within the ground turkey. Add the egg to create a goopy texture. The egg will add volume when you are cooking the meat.


Your hands will be covered with this mixture, so don't be shy about digging in. Kneading the ingredients completely throughout the turkey will ensure the best taste all around and avoid someone getting suckered into a big bite of intense seasoning.
 Refrigerate approximately 24 hours.
 Flatten each to create turkey sausage patties.
 Add plenty of butter and allow it to melt before placing the meat on the pan. This will prevent the patties from sticking to the pan. Make sure the turkey sausage patties are fully cooked before serving (i.e. there is no longer pink meat on the inner, and especially outer, part of the patty). The minimum temperature in the middle of the patty should be at least 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).
 The remainder of the unused meant can also be placed in the freezer for up to 3 months. If you will not use the entire turkey sausage meat within 2 days, package the rest very tightly and freeze.

