 Bedsores can emerge rapidly and need to be addressed as soon as they are identified. Pay special attention to the parts of your body that lay against the bed or wheelchair, or that rub against other parts of the body or clothing.


Pay special attention to the lower back, tailbone, foot heel, hips, buttocks, knees, back of the head, elbows and ankles., For early stage bedsores, wash the affected area gently with soap and water. Pat the area dry (do not rub) with a towel. Pay close attention to skin that may be prone to sweating or soiling. Moisturize with lotion to keep from getting dry skin.


Bedsores that develop on the buttocks or near the groin may be prone to getting feces or urine on them. Use protective and/or waterproof bandages over the bedsore area to eliminate this risk.
 A wound should be cleaned and wrapped with fresh dressing. A wound may be irrigated with saline (salt water solution) to clean it out before being redressed.Consult a healthcare professional before doing this; they may prefer to do this procedure themselves.


Do not use antiseptics like iodine or hydrogen peroxide on bedsores. These can actually hamper the healing process.There are different types of bandages or dressing materials that can be used. Clear film or hydrogel can help a Stage I bedsore heal quickly and should be changed every 3-7 days. Other bandages may allow for more air to circulate or to protect from other fluids such as feces, urine or blood., Debridement means the cutting away of dead flesh, which is performed by a doctor. This should be a relatively painless process, since the flesh does not have any live nerves, although there may be sensitivity since the dead flesh is next to flesh with nerves. Bedsores in later stages may require this procedure. Check with your doctor to determine the best approach to healing bedsores.
 A doctor may prescribe a topical antibiotic that can be applied right onto the bedsore in order to stop the spread of infection and to help your body heal. The doctor may also give oral antibiotics, especially if the bedsore is at a later stage.If you have developed osteomyelitis, or a bone infection, you may need to take a long course of antibiotic medication. It may require more involved intervention from a doctor., Keep a close eye on how the sores are healing to make sure that they are clearing up and not getting worse. If the condition does not appear to be healing, consult your doctor.

