 Dipping a light bulb in silicone is a fun and creative project that allows you to spruce up a typical light bulb. Choose what type of light bulb you would like to use. If you would like to make a small votive light, select a 60-watt candelabra bulb. Select a 60-watt standard light bulb if you are using it in a desk lamp.
 Secure some craft or jewelry wire around the base of the bulb by tightly wrapping it around several times. Leave a string that is about 4 or 5 in (10 to 13 cm) long, or long enough for the bulb to be secured as it is hanging to dry.Wire can be purchased online or at an arts and crafts shop and can cost between $3 to $8.Use a pair of pliers to clip the wire.
 Silicone caulk comes in a tube and can be purchased at a general store or a hardware store. It typically costs between $3 and $10.To open, use a pair of scissors or a box cutter to carefully slice off the tip of the nozzle.Be sure to use 100% silicone. You can use either white or clear silicone.
 Use a clear and disposable plastic cup to hold the silicone. Hold the nozzle above the cup and gently squeeze the contents into the container. Fill it up about half-way.Add several drops of a scented oil like cinnamon or lavender into the silicone. The bulb will give off a pleasant aroma as it glows.
To add some color, use a few drops of oil-based paint and mix it with the silicone., Hold the cup securely with one hand. In the other, grip the base of the light bulb. Dip the bulb into the center of the cup into the silicone mixture., Once you have dipped a bulb in the silicone, twirl the bulb a couple of times to evenly coat the surface. Be sure not to submerge the base of the light bulb.Create an elongated, decorative tip by pulling the bulb out of the silicone quickly. You can dip the bulb into the mixture several times to achieve the look you desire., Use the metal wire to fasten the bulbs in a safe place to dry. Hang the bulbs on a coat hanger, but be sure that they do not touch. Suspend the hanger in a safe, dry, bright place to dry. Leave them to dry for several days. Silicone caulk can take 24 to 48 hours to dry completely., Purchase a small nightlight or lamp at a home goods store or a general store. If the nightlight has a cover, gently slide it off to remove. Once the bulbs are dry, remove the wire. Secure the silicone-coated bulbs into the light sockets.Be sure the lamps are not connected to a power source as you insert the bulbs.
 Plug in the lamps or nightlights to showcase your unique, quirky light-bulbs. The silicone coatings will add a warm, diffused glow to a bedroom or hallway.


If you added drops of an essential oil, you should be able to smell a hint of the aroma as the bulbs glow.