 Protect them not only from moisture, but light as well, which will cause the pages to fade.Use a box that is specially designed for comic books, since a wider box may allow room for your upright comics to fall over sideways. Select between “long” and “short” boxes.Even if you plan on expanding your collection in the future, buy a box that is appropriately sized for your current collection. Storing 100 comics in a “long” box that fits 300 will allow room for your upright comics to fall forward.
With cardboard boxes, make sure that the cardboard is acid-free.
For the most protection from outside elements, use plastic boxes.
 Place each comic in the box vertically, as opposed to laying it flat on its back cover. Give yourself the ability to quickly search through titles without having to remove each and every comic first. Additionally, avoid the damage that may occur from stacking comics on top of each other.The combined weight of so many comics stacked on top of each other may press together the pages of those at the base, forming a seal, which will cause tears when you try to open them again.
Additionally, if the edges of the comics themselves are not lined up exactly with each other, the weight of those on top may cause the corners or edges of those below to bend and crease.
 Choose a storage space with consistent temperatures and humidity, since extreme changes in heat and moisture may hasten aging. Avoid placing them near sources of heat or cold, like radiators or a/c vents. Also avoid areas that are prone to leaks or flooding.To be extra cautious, shelve your boxes rather than set them directly on the floor, since moisture may still accumulate there, even without flooding.If you don't have adequate shelving, place your boxes on another raised surface, such as a pallet.Avoid stacking cardboard boxes if possible. If you must, keep your stacks to a maximum of five boxes each to prevent the ones on the bottom from being crushed under all that weight.
Label each box according to your organizational method.Rotate the one at the bottom of the stack to the top periodically so no one box bears the brunt of all that weight over the long run.
Ideal temperatures are between 50 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit (10 and 21 degrees Celsius). Humidity should ideally be around 35 percent, never more than 50 percent.