 This method requires a latch hook and yarn. You can buy both at a craft store.

If you prefer button braids to dangling braids, you'll need yarn, strong cotton thread, and a needle instead.
 Separate a section at the top of the mane, 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) wide. Clip the rest of the mane with an alligator clip until you're ready to work on the next section.If the mane is too thick to braid easily, the sections can be as narrow as ½ inch (1.25 cm)., Braiding in the yarn will be much easier if you keep the horsehair wet. Work in water, egg white, or hair gel for horses with a comb or your fingers.
 Braid the mane as you would human hair, dividing it into three plaits and weaving the left and right around the center. Stop when you are about halfway down the length of the mane.


Pull down along the horse's side as you braid, not out toward you, or the braid won't lie flat.If you want your braids to look as professional as possible, count the number of crossovers in the braid before you stop, so you can use the same number for each section.
 Start with a piece of yarn about one foot (30 cm) long.You'll quickly find out whether you need a shorter or long piece for your horse.


Once you know how long a piece to use, you can save time by laying the yarn back and forth to the correct length, and cutting it into strands all at once.
 Fold the yarn over so the tips meet. Place the middle of the yarn over the braid, at the last crossover you did before stopping.
 Perform the next crossover as you would normally, but lay it over the yarn loop, trapping it beneath the hair.
 Divide the yarn so one strand is with the left section of mane, and the other is with the right.Continue to cross the braid over as usual, pulling downward to keep the yarn and mane taut. Stop when there are 4 inches (10 cm) of hair left hanging.
 Grasp both strands of yarn dangling below the braid, and loop them around the braid tip. Pinch the braid tip together, then thread one yarn end through the loop and pull into a tight knot. Leave the remaining yarn dangling below the braid.
 Optionally, you can trim the hair strands beneath the yarn knot. Take care not to cut the yarn, and trim at an angle with a sharp pair of scissors to create a clean point of hair., Repeat the steps above for the rest of the mane. Each braided section should use the same amount of hair. If the hair thins out toward the bottom of the mane, compensate by making wider sections.
 You have three options at this point:

Leave the braids as-is. (Not recommended for competitions.)
Continue to the next step to complete the yarn loop.
Tie off the yarn, cut off the extra, and skip down to the button braid section.
 Push the end of the latch hook through the top of the braid, at the neck. Hook the dangling yarn tails, and pull them up until the braid tip touches the top of the braid, and the yarn tails extend past it. Repeat with each braid, so you have a series of looped braids along the mane.


Do not pull any further. The braid tip should not push through the top of the braid, just rest against it.
 Remove the latch hook and set it aside. Pick up the two yarn tails on a single braid. Loop one yarn tail under from the left and the other from the right, crossing each other under the braid next to the neck.
 After crossing the yarn under the braid, switch the hands you're holding them with. Bring them together again halfway along the braid loop, and tie them together at the top side of the braid. Tie one knot over your thumb, then slip the yarn tails through where your thumb are. Tighten the first knot, then tie a second above it to make a strong double knot.Repeat with each braid.


Each knot should be in the exact middle of the braid, or the braid will slant.
 Cut the dangling ends of the yarn with a pair of scissors, leaving about ¼ inch (6 millimeters). Repeat for each braid, and you're ready for a show.


See the Tips section if you need to leave the braids in overnight.
To remove these braids, just snip the yarn knot and gently pull the yarn through the braid. When all braids are removed, brush the mane with a wet body brush.

