 As you go through your day with your child, make sure to talk about the ways that actions lead to certain results. This advice is not about punishment. Rather, it's about discussing the ways that what a person does affects the eventual result.For example, if your child brings home a good grade, you could say, "See, you got a good grade on this because you worked so hard."
Your discussions don't have to center only on your child. You can discuss situations with yourself, too. For example, you could say, "I was late to work today, so my boss was mad."
You may have to explain how some consequences occur quickly and others occur further down the line. This will help to get them thinking about the future.;
, Another way to help your child think about how actions have natural consequences is to set up verbal scenarios for them. You propose an action or situation and ask your child what they think would happen next.When something happens and your child has to make a decision, this is a good time to have them talk through the possible options and results.


For instance, you could say, "Say you forgot to tell me you had a club meeting after school. What would happen?" Don't judge what they say. The point is to help them think through how an action has an effect.
 Natural consequences help children realize how their actions can affect themselves and people around them. Sometimes, you may be tempted to let children off the hook, but instead, let them experience consequences (within limits, of course).For instance, if your child leaves their homework at home, don't take it to them. They will have to live with the consequence--a bad grade--which will help them try to be more responsible in the future.
 Sometimes, a natural consequence will be too delayed to have an effect on behavior (such as cavities developing when teeth aren't brushed). Other times, safety is a concern (such as when a child wants to run into the street). In these cases, and others, natural consequences aren't a good solution. Logical consequences are ones you impose, but they fit the situation rather than seem arbitrary.For instance, if your child breaks something, have them pay for it out of their allowance or do extra chores to pay it off. That is a more logical consequence than being grounded.
When you impose a logical consequence on your child, make sure to talk to them about why you're doing it. Otherwise, they might just get upset and not understand.
 When your child does something to another person, such as making a sibling cry, your instinct may be to tell the child to apologize. However, forcing a child to apologize doesn't help them learn how to accept responsibility in the future. It just "fixes" the current situation. It's better to help your child come to the conclusion that they will need to repair the relationship.Using the example, forcing the child to say "I'm sorry" won't mean much to either the child or their sibling. However, if you talk with the child about why they made their sibling cry, helping them deal with the emotions, it will help them calm down. Be sure to use the situation as an opportunity to teach more appropriate coping skills and to encourage empathy by asking you child to remember how they felt when someone made them cry.
Pretty soon, they will realize that their sibling is mad at them, and they need to do something to repair what they've done to their relationship with their sibling. That shows them their actions have consequences that they need to do something about. You can prompt them by saying something like, "What do you think you can do to help your sibling feel better?"
They might apologize, or they might do something else to make up for it. Either way, letting the child initiate it will help it feel better, and they'll be more likely to do something similar in the future on their own.
 If your child finds themselves in a hard situation (that they got themselves into), you may be tempted to swoop in and fix it for them. However, a better approach is letting the child try to fix it themselves, with help from you as needed.For example, say you child comes home with a bad grade. You may be tempted to lay out a plan for how your child can improve. Instead, ask the child, "Well, you've obviously had some trouble here. What can you do to improve?"
If your child needs it, you could help them write out a plan that they can stick to. Teach them to revisit the plan regularly to see how it’s working, assess it, and make changes as needed.
 When you make a responsible choice, talk about it out loud as you do it. Otherwise, your child may not realize the responsible choices you make every day. Children need positive examples of behavior to help them learn responsibility.For example, you could say, "I won't go over the speed limit because that's unsafe and I could cause an accident." Alternatively, you could try, "Let's return to the store and pay for this apple because the cashier overlooked it. We don't take things that aren't ours."

, If your child does something against the rules, they may try to blame it on someone else, such as "Sister made me do it!" A typical response to this excuse is, "If Sister jumped off a bridge, would you jump off a bridge?" The problem with this response is that it isn't clear enough about what the problem is. Your child needs a clear explanation.Instead, say something like, "Your sister may have influenced you, but you decided to do it yourself. You could have chosen not to follow your sister, but you didn't. Therefore, you're responsible for what you did."
Be sure to point out times along the way that they could have made a different choice to encourage them to learn how to get out of these situations earlier.
 With some children, tracking behavior can help them adjust their thinking. One way to do this with responsibility is to start the week with a specific number of points or stickers, such as five. Every time your child tries to avoid blame, they lose a point. The goal is to still have at least one point at the end of the week (when they'll receive a small reward).You could write, "Avoiding the Blame Game" on the top so that your child knows what it's for. You could also title it, "Taking Responsibility for My Actions."
You could write out a small pledge for your child to sign so they understand. Try, "I will not blame other people for my choices. I will own up to the things I do."
Put the chart up where your child can see it every day, such as on the door to their bedroom. However, keep in mind that this works well for some children and not others. It is important to be flexible and try out different techniques.
 Children learn by seeing behaviors modeled (and explained). Therefore, you must model owning up to your actions to your child, as they'll be watching you to see how they should behave.For example, say you were late picking up your child from school. Instead of saying, "I was late because there was so much traffic," you could say, "I'm sorry I'm late. I should have left earlier."
Similarly, don't make children take responsibility for the consequences you impose on them. Instead of saying, "Because you didn't come home on time, I guess that means you want to stay home this weekend," say, "Because you didn't come home on time, you're grounded. I expect you to keep up with your curfew."

, If your child is honest with you about something you did and you blow up, they're not likely to be honest the next time. It's important to stay calm, even if you're upset about what they did. If you feel yourself getting upset, try counting to 10, or taking a few, deep calming breaths before responding.If you need to, take a short break before discussing the issue with your child. Wait until you can have a calm conversation.
Also, make sure to give your kid kudos for being honest with you.
 Your kid relies on you to set boundaries with them, which includes enforcing the rules. You can't expect your child to accept responsibility for your actions if you continually make exceptions for them. Holding them to the rules helps them realize that they must own up to things they've done.Although it is not always possible, it is ideal if the rules exist before a situation occurs and that your child has a good understanding of the rules. Do your best to avoid looking like you are making up the rules as you go.

