 Make sure that you do not make a public response to the insult unless you have allowed a little time to collect yourself first. Take some deep breaths. Because we cannot use tones and gestures to clarify where we're coming from, it is best to think deeply about how you use your words before jumping in.
 Size up the insult, the offender, and the context so that you can respond to (or ignore) the insult to best recover your reputation and your dignity. Consider the following information:


Is the person behaving in a way that is aimed at intimidating you?
Will this insult hold weight for other people in your network--does it bring to light any real, current issues?
Is this someone with whom you have a history of not being able to see eye to eye?
How do you feel about continuing to be a part of that site or community?
Did you receive an overly rude and vengeful scolding in response to your activity on the site?

Consider your own role, too: Have you played any part in escalating conflict with this person, accidentally or on purpose?



, Sometimes simply ignoring the insult is the best way to respond. This is usually the case when the insult is very petty and clearly misinformed. A response is appropriate if it is important for controlling the damage done to your image, and not just defensively trying to strike back. Remember that responding can further provoke the offender, and a stream of conflict can be more damaging to your online presence than the original insult.


For example, if the insult is in response to your critical opinion of drilling for oil in the Arctic and it says "**** you, you ******* hippie", you may want to just ignore it.
If you do respond, keep it brief. Countering an attention-seeking insult with a cool, measured reply will present as having the care to consider what was said and the wherewithal to see its pettiness. You can try a response like, "I'm disappointed that my attempts to bring a social issue to light has not been effective."
After you give a brief public response, you can choose to continue the conversation between you and the offender.You might start by saying "I can't respond thoughtfully when I am being called names in front of my peers. Why don't we find another, private way to communicate?" Then, you can carry on the conversation from there, depending on whether or not you aim to return to the content of the insult.
 There are always options available on Facebook and other popular social media venues to block the offensive user and delete or privatize content that you don't want to be public. Twitter also provides a form where you can report abusers of the site and give information about their behavior.
 Know that there are things you can do to protect yourself from insults in the future. People are much more likely to use insults and hurtful language when others do so.So, if you notice a community or posting thread with lots of hostile or rude remarks, avoid jumping in.


One good way of coping is to avoid getting too attached to any single site online. Forums, blogs and websites tend to be great meeting places, but the insults can be intensified if you feel that you are committed to a site that is becoming threatening. Getting involved in numerous communities online, will make you less attached to a particular community and more able to freely seek new websites to engage.

