 These are the building blocks of your writing.;
, One set of four quarter notes played correctly can be much more effective than three or four measures of complex material.
 Often you'll find yourself in a haze of your own playing. Avoid these mistakes:


Forget. A long series of notes can be tricky to remember, especially when different rudiments are involved.
Overplay. Remember that a drum line is only as good as its weakest drummer, and if he/she cannot keep up, the entire drum cadence is weakened
Solo. This is flashy, fun, eye grabbing, and may reflect great skill, but often in solos, the tempo is lost and will sound horrible with the rest of the line. Save excessive showboating for I & E's.
 Do eight or nine counts then stop. Repeat those counts three or four times. Then, if you like it, write it.
 This is most likely your snare part.
 Sometimes ripples are nice, or even dynamic quarters. Steady quarters are another option. Sometimes only the offbeat will give a funky sound to the line. It all depends.
 paradiddles, flams, etc. These sometimes help dynamics on either hand or at different points. They are also more professional.
 Yes, it may be boring sounding now, but your quads/quints are going to spice up even the simplest of cadences.
 A general rule to follow is to make sure every accent on the snare and bass drums is hit by the quads on a different drum. For example, if the snare drum accents every other beat, make sure every other beat gets a different drum.
 Use all manner of rudiments, accents, and even make chords with different drums. Even clapping and hands playing are effective.
 Cymbals are much more than crashes and hi-hats. Sometimes even the most basic cymbal parts can add a completely different sound to your cadence. Ask a friend who plays cymbals about all the different sounds and techniques you can create with a pair of cymbals. You might be surprised.
 Do not let one section overpower the rest of the line.
 Emphasize them for every section.
 Nobody's first song was awesome. All people who write music had to start somewhere. Mistakes and experimentation are how you learn; they're how music develops.

