 Frequent communication is essential to deepening your friendship. Making sure that they feel loved and supported will help you remain friends with them. Let them know about your day and random facts about yourself. Listen to them when they speak, and respond with an appropriate amount of enthusiasm so that they feel happy.;
, Spending time with your friend is important, as it reminds them that they're loved. Share fun moments with them. Send them invitations to different outings, such as the movies or to a sleepover. Be sure that you both enjoy the activity; otherwise, they may feel unhappy and not want to spend time with you. Also, invite your other friends for a change in variety.
 Allowing you into your life will make them feel special. As your best friend, they will want to know about you as much as possible. By opening up to them, they will understand that you trust them and want them in your life. If they shares secrets with you, be a good friend and keep them to yourself. Although you might be tempted to share them with others, don't break the trust put in you.
 When you are apart, show that you are thinking about them by calling, emailing, or texting them. Sending a short, simple message can do the trick. However, remember to give space so that they don't feel smothered.
 Giving them a special name will strengthen your bond with them. Be sure that they don't, however, feel embarrassed or hurt by the name; if they feel you're making fun of them, it could throw a wrench in your friendship. Have inside jokes with each other.
 Every person is made unique by their likes and dislikes. Even if you may not love their television shows or favorite celebrities, show that you love and support them by listening when they talk about them. You could also purchase gifts related to their likes, such as a shirt of a favorite band.
 In order to ensure that you both remain friends for a long time, don't allow menial situations or differences to separate you both. It doesn't matter that she's got the same shirt or pair of boots as you. Why should you care if he isn't a fan of the band you love? Your similarities and differences with them should not cause a tear in your friendship.
 Above all, respect your friend, their space and their choices. You're not the boss of them and neither they of you. Enjoy everything together for as long as it lasts.