


Think as yourself becoming a new person. Instead of saying no all the time say yes!
Think The old me wouldn't of done this but the new spontaneous one will!
Think Why not? instead of Why?
Think What's the worst thing that can happen?
Push those stupid What if? thoughts in the back of your head and just do it!
Don't overanalyze things.
Stop planning things.
Play fun games like: Spin the bottle, Truth or Dare, 7 minutes in Heaven, Strip Poker, The Nervous Game.
Think about how your going to miss out.
Think like a little kid. All kids want to do is have fun so make that your main goal with everything that you're doing.
Don't be lazy, make everything you do active. Limits your hours watching TV being on the computer. Laying in your bed all day isn't spontaneous.
Think This isn't going to kill me if I do it, so just do it!
Do things just so you know you'll have a crazy story to tell.
Think I only live once.
Take things as a joke instead of seriously.
Do things just because you can.
Do it sorta as a way of showing off, because you know people will be like "Oh my gosh! She/He did it! Wow, I wish I could be that brave.
If you think about doing something fun, do it right then if possible! For example: It's 3:00 o'clock in the morning and you really want some ice cream! Sneak out and go to an Open 24 hours place like McDonalds and buy you some ice cream or sneak into your friends house and eat their ice cream! Even the littlest things can make you spontaneous! This is a life style. You can fit it into everything you do.;
,


Wear anything different.
Wear anything bright. For example: Instead of dressing in yellow, dress in gold!
Bring old styles from other years (like 60's, 70's, 80's) back that no one wears any more. Who knows you might start a new trend.
Have lots of fun accessories.
You can find bold items at places like Forever21, Urban Outfitters, PacSun, local thrift shops, online stores, etc. *Don't buy the same things over and over again have variety styles and colors! Don't buy things everyone at your school would buy/wear.
Still stay true to yourself.



Dye your hair weird colors.
Hangout with people you usually wouldn't hang out with.
Race neighborhood golf carts.
See a fortune teller.
Play manhunt at a school playground at night with a lot of people.
Do things you probably wouldn't do like bowling, ice/rolling skating.
If you don't ever go camping, go camping.
If it is safe, at the lake go cliff diving!
If it is safe go bridge jumping into water!
Go to random local concerts for the fun of it.
Get a tattoo.
Get a piercing.
Have a random road trip.
Go to a local haunted house.
Write all over your friends cars with window markers randomly.
Attacks friends randomly with water guns.
Make a huge slip in slide with tarp, water, and soap on a hill.
Silly string/fork a yard.
Shoot stuff with paint ball guns.
Play ding dong ditch.
Egg stuff (don't get caught though because you can get a pricey fine)
Ti-pi a house/car (don't get caught though because you can get a pricey fine)
Put a bunch of kool-aid packets in a local fountain so it'll change the color of the water.
Graffiti something
Randomly by a bunch of fireworks/sparklers and let them off somewhere.

