 Specific symptoms can signal the beginning of a heart attack, during which oxygen-rich blood does not feed the heart muscle. If the heart does not get enough oxygen-rich blood, part of it can die. The amount of damage to the heart muscle can be reduced when you are treated with medications at a hospital within one hour of experiencing the symptoms. The symptoms include:Chest pain or pressure
Chest heaviness or tightness
Sweating or "cold" sweats
Feeling of fullness or indigestion
Nausea and/or vomiting
Lightheadedness
Dizziness
Extreme weakness
Anxiety
Rapid pulse or irregular heart rhythm
Shortness of breath
Pain radiating down the arm
Pain described mostly commonly as squeezing or tightness of the chest, but not sharp pain
Note that in women, elderly, and those with diabetes, heart attacks often don't have many of the common symptoms and can even present as other symptoms altogether. Fatigue is common.;
, These can be different than the symptoms of a blocked artery elsewhere. Suspect a blocked artery in the kidney if you experience: high blood pressure that is difficult to control, fatigue, nausea, loss of appetite, itching skin, or difficulty with concentration.If the artery is completely blocked, you may experience fever, nausea, vomiting, and steady aching pain in the lower back or abdomen.
If the blockage is from small blockages that lodge in the renal artery, you may also have similar blockages in other areas of your body, such as in your fingers, legs, brain or intestines.
 While you may not be totally sure that you have a blocked artery, it's better to be safe than sorry. Contact your doctor and describe your symptoms her. Your doctor will either tell you to come into her office or to go to your closest emergency room.
 Rest quietly until medical care arrives. By remaining very still you will reduce the oxygen needs and workload of the heart muscle.


If you think you are having a heart attack, chew 325 mg of full-strength aspirin once you have contacted emergency services. If you only have baby aspirin, take four 81 mg pills. Chewing before swallowing will help the aspirin work faster.

