 Resumes often list objectives, are limited to a single page, and contain a narrow list of categories. CVs, on the other hand, often leave objectives off, can be pages in length, and have numerous, more specialized categories.


Resumes are highly focused on personal accomplishments. CVs highlight research, education, and scholars or researchers under whom you have studied. In a CV, you should mention others in the world of academia with whom you have written a paper or done a research project.
CVs can have several specific categories, including training, teaching, workshops, seminars, research, lectures, conferences, publications, degrees, continuing education, scholarships, fellowships, volunteer experience, appointments, and more.;
, Gear your CV directly to that school so you can connect with their values and programs. Learn about the specific programs they offer. Read about the research their medical professors are currently undertaking. Find relevant connections between your interests and theirs.
 This is especially important since you are applying to graduate school. Highlight the college or university you attended, what degree you will graduate with, if you will graduate with honors, and if you have any concentrations or special interests within the medical field.
 Since you are applying to medical school, any work experience you have will place you at the front of the crowd of applicants. If you have interned at a doctor's office, served as a research assistant, volunteered at a local health clinic, or assisted with a health class, list that on your CV. Split them into specific categories.
 The way you organize your CV for medical school is determined by how much and what type of information you have to share. Categorize it so that your CV is easy to follow. If you do not have information for a specific category, leave that section out.


Research papers and projects, dissertations, theses, publications, and other research papers demonstrate the specific medical field you are interested in. They also reveal the depth of research you have already done. So do class projects.
Lectures, seminars, conference messages, or any type of public speech shows that you are recognized as a knowledgeable individual about that specific topic. It also demonstrates your teaching and communication skills.
 The chronology of CVs goes from oldest to newest. For example, in the work experience section, start with your first job and then move on to your most recent one. If there is a date range involved (i.e., 2002-2006) or when it is an ongoing activity (i.e., 2004-present), use the first date when organizing.
 There are several ways you can format a CV. The important thing is to keep it well organized and consistent.


Number the pages. Help reviewers refer to certain pages when they are discussing your CV and application to medical school.
Number long lists. This helps others see how much you have accomplished at a quick glance. It also helps when you try to refer to a specific role or achievement.
Use a template. You can find CV templates online or through your word processing program. Feel free to personalize it to fit you, but ensure that headings, font type, and size remain consistent throughout your CV.

