 Portion control is a big way to avoid overindulgence. You don't have to say "No" to a Christmas potluck or party. Just be conscientious about the portions you're consuming.When filling your plate at holiday events, try to fill it halfway with fruits and vegetables. You should also opt for healthy, whole wheat choices, like whole wheat rolls.
For less healthy options, stick to a small serving. Fill a quarter of your plate with something like mashed potatoes or cranberry sauce and only take a few slices of meats like turkey and ham.
 If you're cooking a holiday dinner, work on substituting certain ingredients for healthier options. This can allow you to enjoy the holiday traditions without feeling like you're overindulging.If you're making mashed potatoes, you can use chicken broth instead of butter to add texture and flavor.
Use toasted almonds instead of fried onions in green bean casserole.
When making dips, select Greek yogurt instead of sour cream.
Use whole wheat pie crusts in pies.
 Tiny changes to your routine can be surprisingly effective at combating overeating. Changing your wardrobe and habits can lessen your likelihood of overdoing it at holiday events.Wear tight clothes. If you feel some physical discomfort after overeating, this will help slow you down.
Chew gum. People often eat habitually, without realizing they're overindulging. Having something to chew on can help.
 Drink water between bites and have one glass of water for every glass of alcohol. This will fill you up, preventing you from overindulging. When you're done with dinner, take a brisk walk to wor off some of the excess calories.Always pour yourself a glass of water before a meal or before you start snacking. Try to drink a full glass of water before eating and take small sips of water throughout your meal.
 If you're attending a holiday get-together, alcohol will often be served. Alcohol is high in calories and can be a major source of overindulgence during the holiday months. At parties, strive to drink in moderation or skip the alcohol altogether.Eat before you attend a party with alcohol. If you don't eat first, you'll feel a stronger buzz faster. As alcohol lowers your inhibitions, this may temp you to go overboard. Eating first can help you stay in control.
Count your drinks during the night, setting a reasonable limit for yourself. You should also pace your drinks, to avoid going overboard due to lowered inhibitions. Strive for one drink per hour.
If you opt not to drink at all, have a small treat instead. You can, say, have an extra cookie or a non-alcoholic holiday drink instead of overindulging on alcohol.

