 Just because it’s a birthday party doesn’t mean that the party has to take place on the exact date of the birthday. Choose a date near the birthday that you intend to celebrate.In addition to choosing the date, you’ll also have to figure out what time you want to have the party. If you are planning a party for younger children, make sure that you pick a time that does not interfere with school or kids getting to bed on time. If it’s a party for older people, make sure that the time falls after when most people work.


In addition to considering people’s time, you’ll also have to think about lighting in your forest party and whether you have artificial lights that can keep things bright during the nighttime.
Most people, especially those in school or that work, prefer to attend parties over the weekend.
If close family and friends are attending the party, talk to them first to see what is the most convenient day for most people.;
, If you want to hold a forest themed party, you may want to hold your party in an actual forest. Look online for parks that allow you to rent an area for a time and see what the restrictions or costs are. See if any parks near you will rent out space for a private event.If you don’t want to hold your party in an actual forest, think of friends who may have a wooded backyard filled with trees or you can hold the party in your own backyard.


Some parks may offer free park space for picnics and events to those with a smaller guest list., If you are throwing a party for someone else, ask them who they would like to come. If it’s a surprise party, think of the person’s closest family and friends and invite them. If you are creating the guest list for your own party, think of people that you’d want to share time with and people who would get along with each other.If you are difficulty thinking of who to invite, look on social media to get a refresher of the people you know.
 Setting a budget for the woodland birthday party will help you only spend the money you have. Determine how much disposable money you have to spend on the party and keep a running tally of receipts as you purchase items for the party. Set separate budgets for food, decorations, and party favors, and don’t go over them.


If a product might make you go over budget, look for cheaper alternatives.
 Look for forest themed or woodland themed party invitations online. These invitations will usually have a brown, yellow, blue, and green color palette and can be customized for your specific event. If you’d rather create your own invitation, try to incorporate aspects of the forest such as woodland creatures, mountains, leaves, and trees.You can also send digital forest-themed invitations through email or social media.
 Many snacks and sweets can be converted to a forest theme with ingenuity. For example, Kit-Kat candy can be broken apart to look like logs, and trail mix can be put out to give a forest vibe. To further solidify your theme, put little signs made of paper in front of your snacks that remind people of the forest.


Sign examples include “bear poop” for bonbons, “woodland berries” for mixed fruit cups, and “twigs” for pretzel sticks.Other forest themed snack ideas include peanut caramel cookies, chocolate chip cookies, red toffee apples, pretzels, and dried fruit.Think of animal themed treats like ants on a log or porcupines made out of a watermelon., Have a custom cake created that invokes the feeling of the forest. Ideas include woodland creatures like owls, deer, or bears. Look for pre-made, cheaper cakes at bakeries that can be related to nature in some way. Other nature related cake decorations could include trees, leaves, or other depictions of nature.


You can also get custom cakes made in the shape of tree stumps, acorns, mushrooms, or forest foliage., Mix 1 gallon of green punch a 1.46 ounce can of pineapple juice and 1 liter of ginger ale together in a large bowl to create a light green colored punch. Using the same little signs or labels that you used for your snacks and label this mixture pond punch.A popular green punch is Green Berry Rush Hawaiian Punch.
 Wooden utensils evoke a feeling of nature and the forest. Purchase utensils made of wood and use them in your food or snack bowls to enhance the feeling of nature for your party. You can also replace your dishes and bowls with wooden variations if you already own them., Decorate your party tables with things found out in nature like pine cones, moss, acorns, or lumber. Instead of using traditional folding chairs, see if you can get logs for people to sit on.Think of purchasing other decor items that will add to the overall forest theme, such as birdhouses, traditional candlesticks, or hanging mason jars., Purchase or create packaging for party favors that have forest themes and put in the ingredients that you need to build smores. Line up chocolate, marshmallows, and graham crackers for people to eat at the party, or later when they go home. Not only will most people appreciate the gift, but it will also remind them of camping., This Latin American custom can be converted to suit your whimsical forest theme and is a fun activity for children. Look for a pinata that invokes the feeling of the forest. Ideas include pinatas shaped like mushrooms or pinatas shaped like owls.Other pinata ideas include foxes, turtles, raccoons, bears, or porcupines.
 Set up a simple scavenger hunt for children to find things like leaves, feathers, and stones.Create a list of things that participants must find to win the scavenger hunt and distribute it to the people who play. As they find things in the forest, they can mark off the items they already have. For younger children, try to keep the items easy to find so that they don’t get frustrated or discouraged.Other items you can have them find include fruits, berries, nuts, or special flowers.
You can buy something at the store to serve as the prize for the scavenger hunt.
If you don’t want kids picking things up off the ground, you can have them snap a photo of the item on their smartphone instead of physically carrying the scavenger hunt item.
 Convert games and activities by including mentions of the forest or woodland creatures. For example, pin the tail on the donkey can become pin the tail on the deer. Other games, like the bean bag toss, can be converted by swapping what you would normally use for the scoring hole, with an image of a woodland creature's mouth. Think of other creative conversions that you can make for the existing games that you have planned for your party.


You can also set up a craft area to create woodland animal masks or gingerbread log houses.
Setting up a drawing table with woodland creature photos is a great activity.

