 If you want to write more, start by putting pencil to paper and doing a free-write to get your first ideas out. This isn't going to be the final draft, so it can be helpful to get the mess that's in your mind sorted out to get a more complicated main point out to start with. Start with your opinions, even if your teacher has forbidden "I" statements (she's not going to see this!) and any other initial thoughts about the topic.


Try a timed writing, say ten or fifteen minutes. Don't stop moving your pencil or typing until the time is up. You can produce a lot in that amount of time, and use what you've produced to mine for main points and possible entries into your paper or essay.;
, Start with your main idea in the center of the page and draw a circle around it. This might be something general, like "World War II" or "Zelda" or something more specific, like "Gun control in the American South." The point of the exercise is to get your topic more specific as a way to write more.


Around your center topic, write associated main ideas that came up in your initial free-write. Aim for at least three and no more than five or six.
Around those main points, start writing associated words and ideas that those main points raise in your mind. As you see connections between them, start drawing lines to complete the "web." In this way, you can start to see how your argument can be created, and the relationship of the ideas that you can start explaining in your writing.
 Organize your free-writing into a series of main ideas that are unique and complicated. One way to make sure you write more, or write a long enough draft, is to thoroughly and specifically outline these ideas. What information does the reader need to know first? How can you best organize your main points into an argument that will prove what you say is true?


Often, coming up short is a result of rushing straight to the points you want to make without setting them up first or giving the reader the kinds of information they need to know what you're talking about. Outlining can help change that.
 A thesis statement is the main point that your essay is trying to make. It should be debatable, complicated, and specific. A thesis needs to "take a stand" on the issue or topic that you're discussing.


A good thesis should give you a lot to write, because it'll take a lot to prove it. A bad thesis would be something like, "Zelda is the best video game." According to who? How is it the best? Who cares? A good example of a thesis statement might be: "By providing an immersive and complex world to explore, the Zelda series of games appeals to gamers' sense of adventure, allowing them to act out heroic fantasies ingrained in Western culture." Think of how much that gives you to write about!

, Some teachers teach what's called the five-paragraph form in essays, though it should be taken with a grain of salt (there's no magic number). Still, it can be helpful in expanding your argument and giving you enough to write about, by aiming for at least three different supporting points to use to hold up your main argument.Each essay should have at least the following paragraphs:


Introduction, introducing your topic, summarizing your main ideas, ending with your thesis statement
Main point paragraph 1, in which you make and support your first supporting argument
Main point paragraph 2, in which you make and support your second supporting argument
Main point paragraph 3, in which you make and support your final supporting argument
A brief conclusion, summarizing the main point, showing us what you've proven

, If you've got a good thesis, one with enough complication and unique ideas, writing a lot shouldn't be a problem. If you're having trouble coming up with enough pages or words, look to revise your thesis and make it more complex.


Think of your thesis like a table top: the point of your essay is to hold it up, or it's just a useless hunk of wood. Your main points, evidence, and references act as the table legs that hold up your thesis, making it a useful piece of writing.
 A helpful and informative way to expand an already-good draft of your essay and start beefing it up a bit is to provide more context for the topic and your perspective on it.


If you're writing about Zelda, you could jump immediately into your thesis and your first points about the intricacies of the Ocarina of Time, or you could push the pause button for a minute and give us some context. What other games were out when Zelda was released? What other games from that time are still around? What do we need to know about the culture of gaming in general?

, Provide other voices in your paper, both to support your points, providing credible references and also to give you more to explore and argue with. Quote essential material and discuss the importance of the point being made to give your points more content and word-count.


Add opposing viewpoints and take the time (and space) to prove them wrong in your paper.
 Often, when you get back a marked-up paper, it will have lots of questions written in the margins, primarily questions beginning with "Why?" or "How?" You don't need to be Stephen King or Shakespeare to guess that your teacher will be looking for places to ask those questions, and you can learn to ask them yourself.


Learn to interrogate your points. Look over each sentence and ask "Why?" or "How?" depending on the point being made. Does the rest of the paragraph answer your question? Could it do more to clarify this question for a reader less informed about Zelda than you, the expert? If the answer is no, you've got more to write.
 It's easier to write a lot if you write less on a lot of different occasions. It's really hard to write a thousand words all at once, without giving your brain a break. Start working on your paper early to give yourself the time necessary to do it right.


Start well ahead of time and try to write 250 or 300 words (about a page) each day. Plan it out so you've got enough written before you can revise it and make sure it's long enough and good enough to turn in before the due date.
Try timing your work. Work for 45 minutes and then give yourself a 15 minute break to get a snack, watch TV, or play video games. If it's Zelda, call it "research."

, If you've got the draft together and you're still coming up short, and you can't rack your brain for anything else to say, consider adding more experts to the conversation. Research reliable sources and let them have longer quotes. If you've only taken snippets of their language, include longer quotes and "unpack" them by explaining what we've just read.


After each quotation, you need to explain why you've included it. You might start with "In other words" to elaborate on the point and connect it back to your main point. Teachers often look for "abandoned" quotations, which students will use to pad their page count, but if you connect it to your main points for a reason, you're making the quote worthwhile.
Don't overuse quotes. In general, for longer essays, there should be no more than a few sentences of quotation per page. In shorter essays, probably no more than one per page.
 Sometimes your brain moves faster than your reader does, and your points will blur together. Look for the places in which you transition from one point to another and see if there's an opportunity to summarize the point that's being made and preview the next point to come, giving you more words and your reader a helpful guide in the reading.
 Look for long points you've just made, or complicated places in the essay and rephrase them in simpler and more specific language. Use phrases like, "In other words" or "Basically" to start a new sentence following these portions of the text.


Avoid doing this for simple sentences and obvious points, or it'll seem like you're just fluffing up a thin essay. Unless you want to get dinged by your teacher, you don't need to write, "Zelda's popularity in the early 90's was unmatched. In other words, there were no more popular video games than Zelda from '92-'93. Basically, Zelda was the most popular game."

, Page counts and word counts aren't arbitrary things your teacher picks to be mean. If you're having trouble writing enough, it's because your topic and your angle on it aren't specific enough and you're not doing enough to illustrate them in your writing. So, if you're trying to write more, you need to look for solid content to add and prove those points, rather than fluffing things up with asides and pointless rambling. Fluff includes things like:


Using two or three words when one will do
Excessive use of adverbs and adjectives
Using the thesaurus to "sound smarter"
Repeating points
Show-off attempts at humor, or ranting

, Many student writers will frustratedly exclaim that the answers to the "Why?" and "How?" questions the teacher is asking are "obvious" or that they don't want to beat a dead horse. Again, if this is really true, it means the thesis isn't complicated enough, and that you've got more work to do in coming up with a complicated topic. A good topic will never be over-explained.

