 Because those with ASPD can physically, mentally, or emotionally harm you, you should seek mental health treatment for yourself. Talking with a therapist can help you work through your complex emotions and learn coping skills. You may need to learn to set boundaries or protect yourself.
 Family therapy can be very helpful when your loved one has antisocial personality disorder. Family therapy can help you and other family members learn more about your loved one’s disorder and learn how to help. Family therapy may also help you understand more about your loved one’s mindset and character.ASPD can cause a lot of misunderstanding and confusion for the loved ones. Family therapy may give you a place to express your feelings, learn how to interact with your loved one, and cope with your feelings.
You may also try a support group for families of those with antisocial personality disorder.
 You may have to set boundaries with your loved one due to their behavior. These boundaries are created to protect your physical, mental, and emotional well-being. Be clear in what your boundaries are and insist that your loved one respect your boundaries.Your loved one may be aggressively violent, which may lead to physical harm to you or other family members. They may also be unnecessarily reckless and put people in harm. You may have to come up with physical boundaries, like only seeing them at certain times. You may have to demand that they not scream at you, physically touch you, or hit you. You may also have to refuse to ride in a car with them, for example. Try saying, “I am willing to talk, but you will not touch me or scream at me.”Your loved one may manipulate you, lie, or steal. They may do or say things to hurt you or damage your relationship. This may lead to emotional or mental boundaries. You may have to distance yourself or tell your loved one, “We can see each other, but not if you are going to yell at me or lie to me.”
People with ASPD may take advantage of any caring or compassion. You may need to protect yourself by setting boundaries for yourself. You may say, “I care about you and support your treatment, but I will not allow you to take advantage of me.”, You will probably feel a lot of different emotions as you try to convince your loved one to seek treatment and try to deal with their personality disorder. You may feel hopeless, sad, or depressed. You should find a support system of people you can lean on and talk to when you get overwhelmed.These people may be friends or family who are connected to your loved one, or people who don’t know them at all.
You may ask other family members or friends of your loved one to help you. You can’t do everything by yourself.
 There may come a time when you need to take a step back. Your loved one may be resistant to treatment, in denial that something is wrong, or engaging in destructive or harmful behavior. Your loved one may be lying and stealing from you, treating you badly, or manipulating you. If you find yourself in a stressful situation, dangerous situation, or situation where you feel unsafe, take a step back.This means you may have to remove yourself from your loved one’s life or do something else to ensure your safety and emotional well-being.

