 Not only will you have to cast the major roles in the play but also chorus members, extras, understudies, dancers, and musicians. Count how many different actors you will need. Consider whether or not actors will play multiple roles., Sometimes, plays come with cast lists. Sometimes, you will have to draft your own. Each list should contain the necessary elements for each character. Important details include:



Age: You should try to cast actors who are in a similar age range to the role.

Gender: Some directors like to encourage people to play roles of a different gender. For example, Peter Pan is often played by a woman. Specify if this is the case in your list.Race: Try not to cast people with different types of races to play a character whose race is important to the storyline. For example, if you are producing a play about the Vietnam War, you should not have white actors play Vietnamese characters. On the other hand, some plays do not require actors of any particular race or ethnicity. You can cast a colorblind play, casting the best actor for the role regardless of race. For example, in a colorblind adaptation of Henry IV, you may have an African-American actor play the king because that actor performed the best audition. Whether you are looking for actors of a particular race or if you plan to cast a colorblind play, specify this upfront in your cast list.

Archetype: These are common role types that allow potential actors to determine if they are right for the role or not. Some common archetypes include the damsel in distress, the mob boss, the wise old sage, or the innocent., You will need a stage or open space to audition your cast. If you have a theater already available, you can use that space. You may also look for public venues that offer plenty of clear room. You want to be able to see, hear, and speak to each actor. You also want a separate room for people to wait in before they audition.Such places include churches, schools, community colleges, and amphitheaters. You will have to reserve these spaces in advance.
 You should have a website to refer people to so that they can get more information about the play. On this website, post a summary of the play, the cast list, and your dates of production. You should also list an email address so that actors can contact you with questions. You may want to create a special email address for the play instead of using your personal account., You want as many people as possible to know about your auditions. Create flyers to post around town. Post the cast list online, and ask actors to bring a photo and resume. State whether your play is a professional paid production or a volunteer community event. If it is a school or university play, take advantage of social media networks and drama organizations to recruit talent. Clearly note which play you are auditioning for so that actors can research their roles and prepare. Some good places to advertise include:


School bulletins boards
Coffee shops
Social media
Play or theater website
Newspapers
Local acting agencies
Drama schools