 You will need to trim the excess batting and backing fabric from your quilted project. Use a rotary cutter and your ruler to have a neat, square edge. Then start cutting your strips for the binding itself.


Trim the selvage off the strips. You'll need four that are the length of your edges, but smaller in width than your border. Around 2-3" (5-7.5 cm) is an appropriate width, depending on the size of your quilt.
 This may seem confusing or counter-intuitive, but it's the easiest way to get going. Press the seams open and fold in half lengthwise. Press once more -- you want a firm crease on the edge of your quilt.
 Starting towards the center of one side (you don’t want you ends to join near a corner –- makes it a lot trickier), pin the raw edges of your pressed strip to the raw edges of the BACK side of the quilt.


When you get to the corner you are going to have to miter each one. To do this:

Fold the strip up at a 45 degree angle when you reach the corner of the quilt. Put a pin in at a 45 degree angle to hold that corner in place.
Fold the strip down to match the raw edges with the next side of the quilt. The fold should line up with the edge of the last side you were pinning to. You will have a little triangle that sticks up – place another pin at a 45 degree angle on the other side of the little triangle flap.


When the strip gets back around to the beginning, fold the ends down so that the strips meet-up. Press with your iron to make a crease at both folds. Trim strips to about ¼” (.6 cm) away from the fold. Pin together and sew seam right on the press marks of both strips. Press the seams open.
 You're almost there! Sew the binding to the back of the quilt with a ¼” seam allowance. (If you have a walking-foot feature on your machine, use it here.) When you get to the corner, stop your seam about ¼” away from the end of that side. Lift the presser foot and rotate the quilt in the new direction, putting the triangle flap the other direction start sewing from the beginning of that side.


When all four sides are sewn to the back of the quilt, fold the folded edge of the binding to the front of the quilt and pin in place. Mitered corners should fall into place. It’s like magic. Pin abundantly to keep the binding in place in preparation for machine sewing.
Using either a matching thread or an invisible thread (good if you don’t want your stitching showing as much on the back of the quilt), carefully stitch the binding down working from the front of the quilt. Carefully pivot the needle when you get to the corners and continue sewing all the way around the quilt. You may want to back-stitch at the start and finish.

