 There are many instruments to choose from the most common ones being the guitar and the drums. Learning bass can prove fruitful as well. If you are planning to start an alternative rock band you can even consider piano or the turntables.;
, Really, unless you're planning to be a solo artist put together a band. Get people who can actually sing or play an instrument well too, Even if you're planning on going solo you still need someone to play the other instruments or sing backup.
 Keep believing in yourself. If you lose hope in your talents, you'll never make it anywhere. Sometimes you think you lost your talent, but you should just take a rest and come back later to try again.Dream what you want to be. Imagine yourself playing one of your songs at rock am ring in front of your fans.
 Writing constantly is the key. Practice makes perfect.
 It's a good idea to make a CD with your tracks.
, Watch their expressions. If there's a lot of concerned faces and shaking of heads, tweak a little more of your tunes.
 Sometimes they're hard to get but you need for the live entertainment experience. This is the most crucial part. The idea is to get as many gigs as possible. Visiting or phoning hundreds of pubs for two weeks straight to get as many gigs packed in as possible is very important. Also playing day after day in front of a large audience will have your performing talents skyrocket.
 Now it begins.
,, Make sure the video is "cool" and will appeal to many people.
, Because then you would be a quitter, and rock stars aren't quitters as quitters don't rock.
 Don't ever lose sight of the initial reason that led you to become a rock star in the first place.
 Every genre has different ways. Rock is 1 genre but rock stars tend to stretch it out a little bit by putting their feelings, different notes, different patterns,etc. Copying other rock stars is uncool .Don't worry if your music sounds different than any normal kind of song. Its better to be totally different than to be totally the same.

