 The cast list comes at the very beginning of the play before the first scene. It will show the characters in the play as well as their relationships to one another. It may even provide a brief line on their motivations or role in the play. Learning the cast list before you begin can help you keep track of different characters as they appear throughout the play., Before you do anything, you should skim the play. Plays do not take long to read, but they only provide dialogue and a few stage directions. There is little interior thought, and it may be hard to grasp the motivations of each character. Skimming quickly through the text at first can help you learn the plot of the play.


During this brief read-through, you should look up any words, terms, or directions you do not know. This will make later readings easier to follow., Assign parts so that you and a friend (or multiple friends) each have a part. Read the words out loud to each other. Add emotion, inflection, and bravado to make it fun. You may even act out the movement. This will help you understand the action and the emotion of the play.
 Plays are meant to be heard and seen, not read. After reading through the play once, you may want to watch a version of the play, either on television or live on the stage. You will see how the actors have interpreted the words, motivations, and actions. Props and movements will help you imagine the play more vividly., Unlike a novel, the character’s inner thoughts and motivations may not be instantly recognizable. As you take notes, question each character’s motivations. Why are they doing what they are doing? Point to places in the text that demonstrate these motives.
 Plays all have some kind of scene direction. Shakespearean plays have minimal direction while twentieth century plays may have abundant direction. Draw a rectangle on a piece of paper to represent a stage. Draw circles for each character, and map their movement through the scene. This can help you visualize where characters are going, who they are speaking to, and when they enter/exit., Once you have seen the play or mapped out its movements, you should read the play one last time. You will probably have a firm grasp on what is going on and how events are unfolding. Now, you can read it for meaning and themes. Your visualization of the text may be much stronger.