 Every New York state or municipal department, board, bureau, division, commission, committee, public authority, public corporation, council, office, or other governmental entity performing a governmental proprietary function is subject to FOIL.Each of those governmental is known as an "agency."New York courts are not subject to FOIL, but most court records are publicly available.
The New York State Legislature (the Senate and Assembly) is covered by FOIL, but it is treated differently from other agencies.You can make a FOIL request to the State Senate online here.

Private corporations and companies are not subject to FOIL, because they are not government agencies.;
, Each agency creates and maintains its own records. You will need to identify the agency which has the records you want. For example, you would send a request to the New York State Police to obtain the training records of a state police officer.
 Each agency must have at least one records access officer who is responsible for handling requests under FOIL.Visit the agency's website and search for a section of the website relating to FOIL, or call or visit the agency and ask for the contact information of the records access officer.
 An agency may accept written requests by mail, email, fax, or in-person delivery. Agencies are required to accept requests by email if it is possible for them to do so., You can use a template on this webpage provided by the New York Department of State. In the top left of your request, address your request to the records access officer for the agency and include the physical address.


For example, "Records Access Officer, New York State Police, 1220 Washington Avenue, Bldg 22, Albany, NY 12226."

, Your request should be as specific as possible. Each agency is required to maintain a "subject matter list" online, describing all categories of records maintained by the agency.For example, this is the subject matter list of the New York State Police. Identifying the subject matter helps the records access officer know where to search for records that are responsive to your request.


Provide as much information as you can about the records you are seeking, including dates, titles of documents, names, file designations, or any other information that will help the records access officer locate the correct records.
For example, "Under the provisions of the New York Freedom of Information Law, Article 6 of the Public Officers Law, I hereby request records or portions thereof pertaining to the Training Records of Officer John Doe of the New York State Police from January of 2009."

, The agency may wish to contact you if there is any confusion about what records you are requesting, or if your request seeks an extensive or voluminous set of records.


For example, "If my request appears to be extensive or fails to reasonably describe the records, please contact me in writing or by phone at (555) 123-4567."

, Agencies are prohibited from charging more than $0.25 per page for paper copies.Agencies commonly charge only $0.05 per page, and do not charge a fee to transmit records electronically. If you request electronic records on a CD-ROM or floppy disk, you may be charged $1.00 for each CD-ROM or disk If an agency employee must spend more than two hours retrieving and copying records, you may be charged for the employee's time.You can specify what fees you are willing to pay, and ask to be contacted before the work is performed if the fees will exceed the figure you specified.


For example, "If there are any fees in excess of $5.00 for copying the records requested, please inform me before filling the request. Please supply the records without informing me if the fees are not in excess of $5.00."

, If the requested record is reasonably well-described, an agency has five business days to respond.The agency will produce the record, deny the request and provide its reasoning in writing, or provide a written acknowledgement of receipt of the request with a statement of when the request will be granted or denied.For example, "The Freedom of Information Law requires that an agency respond to a request within five business days of receipt of a request. Therefore, I would appreciate a response as soon as possible and look forward to hearing from you shortly. If for any reason any portion of my request is denied, please inform me of the reasons for the denial in writing and provide the name and address of the person or body to whom an appeal should be directed."

, Sign the request and print your name, along with your mailing address and telephone number. If you are requesting records or communication via email, include your email address as well.
 If your request is denied, or if you do not receive a response within five business days, you can appeal the denial.Your appeal must be made within 30 days, and addressed to the person designated by the agency to determine appeals or the chief executive or governing body of the agency.The agency has 10 business days to respond to your appeal.If your request was denied, consider revising your request and submitting it again. Records access officers are likely to deny requests that do not clearly state what records are being requested and those that ask the officer to do anything more than copy the records. Be sure to identify the records as best you can, and to not ask for an explanation, analysis, or summarizing of the records.
 You can use a template on this webpage provided by the New York Department of State. In the top left of your request, address your request to the FOIL Appeals Officer for the agency and include the physical address.


For example, "FOIL Appeals Officer, New York State Police, 1220 Washington Avenue, Bldg 22, Albany, NY 12226."
If your request was denied, the agency should have provided the contact information to use for your appeal. If the agency did not provide new contact information, contact the agency and ask for the contact information for their FOIL appeals officer.
 This will help the appeals officer locate and refer to the record of your original request. For example, "I hereby appeal the denial of my request, which was made on January 10, 2012 and sent to Records Access Officer, New York State Police, New York State Police, 1220 Washington Avenue, Bldg 22, Albany, NY 12226."

, For example, "The Records that were denied were Training Records of Officer John Doe of the New York State Police from January 2009."

, If you received a written denial, it should contain the reason why your request was denied. (If the agency simply failed to respond, explain that in your appeal.) For example, "My request was denied because _________."

, In order to convince the appeals officer to grant your request, you will need to convince appeals officer that the records access officer was wrong to deny your request. State your reasoning clearly. For example, "I disagree with the denial because _________."

, Request a written response within 10 business days, and note that the FOIL requires that all appeals be sent to the Committee on Open Government.


For example, "As required by the Freedom of Information Law, the head or governing body of an agency, or whomever is designated to determine appeals, is required to respond within 10 business days of the receipt of an appeal. If the records are denied on appeal, please explain the reasons for the denial fully in writing as required by law. In addition, please be advised that the Freedom of Information Law directs that all appeals and the determinations that follow be sent to the Committee on Open Government, Department of State, One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Ave., Albany, New York 12231."If your appeal is not successful, you can appeal in the court system under Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules.If you intend to appeal within the court system, consider contacting an attorney to assist you.

