 Hounds are normally much, much faster than you. This is a fact that will come back to bite you in a more literal sense if you try to outrun them or lose them in a forest. The only way you can outrun them is to own a late-game item called Walking Cane or by running on a Road. Building your panic room on a Road, preferably on the end of the Road, would let you access it quickly as well as let you outrun the Hounds enough for you to gather your wits. Roads are scattered everywhere in the game, and its counterpart, Paths, can be more common and found winding around an entire area.;
, The panic room must also be a fair distance away from your camp; close enough that you can go back and forth between them easily, but far enough that the Hounds don’t make a right mess of your main camp, or if you are unlucky enough to encounter them early enough, keep the more powerful enemies like the Deerclops from completely destroying your camp. Preferably, the panic room should be a few seconds’ walk from your camp, anywhere from 10 seconds to 20 seconds of straight walking.
 Keeping the area clear enough is also important, because the panic room can and will take up quite a bit of space and would keep the destruction of your resources at a minimum. Clearing out an entire screen of space (the entire space your screen can show at any given time) is recommended, depending of the size of your projected panic room, and also ensures you have a good view of approaching enemies. You’ll be needing an axe to chop down trees, pickaxes to destroy boulders, and a shovel to clear out tree stumps, grass tufts, berry bushes, and dried saplings.
 Normally, the warning for the Hounds’ arrival comes a good 30 seconds before they do, so ideally, having a panic room in a cleared area about 20 seconds away would give you ample time to run there, equip your necessities, and get somewhat settled in your room. So before you start building your panic room, give the distance a test run and count the number of seconds it takes you to get there.
 You can gather Rocks by mining boulders available around the world with your pickaxe, or by picking Rocks scattered everywhere in the world. Aside from Rocks, it would be best to invest in other accessible resources like Twigs, Flint, Cut Grass, Logs, Gold, and Meat.


Twigs can be gathered by selecting the dried-out bushes scattered in the world, and Cut Grass can be gathered by selecting tufts of long grass scattered everywhere. Logs can be gathered by creating an axe, selecting it as your main tool, then selecting a nearby tree. Gold can be gathered by mining large boulders with yellow veins streaking across the stone or found scattered in Graveyards and Rockylands.
 As mentioned in the previous section, you’ll be needing quite a lot of tools while creating your panic room, like an axe, pickaxe, and shovel. The former two can be created right off the bat by accessing the Crafting menu, which is found at the right-hand side of your screen on the PC or by pressing L2 on the console editions, and selecting the Tool tab, represented by a crossed axe and pickaxe icon. The Axe costs 1 Twig and 1 Flint, and the Pickaxe costs 2 Twigs and 2 Flints. The Shovel requires a Science Machine to prototype and can be crafted through the Tool tab when standing near the Science Machine.
 Aside from the Science Machine, you’ll also be needing an Alchemy Engine. Both can be created through the Science tab, represented by an atom icon, but you’ll be needing a Science Machine to make an Alchemy Engine.


A Science Machine costs only 1 Gold Nugget, 4 Logs, and 4 Rocks, but an Alchemy Engine costs 4 Boards, 2 Cut Stones, and 6 Gold. You can craft Boards and Cut Stones through the Science Machine on the Refine Tab, represented by a diamond icon.
Cut Stone is crafted from 3 Rocks, and Boards are crafted from 4 Logs.
 Aside from that, you might want to invest in a Fire Pit for your panic room, in case the attack lasts until night, which is a definite bad thing if you don’t have a light with you. This will cost you 12 stones and 2 Logs, it’s available on the Light tab, represented by a fire icon, and you can make it right off the bat.


A plain Campfire, which costs 3 Cut Grass and 2 Logs, tends to be extinguished after a while unless continuously fed fuel. Once extinguished, it produces Ashes, which can be used to create some healing salves later on.
 A Chest is not so necessary, but would be useful to store armors, weaponry, and some food, like Jerky, if you were caught off guard when the attack happens. Chests cost 3 Boards and are crafted at the Science Machine.


You can also craft a Backpack in the Survival tab with a Science Machine for 4 Twigs and 4 Cut Grass, or a Piggyback in the Alchemy Engine for 4 Pig Skins, 6 Silk, and 2 Ropes. These other two items provide a mobile extension to your inventory and might be easier to use in the long run. Though equipping it would mean that you cannot equip armors while wearing it, you can simply switch between them when needed.
Backpacks and Piggybacks can’t be placed in your hotbar either, but remain on the ground until picked up, which automatically equips them. You can switch your armor or backpack around by right-clicking either of them (PC) or by scrolling with the right analog stick and pressing the right direction button (console).
 A piece of meat of any sort is also recommended, but not necessary. Hounds tend to get distracted easily, especially by meat, so luring them away or even attracting them with a piece of meat is a viable strategy. You can get your meat by trapping rabbits or killing various creatures and monsters in the world.


Traps can be created through the Survival Tab, represented by a looped rope icon, for 6 Cut Grass and 2 Twigs.
 Last, invest in weaponry and armors. You can use your axe and pickaxe as rudimentary weapons at first, but crafting a spear would be better. Spears are available on the Weapon tab, represented by a crossed sword and spear icon, and crafted at the Science Machine for 2 Twigs, 1 Rope, and 1 Flint.


Investing in at least a Grass Suit or a Log Suit is also best. Grass Suits are always available at the very start for 2 Twigs and 10 Cut Grass, while Log Suits costs 8 Logs and 2 Ropes and can be crafted in the Science Machine. Ropes can be crafted at the Refine tab for 3 Cut Grass. If you’ve killed a Pig and found a Pig Skin, you could also craft the Football Helmet in the Fight tab with the Science Machine for 1 Rope and 1 Pig Skin.
You could also invest in some healing materials, like Spider Glands, Healing Salves, and Honey Poultices, in case you get badly hurt. Spider Glands can be acquired from slain Spiders, which you can find in Spider Dens scattered around the world. You can craft a Healing Salve with a Science Machine through the Survival tab located in the Crafting menu. Healing Salves cost 2 Ashes (obtained from extinguished Campfires), 1 Rock, and 1 Spider Gland.
Honey Poultices can be crafted with an Alchemy Engine and costs 2 Honey (occasionally dropped by slain Bees or obtained by destroying hives or harvesting Bee Boxes), and 1 Papyrus (crafted with a Science Machine through the Refine tab for 4 Reeds, which can be found in Marshes). This item heals a bit more than the Healing Salve, but the resources can be tricky to acquire. Bee Boxes can be created with 4 Bees, 2 Boards and 1 Honeycomb. You can catch the bees with a Bug Net, which you can make using 4 Twigs, 2 Silk, and 1 Rope. Silk is also dropped by Spiders when slain.
 While the initial panic room design is good at first, once the Hounds’ numbers start increasing, you might want to consider investing in traps. Traps in your panic room early in the game can be optional, but later on, it could be vital. However, this option really depends on preference. Just remember, without traps, such as Tooth Traps or Bee Mines, to help fortify your defenses, the Hounds can make short work of your structure and leave you vulnerable to attacks from all directions.


Should you decide on making traps, the next two steps can help in creating two of the best kinds of traps for a panic room.
 Tooth Traps can be created in the Weapons tab through the Alchemy Engine and costs 1 each of Rope, Logs, and Hound Teeth. Hound Teeth are occasionally dropped by slain Hounds. Once placed, any wandering creature that steps on it will trigger the trap and damage them. Once triggered, you’ll have to reset the trap by selecting the planted trap. Each Tooth Trap lasts for 10 uses, and with the constant Hound waves, it’s completely renewable.
 Another trap you could create is a Bee Mine, which can be crafted in the Weapons tab with a Science Machine, and costs 4 Bees, 1 Board, and 1 Flint. Once placed, it will trigger an explosion when a creature aside from you gets near enough and releases all 4 bees to sting whatever triggered the trap. The Bee Mine only lasts for 1 use, however.
 To start, first you need to make as many Stone Walls as you can. Stone Walls can stack up to 20 per inventory slot, so you’ll need around 50–60 walls, which would occupy three slots of your inventory.


Stone Walls can be crafted from the Structures tab, represented by a hammer icon, with an Alchemy Engine for 2 Cut Stones.
 Select your walls and place them by right-clicking (PC) or pressing the left direction button (console) on the area you wish to build it on. As much as possible, try to keep the walls as closely parallel to each other as possible, but make sure that the walls beside it do\n’t highlight while placing your wall. This would only make your wall bigger and waste the item. And while bigger walls may seem nice, you could simply use a Rock or a Cut Stone on the wall instead of wasting your walls.


Keep building until it is vaguely room-shaped and has at least some space for you and your belongings. Having some space to move is prefered when it comes to your room, because despite the bottleneck entrance, you could still be attacked by multiple enemies if they are too close to each other and yourself.
 Leave a small space for an entrance, enough for you to run through, and then build it forward, creating a sort of long entrance “hall” into your room. This will create a bottleneck or a funnel to ensure only one creature at a time can get in and out of your room.


The purpose of the panic room during the early stage of your gameplay is to simply help funnel the attack better so that the player is not overwhelmed.
 Your room should have a thickness of at least three walls. If you’re wondering why, it’s because the hounds can attack the player through 2 layers of wall, which can be a bit jarring to discover the first time. The last layer would serve as a buffer between you and their absurd biting range. Once you have enough materials, you can make the entrance path turn a few times to create a more efficient funnel. This would further ensure that you’ll only be fighting one creature at a time, instead of being harassed at all sides.
 Once you have your desired traps, place them in assorted areas. The entrance and round sides are the most strategic places, since the Hounds tend to swarm around you during the attack. Lining your entire entrance corridor with traps is also a good way, since they would immediately kill the Hounds before they even reach you.


With the creation of your traps, you can create an alternative style of panic room. This style requires you to create a long passageway or corridor of sorts and filling it with as many Tooth Traps as you could make. This way, when you’re being attacked, simply run through the trap and most of the Hounds will be taken care off, if not all of them. This method is more beneficial for late-game players with currently low resources or health, or weaker players with Hound’s Teeth to spare, since most of the Hounds will be killed by the traps, leaving you to deal with one or two stragglers easily.
Later in the game, once mobs like the Deerclops emerge, traps are the most effective way to deal with them. Simple walls can be broken by it, and you’re better off luring it to different trapped corridors or through numerous placed traps than trying to weather away the attack in an actual “closed” room. This is also why panic rooms should be far away from your camp, so that it would survive large assaults by these mobs and keep the rest of your survival amenities intact.
 Afterwards, you can place your Fire Pit and/or Chest inside with some extra resources so you could weather the night if it comes to that.


During your first few weeks in the game, making a very large room isn’t necessary, since it would take too much time and consume too many materials to make. It should only be large enough for you to move a bit and maybe have a Campfire. Without traps, such as Tooth Traps or Bee Mines, to help fortify your defenses, the Hounds would make short work of your structure and leave you vulnerable to attacks from all directions.

