 The easiest way to stop the abuse is to divert the abuser’s attention away from the child. You can show sympathy in a way that doesn’t insult either the parent or child. For example, think of saying the following:“Children are exhausting, aren’t they?”
“You seem like you have your hands full.”
"You probably didn't expect he'd have so much energy, right?"
"It's a difficult age. I remember when my daughter was that age."
“My son used to act that way all the time, too.”;
, The abuser might be stretched to their breaking point. You can defuse the situation by asking the person if they need help. Remember to keep your voice calm. Avoid pointing or raising your voice.


For example, you could say, “Would you like me to watch him for a few minutes?”
If the child is misbehaving because they want to look at something, offer to get the object for the child. Say, “I hate how the store puts the candy so far away. Do you want to look at anything in particular?”

, Another strategy is to say something nice about the child. This can improve the abuser’s mood, especially if they are a parent. Think of something positive about the child. For example, you can say the following:“She has pretty eyes.”
“I love the outfit he has on.”
“He speaks well for his age.”
"I miss when my daughter's hair was that curly."
"She's adorable. What's her name?"

, If the child is misbehaving, you can try to get them to stop by including them in the conversation.Think of something positive you can say to the child, such as the following:


“You look just like my son.”
“I like the ribbon in your hair. Did your Mom put that in?”
“You have beautiful eyes. Has anyone ever told you that?”
"I bet you have a lovely smile. Can you show me?"

, You want to appear friendly and non-threatening. Smile warmly as you speak to the parent and child. Don’t let your face show horror or shock that the parent is hitting or otherwise abusing the child. If the parent snarls back in response, maintain your smile.


Avoid showing negative body language.Our body language speaks volumes about what we really think.
Sit or stand comfortably and face the parent as you speak to them.
Keep smiling even if the parent says, "Mind your own business." You can pretend to be a little deaf as you continue to compliment the child.
 You shouldn’t wait for the situation to worsen before saying something to the abuser and child.If you mind your own business, then the abuse could escalate quickly.


Don’t be shy. Other people around you probably think someone should intervene, but they are too scared to speak up. Have the courage to speak for everyone.
 Unfortunately, some abusers might explode in anger and direct that anger toward you. You always need to put your safety first. If necessary, find a security guard in the store or building.There may not be any security guard around if, for example, you are out on the sidewalk. If not, call the police.

