 Misery loves company, so inviting a friend to spend the evening with you is a great way of holding yourself accountable. If you have a friend who has similar assignments as you, even better. You’ll be able to help each other out with the work.Don’t invite over a friend who only wants to talk and hang out. You need someone who will motivate you, not distract you.
 The best thing you can do for your all-nighter is to remove any potential impediments. Turn off your phone, move out of the room with the TV in it and stay away from the Internet as much as possible.If you know you can’t go all night without checking Facebook, deactivate your account for the night. You can reactivate it as soon as all your work is done.
Give your social media passwords to a friend or parent for the evening so you can’t break in to check your accounts.
 Staying up all night is already challenging enough – it won’t help you to try to work on more than one assignment simultaneously. Stick to the schedule you created earlier and don’t jump around between assignments.Use your priority list from earlier and cross every item off the list when it’s completed.
When an item is crossed off the list, move on to the next assignment.
 Staying up all night is hard and you deserve a reward for doing so. The reward can be big, like buying a new shirt or DVD for completing all your work. Or you can reward yourself intermittently throughout the night.Every time you finish an assignment, throw a five minute dance party. You’ll get some exercise in and you can listen to your favorite song.
Give yourself five minutes to check your phone after completing an item on your to-do list.
 When you're working hard, taking a break might seem counterintuitive, but it's actually very important. Breaks keep you from getting bored, help you retain information and give you a moment to evaluate your work from afar.Take 10 - 15 minutes every two hours to grab a snack or take a walk.
If you feel overwhelmed, take a 10 minute break to meditate.

