 Some exercises may be better for your particular injury than others. It is important that you get the approval of your doctor or physical therapist before attempting any exercises at home.

You can say something like, "I found these exercises online that might help ankle injuries. Do you think that these will help me?"

, Start ROM exercises within 3 days of your injury.Sit flat on the floor with your injured leg stretched out in front of you. Keep your knee straight. Flex your foot back towards your body, pointing your toes to the sky. Hold the position as long as possible.Do this as often as possible for the first 3-10 days after your injury.
 Sit in a chair and trace the alphabet with the toes of your injured foot. Do this 1-3 times.This encourages ankle movement in all directions., Sit in a chair with your injured foot flat on the floor. Move your knee slowly side to side. Keep your foot stationary and pressed into the floor. Do this for 2-3 minutes., Do a basic calf stretch by sitting with your knee straight and looping a towel around the ball of your foot. Slowly pull the towel back towards your body until you feel a gentle stretch in your upper calf. Hold this for 20 seconds. Do NOT bounce your stretch – keep it held steady.Repeat this 6-10 times, 5-7 day per week.

Try a more advanced calf stretch once you can comfortably stand. Face a wall and place your hands on the wall. Place your injured foot behind the other, pointing your toes forward. Keep your heels down. Slowly bend your front knee while keeping your back leg straight. Hold this for 20 seconds, repeating 6-7 times.
Start stretching once the swelling and pain subside enough so you can do it comfortably – start with very gentle stretches and gradually increase the stretch as you recover.
 This is similar to the basic calf stretch. Sit with your injured leg out in front of you and loop a towel around the ball of your foot. This time, bend your knee slightly. Pull the towel back until you feel a stretch in your heel and lower calf.Hold this for 20 seconds, and repeat 6-7 times; do this 5-7 days per week.
Try an advanced stretch once you can stand. Repeat the process for the advanced calf stretch, but bend your back knee instead of your front knee to get a stretch in your back leg.

