 The best way to start eating a more healthy diet is by eating more fruits and veggies. Not only will you wind up consuming less of the fats, salt, and sugar that put you at risk of stroke and other diseases, you’ll also be getting more of the nutrients that help keep you healthy.A serving of veggies is a cup of raw, leafy vegetables or 1/2 a cup of other chopped vegetables.A medium-sized fruit (comparable in size to a baseball), or a 1/2 cup of chopped, cooked, or canned fruit counts as one serving.
If you drink juice, only count it as one portion of your five. Opt for unsweetened fruit juice or vegetable juice.;
, If you tend to eat cereal for breakfast, choose one with whole grain listed as its first ingredient. Eat it with a handful of berries and either Greek yogurt or a milk derived from a nut. If you tend to eat eggs for breakfast, make a scramble that has as much (or more) veggies as it does eggs. Mushrooms and tomatoes are great options.Smoothies are also healthy breakfast options. Try an almond milk base with a banana and peanut butter, or pineapple juice with greens and chia seeds.
 If you’re making or selecting a sandwich, try to get as many veggies as you can. Lettuce, tomatoes, cucumber, and carrots are great options. Opt for whole grain bread. Best of all, try to get in the habit of eating a salad for lunch everyday. Keep dressing portions to three tablespoons or less, and add eggs, tuna, and/or nuts for a hearty meal with healthy protein.Always select the veggie option in terms of sides (french fries don't count, even though they are made from potatoes).
Bean-based soup is another great lunch option, though avoid any soups that are especially high in sodium.
 Whenever you plan or otherwise have your choice of meal, vegetables should play a prominent role. Salads are the easiest way to meet this guideline, though you can always steam and lightly season your favorite vegetables as a healthy side dish.Frozen fruits and vegetables won’t have as many beneficial nutrients, but they can still provide the backbone of a healthy meal. If you don’t have a lot of time to prepare meals in the evening, microwaving frozen peas or mixed veggies is still a great option.
Canned food can work too, but opt for fruit canned in its own juice and vegetables without added sugar or salt.
Go for vegetable-based sauces as opposed to cream or cheese-based sauce, and choose the option with the least sugar and salt.
 American Heart Association states that women who consume foods rich in potassium have less incidence of stroke.Bananas and sweet potatoes are just two high-potassium foods you can incorporate into your diet. Brussels sprouts, avocados, spinach, and even a cup of coconut water are packed with potassium., Citrus fruits, as well as apples and pears, have been credited with reducing the risk of stroke. Consider always having some of these on hand for a healthy snack.Squeeze lemon or orange into your water to increase the consumption of flavanone-rich citrus fruits.

