 If an outbreak of oral herpes, which consists of cold sores or blisters around the mouth, isn’t too severe, you can leave it alone and not treat it. Your symptoms may go away within one to two weeks without treatment.Use this option only if you feel well and are not likely to come into contact with anyone.
 There is no cure for oral herpes and treating it with antiviral medications can help heal outbreaks sooner and lessen the severity of recurrences. It may also minimize the chance of transmitting the virus to other people.Common medications for oral herpes are Acyclovir (Zovirax), Famciclovir (Famvir), and Valacyclovir (Valtrex).Your doctor may also prescribe an antiviral skin cream like Penciclovir instead of a pill. These creams have basically the same effect as pills but are very expensive.Your doctor may advise using the medication only if you have symptoms or an outbreak, or she may recommend daily use even if no signs of an outbreak are present., An important part of living with oral herpes is communicating with your partner or partners that you have the virus. You can then decide the best ways to manage the virus as a couple. Oral herpes are very common and you shouldn’t worry about feeling any stigma with them.


Talk to your partner about the best ways you can minimize the chances of infecting him or having further outbreaks., Whether your oral herpes is dormant or you are having an outbreak of cold sores, you need to take steps to prevent your partner from contracting the disease. There are several way to minimize the risk of transmitting oral herpes to you or your partner.Avoid skin-to-skin contact when you have blisters or cold sores. The liquid secreted from the lesions spreads the disease.Don’t share items if you have blisters or cold sores. This includes eating and drinking utensils, towels, lip balm, or bedding.Avoid oral sex if you have any cold sores or blisters.Wash your hands frequently, especially if you touch your mouth or come in contact with others., Even though oral herpes is very common, some people may still experience social stigmas attached to a breakout, which may cause feelings of shame, stress, anxiety, or depression. Addressing possible stigmas and your own feelings can help you deal with having oral herpes.You may feel embarrassed when you are first diagnosed with oral herpes. This is a completely normal initial reaction.
Seeing a counselor, doctor, or friend can help you deal with your feelings., If you see the symptoms of an oral herpes outbreak, treat them promptly. This may help minimize the length of the outbreak and may make it less severe.The symptoms of an oral herpes outbreak may include: itching, burning, or tingling near or on the mouth and lips; sore throat; fever; trouble swallowing; or swollen glands.Call your doctor and get a prescription to help minimize and heal the recurrence if necessary., Wash any cold sores as soon as you notice them. This may help heal the outbreak and keep it from spreading.Use a washcloth soaked in warm, soapy water and gently wash the blisters. Make sure to wash the cloth in a hot soapy cycle before using it again.You can put a topical cream such as tetracaine or lidocaine on blisters after you’ve washed them to relieve pain and itching., The blisters or cold sores associated with oral herpes are often very painful. There are several different ways to help minimize the pain and discomfort of cold sores.


If you have any pain, you can take an over the counter pain reliever such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen to help minimize your discomfort.Applying ice or warm washcloths can help ease the pain.Gargling with cool water or salt water, or eating popsicles may ease the pain of blisters.Don’t consume any hot beverages, spicy or salty foods, or any acidic foods like citrus fruits., There are certain factors that may contribute to outbreaks of oral herpes. By taking proper precautions, you may help prevent or minimize recurrences.Apply sunblock or lip balm with SPF and/ or zinc oxide to help prevent outbreaks of cold sores from sun exposure. This will also you’re your lips moisturized and less likely to have a flare up.Don’t share any type of eating or drinking utensils if you or someone else has oral herpes.Get regular exercise regularly, eating a well-balanced diet, and being relaxed will keep you and your immune system strong and healthy. Limit the amount of stress in your life, which can help minimize the recurrence of outbreaks.Wash your hands regularly to keep from getting sick, but also every time you come into contact with an outbreak.