 If you want attention, want cooler friends, or just want to stand out, this is clearly not for you. Common reasons why people join this culture is because of a fascination with the dark, love of Gothic art and literature, or a taste for the music. Join for reasons like these. If you do this, you're going to be a lot happier with other people of the group and you'll feel good about yourself, too.;
, It may sound a little boring, but if you are not educated on the Gothic and Dark culture, you're going to look like a poser. Learn about art, movies, books, and other things that interest you. If there's a 'normal' type of something, typically there's a Gothic version. Art movements like Manga and macabre are growing in popularity among the Gothic community. Movies with directors such as Tim Burton are much loved by Gothics. Gothic bookworms are fans of literature genres such as fantasy, poetry, and, of course, Gothic.
 Being Goth is most definitely not based on wearing all black. If you're a girl, many types of clothing exist. Tomboy goths wear things like Tripp brand pants and band tees. If you're into Victorian, tiny top hats and cute laced arm-warmers can be found at stores like Claire's and Hot Topic, eBay, or in online Gothic boutiques. If you're looking for something more feminine, poofy, elegant dresses in black or red are quite popular, and black lace jackets, tops, and veils go with almost anything. If you'd like to be a little less 'out-there', black jeans and band shirts are always an option. For guys, many options are available. A full suit, complete with 'waistcoat', is not an uncommon look, but many goth males tend to be a little less dressed-up. Tripp pants, combat boots, skinny jeans, chains and band tees are among the most popular fashion staples.
 There are three options available: store bought or ordered, resale, or home made. Each way has pros and cons. Buying your clothing from a store is easy, quick, and better if you have a certain size in mind. However, many towns and communities have no stores available for Gothic clothing. If this is an issue, many Gothic retailers exist on the web for you to browse. Another option is resale. Resale shops like Plato's closet can have lots of clothing that can either be directly Gothic or modified easily to look darker. Online, eBay can be a fun, direct way to get a piece of Gothic clothing for a fair price. A third option would be to create your own, go to a craft fair, or buy local, handmade clothing. Many shops in large cities are dedicated to the owner's own creations. Making clothing yourself takes time and effort, but the end result is a unique, one-of-a-kind piece.
 Once you have your clothing, find jewelry, scarves, shoes, belts, chains, and whatever else you determine looks good with your new clothing. Don't overdo, especially if you're male. Too much 'goth bling' can end up making you look pretty ridiculous.
 The only real requirement is liking at least some Gothic clothing. Don't force yourself into a certain subculture just because you think it will help you be accepted. Also, people are probably not going to like your becoming Goth, so don't feel hurt when you are put down for being different. It's part of becoming a true Goth and, it gets better over time. Once you're sure it's the way you want to be for the rest of your life, don't back down from who you are and try to 'conform'. It will only end up making you feel quite uncomfortable, and, for the most part, downright bad. If you're having trouble with your parents, try to fix your behavior outside of dress. For example, if you're not getting good grades on purpose, begin trying your hardest in school. A common misconception about Goths is that they are always bad in school, but that is most certainly not the case. The idea behind it is that your thinking and philosophy are different from the mainstream world. This should be a very good thing, and not a weapon, or something rebellious.
 Another false pretense is that all goths are antisocial. This is certainly not the case. You're certainly not required to be a social butterfly. But if you're friendly and nice to people, the Gothic community as a whole will gain a better reputation.

