 Some larger banks have advisors who can assist you if you want to set up an account overseas, whether for your personal investments or for your business. Having a banker's assistance can help you navigate some of the more complex requirements more smoothly.Different countries have different banking regulations, and not all banks allow U.S. customers to open accounts.
Additionally, there may be more stringent funding requirements than you would find if you were opening an account at a bank within the United States.
If you already bank with a larger national bank, go to the website and see if they have an international banking department.
You also may be able to find assistance by calling customer service or speaking with a banker inside a branch.
 Offshore banks require more documents to verify your identity than may be required for a domestic account. In addition to providing information on an application form, you'll need to submit government-issued identification documents such as your passport.You may need to supply copies of your driver's license or Social Security card. For tax purposes, the bank also may need to verify your residence. A utility bill or similar document typically will work for this purpose.
Because of the wide variety of identity documents, if you're opening a bank account overseas the bank may require a notarized or certified copy to ensure what you've sent them isn't forged or falsified.
Getting the correct certification on your documents may require you to visit an authorized government office. The bank typically will let you know how to do this.
 In addition to personal information, you also must submit financial records and information so the offshore bank can verify your source of income and your banking history.While these requirements may seem intrusive or time-consuming, they are designed to prevent offshore accounts from being used for illegal purposes such as money laundering or tax evasion.
An offshore bank typically will request bank statements going back six months to a year, as well as wage statements or sales contracts that indicate the source of the money you want to place in the account.
Keep in mind that although offshore bank accounts are frequently associated with multimillionaires, you don't necessarily have to be incredibly wealthy to have an account overseas.
When international banks look at your banking history, what they want to know is how long you've had your accounts open and whether you have a positive relationship with your bank – not necessarily how much money you have in your accounts.
 When you open a domestic account, the currency automatically is the U.S. dollar. However, if you open an offshore account you'll need to decide the currency in which you want your funds held.Before you decide to hold funds in a currency other than your own domestic currency, make sure you ask a bank representative about the tax implications.
For example, you may elect to hold funds in the domestic currency of the country where the bank is located, which would enable you to earn interest on the funds in your account. However, earning interest in that country may subject you to tax liability there.
You also want to be careful about exchange rates. Before you elect to hold your funds in a different currency, research the exchange rate over a long period of time and assess the overall stability of that currency.
 Once your paperwork has been approved, you'll have to make your first deposit into your account. The main way to deposit funds into an offshore account is through a wire transfer, for which you can expect to incur additional charges or processing fees.Keep in mind that nearly every bank will charge for an international wire transfer. However, these fees vary, so it may be worth it to shop around for the best deal.
Since you likely will be depositing a large sum as your initial deposit, there's really no other way to get money to an offshore account.
Foreign banks won't accept domestic checks, and you would run a serious personal safety risk if you carried cash overseas.

