 The classic fried corn dog recipe never gets old. Make the batter by combining dry ingredients (usually yellow cornmeal, flour, salt, black pepper, baking powder, and sometimes sugar) with eggs and milk.Poke hot dogs on wooden skewers, dip them in the batter, and fry them in hot vegetable oil. Once they're golden brown, serve them on a plate covered with a napkin.


Corn dogs usually take about three minutes of frying until turning golden brown and fully cooking.Spices such as cayenne pepper or red pepper flakes add more of a spicy kick to the corn dogs.;
, If you're no expert when it comes to frying food, try baking corn dogs, instead. Cover hot dogs with a cornmeal crust and stick wooden skewers in the middle of each one. Bake them in the oven until they're golden brown and fully crisped.You can also make bite-sized baked corn dogs. Fill cornmeal batter in a muffin tray with sliced hot dog pieces. Bake until fully cooked and golden brown.It takes approximately 15-20 minutes for the baked corn dogs to fully cook., If you're looking for an easy and fast way to make corn dogs, you might want to try frozen corn dogs. They're not as delicious as the ones made from scratch, but you may find them just as tasty. Many stores sell frozen corn dogs in the frozen aisle at your local supermarket. They can either be baked in the oven, fried in oil, or cooked in a microwave.The frozen corn dogs will usually come with boxed package instructions to cook them correctly. It'll usually include the methods and parts of cooking them, the timing of how long it needs to be cooked, etc., Corn dog bites make a fantastic party treat or even a simple, delicious appetizer. To make them mini-sized, slice them into pieces and dunk them in cornmeal batter. Stick popsicle sticks in the middle of each hot dog and fry them until they're golden brown. They take less time to cook, are faster to make, and make a good recipe to try out if you're new to making homemade corn dogs.

You can also make baked corn dog bites. Fill cornmeal batter in a muffin tray with sliced hot dog pieces. Bake until fully cooked and golden brown, usually taking about 8-10 minutes.If you have no wooden skewers or corn dog sticks on hand, corn dog bites or mini corn dogs are a good alternative.
 Being a vegan doesn't mean you have to miss out on any mouthwatering corn dogs. Follow the same method you'd use for normal corn dogs, but use vegan hot dogs, instead. They can either be baked or fried - the choice is up to you!, Bring your corn dog recipe to a new level by dunking them in a beer batter. It's a satisfying treat for a large group of people and perfect for appetizers. Follow your normal cornmeal batter recipe, but pour in a cupful of beer. Dip, cook, and enjoy!, If you're looking for a slightly sweet but classic corn dog recipe, try these honey corn dogs. Simply add a tablespoon or two of honey in your cornmeal batter. Dip, fry, and serve them. They're easy to make and tasty, too!, Want a spicy kick to your corn dogs? Try making a batch of spicy jalapeño ones. Add a tablespoon or two of finely diced and seeded jalapeño to your cornmeal batter. Use the batter to dip the hot dogs in., Looking for a healthier option when making corn dogs? Try out a batch of whole wheat corn dogs. Instead of normal white flour, use whole wheat flour. The corn dogs can either be baked in the oven or fried in oil., One creative way to make corn dogs is making them waffle-style. Spray a waffle iron with non-stick cooking spray. Lay hot dogs poked with wooden skewers over the waffle iron, making sure the ends of the sticks hang over the sides of the waffle iron. Pour over the cornmeal batter and cook on both sides until golden brown.Feel free to add shredded cheese or bacon bits over the corn dogs as they cook. It adds more flavor to the corn dogs., Hot dogs are the key ingredient to corn dogs, so it's important to pick out fresh hot dogs when making the corn dogs. It's highly recommended to use beef hot dogs, but pork, chicken, and vegan hot dogs can work as well.Many recipes also encourage using kosher hot dogs, since they're the type used at fairs and carnivals.Wipe the hot dogs with a napkin to keep them clean before cooking.
Dusting the hot dogs with flour or cornmeal allows the batter to go on more easily when dunking the corn dogs., Corn dog batter is the only way to transform hot dogs into the crispy, moist corn dog. A corn dog batter is made by whisking dry ingredients and wet ingredients, and then combining them together. A typical corn dog batter will have:Yellow cornmeal: Cornmeal is a must to corn dogs and it's where the name 'corn dogs' originated from.

Flour: Usually all-purpose flour, it keeps the corn dog batter together and leaving it thick.

Baking powder: Baking powder is added to form fluffy, moist corn dogs.

Salt and black pepper: Added for flavor to the corn dogs.

Sugar: White sugar is not added in every corn dog batter recipe out there, but it does leave the batter slightly sweet and delicious.

Eggs and milk: Used as a wet ingredient to the batter, it helps keep it from being too dry and lets it regain its consistency.

You may want to keep the cornmeal batter cold before using. It prevents it from sloughing off when being fried and leaves you with a thickly-covered corn dog., In order to eat a corn dog, it must be properly cooked. A corn dog can be made by being fried in oil, baked in an oven, microwaved in a microwave (if frozen), or made on another cooking device. It's usually best to follow your recipe's cooking instructions to cook the corn dog correctly.


Ensure you cook the corn dogs for the correct amount of time. Cooking it for too long will cause it to burn and blacken, but not cooking it enough will leave the insides raw and gooey.Most recipes fry corn dogs in oil because it's the way they're made at fairs and carnivals. Frying corn dogs leaves you with a golden brown, crispy-coated crust.
 In order to make a corn dog, wooden skewers (also called corn dog sticks) are used to handle and hold it.The wooden skewers should have one pointed edge to poke the hot dog with, and another edge that's not pointed to hold it well. It's usually best to get size 8.75 inch (4.5 mm) for a whole hot dog used in a corn dog.Instead of wooden skewers, large lollipop sticks can be used instead. They're not as sturdy as wooden skewers, but they work just as well., It's important to dip the hot dogs completely with batter for the corn dogs to come out completely covered and golden brown. Dunking the hot dogs in a bowl is usually difficult to do, since it's harder to completely cover it. It's highly encouraged to pour the batter in a mason jar or tall glass for easier dipping.When dipping the hot dog, dunk just enough until it's completely covered with batter. The hot dog should not show at all.
After dipping the hot dog, gently twirl the hot dog around and rub it against the jar or glass to get rid of any excess batter.
 In order to eat a corn dog, it needs to be held by its stick. Use the hand you eat with to hold onto the stick, a similar procedure followed when holding a popsicle.


This step may not apply to you if you're eating corn dog bites or mini corn dogs since they don't have a stick poked through them.
 Bite into the corn dog while you hold onto the stick. You'll be able to enjoy the sweet cornmeal batter that's covered on your favorite frankfurter., Keep biting and chewing onto the corn dog until there is nothing left but the stick. A corn dog should be eaten until it's completely gone., A corn dog is delicious when eaten with other condiments. The most popular condiments are usually tomato ketchup and mustard, but mayonnaise, barbecue sauce, cheese sauce, and ranch can work as well.Try the corn dog with a variety of condiments to find one you like the most.
You can either dunk the corn dog in condiments or drizzle them on top., A corn dog can be topped with many other foods that make it taste even more delicious. Try sprinkling on some cooked or raw vegetables (potatoes, broccoli, pickles, garlic, peppers, etc.), shredded or melted cheese, sesame seeds, and any other desired toppings.Be creative!

, Eating only a corn dog as a meal is usually not very filling for yourself or for a group. A corn dog can be enjoyed with a variety of side dishes to make a whole meal. Some meals you can make alongside a corn dog include onion rings, french fries, fried chicken, macaroni and cheese, mozzarella sticks, chicken nuggets, or coleslaw.


Many fried foods go great with corn dogs, since they're a type of fried food as well. Make a few fried foods to go alongside corn dogs while you eat them.

