 There is some evidence that 20-30 minutes of mild to moderate physical activity (like aerobic exercise) every day may help slow mental decline in Alzheimer’s patients, possibly due to the increased blood flow to the brain. At the very least, keeping a healthy body will enable the person to maintain and increase muscle strength and therefore enable them to participate in other activities and promote self-care.The exercise does not need to be completed in a single half-hour block, which may be too much of a challenge for an Alzheimer’s patient. A series of ten minute “mini workouts” will provide the same benefits.As a caregiver, you should try to exercise with the patient. It adds a greater social element and will be more enjoyable for the patient, and it is good for your health too.If the patient's condition permits him or her to attend a regular exercise class (or one dedicated to seniors or even just people with memory impairments), consider attending together. The socialization element will be beneficial alongside the physical benefits of exercise.;
, Regular, predictable routines can make daily life more manageable for Alzheimer’s sufferers as mental decline progresses. Making exercise sessions a regularly-scheduled daily activity — after breakfast but before enjoying some music, for instance — can make it more comforting and pleasurable for the patient.Alzheimer’s patients tend to be more active and responsive earlier in the day, so it is probably best to schedule the exercise period(s) during the morning hours.Try to incorporate self-care routines into daily routines. Allowing patients to care for themselves helps them promote mental and physical wellbeing. The activities, however, should be safe and appropriate for the person to undertake in their current condition without supervision. Try something like washing dishes, taking out the trash, or sweeping the floor.
While developing and employing exercise routines for Alzheimer’s patients, watch closely for changes in abilities and skills, as these can decline rapidly and unevenly and make some activities unsafe to perform., While a daily walk is far better than nothing, the best results may come from employing a variety of different (but simple and enjoyable) exercises. Dancing, gardening, stretching, using resistance bands or lifting small weights (or even soup cans), following a chair-based exercise video, and numerous other activities can be beneficial for Alzheimer’s sufferers.



This U.S. government website, for instance, offers a range of exercise options for older adults in four key areas, including:

Endurance. Try exercises like tennis, water aerobics, mall walking, or raking leaves.
Balance. Activities might include balance walking (extending the arms to the sides and lifting the knees with each step); heel-to-toe walking; or tai chi exercises.
Flexibility. Consider trying buddy stretching (pulling back and forth on a resistance band while seated face-to-face); calf stretching (while standing with both hands against a wall); or thigh stretching (behind the back while lying on the side).
Strength. Exercises can include elbow extensions (extending a supported arm with a wrist weight overhead); wrist curls (with the forearm resting on an armchair); or back leg raises (using ankle weights and holding the back of a chair for a support).
 Depending upon the patient’s physical condition and the progression of the disease, traditional exercises may not be a viable option. By watching the patient’s habits and employing some creativity, however, you can still help ensure a sufficient amount of daily physical activity.


Build an exercise out of a routine or habit displayed by the patient. If the patient shuffles his or her feet a lot, put on some music and dance together. If the patient tends to rub his or her hand on the tabletop, provide a cloth and do some cleaning together.Pay attention to the patient's work history when you're deciding which exercises they should do. You can tailor a certain patient's exercises to things that you think they might be good at given their work history. For example, a former cashier may be familiar with sorting or counting coins, and a farmer may be familiar with caring for plants.In the end, your goal should be using exercise to maintain remaining skills. So make the most out of what you have to work with., Nothing gets easier for a caregiver as Alzheimer’s disease progresses. Even simple exercise routines may be out of the question. However, even the most basic types of movement or physical exertion may provide some amount of health benefit and — perhaps more importantly at this stage — comfort for the patient.In later stages of the disease, walking from one room to another, switching chairs, or even just shifting positions in bed may have to suffice for physical activity. It still counts, and is still worthwhile — for the patient and for you — to keep moving and keep trying.
 Despite the increasing popularity of “brain games” and “brain training” apps, there is no legitimate evidence that mental decline can be slowed by such activities. That said, regular mental stimulation offers a range of social, emotional, and even physical benefits to Alzheimer’s sufferers.Don’t focus so much on concrete accomplishments — finishing the puzzle in the same amount of time as last week, for instance. Instead, make mental exercises for the patient be about having a good time and creating a sense of accomplishment, regardless of results.Pay special attention to highlighting enjoyment when a patient might notice that their abilities are declining. For example, a musician might feel dejected when their skills are not as sharp as they once were, or a painter might feel upset when their paintings have less quality than they once did. At these times, you should take special care to encourage the patient and help them identify new goals and sources of accomplishment for their favorite activities.
 Asking an Alzheimer’s patient to do the same word puzzle over and over again or fold the same towel repeatedly for no reason will not provide mental stimulation or emotional benefits. Alternatively, giving small, common tasks like setting the table or helping with the laundry can offer not only a mental (and physical) workout but a sense of involvement in the household — as opposed to the isolation an Alzheimer’s sufferer often feels.Avoid meaningless time-fillers, and look for activities that will be meaningful to the patient. These could include playing music, organizing or light cleaning, gardening, reading or looking at newspapers or books, helping with cooking or baking, or going through family photos or videos, to name some examples. Build the activities around the patient’s interests and abilities.If you can build the activities around the patient’s former work — putting coins in display pouches for a former bank clerk, for instance — you may get a particularly positive response., Depending upon the progression of the illness, an Alzheimer’s patient may need regular or practically constant supervision and assistance. However, no one wants to feel helpless, and an Alzheimer’s sufferer can derive pleasure from a sense of accomplishment or usefulness just like anyone else. The trick for a caregiver is to provide the necessary help without making the person feel helpless.For example, if you are baking a cake together, offer to measure the ingredients, but ask for a hand with mixing them with a wooden spoon.
Let the person be an active participant and helper. So what if it results in a few spills or imperfectly folded dinner napkins?
People with Alzheimer's often have information and knowledge that they are willing to share with other people. Ask them to teach you something or to tell you a story. If the person is an avid knitter, ask them to teach you a stitch. If the person used to play football, ask them to tell a story about a memorable game. This will encourage physical exercise in some cases and also help to build their self-esteem.
 People with dementia and Alzheimer's frequently find it easier to remember things from longer ago than from recent history, because the disease takes longer to affect longterm memories. Sharing life memories and experiences can help an Alzheimer's patient improve their mood, communicate better with their family, and build confidence.

Bring (or encourage family members to bring) pictures and mementos from the person's past. Physical items are great for triggering memories and encouraging storytelling.
Consider visiting an important place in the patient's life, such as a park they loved to walk in or a place they volunteered or worked. These visits will also help with memories and encourage the person to get outside.
Create a memory book or display, such as a poster or photo album. Fill this display with important, meaningful events in the person's life, such as the birth of a child or a formative travel experience. Creating this item should help the person reminisce more and also encourage reminiscing in the future.
Avoid asking questions that require detailed, factual responses. Instead, you should focus more on the flow of the conversation. People with Alzheimer's often do not remember specific details, such as names and dates, so you should instead pat more attention to the person's enjoyment of the conversation. Ask them to share more about their life story and show a genuine interest in the conversation., One of the most frustrating aspects of Alzheimer’s is that it can rob some sufferers of their communication skills more quickly than other aspects of cognitive impairment take place. It can become very challenging to communicate verbally with some patients, but resist the temptation to speak “at” them, as if they are inanimate objects.Strive to communicate with the person, even when it becomes difficult. Learn to recognize and utilize nonverbal cues, including facial responses and hand motions. It may be difficult to tell how much of what you are communicating is “getting through,” but assume the person still understands more than may seem immediately apparent. Be patient and persistent in your efforts.
 It is common after an Alzheimer’s diagnosis for the patient to want to withdraw from social interactions, out of fear, embarrassment, or even anger. Remind the person that “you are still you,” and that those who care about him or her want to remain a part of his or her life.Ample evidence shows that strong social bonds and interpersonal connections are good for our physical and emotional health, while isolation and loneliness are the opposite. Alzheimer’s patients are no different in this regard.
Shared activities, like family gatherings, social club gatherings, or just an evening out can provide a continued sense of belonging., There is no avoiding the truth — things will be different, and increasingly difficult, when living with Alzheimer’s. The comforts of familiar people and places can be essential to sustaining some measure of health and happiness along the rough road ahead.


If the person enjoys going to worship services, or museums, or the local coffee shop, continue taking the person there as long as it is feasible to do so. Remind the person that there is no reason to be ashamed, and emphasize the enjoyable aspects of the experience.Familiar locations may also serve as reference points that spur memories that may otherwise appear to be lost.
 Unfortunately, Alzheimer’s is becoming increasingly prevalent as the average lifespan increases. If there is any silver lining to this, however, it does mean that there are more resources and opportunities for interaction with others going through the same kinds of experiences.As a patient or a caregiver (or together), seek out support groups dedicated to Alzheimer’s. It is always comforting to know that you are not alone in your struggle, especially one that can seem so isolating and lonely.
Encourage Alzheimer’s patients — especially those early in the disease — to speak about their feelings and fears with someone they trust. This might be a minister, a therapist, or a close friend. Anyone can benefit from having access to a sympathetic ear.
 Over time, an Alzheimer’s sufferer’s interest in and ability to interact socially with others will wane. This does not mean the person should be isolated or “locked away,” but it does mean accepting the reality of the situation and adjusting activities and expectations accordingly. Continue to encourage and facilitate social interaction, but don’t force it.As with most diseases, Alzheimer’s patients have good days and bad days. Just because a patient vigorously resists attending a family birthday party or having a friend over one day does not mean those doors will continue to be closed forever after. Keep on trying.

