 Let your parents know that you appreciate everything they do for you. This includes not just the big stuff, like putting a roof over your head and feeding you, but also smaller everyday things, like giving you a ride to your friend's house. A simple "thank you" goes a long way.Let your parents know when they gave you good advice. It will make them feel so good to hear "You were right" or "I was wrong" every now and then.;
, Nobody is perfect all the time. If you did something that upset your parents or said something you didn't mean, let them know you're sorry.It's never too late to say you're sorry!

, Your parents want to feel involved in your life, so set some time aside to talk to them every day if you can. Ask them how their days were and tell them about yours. Discuss any problems you have and ask them for advice.Try not to do this when they are in the middle of something. Dinnertime is ideal for family conversations.
If you don't live with your parents, call them regularly. Visits are always appreciated too!, It's inevitable that you will disagree with your parents about some things, but try to be mature about it and understand where they are coming from. Even if you think they're wrong, don't start an argument.Keep in mind that your parents have a lot more life experience than you do.
Take a moment to consider if your parents' religious beliefs, cultural background, or upbringing may have something to do with their opinions. Be understanding of this even if you do not share the same values.
If you don't understand why your parents disagree with you about something, ask them to explain their thoughts.
 Your parents probably miss the days when you were a little kid and used to give them hugs all the time. Show them you still love them by giving them a big hug every now and again.Telling them you love them will make the hug even better.
 If you have a list of chores that you're expected to complete on a regular basis, make sure you do them. Don't start an argument with your parents over your chores every single week. If you really want to be helpful, do them without being asked.


If you think you have a ton of chores, try reminding yourself of all the chores your parents have! You'll probably realize that your share is relatively small.
 Along with your regular chores, you should make a conscious effort to reduce the amount of household work your parents have to do. This means not making a mess whenever you can avoid it, and cleaning up your mess whenever you do make one.


Wash your dirty dishes or put them in the dishwasher.
Take off your shoes so you don't track mud in the house.
Put your dirty laundry in the hamper instead of throwing it on the floor.
Clean up spills right away.
 Parents have a ton of responsibilities, and that can cause a lot of stress. If you notice that they seem especially overwhelmed, ask them what you can do to take a little bit of work off their shoulders.Pitching in may mean offering to do some extra chores, like doing the laundry or mowing the lawn.
You can also help your parents relax by offering to give them a massage.
In some cases, the best thing you can do is just give your parents some space when they are stressed.
 Every once in a while, it's nice to show your parents you care by doing a chore around the house that they never expected you to do. Consider cleaning up the house for them while they're out.
Another great surprise would be to have dinner waiting for them one night (as long as you clean up the mess as well).
 If your parents are stressed about money, it will be a real help to them if you learn to be fiscally responsible. If you have a job, consider offering to contribute money towards household expenses. If you don't have a job, try to be cautious about spending money unnecessarily., If there's a special occasion coming up, consider planning a surprise party for your parents. It doesn't have to be elaborate: just invite friends and family over, have some food ready, and prepare some simple decorations.Even if you don't plan a party, make a point out of always remembering your parents' birthdays and anniversary., Whether it's your mom's birthday or you just feel like doing something nice for your parents for no reason, a thoughtful gift is always appreciated. If you choose to buy something, you don't have to spend a lot of money! Remember, it's the thought that counts.Make sure the gift is something your parents will enjoy. If your parents love the movies, for example, you could buy them tickets. If your dad is a big sports fan, you could get him a T-shirt or hat that displays the logo of his favorite team.
If you want to do something crafty, try making a list of nice adjectives that describe your parents (nice, helpful, loving, thoughtful, etc.) Then incorporate these words into your gift.You could paint them on a picture frame or write them out on homemade cookies with icing, for example.
Don't underestimate the power of a homemade card!
Parents love gifts that incorporate family memories. Consider making a scrapbook or creating a slideshow using old family photos.
 A really simple way to surprise your parents and make them smile is to leave them an unexpected note that lets them know you appreciate them. Try putting the note on their pillows before bed or tucking them into their lunch bags so they will find them at work.


If you want to be even nicer, leave them a homemade treat with the note.
 Your parents value the time you spend together, so show them you do too! Take the initiative to plan an outing for you and your parents. There are lots of fun and inexpensive things you can do close to home. Go to the beach
Have a picnic at the park
Visit the zoo or aquarium
Go to a museum
Go shopping together
See a movie or show
Go out to dinner

