 Before starting a low-FODMAP diet, acquaint yourself with which kinds of foods are likely to contain FODMAPs and which are good dietary choices.

You might start by consulting a general information sheet, like this one: https://med.virginia.edu/ginutrition/wp-content/uploads/sites/199/2014/04/Low-FODMAP-Diet_10_28_14.pdf

FODMAPs are sugars, including fructose, lactose, and sugar alcohols (sorbitol, mannitol, xylitol, and moltitol). They tend to occur in certain types of fruits and vegetables, juices, honey, processed foods, sweeteners, and certain types of medications, like cough drops and cough syrups.
If you are a vegetarian and wish to cut FODMAPs from your diet, you should speak to a dietitian to ensure that you are getting the nutrients you need.;
, Many berries, citrus, melons, and some tropical fruits are low in fructose and therefore low FODMAP foods. Try to limit your servings of fruit to ½ cup per meal, even low-FODMAP fruit. When opting for fresh fruit, choose from the following:Bananas, kiwis, pineapple, and papaya
Blueberries, cranberries, raspberries, and strawberries
Cantaloupe and honeydew melons
Clementines, tangelos, grapefruit, lemons, limes, and oranges
Grapes and rhubarb

, Though not all vegetables are appropriate for a low-FODMAP diet, there are lots of tasty and nutritious vegetables you can eat. Regularly alternate which vegetables you eat so you have a balanced diet, and include some of these in most of your meals:Alfalfa and lettuce
Bamboo shoots, bok choy, and seaweed
Carrots, spinach, and tomatoes
Chives, leeks, and scallions
Parsnips and potatoes
Cucumber, yellow squash, zucchini, and eggplant
Green beans
Red and orange bell peppers
Pickles and radishes

, Gluten is not a FODMAP, but it’s often found in high FODMAP foods. Gluten is a protein that naturally occurs in wheat, which is also high in FODMAPs. Gluten-free options are widely available in many grocery stores and restaurants, so when possible choose gluten-free products to minimize your exposure to wheat.You can also select white or brown rice, corn chips and corn tortillas, millet, quinoa, cornmeal, and polenta.Stay away from high-FODMAP grains and grain-alternatives like barley, couscous, lentils, inulin, and rye.
 Since you don’t eat meat, you need to get your “good fats” from somewhere. Replace meat with low-FODMAP options like olive oil, nuts, and seeds. Mayonnaise, though higher in fat, is another appropriate choice.The exceptions are pistachios and cashews, which are high-FODMAP nuts.
 Splenda, Aspartame, and – in small amounts – sugar and maple syrup are low-FODMAP options to sweeten your food. Choose these over high-FODMAP sweeteners like honey, molasses, and high-fructose corn syrup.Check the ingredients lists on products you buy – many products contain high-fructose corn syrup.

Splenda and aspartame are artificial sweeteners that may pose health risks. When possible, sweeten your food with natural ingredients or avoid sweeteners altogether.Check ingredients lists and avoid sweeteners ending in “ol” like xylitol or sorbitol. Stay away from isomalt, at well.
 Add some extra nutrients to your meals with flavorful herbs. Choose low-FODMAP options like basil, coriander/cilantro, mint, marjoram, oregano, parsley, thyme, salt, pepper, paprika, ginger, cumin, and rosemary.For instance, try gluten-free pasta with tomatoes, spinach, and pesto sauce!

