 The example will focus on how to use part of a song to make a ringtone, but you can use any audio file to do it. Import it into iTunes by right-clicking the file and selecting "Open with... iTunes."





, You can choose any song that is in your library. Play the song and be prepared to take notes on when you want the ringtone to start and stop. iPhones support ringtones up to 30 seconds long.


Make note of the minute and second that you want the ringtone to start as well as stop.
 Right-click on the file and select Get Info. Choose the Options tab. You can enter in new values for Start Time and Stop Time. Select the portion you want (keeping a colon between minutes and seconds), and click OK.
 To do so, right-click the song again and select Create AAC version. You should now have two copies of the song, but with different lengths. The shorter one will be your ringtone.






After you've created the AAC version, click on the original song, select Get Info, and go back to the options screen. Reset the file to play the whole song by setting Start Time to 0 and unchecking End Time.
 A new window containing both your ringtone file and the original should pop up.
 If you are using an iPhone, the ringtone will need to be in M4R format. Right-click and select Rename (Windows) or hold down Shift and click it (Mac). Simply change the "a" (for audio) at the end to an "r" (for ringtone).






On a Mac, when the dialog box pops up asking if you're sure, click "Use .m4r".
On a PC, when the dialog box pops up asking if you're sure, click "Yes" to rename the file.
 Go back to iTunes, and delete the shorter file of the song. Don't delete the original. When the dialog box pops up, click "Keep File."






On a PC, deleting the original is acceptable. It will not remove the .m4r file from your computer.
 Go back to the Finder or Windows Explorer window and drag the M4R file into the Ringtones library in iTunes. This is necessary for iPhones.


Once the file has been placed in the Ringtones library, you can sync your phone to add it to your list of available ringtones.

