 Hate having supplies strewn across the room, creating not only a mess but also an opportunity for paint cans to be knocked over? Use an empty water case bin to keep your supplies together.


Cut the plastic away from the tops of the water bottles and remove/store bottles. Keep plastic in tact as it will help to contain paint supplies.
Fold plastic down and into the bottom of the cardboard case. The entire case should be engulfed in plastic.
Place paint gallons, brushes and other supplies inside the cardboard case. Slide the case around the room or place it on something with wheels (such as a skateboard) for travel ease.;
, No matter how neat you are, sometimes a few paint splatters may occur in areas you wanted to avoid.


Remove pimple pad from container and gently squeeze any remaining solution/alcohol from pad into container. Keep it neat by avoid having the solution drip on the paint and surface (which could create a further mess).
Dab pad onto paint smeared surface to remove first layer of paint. Press down and create a circular motion with the pad to remove paint.
Use additional pads to remove paint. For latex paint, you may want to allow the paint to dry first for best results.
 Painting in awkward areas can be tough with a traditional paint brush. However to reach those difficult crevasses and corners you can make one using the pad from an edging tool and a craft or yardstick.


Remove the pad portion from the paint edging tool using either a sharp blade or a knife. Avoid ripping the pad from the original material as it may rip.
Attach the pad to either a long rod or a yardstick or a craft stick, depending on the area you need to paint. For example if you need to paint behind a toilet, you may want to use the craft stick. However, for high reaching areas, such as behind a furnace pipe, you may opt for the yardstick.
Use a paintbrush to apply the paint to the pad and then use the pad on the intended surface. Doing this will ensure smooth, even coverage.
 Avoid splashing paint or painting your drop cloth, then risking having the legs stick to the cloth by elevating the chair. This allows you to fully cover the bottom of the chair without having to paint the drop cloth too.


Determine if the chair is sturdy or light enough to hold screws. For heavier furniture consider using large wooden blocks instead of screws.
Gather screws for each leg and your electric drill. One screw for each leg will do. Also, using an electric drill will make the process move along more efficiently.
Drive screws approximately ½” into the bottom of each leg. Make sure each screw is drilled into the leg the same length (so you avoid having the chair wobble while you paint).
Perch chair on drop cloth and then paint. Now you don’t have to worry about turning the chair on its side to paint the legs--you can do it all at once.
Wait until the chair is completely dry before removing screws with electric drill. Use the “reverse” setting on your electric drill to remove the screws.
 Sometimes the painter’s or masking tape you used to protect other surfaces during painting just won’t be ripped with ease (and may leave behind pieces). Use a hairdryer to apply heat to the area to gently (and completely) remove tape.


Wait until the surface is completely dry. Otherwise you may compromise your paint job by removing tape from a wet surface.
Use your hair dryer to add gentle heat to the paint or masking tape. Heat the tape until it is warm to the touch and not scorching hot.
Immediately (and gently) pull tape at a 90 degree angle. This will allow you to remove the most amount of tape with one pull.
 The perfect example is painting behind a toilet. Getting behind the toilet is hard enough, posing numerous opportunities for you to splash paint onto the porcelain.


Purchase the special wrap that you can use to cover the item. Depending on the size of the item you’d like to protect, you may want to purchase multiple rolls.
Wrap the item like you would a gift. You won’t need tape to adhere the sealant to the item but still approach wrapping the item like a gift to ensure full coverage.
Smooth your hand over the sealant to ensure full coverage and protection. Make sure you didn’t miss any spots by inspecting the item or by running your hand over the item to check for any holes or missing areas.
 Although you could place the items in the grass and paint, consider using a large cardboard box to protect the ground and other surroundings when you use spray paint.


Find a large cardboard box, left over from an appliance, moving or at a grocery or retail store. The box doesn’t have to be in perfect condition, just strong enough to stand on its side and void of holes that could emit paint.
Place items inside the box. Either stand items inside the box or you can hang them by poking a wire coat hanger through the top of the box and using the bottom of the hanger to hold your item.
Spray paint and allow the items to dry inside the box.

