 A well-coordinated room will look expensive even if the décor is cheap. Choose a theme that will tie together your room. This will help you look for inexpensive pieces while making it seem as though you paid an interior decorator. Rooms that seem confused, cluttered, and mismatched have the look of poverty rather than luxury even if the pieces are lovely.

For example:

A beach-themed room would have pictures of the ocean, shell decorations, and a blue-green palette.
A rustic, woodsy theme would have wood detailing, paintings of landscapes, and an earthy palette.
Industrial themes use repurposed items, steel accents, and sharp edges to give the room a more modern edge. Gray, brick red, and black are popular colors.

Minimalism is a popular and trendy design scheme where you use as few pieces as possible to decorate your room. Simple furniture and white or neutral colors will make the room look as though it is featured in a magazine, but the style is inexpensive to recreate.;
, Stick with white or light neutral shades, such as brown or gray, for the base color. Your walls and larger furniture pieces should belong to this color scheme. For example, you might have beige walls with white doors and gray furniture. Your décor will stand out against neutral colors more, which will make them seem more prominent. Some neutral colors you can mix and match include:


Gray
Slate Blue
Taupe
Soft yellow
Off-white shades like ivory and cream
Coffee brown
Tan
Beige

, Accent pieces are small decorative items that contrast with your neutral color scheme. They are usually either brightly colored or patterned. Accent pieces can be easily and cheaply be replaced if you ever change your style. Make sure all of your accent pieces are the same color for maximum effect. Some items you might consider for accents include:


Vases
Pillows
Blanket
Frames
Ottoman
Tablecloth
Flowers
Striped, dotted, or chevron patterned objects

, A focal point is a piece of furniture, art, or object that is the primary decoration in the room. Having one grand piece will draw attention to it, making it seem important and pricey. A room in which there is no clear focus tends to feel cheap.,, The key to making your décor seem expensive is to follow modern trends. To help your room remain stylish and cool, you should reduce the dated elements of its décor.Some common out-of-style elements include:


Vertical window blinds
Formica tables
Clear plastic furniture
Furniture painted to resemble marble or stone
Broken decor such as torn posters, cracked vases, or splintered wood. (In general--unless it is part of "the look" such as a vintage poster, crackle glazed vase, or reclaimed barn wood coffee table.)

, Ironically, having less decor in a room makes the overall impression that of luxury--not a room that is filled with furniture and decorative items. Limit how many decorative pieces you put out. This creates the impression that you spent more on a few, expensive items instead of buying many cheaper items. When placing your decorative items around the room, keep a little bit of space between each item., It's tempting to fill that space with stuff. Instead, only fill 1/2 to 3/4 of the space, leaving some empty space.
Keep your surfaces, such as coffee tables, counters, and TV stands mostly clear.

Choose only one or two items to place on these surfaces.
For example, you might keep a lamp on a side table with a single picture frame but nothing else.


If in doubt, remove. Try taking out a piece of furniture. See what happens if the coffee table is simply moved to the family room. Or see what happens if you remove throw pillows. You may find that less is more.

