 To qualify to become a notary in the state of Michigan you must meet certain requirements. To be eligible, you must: :


Be at least eighteen (18) years old.
Be a resident of, or own a business, in Michigan.
Be a United States (“U.S.”) citizen or have proof of legal presence in the U.S. Proof legal presence means a valid Visa or Green card.
Be able to read and write in English. English does not have to be your first language, but you must be able to read and write fluently in English in order to be able to understand the various documents you will be notarizing.
Not have been convicted of any felony within the past 10 years. If you have been convicted of a felony, the 10-year period includes completion of the sentence for that crime, any term of imprisonment, parole, or probation, and payment of all fines, costs, and assessments.
Not have not been convicted of 2 or more misdemeanor offenses involving a violation of the Michigan Notary Public Act within a 12-month period while commissioned, or 3 or more misdemeanor offenses involving a violation of the Act within a 5-year period regardless of being commissioned.
Not be currently incarcerated. Current inmates are not eligible to serve as a Notary Public in the state of Michigan.;
, Every person commissioned as a Notary Public in the state of Michigan is required to learn the notarial laws before notarizing any documents. Applicants for commission as a Notary will have to sign a declaration, stating that they have read the Notary Public Act, before being commissioned. You can find an electronic copy of the act on the Legislature’s website here in pdf format.
 The state of Michigan requires Notary applicants to obtain a surety bond in the amount of $10,000, unless the applicant is a licensed attorney. A bond will cost between $50 and $100, and may be obtained from your insurance agent, or one of the surety agencies listed on the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs’ website here.
 An Application for Michigan Notary Public Commission can be found here in pdf format. When completing the application:


Be sure to complete all fields, typing or printing neatly in blue or black ink.
Be sure that your signature matches the “Commissioned Name” field on the bottom left of the application . For example, if your name is Jane Lynn Doe, your commissioned name may be Jane Lynn Doe, J. Lynn Doe, J. L. Doe, J. Doe, Jane Doe, or any combination of your names and initials that you choose.
Print, but do not sign the application. You will sign your application later in front of the County Clerk.
 Take your completed application and proof of bond to the County Clerk’s Office in the county in which you live, or if you do not live in Michigan, in the county in which you own a business. The Clerk will administer an oral or written oath, have you sign your application, and take your filling fee. The filing fee in most counties is $10, but you may want to call ahead for the exact amount in your county, as well as for accepted methods of payment.
 Mail your completed application to the Michigan Department of State, Office of the Great Seal, 7064 Crowner Drive, Lansing, MI 48918, along with your check or money order for $10, payable to the “State of Michigan”.
 You will receive your commission card via mail at the address your provided on the application within fourteen (14) business days of the date the Department of State receives your application.

