 Receiving surgery to increase the volume of your hair is a drastic step and must be considered carefully. If you are experiencing a minor lack of hair volume, surgery is likely not a worthwhile solution to your volume problem. Again, these procedures can be very expensive and, at times, can have painful side effects. Make sure you are well-educated about hair transplant surgery before moving forward with the procedure., Speaking with a hair transplant professional will give you a better idea of the overall effects a hair transplant surgery will have on your particular volume problem. Furthermore, a specialist will be able to inform you about the limitations, side effects, and cost of hair transplant surgery., As noted above, hair transplant surgery can be very expensive and is not covered by most insurance policies. Be prepared to pay out of pocket for this procedure and, before scheduling the procedure, make sure the benefits of increasing hair volume will be worth the costs., Recovering from hair transplant surgery often involves some tenderness of the scalp and affected areas. Be prepared to take the necessary time off from work and other responsibilities, as your recovery process may require you to take heavy pain medications., Most hair transplant surgeries involve removing a patch of hair-growing scalp from the back of the head and replanting this patch in areas where hair no longer grows. This procedure should be carried out in a doctor’s office under local anesthesia., It is critical that you follow the instructions of the doctor performing the hair transplant surgery to ensure the success of your procedure. You may need to avoid washing or combing your hair, vigorous activities, excessive contact to newly-planted hair follicles, or other activities for a designated period of time.Recovery time for hair transplant surgeries varies from person to person. On average, recovery periods last from 3 to 10 days.Be aware that the transplanted hair will fall out after the surgery. However, you should begin to see new growth between 9 and 12 months after your operation.