 On the side of the PS3 (Left hand side laid down), there should be a little plate, take this off (just requires a bit of pulling on to do so).
 Now you should see a metal thing with a little metal flap on it, with a blue screw above it, take out the blue screw, then pull on the metal flap.

This is the PS3's hard drive, of which is capable with any form of laptop/notebook
Do not rest on any form of fabric as this can kill it completely)

You can flog this off as it is for a bit less of a price, or you can format it. Formatting can be a hell of a job when you don't know what to do, so I'll tell you the easy way of doing it. First take apart your laptop/notebook, and look inside for a hard drive that looks like the PS3 one



, We need to rip this off. Inside you'll see a screw, undo this with a small star-head screwdriver. Once its out, you should be able to slide the faceplate (the part saying "PLAYSTATION 3" on it) off.,, Now we can see some hardware of the PS3, with the PS3 facing towards you laid down, on the left is the power supply (back) and the WIFI Card (front), on the right is the Blu-Ray drive, take these all of by pulling the wires (looks like tape) out of the sockets, and undoing any screws in the way.

This is another layer of the ps3 taken off, but for now, let's focus on the WIFI Card, this only applies for laptops/notebooks. You can see the card itself and a wire leading to a chip with a black cylinder sticking out.
 Once you've done this open up your laptop/notebook (if you are willing) and find your WIFI card.

There should be another slot for the antennae identical to the one on the WIFI Card in the PS3.
 Now find a way of concealing the small component off the antennae in your computer, if not outside.

As I have a notebook I cut the wire of the antennae, poked it through some holes on the bottom of my computer, re-soldered it back on, then got some casing to keep it in. and just for added comfort for it I took out a USB from the PS3 charger (considering you'll no longer be needing it) and dissected it apart to get the USB itself, snip the wires and hot glue it on. You've now just made yourself a WIFI signal booster, congratulations

