 Boomerangs should be thrown vertically overhand, as if throwing a baseball, so they will cartwheel end-over-end. Hold the boomerang so that it's almost perpendicular with the ground, tilting it 5 to 20 degrees to the right (if you're right-handed) or to the left (if you're left-handed).The degree to which you tilt the boomerang is called the layover. If using a wide layover, you should throw the boomerang softly, whereas more vertical layovers will require harder throws.Throwing a boomerang horizontally will prevent the boomerang from returning. It will cause the boomerang to climb high into the air, before dropping straight back to the ground and potentially breaking., Most boomerangs only need to be thrown at eye-level, with an elevation about 10 degrees above the ground. A good trick is to pick a point slightly above the horizon, such as some far-away tree top, and aim directly for it., A right-handed thrower will need to pivot their right foot outwards, lift their left leg so all the weight is on the right, then step forwards onto the left foot as they throw, in a move that's known as "casting the foot out." Left-handed people will do the exact opposite. This helps to put more weight behind the throw, increasing the distance the boomerang will travel., Spinning the boomerang as you throw is perhaps the most important deciding factor in whether your boomerang returns to you or not. You can give your boomerang spin by cocking your wrist backwards, then snapping it forwards as you throw. You shouldn't just release the boomerang -- it should be ripped from your grip by the force of the spin., Unless you're really focused on distance, the strength of your throw is not the most important thing when it comes to throwing a boomerang. Once you have the hang of putting a good spin on your throw, you can start to focus on power., The best way to catch a returning boomerang is to extend both arms, wait until the boomerang reaches below shoulder level, then clap your hands together to catch the boomerang between your palms (known as the sandwich catch). If you've lost sight of your boomerang, or it's coming at you too fast, turn around, hunker to the ground, and cover your head with hands.There are lots of trick catches you can try, such as the under-the-leg catch, the hand-to-foot catch and behind-the-back catch. You may want to wear some padded fingerless gloves to protect your hands while attempting these trick catches.