 Look for the app on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the one of the opened organizer planner with a pen on the left page. Tap to open.


If you don’t have this app yet, download it from Google Play.
The welcome screen will display the list of the planned tasks for the day;
, By default, the screen will display the current date. If you need to add a task to a different day, there are two ways to go about this.


The first way to go to a certain date is to swipe the screen left. This will move the calendar one day forward.
The second is to tap the drop-down menu at the top, next to the Schedule Planner icon, and select “Calendar.” The calendar view of the entire month will appear. Tap the arrows next to the month name at the top to change the month. Tap on the date on the calendar to view the tasks on that date.
 Once you’re on the day you need to add a task, tap the + icon at the bottom left corner of the welcome screen.
 A new menu will open allowing you to add the details of the new task. The first option is for Category. Tap this to open a list of task categories: Transportation, Work, Health, Rest, Education, Meetings, Sleep, and Other, all of which are color-coded.


Tap on the category of your task to select and close the list.
 Name your task by tapping the “Title” field. The device’s on-screen keyboard will pop up. Type in the name.
 The “From” option will allow you to set the starting time. Set the time you want by tapping the up or down arrows on the hour, minute, and AM/PM columns. When you’re done, tap “Set” to go back to the task detail screen.


Similarly, the “To” option will open a pop-up allowing you to set the end time of the task. Do the same as you did with the “From” field, and tap “Set.”

, If you want to set this task as something recurring daily, you can tap on “Repeat” on the task details screen. Another menu will pop up where you can set the task to repeat Weekly, Monthly, or Yearly.


Note that this is only available in the Schedule Planner PRO version.
 To be reminded of your task, tap “Alarm.” On the pop-up, select the time when you want the alarm for this specific task to ring. When you’re done, tap “Set” to go back to the task detail screen.
 To add a task description or to add other reminders, tap “Notes.” A pop-up will appear with a blank space. You can enter your notes into the blank space, and tap the checkmark at the top to save the note and go back to the detail screen.
 When you’re done setting the details of the task, tap the checkmark at the top right corner to add your task. Now, Planner will remind you about your forthcoming appointments, and your day will be more productive.


Once your task is set, you will be redirected to the app’s main screen.
 Now that you have added tasks, you can manage them by arranging them, moving them to a different date if they’re postponed, or if a task is canceled, remove it.


Arranging tasks—On the main app screen, where you see a list of all the task for the day, tap “Arrange” at the bottom right. A list of arranging options will appear. You can opt to arrange your tasks by Start Time, End Time, Category, Duration, or Title (alphabetical order).
Moving tasks—On the main app screen, tap the pencil icon at the top. The tasks list at the bottom will appear with a box in front. Tap the box of the task you want to move to a different date, and tap “Move to” at the bottom. The calendar will appear; select the new date from here, and tap the checkmark at the top to set the new schedule. Please note that this is only available in the PRO version.
Deleting a task—If ever a task is canceled, you can remove it from your list by tapping the pencil icon at the top. Select the task to delete then tap “Remove” at the bottom.
 If you want to see where your time is going at a glance, you can do so via charts. In the main screen, tap the drop-down list at the top and select “Charts.” It will show your planned activities, color-coded by category, and the actual time of those activities. You can view the activities through a line graph chart or a pie chart.


Tap the pie-chart icon at the top bar to view the activities as a pie chart. Pie Chart works well when you just want to have a quick glance at the time spent on your tasks.
Tap the line-graph icon at the top to see the bar graph version of your schedule. It will let you know the actual percentage of time spent in each activity.
 If the current version of the app you have is the free one, and you want to access other features of the app, upgrade to PRO for $6.99. With PRO, you can add and edit categories, get sound notifications, copy and paste tasks, repeat tasks, and have Google Calendar integration.


Tap the drop-down option at the top and select “Settings.”
From the Settings menu, tap “Upgrade to PRO version” and then “Buy.” The Google Checkout pop-up will appear. Select either to pay with your credit card or PayPal, and tap “Buy.”
Once the purchase process is complete, you will receive a notification that the purchase was successful, and the app will unlock all the features it has for you to use.

