 Human mind is not perfect. Our mind is based on our ideas and thought and these two things makes our dreams which is responsible for change in our behavior. Our behavior changes when something wrong or something good happens in our life. We are responsible for every situation of our life.


Negative things only happen when our thoughts and ideas are negative. Our mind is divided into four stages conscious, subconscious, superconscious and unconscious mind. Want to discuss about conscious and subconscious mind.
Our subconscious mind is control by our conscious mind, whatever information will receive by our conscious mind that thing will accepted by our subconscious mind. Always remember that our subconscious mind never understand the jokes so always think positive for your self.;
, If we think something wrong in our conscious mind it will be accepted by subconscious mind which is responsible for our negative attitude towards every person which may be disturb our relationship.
 Negative thinking is that disease of human life which totally disturb their life style and behavior.


A person take wrong decisions when he/she think negative because negative thoughts reduce an intelligence of a person. They will feel less confident for themselves by which they cannot perform well in any field. A person who thinks negative do not have good relationship with other.
In this stage a person feel worthless about him/herself because negative thought cannot make a person happy anymore. A person will also think negative for other people, negative thinkers will never see any positive point on other people which disturb their relationship with everyone. Only those people think negative who don't set any goal of their life, who always see the game of life but they can't play this game, those people think negative who said that 'I cannot do this', 'This is not my job' and all.
 When a person think positive he/she feels happy, free, peace, tension free all the time about them self. Positive thinking is that part of human life which enhance their life style and behavior. A person cannot take wrong decisions when he/she think positive because positive thoughts increase an intelligence of a person. They will always feel confident for them self by which they can perform well in any field.


A person who think positive always have good relationship with everyone. Never feel worthless about your self because there is nothing bad or worthless in this world because we all the creation of God and he provide equal status for every human being it's all upon us that how we play the game of our life, positive thought make people happy all the time. Always think positive about your self then only you can think positive for others.
Never see negative point on a person and it will only happen when you think positive for your self. From all these we can make our life happy and enhance our relationship with everybody. With the help of positive thought we can do any task of our life, we can face every situation of our life with the welcoming attitude.

