;
, #Towel dry your hair, comb through with a wide tooth comb.
 However, if you prefer loose curls (or your hair is naturally curly) use a diffuser with a curling balm. This will ensure that the curls are bouncy and full.
 Make sure you use a foundation that isn't oil-based, or you will eventually break-out and look sweaty during the night.
 For a smoky effect, apply a deep grey or richer purple.
 If you have fair eyelashes, apply a coat of mascara on top of your eyelashes as well. (For an extra kick, use a metal eyelash curler, and heat it with your hair dryer for about 10 seconds before you use it. The difference is dramatic, and the effect lasts all night. Just be careful not to get the curler too hot; test it with your fingers first.)

, Put a very light dusting on the apple of your cheeks and spread back to your hairline. (To find the apples, smile big; they're the fullest part of your cheeks.)

,, Toenail polish makes sandals look ten times more sophisticated.
 Don't overdo it with the perfume. You want people to smell you when they are within about a foot and a half away from you, not when you walk in the room. You should generally stick to around 2 spritz on your neck and a few on your wrists and hair.
 Even if you are going out, you don't want to look desperate or trashy!

, if you wear a cleavage-enhancing top, don't let your stomach peek out. Or, if you want to show a little leg, don't also wear a low-cut shirt. A sexy woman accentuates one area; a trashy one accentuates two or more.
 If in doubt, remember MODEST IS HOTTEST!

,, Just because you are going somewhere like a party doesn't mean you have to wear a miniskirt and low cut top! If you are comfortable wearing a shorter skirt, wear one with boots. Or you could try wearing jeans, heels and a bright top. If you want to wear a low cut top, team it with jeans or trousers, and flat shoes or kitten heels.
, Or wear a stunning piece of jewelry like glittery earrings, or your favorite charm bracelet. Or try accessories, such as a nice belt, a handbag or a cute neck scarf. A splash of color can go a long way.

