 Here's what you'll need:


½ tsp. vanilla extract
¼ tsp. pumpkin spice, ground
½ cup unsweetened coconut milk from a carton, not canned
2 tbsp. whipped cream
1 dash cinnamon, ground
Include the vanilla extract, pumpkin spice, and coconut milk in your initial mixture and top your frappé off with a dash of whipped cream and a sprinkle of cinnamon.
 If you love the sweet toasted flavor of hazelnut, you're going to go crazy for these few extra ingredient additions. Just add 1/4 cup of hazelnut syrup and 1/2 tsp. vanilla extract to your initial mixture.


Top it off with a dash of whipped cream and cinnamon if you'd like!

, Try a double chocolate chip frappé by adding chocolate chips, chocolate syrup, and vanilla extract.


Add 1/3 cup chocolate chips to your original mixture. You can try milk chocolate, semi-sweet, or dark chocolate chips for fun variations.
Pour in 3 tbs. chocolate syrup and 1/8 tbs. vanilla extract and blend until smooth.
Drizzle some chocolate syrup along the inside of your glass and pour your frappé into it. Top with whipped cream drizzled in more chocolate syrup.
 Add 1 or 2 scoops of vanilla bean ice cream to your mixture and blend until smooth.


Add a dash of whipped cream drizzled with caramel syrup for a delicious foamy topping.
Add a couple drops of vanilla extract for a stronger vanilla flavor.
Top it off with a dash of whipped cream.
 Simply add three tablespoons of instant coffee, 1-4 tbs. sugar (to taste), a small amount of water, and milk (if desired) to a shaker and shake it up. Pour it into a tall glass with ice and enjoy with a straw.
 Add a scoop of your favorite ice cream to the blender for a thicker milkshake frappé. Try a scoop of mint chocolate chip ice cream for a refreshing mint chocolate frappé. Break up your favorite candy bar and add small pieces to the blender for an added crunch or add about 1/4 cup of shredded coconut. The possibilities are almost endless. Mix and match your favorite sweet flavors to create the perfect frappé.

