 Please, talk to your doctor before putting too much consideration into breast reduction surgery and certainly before talking to a plastic surgeon (who may have too much of a vested interest in getting your money). There may be other factors that may contribute to your breast size, health factors that may make surgery dangerous, and potentially much easier and less dangerous solutions.


Surgery is a particularly bad idea if you are young. Give yourself time: you may find you feel very different about your body in a few years.
Surgery should also not be used just for cosmetic reasons or to help you fit into the clothes you like. Surgery is dangerous and the dress you wear should not be more important than your life.
 Research the best plastic surgery facilities in your area. If there aren’t any highly acclaimed or reviewed locations nearby, it may be worth your while to go out of your way to find one. Again, plastic surgery is risky, and you want the best treatment you can find.
 Get a consultation with a couple of different plastic surgeons. They will be able to advise you on the different methods of breast reduction and the results that can be achieved. They will also be able to advise on costs and other considerations. You should not choose any surgeon that seems untrustworthy or offers extremely cheap procedures. A poor surgeon can easily give you very bad looking breasts.
 There are a number of risks associated with breast reduction surgery, many of which are also carried with any other surgery: the basic risk of using anesthesia is present, since anyone at any time may develop a bad reaction to those drugs and die on the table. You may also develop an infection or blood clots. There are other risks as well:


You run the risk of scarring, which may even go so far as to form keloids.
You may end up with uneven or unusually shaped nipples.
You may lose the ability to breast feed, complicating the situation if you ever plan to have children.
 Breast surgery cannot be undone. This is obviously a problem if the procedure is done poorly, but it is also important to remember that what's in fashion now or what you like now might not always be so desirable. You may come to love your body just the way it is and if you have surgery, you won't be able to get it back.
 Oftentimes, breast reduction surgery is considered an elective surgery across the board and so it will not be covered by health insurance. This can make it prohibitively expensive. Weigh your priorities to make sure that this is right for you, since spending the money on something like school might be more beneficial for you in the long run.
 Once you've weighed all your options and have made a decision, you'll need to go and get the surgery. It is usually done at a hospital or surgical center, requires general anesthesia, and is completed in a few hours. Generally, you will be sent home the same day, so you'll need to have someone available to pick you up.
 You'll have to be extremely vigilant as you go through the aftercare process. You may have a tube to drain fluids and blood placed in your chest and you'll certainly have stitches and bandages. All have to be kept clean and you'll have to stay fairly inactive, in order to let your body heal and prevent infection. You will likely be in pain and experience severe swelling and bruising. The stitches are usually removed after 1-2 weeks.