 Paint an even, solid layer of white paint over a small styrofoam ball.


The diameter of the ball should be about 1.5 inch (3.8-cm), or a little less than half the length of the clothespin you'll be using for the doll's body.
Let the paint dry before you proceed past this step.
If you don't want to paint the ball, you could wrap it in white organza or white nylons instead.
 Insert the pointed end of a wooden skewer into one side of the ball.


Choose a skewer that can slip securely into the gap of the clothespin you'll be using.
Only insert the skewer halfway into the ball. Do not poke through to the other side.
Make sure that the skewer goes into the ball at a straight angle.
The portion of the skewer sticking out of the ball should be about as long as the gap in the clothespin. If necessary, trim it down using heavy scissors or a small saw.
 Slip the exposed portion of the skewer down into the gap of the clothespin.


Leave 1/4 inch (6 mm) of the skewer exposed in between the top of the clothespin and the head to serve as a neck.
Ideally, pressure should be enough to hold the skewer in place. If it wants to move around inside of the gap, though, you can secure it in place with a little glue. Let the glue dry before continuing.
 You'll need to cut out one strip of paper for the bangs and a second strip for the back of the hair.


The bangs should be wide enough to wrap around half of the ball. They should be tall enough extend from the middle of the top of the head down to the middle front of the face.
The back of the hair should be wide enough to wrap around half of the ball. The length of this piece can be as long as you would like it to be.
 Cover the entire top half of the head with a thin coat of glue. Lay the back of the hair on first, followed by the bangs.


The back piece must begin at the top of the head. Press this piece of black crepe paper onto the glue at the back of the head. It should naturally crease and flow back, away from the body, as a result.
The bangs must also begin at the top of the head. Press them down over the glue at the front of the head and allow them to slightly overlap the edges of the back piece.
Let the glue dry before continuing.
 Stick the bottom of the clothespin body firmly into a matching clothespin base.


This base will allow the doll to stand upright.
 Cut a piece of thin cardboard into a strip and wrap this strip around the clothespin body of the doll. Glue the edges together and let them dry before continuing.


The strip of cardboard should be as tall as the total height of the clothespin and clothespin base.
The tube should have a diameter that matches the diameter of the base. You should be able to slip the tube over the body of the doll from below.
 Use your thumb and index finger to crease the top of the tube on either side of the clothespin.


These creased, flattened portions of the tube will form shoulders. They should be positioned below the sides of the head, not below the front and back of the head.
Only crease the top 1 inch (2.5 cm) or so of the top. Do not crease down the entire side of the tube.
 Carefully cut out a small rectangular section of cardboard at the front of the tube.


The rectangle should extend down about as far as the creases in your cardboard.
The width of this rectangular portion should only be about as wide as the top of the clothespin.
Removing this portion of cardboard will make it easier to add a collar to the doll.
 Cut a long strip of washi paper. Add a solid line of colored origami paper to the top of this strip.


The strip of washi paper should be about 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) wide and 5 inches (12.7 cm) long.
The strip of solid color origami paper should be about 1/4 inch (6 mm) wide and 5 inches (12.7 cm) long.
Glue the solid origami paper over the top edge of the washi paper. Let this dry before continuing.
 Wrap the collar around the skewer so that the two ends of the collar overlap at the front of the doll.


The left end should be folded beneath the right end of the collar for the sake of accuracy.
Slip the left end under the rectangular notch you cut from the front of the cardboard tube. This will help hold the collar in place. Leave the right end out and hold it in place with a little glue.
 Cut two rectangles from the same washi paper. Both should be twice as long as the length of the clothespin body. The width of both rectangles should approximately match the length of the clothespin.


Fold the long edge of both pieces in half. Crease well. The sleeves will be made from these double-thick pieces of paper.
 Round the bottom inside corner and cut a notch into the bottom outer corner.


Turn the paper so that the folded edge is either on the right or left side.
Locate the bottom corner of the folded edge. Round this off carefully with your scissors.
Cut a horizontal line into the open edge of the paper roughly one-third of the way down from the top. This line should only be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long.
Cut a diagonal line from the inner edge of the previous cut down to the bottom corner of the open edge. Remove and discard the paper that falls out when you connect the two cuts.
Complete this step for both of the sleeves.
 Glue the open edge of the sleeve to the center back of the doll. The top edge of the cardboard body should align to the top edge of the washi paper sleeve.


Position the sleeve paper so that it lies under the hair of the doll.
Glue enough of the sleeve over the side and front of the doll to meet the previously attached collar. Let the rest of the sleeve hang loose at the side.
Repeat this step for both sleeves.
 Cut another rectangle using the same washi paper. Make sure that it is long enough to wrap around the bottom of the cardboard tube.


The skirt only needs to be tall/wide enough to stretch from the bottom of the folded collar edge to the bottom of the doll.
 Wrap the skirt piece around the body. Glue the edges in place along the left side of the doll.


The exposed edge will mimic the edge of the kimono.
Do not worry if there is still a visible gap of cardboard showing from beneath the washi paper. The obi will cover it.
 Cut a strip of paper that is about 2 inches (5 cm) wide and long enough to wrap around the body of the doll.


The obi needs to be wide enough to cover the exposed part of the cardboard. If 2 inches (5 cm) is not quite wide enough, make it a little wider.
Do not use the same washi paper for the obi. You can use either solid color origami paper or a separate piece of washi paper with a different pattern.
 Wrap the obi strip around the midsection of the body, covering the previously exposed cardboard. Glue it in place and let the glue dry.


Note that the ends of the obi strip should be hidden at the back of the doll.
 Your wooden peg Hina Matsuri doll is now complete and ready to show off.

