 Don't get normal surgical gloves or purple ones used for blood work.

The gloves need to fit against the skin snugly and not allow capsicum from the peppers to seep through and get into your skin.
If you ignore this, the peppers you handle will make your hands have a burning or throbbing sensation for hours, possibly all day. When handling the peppers or seeds, wear these gloves.
When through, make sure to wash the gloves well and rinse with plenty of water before removing them. To be extra safe, wash your hands as well and rinse with copious amounts of water. This will prevent the capsicum from the peppers and seeds from irritating your sensitive skin and membranes, should you happen to touch these areas.;
, You will not want to fill the container more than ½ to ¾ full of mash because fermentation bubbles will make the mash rise up and overflow the jar.

One pound of peppers will produce a little less than a pint of pepper mash, so you will need 5 pounds to fill your gallon jar half full. If you don't process the peppers immediately, refrigerate them.
 Red or orange habanero peppers which have ripened fully on the bush will start rotting within a couple of days after picking them, so use them immediately.

Fully ripe peppers have a delicious sweetness to them, in spite of any heat. If you bite into one, you will feel a rush of sweetness, then the heat will hit you and you might regret taking such a big bite. The sugars that give the peppers a sweet taste will help fermentation.
 Contrary to popular opinion, the seeds don't contribute much to the heat of the peppers. The real heat comes from the connecting veins that attach the seeds inside the peppers to the pepper walls. You can always use the seeds for planting more peppers.

If you intend to save the seeds for planting, don't save the seeds from puny, stunted peppers. Save those from the biggest, fattest peppers for planting. That way you will have more fat peppers in your next harvest.
 Do not wash them before refrigerating them. Water makes them decompose faster.

If you plan to save the seeds, use a sharp paring knife to slice into each pepper and pry it open with your fingers, then scrape the seeds out, one pepper at a time. Try to leave the veins in the peppers. Set the seeds aside in a small bowl so you can lay them out on a paper towel to dry after you finish.
,

If you use a juice extractor, it might ruin any seeds, so that you can no longer use them to grow new plants. However, you can still spread them on paper towels and dry them in a food dryer or in an oven at 110℉ (43℃) for a day. You may then pulverize the seeds in your blender at high speed, then put the resulting dust in a salt or pepper shaker.
Instead of using a blender, you may also push the peppers, with or without seeds, through a juice extractor. This will extract the seeds and a good amount of the pulp. Cycle it through the juicer several times to get out as much of the pulp as possible. Use the output of the juicer for the fermentation process. You may also juice additional vegetables as discussed below.
 If you started with 5 pounds (2.25kg), you should have 4.5 pounds (2kg) or more remaining., For simplicity, add 1 tablespoon of salt per pint of mash.

If you have 2.1 kilograms, multiply that times 0.033. You will get 69.3g, the weight of the salt you will need. A tablespoon of salt weighs 15 grams and a teaspoon 5 grams. 69.3/15 = 4.62 tablespoons. So, you need four and two-thirds tablespoons of salt for 2100 grams of mash.
 Pour one tablespoon sea salt per pound of peppers in a blender and process them on high speed until they become puree (mash). This will be no more than a minute at the very most, typically only 15 to 30 seconds. Do not over-process..You don't want to produce so much heat that you kill the bacteria naturally residing in the peppers because that bacteria is essential for fermentation the process., Be careful, though, to maintain the salt-to-weight ratio of the vegetable matter. Adding various vegetables and fruits will dramatically affect the taste of the finished product, so a purist pepper sauce lover should consider making the pepper mash first, and then, with a portion of it, blend other vegetables for further fermentation.

Here are some examples of additional vegetables and fruits.

Carrots (They are sweet and maintain color)
Onions
Garlic
Horseradish
Ginger
Chinese cabbage
Apples



, Ideally, you should fill the crock no more than ⅝ full (a little over half) to allow for rising of the mash during fermentation. When you finish the blending, pour the mash into the jar and put a lid on the jar loosely., Make sure to avoid freezing temperatures and temperature above 110℉ (43℃) or the fermentation agents (bacteria) will be killed.

In one week, the pepper mash will start bubbling vigorously as the fermentation process takes hold. During the process, the bacteria produce acetic acid while the sugars are converted to alcohol and carbon dioxide gas bubbles which will cause the pulp in the mash to rise, leaving the liquid and some solids on the bottom.
 If it seems about to overflow, pour part out it into another glass jar until the bubbling subsides, then mix them back together.

In another week or two, the fermentation should stop producing bubbles. Note, though, that bacteria still lives in the mash.
 Keeping it cold and sealed will inhibit mold growth., Suggestions:

Spoon it sparingly (because of the heat) onto your food.
Add a tablespoon to a batch of bread dough to create a delicate pepper aroma and add a lovely heat to sandwiches and toast.
Make a tantalizingly piquant fudge with it.
Add it to sour mash for brewing beer.
Make pepper sauce by combining three ounces of mash and two ounces cider vinegar. This will create a delicious, pure, and hot sauce which is best stored in a standard 5 ounce hot sauce bottle. Vary the proportions to suit your taste. With the vinegar in it, you do not need to refrigerate it. You need no other ingredients.


 



