 Hunger and changes in blood sugar levels can make your child feel fidgety, grumpy, or bored throughout the day, and these emotions may be responsible for disruptive behavior. Try to feed them balanced meals with whole grains, fiber, fruits, vegetables, and proteins. Try to avoid added sugars, trans fats, and processed foods.

It is especially important that children get a good breakfast. Eggs, fruit, whole grain toast, or oatmeal for breakfast can help your child feel full until lunch time.
 Energetic children are notorious for making a mess. They often go from toy to toy and activity to activity without stopping to clean up or take a break. You can contain some of the chaos by creating designated play areas. In the play area, your child can dispell some of their energy.It is still important to teach your child to clean up the area when they are finished playing.
 Energetic children usually need a good deal of physical activity to manage their energy levels. Enrolling them in a sport or other extra curricular activity can give them an outlet for their energy. Anything from scouting (Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts) to soccer and martial arts could provide your child an outlet for your energy. They will also build other life skills to help manage their energy, such as socializing with peers., A characteristic of nearly every energetic child is the need to move. Instead of demanding that they be still for extended periods of time, give them opportunities to move around and burn off some energy in between short spurts of being still. This could be as simple as letting them stand up and walk around the room every 10-15 minutes (depending on age).You can also discuss this with your child’s teacher for better results at school. Children learn better when they are comfortable and focused.
 Screens are both stimulating and captivating for children. Mentally, the screen will stimulate your child, but in order to watch they usually remain relatively still. When the screen goes off, you may notice that your child has a burst of energy that can last from minutes to hours. To combat this, limit screen time to less than two hours per day and break that time into smaller segments., When you are in a situation that your child cannot get up and move around, you should bring something to keep their interests. This will help them stay distracted from their need to move around. It will also keep their minds engaged and focused on something they enjoy.For example, you could bring a toy to a wedding ceremony and allow your child to play quietly while the ceremony proceeds.
During extended road trips, the two-hour screen time could be reconsidered to give your child more time with a tablet or game for entertainment.

