 You'll get sweaty and gross, so the least you can do is take a shower and put some body spray on. If you have long hair it's a good idea to wear a ponytail since your hair will get sweaty and will be in your face.;
, Wear sneakers to help protect your feet because you'll get stepped on in mosh pits. Girls should wear shorts instead of skirts, as skirts may fly up if you're jumping around. Leave the earrings, necklaces, or loose things at home as they will get ripped, pulled, or broken. Wear glasses in mosh pits at your own risk; they could get broken as well. Also, if you're wearing plugs or other loose jewellery it's a good idea to take them out in mosh pits or at least tighten them before you go in Remember to consider the weather - if you wear pants and it's hot out, it will make for a sweaty and uncomfortable day. If the forecast calls for a sunny day, it'd be a good idea to wear sunglasses. No matter what the weather, always wear sunblock because you're outside all day and it's easy to get burned even if it's cloudy. Don't forget to put it on top of your head and ears.
 Bringing the right items with you to Warped Tour can make the day go a lot more smoothly. It's important that you pack all of your stuff in a backpack or secure bag of some sort, because having to put all of your items in your pockets or carry a bunch of loose items around all day gets annoying and in the way. Make sure that your bag closes fully so nothing will fall out and so nobody can stick their hands in it to steal something from you. Some good items to bring are:


Money for the ticket and merchandise.






Paper and pen to write down the schedule.






Several water bottles.






A fully charged cell phone.






A fully charged camera (or an extra battery).






Sunblock and sunglasses.






Ponytail holder to hold your hair back.






Hand sanitizer or wipes.






Bug spray.






Sharpie (sometimes the band members don't have one).
 Make sure to get to Warped Tour early, so you can get inside right when the gates open at 11 am. Arriving early will give you enough time to look at the grounds and memorize where certain places, such as the stages, information booths, and restrooms, are located.


Try to go to all the booths. Most booths give out free items such as CDs and pins, and the Monster Energy Station gives away free Monster drinks.
Arriving early will also give you the best selection at the merchandise booths. The booths usually sell shirts, sunglasses, shorts, CDs, etc. Buying merchandise is a good idea because you can't get a lot of those things in stores and sometimes the band will be selling their own merchandise.
 It is a big wall with all the stage names that have the bands and the times. Instead of running back and forth to see who is playing when, bring a piece of paper and pen with you to write everything down, or write it down on your phone. Sometimes they sell schedules at the front, so you could buy one there if that's easier.
 Give yourself a lot of time to get to the stage they're playing at so that you can get a good spot before they start. How early to get there depends on how popular they are, so use your best judgement. Secure your spot and make sure you're able to see the band and that you aren't surrounded by people who could obstruct your view or get rough., Mosh pits can differ depending on what band is playing. For example, if it's a metal band, a circular pit will usually form in the center where people like to dance hardcore. Mosh pits are intense, so prepare to be rubbed up against a lot of sweaty people, including some greasy shirtless guys. If you can't take a pit, don't be in one. If you get in and then decide that they're not for you, or you accidentally get pushed in, edge away as fast as you can. If you feel like you're about to pass out or someone is about to crush you, put your arms in front of you and leave the pit through the side, saying "excuse me" as you go.
 Mosh pits combined with hot weather will wear you out and make you sweat, so staying hydrated is super important! Water can get expensive, so be sure to bring your own water bottle. You will be able to fill it up whenever you need to. Many venues will not allow you to bring an open water bottle into the grounds, so ensure that your bottle's seal hasn't been broken yet, otherwise they might just throw it away. Also, avoid freezing your water bottle as frozen ones might be taken away as well. If your bottle gets taken away, find the Medical Tent and tell them you feel dehydrated. Most of the time they will give you a free bottle of water. As desperate as you might be for water, don't accept a drink from anyone except venue staff - you never know what that person might have put in it.
 There are casual signings where you can have a brief moment with them, or you can try to meet them in front of the gates where their buses unload. If you are not allowed through the gate, this means that only the performers are allowed, and they will go through at some point (usually after they play, when they're going to get food, or when they've finished eating).


If you do meet a band stay calm. Avoid screaming, crying, or jumping up and down. Just walk up to them and say hi, and they will most likely say hello back. If they appear to be in a hurry, be as brief as possible and ask them for a quick picture, hug, or a signature. If they stay and talk to you, have a genuine conversation with them. Ask if they're enjoying themselves and what future events they're playing at. Don't brag about how big a fan you are. Instead, say something that will make them laugh, smile, or remember you in a good way.

