 Bend one pipe cleaner near its center, forming a loose U-shape.

A piece of floral wire or other craft wire would also work if you do not have pipe cleaners.
Set this bent pipe cleaner aside for later use.
 This loop will become the center of your bow.

Slide your thumb into the loop and use it to hold the overlapping end down. You'll need to continue holding this area in place while creating the rest of the bow.
Note that you do not need to cut the ribbon before forming the bow since you'll be working from the end.


The fold of this loop should run parallel to the folds of your center loop.
Pinch this loop together at the same point you have the center loop pinched. Continue holding the center down while working.
 Bring the ribbon beneath the center loop and out to its right side. Fold the ribbon again to create another loop that is identical to the second.

As before, the fold of this loop must run parallel to the other folds, and you'll need to continue pinching down the center of the bow to prevent the loops from unraveling.
If you use one-sided ribbon, you'll need to twist the ribbon at the center of the bow before forming the loop; otherwise, the underside of the ribbon will show. Doing so is not necessary for double-sided ribbon, however.
 Use the same technique to create more loops on the left and right sides of the bow, making them all identical in size with one another.

You should be able to create a full bow with four loops on either side, but you can alter the final count according to your own preferences. Keep the same loop count on both sides of the bow, though.
 Bring the ribbon to the back center of the bow, then create one large loop at the back measuring twice as long as the width of the bow.

As with the other loops, hold the end of this loop in place by pinching it at center of the bow.
 Insert the bend of the prepared pipe cleaner into the center loop, then twist the ends together to gather the loops.

When you slide the pipe cleaner over the center, the loose ends should hang down over side layers and down past the lowest fold.
Continue holding the folds with one hand while twisting the pipe cleaner ends together with your other hand. As you twist, the loops should gather together at the center. Release the center once the pipe cleaner is tight enough to keep it secure.
 Detach the ribbon from its roll and cut open the final loop.

Flip the bow to its back, then cut the ribbon near the secured base. Doing so should separate the bow from the rest of the ribbon on its roll.
Cut open the center of the large bottom loop, splitting it apart into a tail. Trim the tail ends down to your desired length.
 The bow is done and ready to use. To attach it to a wreath, position it over the wreath and twist the pipe cleaner ends onto the wreath frame.