 You want to make sure your rat can comfortably climb in and out of a litter box. Pick a container fairly low to the ground. It should also be wide enough that your rat can fit inside easily.It's best to purchase a litter box that can attach to the side of the cage. This way, the rat can't move the box around. You can buy one online or at a local pet store.If you don't want to purchase a box, you can use something like a small Tupperware container instead.;
, Observe where your rat typically goes to the bathroom. Rats usually urinate and defecate in a particular corner. Place the box near this space, as this encourages the rat to use the box.If you have multiple rats, you may find urine and droppings in multiple places in the cage. Use more than one litter box, setting each box near the places you typically find urine and droppings.
 You want a material different from the rat's regular bedding. This will signify the box is to be used for something different than day-to-day activity. At a local pet store, browse the variety of rat bedding. Choose a type of bedding you do not use in your rat's main cage. Fill the litter box with this bedding., Rats may be initially confused and standoffish about the litter box. To make sure they know what it's for, collect droppings from the cage. Put them in the litter box. The rats will smell the droppings and go towards the litter box when they need to eliminate.Make sure to wear gloves when handling rat droppings. Wash your hands afterwards.
 While you can't watch your rat all the time, observe it when you can. When you see your rat using the litter box, offer praise. You can also offer a small treat as a reward.Be as consistent as you can. Reward the rat each time you see it using the litter box.
With time, you should find less and less droppings outside the box.
 You do not want to yell at or punish a rat for eliminating outside the litter box. The rat will not understand why it's being scolded and this will only create tension. However, correct the rat gently when you see it going outside the box.Do something to distract the rat. Simply try something like clapping your hands and saying "No" in a firm voice.
Make sure not to raise your voice when saying "No."

, Your rat needs to understand there is a clear difference between its living space and its bathroom space. This way, it is less likely to eliminate outside the litter box. Make sure to clean up droppings and wet spots as soon as you see them.When first litter training your rat, spot clean the cage a few times a day. As your rat gets more used to using the litter box, you can go back to a regular cleaning schedule.
 If your rat is really struggling to learn, remind it what the litter box is for. When spot cleaning, dump some of the waste you collect into the litter. This will help your rat understand he should eliminate inside of the box., Once your rat is eliminating in the box consistently, keep it clean. Like cats, rats may stop using a dirty litter box. Once a day, dump out the litter box and put down a fresh layer of bedding., Some rat cages are very large and have multiple levels. If your rat has this kind of cage, it's unlikely to go up or down stairs when it needs to use the bathroom. Therefore, keep a litter box on each level of the cage., If you started litter training your rat when it was a baby, it will eventually grow out of its box. A litter box needs to be big enough that your rat can comfortably fit inside. As your rat grows, swap out the litter box as needed.