 Having a companion at the grocery store can make an otherwise tedious chore fun and diverting. Unfortunately, though, it can also distract you from list-focused goals and present you with additional temptations. Kids in particular can pressure you to purchase unhealthy snacks and beverages, so leave anyone who encourages splurging and bad behaviors at home when it’s time to grocery shop.In contrast, if you have a gym buddy or other like-minded friend in your life, feel free to take them along! A health-conscious companion can help you resist temptation and stick to your list.
 Though a tiny piece of cheese or a bit of sausage might seem harmless, indulging in a free sample can actually derail your whole shopping trip. After all, free samples are designed to encourage you to buy something you wouldn’t ordinarily, and they can cause a craving for something sweet or salty which you didn’t have when entering the store.Massive chain retailers like Costco are particularly sample-heavy, so avoid temptation by frequenting local markets instead.
 Just like free samples, these in-store promotions are designed to get you to deviate from your list, to buy items you weren’t planning on purchasing when you entered the store in the first place. So, while it might seem cost-efficient to go for something on a two-for-the-price-of-one promotion, remember that your priority is sticking to your list, not buying as much food as possible at reduced prices. This isn’t to say that you can’t take advantage of special sales and discounts. Do so in a smart way, though, by signing up for your store’s customer loyalty card, or using a mobile coupon app that helps you find discounts on items already included on your list.
 Foregoing the supermarket in favor of your local farmers’ market has many health and financial benefits. Not only do you support local businesses, but you also pack your visual horizon with fresh, whole foods while limiting your exposure to those processed, tempting items which fill the supermarket.If there are some items on your list not available at the farmers’ market, wait to visit the supermarket until after you’ve done your shopping at the farmers’ market.
 If you still find yourself struggling and failing to stay on-track at the grocery store, fret not! Simply sign up for an online grocery delivery service and you can shop the once-hazardous aisles of your grocery store from the comfort of your own home. This practice allows you to find all the items you need, while eliminating your ability to browse unnecessary items and make impulse buys.If you’re trying to get into cooking but still find ingredient-shopping challenging, try a subscription box, such as Blue Apron, PlateJoy, or HelloFresh. These services deliver specific recipes, as well as the necessary, measured-out ingredients for said recipes, to your door every week.