 Start by sitting down and reading the essay prompt for the scholarship essay. The prompt may be a question or a statement that you must respond to in your essay. For example, “What book has most affected your life and why?” or “Describe a major obstacle or hurdle that you have overcome.” Reading the essay prompt and understanding it will ensure your essay stays on theme and fulfills the expectations of the scholarship committee.If you are unsure what the theme or focus of your essay should be, you may want to look at the purpose of the scholarship award noted by the committee and/or why the organization is giving away the scholarship money. You should then write your essay with these reasons in mind.
For example, the mandate of the scholarship committee may be to “promote social justice and community outreach.” You may then consider how you can write your essay around the theme of community involvement and social justice. You should try to focus on how you can explore the mandate of the scholarship committee in your essay.;
, Once you have read and understood the essay prompt, you should sit down and brainstorm ideas around the prompt. Brainstorming ideas will save you time and energy later when you compose your essay.Writing down what you think is the main point or question of the essay. For example, this may be, “What book has most affected your life and why?” You should then write down words or ideas that relate to the question. You may write “Pride & Prejudice”, “Crime and Punishment”, “Frankenstein”, “Their Eyes Were Watching God”. You could then select one of these titles as the key example in your essay.
You can also generate ideas for your essay by doing a timed freewrite that focuses on answering the question posed by the essay prompt. During a freewrite, you should try to keep your pen on the page and focus only on the topic at hand. Try to write continuously about the topic for the set period of time.Once you have done some brainstorming, you should read over your notes and highlight any ideas or terms that seem useful to you. You may highlight sections of your brainstorming notes or lines from your freewrite.
For example, if you are trying to find key terms for the prompt, “What does social justice and community outreach mean to me?”, you may highlight terms in your freewrite like “volunteering with the homeless”, “using social media”, and “helping marginalized communities”.
 Most essays can be broken into three main sections. Your scholarship essay may be shorter than a standard personal essay, usually 500-1000 words depending on the scholarship, so you may need to compress these sections accordingly. You can outline your essay using the following sections:Introductory section: This section should include a "hook”. This is an opening line or lines where you catch the reader’s attention and draw them in. Your introductory section should also contain a thesis statement.
Body sections: These sections act as supporting evidence for your thesis and explore the key themes in your piece. You may use your experiences and your reflections on your experiences as supporting evidence.
Concluding section: This section should wrap up or conclude the events and experiences discussed in the essay. You may also include a moral of the story moment, where you reflect on what you learned or how you changed as the result of your experiences.
 Your college scholarship essay should have a strong thesis statement, as this will help to focus your essay. Your thesis statement will act as the road map or guide for your essay. A strong thesis statement will ensure your essay feels direct, concise, and to the point.You can create a thesis statement by asking yourself, “What is the point of my essay in one single sentence?” Try to answer this question in one sentence, with a focus on specificity and brevity.
For example, if you are writing a thesis statement for the prompt, “What book has most affected your life and why?” You may respond with the thesis statement: “Zora Neale Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God helped me realize that my Black heritage has value and empowered me to examine my identity as a young Black woman.”

, You should also try to include one to two supporting points that will be in the body section of your essay, as this will help you to structure your essay. It will also make it easier to compose your essay once you are ready to sit down and write. Your main points should support your thesis statement.For example, if you are writing about Zora Neale Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God, you may use supporting points from the text as well as from your experiences.
You may have supporting point 1: My literary experience reading the novel in English class.
Supporting point 2 may be: My personal experience reading the novel at home.
You may have Supporting point 3: How the book shaped my experience of the world.
 You should draw your reader in with an opening line that is specific, engaging, and bold. Having a strong hook opening line will help your scholarship essay stand out from the rest.Avoid opening lines that are vague, impersonal, and dry. For example, the opening line: “Some say literature is the most important thing in the world” is vague and general. It does not tell the scholarship committee anything about you or your perspective.
The opening line: “The day my mother died, I read to distract myself from grief” is specific, powerful, and tells the reader something about you, the “I”, in the essay. It will likely get the reader’s attention and encourage them to keep reading.
 Your college scholarship essay will be much stronger if it focuses on how you relate to the essay prompt on a personal level. You should have a personal approach to the essay, where you tell a story about a personal experience that relates to the essay prompt. This will make the essay feel specific to you and tell the scholarship committee more about you as a candidate.For example, you may explore the essay prompt on “What book has most affected your life and why?” using the experience of reading Zora Neale Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God while you were trying to be a social justice warrior at your school. You may then discuss the book and how it helped you better understand your role as a young Black woman in America.
 You should also consider who is going to be reading your essay and ensure your essay appeals to your audience. Though you want to be sure you are personal, focused, and passionate in your essay, you should also make sure you include details that would interest your readers. Think about the scholarship committee's expectations of your essay and try to appeal to their interests.For example, if you are trying to address a prompt on “social justice and community outreach”, you should try to ensure your personal experience relates back to the prompt. The scholarship committee will be interested in your personal experience but they will also expect you to address the prompt.
 Do not be afraid to include your accomplishments, achievements, and awards in the essay. You are writing the scholarship essay to impress the review committee and show them why you are the best candidate for the award. Make sure you note at least one to two of your important awards or accomplishments in your essay so the committee knows you are an ideal candidate.You should also put the accomplishments in context and provide details about how and why you earned the award or achievement. Use accomplishments that relate to the essay prompt in some way, if possible. This way, the list of accomplishments will not come across as bragging or showing off. Instead, they will feel relevant to your essay.
For example, if you are writing an essay on the prompt “social justice and community outreach”, you may include a recent youth outreach award you earned at your high school. Or, you may include a recent article you wrote about social justice that received a writing award.
 The best college scholarship essays will be honest and original. But many college essays tend to fall into cliche, with personal narratives that are not detailed or specific enough. A cliche is a phrase that has become so known by readers it has lost all meaning. You should avoid using them in your essay, as they will tell your readers you are not being as creative or as original as you could be.For example, try to avoid the “I volunteered in a foreign country and I learned I am privileged narrative”, as it is familiar and has been done many times before. Instead, consider why you are privileged and why others are not. Think about personal circumstances and experiences that shaped your position in the world.
You should also avoid a confessional narrative, where you relay all your awful past sins and your story of redemption. The college scholarship essay should be honest but it should also highlight your winning qualities and experiences. Confessing your sins and past crimes will not make you seem like the ideal candidate for the award.
 Successful college essays will present a tone that is relatable and positive. Your personal experience should appear inspirational to the review committee and demonstrate how you have overcome a difficulty or a challenge in your life.For example, if you are writing an essay about your struggle with a family member’s death, you may discuss how your favorite book got you through your grief. Though you were saddened by the loss of someone you love, you were still able to find strength and move on through literature. This will strike the positive, inspirational tone the review committee will be looking for, without coming across as fake or cliche.
 Once you have completed your essay, you should take the time to revise and edit it so you end up with the best draft of the essay possible. Start by reading the essay out loud to yourself. Listen to how the sentences flow and how each paragraph transitions in your essay. Note any sentences that sound confusing or unclear.


You should also highlight any information in the essay that feels unnecessary or redundant. Keep your sentences concise and clear so your reader can easily follow along. If you feel you are repeating yourself in the essay, note these areas and revise them.
You may want to also read the essay out loud to someone you trust to get a second opinion. Be willing to accept constructive criticism and feedback, as this will likely only improve your essay.
 You should also go through your essay and watch for any grammatical errors or misspelled words. Mistakes like these can make your essay appear sloppy and unprofessional, leading the review committee to possibly disregard your essay completely.Do not rely on the spell check option on your computer to catch any errors for you. Instead, try to read the essay backwards, focusing on one word at a time. This way, you will be able to spot misspelled words or typos more easily.
You should also watch for run on sentences. Try to break up long sentences into a series of sentences so your thoughts are clear and easy to read.
 Most college scholarship essay applications or contests advertise a list of application instructions. You should follow these instructions to the letter so your essay is properly formatted and appears professional.For example, the instructions may require you to use 12 point font, double spaced, with 1 inch margins. You may also be required to put your name and contact information on the essay itself.
You should also note the required word count for the essay in the instructions. Most college scholarship essays are limited to 500-1000 words. You should stay within the word count, as essays over the word count may not be considered by the committee.

