 Make a class that suits you.


If you want to camp, then you probably just go with an LMG with Target Finder and stay in the corner all game.
If you run around a lot, then it might be best to use an MP7 with long-barrel or suppressor, fast-mag or quick-draw, and fore-grip or rapid-fire. This gives you range or stealth, rapid attacks, and stability or RAMBO!

If you don't like the MP7 you can go with the PDW with long-barrel or suppressor, fore-grip, and rapid-fire. This is actually a really good class because it has a really big clip with extremely fast firing and still stability. These are the kind of choices you need to make when choosing your class.


It might be a good idea to never put a secondary weapon - because you only have 10 slots and there is never a real need for a secondary weapon when you can just pick up someone else's weapon.
Some good perks are Hardline, Lightweight, or Ghost - Fast Hands - and Extreme Conditioning. This allows you for score streaks, fast movement, stealth, quick fires, and longer sprinting time. Always put at least 1 EMP to assist your team in taking out Sentries/Guardians.;
, This is important because it is what decides your strengths.


If you have a sub-machine gun, you can camp at close range, or you can go out and kick butt. It isn't a good idea for long range unless necessary - for you waste bullets with the wrong class.
If you have an assault rifle, you are really versatile, but you can't move very fast. You can try using the M8A1 with reflex, fast mag, and quick-draw.
If you have an LMG, you should really just camp. It gets you the most kills, and you can't really move much.
If you have a Sniper Rifle, you can quick scope (This is not really recommended unless you are experienced), hard-scope (taking out targets at long range) or you can hard-camp - which is camping and hard-scoping. Most people are hard-campers, and people tend to find this really annoying, so this is not recommended unless you are just in it for the kills. Just remember, as a sniper, watch your back for spawn flips. Check the minimap from time to time, and scope where your team isn't there.
 When coming to choosing guns, it's best to know what gun you feel comfortable using. Something light with good aim or something heavy with good sights. Some people choose to have an assault rifle with a light machine gun, while others choose to just have a sniper. The guns depend on your position in the game.

If you like to run around while hammering everyone with a Vector K10 or the HAMR itself, then you have no need to have a sniper unless you're damn right good at quickscoping and noscoping. However, if you're the one who runs straight into camping then a sniper is a good choice for you
If you have an assault shield, it's assumed that you have a backup gun. If you don't, just go Rambo and kill people by bashing, backing up, and then charging at them to repeat the process. Most importantly, don't aim for the head. To get kills, start by shooting randomly in their direction, then slowly aiming for their head so you don't lose accuracy. If you're in close range, don't bother scoping - you'll waste time. Instead, start firing, and then scope while you're doing it. As an overall rule, don't stay in one place at more than a couple of seconds, unless you are camping.
 Playing online can help you boost your skills dramatically but sometimes, it's better if you practice with bots instead of players. Bots are more vulnerable than players online so it's easy for you to test your skills and try out different methods.

In Black Ops 2, there are different maps to choose from, and it's good to have a little wonder around on your own game with no bots. Get to know the maps; find a few good sniper spots if you're handy with a sniper.
 While you're playing, remember that this is just a game. If you try extremely hard to win, chances are you're just going to end up getting frustrated and give up. If you have fun while kicking butt, then chances are you'll do better. Look for vantage points, and try some 360s! When you feel yourself getting stressed out, remember to just let go (like Elsa) and scream in rage.

