 Don't just nod your head and say "uh uh" but practice active listening. When practicing active listening you need to ask questions and paraphrase back important points to demonstrate your involvement and interest. You are never done learning about your partner, nor they about you, and learning starts with good listening. A good, deep relationship requires lifelong maintenance and effort, but the effort is worth it for the support, security and love from someone who really knows you.
 Listen when your partner talks. Respect your partner's opinion by allowing them to express it in full, even if you disagree. Take the time to really understand your partner's views by asking questions and attempting to paraphrase what they are saying to you.
 Do not simply try to fix the symptoms, but when your partner or you is unhappy take the time to explore and understand what is the source of the problem and fix that.


For example if your wife is mad that you spend too much time with the guys and doesn't want you to go out, you could treat the symptom and just stop ever hanging out with the boys, but this is not a healthy long-term fix. Instead you should explore the numerous reasons why she doesn't like you spending time with the guys. Ask questions and listen to her without judging to uncover her motivations. You may find that:

A) She is jealous of other women at the bars you go to with the boys. Solution: Change the venue, or invite her to "drop by" and see that nothing unseemly is going on.
B) She thinks you do not like to spend time with her and do not like her. Solution: Schedule regularly quality time with her, and verbally ensure her that you enjoy her company too.
C) She thinks that your hanging out with the boys unfairly burdens her. This is especially true if you have kids, as your hanging out with the boys means that she is on solo baby duty. Solution: Offer to give her a day out with the girls too. And make sure you are not falling behind on household chores when you do go out.



