 Think about what you want to accomplish by talking to your friend about safe sex. Are you worried about her reputation? Are you concerned for her health? Or are you resentful of the attention your friend is receiving from others?You may think you have good intentions, but if you want to preserve your friendship, being clear on your own motives is essential.
If you are condescending, or if your intention is not helpful, you may lose a good friend.;
, People have different sexual values, even when they have many other things in common. Sex is a moral issue in our culture, but it's also one with medical implications. Safer sex refers only to engaging in sexual interactions that are less likely to result in the transmission of disease.If you're disturbed by the moral values of your friend's sexual habits, consider finding another way of handling your discomfort.
Being clear on your own "triggers" or values on the topic of safe sex will help you better prepare for this conversation with your friend.
 You'll need to find a time when both you and your friend will have plenty of time to talk. You don't want to feel hurried or rushed. Find a private place for this conversation, one that's quiet and free of distractions.If you'll be talking with a group of friends, make sure that everyone feels included.
Ask your friend to set aside some time for the conversation so that she knows it's important to you.
 If you're serious about having a conversation about safe sex, it's best to say exactly what you mean. Don't use euphemisms or figures of speech that others might not understand. If you talk with a clear and direct tone, you're more likely to get others to respond in this way.If you tend to get embarrassed when talking about sex, your friends might become embarrassed also. This will make your conversation more difficult.
Remember that talking about safe sex is a health issue.
 Especially if you're the kind of person who gets embarrassed when talking about sex, you will want to prepare for this conversation ahead of time. Once you've decided what you want to talk about, stick to your message.You might decide to write down your questions ahead of time, and bring them to the conversation.
Be honest and specific.

