 It is important that adults discuss the topic of bullying with the children in their care. Have a clear understanding of what bullying is and what it does to them and others. Discuss the different ways that bullying can happen -- has your child seen it? Been a part of it? What are their thoughts?


Encourage communication. Allow the children to feel free in asking questions and making comments about bullying. Let them know and be comfortable with the thought that you are available for open discussion on the topic.;
, Teach your child how to be empathetic to the feelings of others. They need to understand the difference between what can be considered funny and what is actually thoughtless, tactless and cruel. They can only learn this from the adults in their lives, most often from the example that is set for them as they watch adults deal with each other.


For example, it is mean and cruel to snicker about another adult behind their back while pretending to be their friend to their faces. So many adults do this, not realizing their child is watching them from the wings, ready to emulate them later.
Teach your child that it's best to take a stand rather than just to stand and watch when they witness bullying. It's always best, regardless of who is being bullied or doing the bullying.
 Work with neighbours and friends in the community to create a safe environment that is inclusive of everyone. Join the Bully Prevention Training and help to spread the message of helping anti-bullying.Volunteer to host a talk or assembly to get momentum going. Who could possibly be opposed?


Take your campaign to the schools and children's centers to put this topic in the public eye and pressure on the organizations to make sure bullying is wiped out. It's only when people like you raise a fuss that something will happen!
The link between school and the home environment is necessary for several reasons. Firstly, the bullying behaviors need to be managed appropriately at both places. Secondly, it helps the parents first recognize bullying and then learn how to deal with these behaviors. Lastly, assertiveness at home and implementation of strict conduct at both places leads to much faster results.
 Teachers can devise programs which can prove useful for helping anti-bullying. These may include the following ideas:


Giving insight about bullying, clearly giving the awareness that it is intolerable behavior and how should the victims behave if they encounter any such situation
Helping the students learn about conflict-resolution without involving aggression. You can use different conflict arising scenes and then help the students generate the answers.
Building empathy among the students for each other. Help the children understand each other. This can be done using appropriate words like “I know what you have been through," “yes, it really hurts” etc. adding different scenarios and helping the children enact them, focusing on emphatic listening and appropriate words.
 Each person to help anti-bullying helps at least one less child to be bullied. If you're out there preaching for others to get involved, make sure you're practicing, too! If you ever run into bullying -- or see bullying on the horizon -- take a stand. On your turf, it is not allowed.


If anyone needs an example of how to be active in the anti-bullying campaign, let yourself be it. Be inclusive of everyone, kind, caring, and not heard passing judgment even in whispers.
 Bullying is described as a repeated behavior that is intentional and aggressive. It may be initiated by a person or group and tries to undermine those considered less powerful, innocent or less threatening. Racial acts of violence, physical harm, aggressive acts in any form, inflicting injury and negative acts all are considered bullying. This behavior is repetitive, exaggerated and aimed at making one’s self or one’s group superior. There are two main types of bullying:Direct bullying. This includes physical and verbal acts from pushing and kicking to threatening and taunting and calling names while the

Indirect bullying. This includes making faces, showing obscene gestures or even exclusion or giving the cold shoulder.

Knowing exactly what you're dealing with will help you first identify and then address it.
 Moreover, their personality has certain characteristics which differentiate them. Addressing these behaviors and personality traits will ultimately lower down bullying behaviors. Those who bully usually show the following behaviors:


Impulsive, react immediately or act before thinking.
Think of aggression as appropriate behavior to resolve conflict
Try to show and maintain dominance
Have poor social skills
Lack empathy
Are reinforced through the response of the victim
Have poor social intelligence and situational response

, This is the next step after identifying a bully or a group of bullies. Strict tone of voice and a strong warning at the first act often reduces the behavior in the future and helps anti-bullying. Talk with them using the following tips:


Call upon them immediately and let them know that their behavior is intolerable
Clearly state the future circumstances and make credible remarks (which you definitely can implement)
Make them realize that from that day onwards they will be under strong surveillance and there are no second chances
Give the first warning straight away and discuss the issue openly

, Once they know that they have to answer for what they have done and will be subjected to punishment then they'll often try to avoid any such circumstances that could lead to the same consequences again.


To make sure this happens, there should be adequate implementation at every level, so that no one stays believing that he or she will not be penalized after bullying. The second you drop your toughness, theirs will flare up.
 The bullies usually lack the skills to work in groups and work in co-operation with peers. They also lag behind in social skills -- if you can teach them this, you may be able to cut bullying off at the root of the problem. Here are some ideas:


Role play by helping the child adopt and then enact different roles for awareness. For example a bully might act as a victim while the victim acts like a bully and perform roles. This will enhance insight, teaching them other people matter, too.
Model appropriate behavior for them, helping the child understand what social skills demand
Make colorful cards depicting qualities of a person who is friendly and social towards others and on black and white cards depict how those behave who lag behind in social skills. Help the students choose and apply adaptive behaviors.

Gaining skills will help them develop the ability to act at a one-to-one level, with no upper or lower hierarchy, teaches them to listen and then act patiently, helps them respect the ideas of others, and how to work cooperatively.



