 Each court has rules for what should be included in court documents. You should always follow those rules. Get a copy and read them before beginning your declaration.Generally, the local rules should be posted on the court’s website. If they aren’t, then contact the judge’s clerk and ask for a copy.;
, The Washington Courts website has a blank declaration form you can download and use.You will have to print off the document and then use a typewriter to insert the information. Alternately, you could write in the information by hand, but only do so if your handwriting is very neat.


If you need to file a “financial declaration” as part of a family law case, then download that form from the Washington Courts website. That type of declaration asks for specific types of information.It will be easiest to simply write in the requested information on the printed form.
This article will deal with general declarations, which any witness in your case could create.
 You will print the declaration on 8 ½ x 11 paper. Set the margins to one inch on each side. However, the top margin for the first sheet of the declaration should have a three-inch margin.Also make sure that the type face and size that you choose are readable.
 You should insert the caption at the top of the first page. This information should appear on any document filed in your court case. Pull out your copy of an earlier document to find the caption information, which should include:The court’s name.
The names of the parties.
The case number.
 You need to tell the judge right up front who you are. You can provide this information in the title to the declaration. For example, you can title your declaration “Declaration of Ann T. Smith.”You should also state your age and your relationship to the person requesting the declaration. For example, you may be a neighbor to the wife who is getting divorced. You could state, “I am 56 years old and am the neighbor for Petitioner, Alice W. Jones.”

, You should talk with the person requesting the declaration to find out what they want you to write about. For example, in a child custody dispute, you might need to write about how the parent has interacted with the child and their overall fitness to parent. You could include the following:Situations when you have seen the parent and child together. You could write about what they did, how they acted, etc.
A parent’s home life. You could explain whether you think it is appropriate for children.
The parent’s problems with drug use or other criminal behavior, such as violence.
Your sense of each parent’s personal characteristics, such as integrity, dependability, stability, etc.
Anything the parent has said in front of the child.
 You can’t write a declaration about gossip or other second-hand information. Instead, you can only write about things you have seen or heard.For example, you may write a declaration because you saw one parent slap a child. You could also write about seeing one parent swear at a child (because you saw that). However, you can’t write a declaration based on someone telling you they saw the parent do those things.
If you are one of the parties to the family law dispute, then you would often use a declaration to support any factual statement made in a court document.
 Declarations shouldn’t be longer than absolutely necessary. Some courts will have page limits for declarations, so read the local rules and find out whether there is a limitation on how long it can be.If you use the court’s printed form, then you can attach additional pages if necessary.
 If you are a teacher, neighbor, or family friend, then you should start your declaration by explaining how well you know the parties to the family law dispute.For example, you may be one spouse’s neighbor, but you should clarify if you have been a neighbor for only one year or much longer.


You can write, “I’ve lived beside Mr. Dennis for fifteen years and have socialized with him and his ex-wife, Karen, on many occasions.”

, You might write a declaration to talk about how attached two children are to their father. You should give specific examples that illustrate that attachment. Don’t simply write, “The children are attached to their father.” General statements are not helpful in declarations.


Instead, you could write something like this: “As Jonah and Emily’s teacher, I watched Mr. Dennis bring his children to school on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. I could see right off that the children were attached. First, they never wanted him to leave, particularly early in the school year. Jonah, in particular, would cry when his father left. At the end of the school day, they were always happy to see him, and would run and give him a hug.” You can then continue on with other examples.
 If possible, you should describe events in a chronological order, starting with the first event in the most distant past and working toward the present.This will usually make the narrative easier for the judge to follow.
 If you refer to a document in your affidavit, then you should supply a copy of the document as an exhibit. Be sure to label the exhibit. For example, if you refer to a credit card bill as “Exhibit A” in the declaration, then be sure to label the correct bill “Exhibit A.” The following are common exhibits that people include with a family law declaration:school records
medical and dental records
police reports
financial documents or bills

, You should make sure that certain information is not included in the declaration. Remember, the declaration will be filed in court and therefore is accessible to the public. Try to avoid using the following information:Identifying information, such as Social Security Numbers, driver’s license number, or other ID numbers. If you must provide this information, then give only the last four digits. For example, a Social Security Number could be listed as XXX-XX-4996.
Your home address. You may have to give this information to the court, but it doesn’t need to be in a declaration.
Your telephone number or email. You also might have to give this information to the court.
A child’s date of birth.
Financial account numbers. You shouldn’t put an entire credit card or bank account number in a document. Instead, identify the account and provide only the final four digits of the account number.
 Make sure to eliminate typos or grammatical errors. Often, people forget to include words. For example, they write, “I saw house in the present condition” when they mean “I saw the house in the present condition.”


You can catch typos, dropped words, etc. by reading the document backwards. Start with the last line and then read the line before it. Work towards the beginning., You put your signature and date at the bottom of the declaration. You also need to include the following sentence just above the signature line: “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of Washington state that the facts I have included in this form (and any attachments) are true.”Also include the date and the city where you signed the declaration.
 Some confidential information cannot be removed from the declaration. Instead, you can protect your privacy by filing “under seal.” When you file under seal, the court and the other party can read the information but it is not made public. You should file under seal if the declaration contains the following:Medical or mental health information or records, including health records, genetic test records, and communications related to these subjects.
Financial documents, such as pay stubs, income tax returns, credit card statements, loan information, etc.
Retirement plan orders.
Other confidential or embarrassing information contained in parental evaluations, domestic violence assessment reports, sexual abuse evaluations, and other documents.
 If your declaration contains sensitive information, then you must file the documents under seal. You can do so by attaching them to a cover sheet, which you can download at the Washington Courts website.Also write the word “sealed” an inch from the top of the page on the first page of each document. You will use the following cover sheets, depending on the confidential information:


Financial information: Sealed Financial Source Documents Cover Sheet
Health care records: Sealed Personal Health Care Records Cover Sheet
Confidential reports: Sealed Confidential Reports Cover Sheet

, You might have drafted your declaration for someone to use in their family law court case. In this situation, you should make a copy for your records and give them the original declaration.
 If you are the party in the lawsuit, then you typically will file the declaration in support of some other “motion” or “petition” that you file in your case.


For example, you may have filed a motion to modify your child custody arrangement. You will refer to the declaration in your motion. Attach the declaration to the motion.

