 The ability to block calls on a BlackBerry requires your device running OS 10.3 or later. This release allows apps to run in the background ("headless"), which is required for a call blocking app to work.You can check your version, tap the "Category" menu and select "OS." You can update to the latest available version by swiping down from the top of the screen, selecting "Settings," and then "Software Updates."
BlackBerry devices running BlackBerry 10 include the Z and Q lines, the Passport, the Classic, and the Leap. The Bold, Curve, Pearl, Storm, and Torch models do not support BlackBerry 10, and thus do not support individual call blocking apps.;
, Your BlackBerry does not have a built-in call blocking feature, but there are several apps available that can run in the background and block numbers you specify, as long as you're running OS 10.3.
 There are a few different apps available that can block calls. Some are free and some require payment. A few of the more popular call blocking apps include:


BlockIt
Call Block
Power Tools
Phone Warrior

, Once you've installed your app, you'll need to configure it so that it blocks the numbers you want. This guide will assume you're using BlockIt, though the process is similar for other apps.
 By default, BlockIt will block all numbers on your black list. You can add as many numbers as you'd like to this list. Tap the "+" button to add a new number to the list. You'll be able to select a number from your recent calls, add a contact, or type the number in manually.


You can change your settings to only allow numbers on your white list instead.
 When adding a number, you can choose the action that is taken when the call is blocked. By default, the call will be ended automatically, but you can have calls sent directly to voicemail instead. You can also reply with an automated text message informing the caller that they have been blocked.
 If you consistently receive calls from 800 numbers or specific area codes, you can block all numbers that originate from those locations.


Tap the ⋮ button and select "Wildcards block." You can then tap the "+" button and enter wildcards like "1800" to block all numbers that start with that wildcard.
 This feature of BlockIt allows you to automatically block Private and Unknown phone numbers, which you can't normally add to your black list. Be aware that some legitimate calls may originate from private numbers.


You can enable this from the same ⋮ menu. Select "Private/Unknown Block" and then enable the feature.
 Blocking apps in OS 10.3 and later are headless, and will keep running in the background. This means you can set your blocking options and then continue to use your BlackBerry like normal. The app will automatically block unwanted calls in the background.


You'll need to start the blocking app whenever you power your BlackBerry on.

