 Doctors usually caution against popping a blister because that blister is technically padding an area of damaged skin underneath and covering a sterile environment. Popping the blister opens up your skin to infection., Ask yourself if you should pop this blister in this circumstance.Where is your blister located? Popping a blister on your foot is generally safer than popping a cold sore on your lip or inside your mouth. Cold sores and blisters inside your mouth should be evaluated by a doctor.
Does it look infected? If your blister has yellowish pus oozing from it, it is likely infected and you should see a doctor.Is the blister interfering with your daily life, such as preventing you from walking? If the answer is yes, and you can safely pop it, this might be the right circumstance.
 If you have sunburn blisters, this is a second-degree burn and is severe enough that you should see a doctor. Do not pop sunburn blisters – they are protecting the skin underneath as it regenerates after the burn. See a doctor for treatment and protect your skin from the sun while it heals.Second degree burns such as those that result in blisters are to be treated gently, with a prescription burn cream. See your doctor for the prescription and to learn how to care for the sunburn blisters., A blood blister, sometimes called black heel or black palm, is a reddish-purple-black discolouration under the skin from broken blood vessels below the epidermis in the dermal layer of skin. Friction over bony prominences, such as the back of the heel, lead to shearing of the blood vessels and the release of blood into the skin.Blood blisters indicate a deeper level of injury. They generally resolve on their own but some people mistake them for melanoma so, if you are unsure, consult your doctor.
 Use soap and warm water, lathering your hand for 20 seconds before rinsing.Use regular unscented soap to wash your hands. This will prevent any chemical irritants from exacerbating the blister site and prevent transmission of any bacteria from your hands to the fragile skin area once the blister is popped.
 However be careful with betadine as it can temporarily stain the skin and can stain clothing and other surfaces.
Gently pour the betadine or rubbing alcohol over the blister and surrounding area. If you are washing the site with soap and water, use a regular unscented soap, lather your hands, gently wash the affected area but be careful to not apply pressure so you do not pop the blister, and rinse well.
 It is best to use a single use, pre-packaged, sterile needle or scalpel blade, often found in pharmacies and medical supply stores.If you choose to use a sewing needle from home, soak it in rubbing alcohol first.
Do not insert the needle or blade into a flame, which gives off carbon particles that would irritate the skin and possibly increase infection., Lance the blister in 2 or 3 places where gravity will help it drain. Do this by popping the blister on each side, near its bottom edge.Do not try the blister-threading method, which proposes literally threading a needle and thread through your blister. This method offers an increased risk of infection.
 Let the blister drain naturally with gravity or gently apply pressure in a downwards fashion, from the top of the blister to the bottom where you lanced it, letting the fluid drain through the holes.Do not push forcefully or tear at the blister to release the fluid. You may cause trauma to the skin underneath.
 Pulling at the dead skin that was once your blister can irritate surrounding healthy skin and leave your skin open to infection. Simply wash the site with soap and water or antiseptic, then cover with a bandage., This prevents bacteria from entering the site and allows for a relief of pressure on the blister area.Reapply the ointment and change your bandage every day until the skin has completely healed, which may take about a week.If you're not too concerned with infection, you can apply Vaseline or Aquaphor instead of an antibiotic ointment.
 Epsom salts help to further draw out fluid. For the next few days, put a half a cup of epsom salts in warm water and soak your foot or have an Epsom salt bath for 20 minutes once a day., Any increase in redness, swelling, pain, or pus indicate a possible infection and you may need to see your doctor and get antibiotics.You may have an infection if the area around the blister increases in redness and swelling. You may have a fever above your normal temperature of 37C. If the area is more painful than having the blister itself and accompanies any of these other symptoms, you may have an infection.
Pus is a yellowish discharge that oozes from an infected site. If your blister or popped blister is weeping this yellowing discharge, see a doctor for a potential infection.
 Remove pressure from bony areas. Use doughnut hole pressure pads as needed. If you are a runner, you may need to consider getting a new pair of shoes or socks that fit appropriately to reduce friction and have moisture management properties.If you are a rower, wear gloves specific for water sports or fashion an oar grip out of tape to decrease friction against your oar.