 New CDMA cell phones can usually be activated immediately; whereas used CDMA cell phones may take weeks or months to activate depending on the account status of the previous phone's owner.;
, You can buy new, refurbished, or used CDMA phones from your service provider, from any authorized CDMA cell phone dealer, or from the Internet.


Buy a CDMA cell phone from your service provider. Any CDMA phone sold by your service provider will be compatible with your service plan; plus, you may be eligible to receive a discount or rebate.
Buy a CDMA cell phone from an authorized cell phone dealer. This method may not require you to sign a new service contract; plus, you may be presented with a larger variety of cell phone models to choose from.
Locate websites that sell CDMA phones on the Internet. Buying phones from the Internet will provide you with a large variety of choices regarding phone models and pricing. CDMA cell phone websites can be found using keyword combinations such as "CDMA cell phone dealers" or "buy CDMA cell phones."

, In most cases, CDMA phones are locked for use with a specific network or service provider.


Look for the logo of your service provider on the phone's packaging or on the phone itself to determine if it will work with your service.
If you are buying your CDMA phone from the Internet, read the description of the cell phone to verify that it works with your carrier. If no description is available, contact the seller directly to ensure the phone will work with your service.
 This will allow you to determine the lengths of return or exchange periods and warranties, in addition to whether or not buying the cell phone will require you to sign a new service contract.


Read all documents and contracts before signing them to ensure that you clearly understand the terms and conditions.
 Upon buying the cell phone, you must contact your service provider to have them add the Electronic Serial Number (ESN) to your account.


Obtain the ESN of your cell phone from its packaging or from the paperwork or contract provided with your device.
Contact your service provider directly and provide them with the ESN of your new cell phone. Your service provider will then add the ESN to your account so your phone can be activated.

