 If you've moved your Stargazer lily indoors to protect it over the winter months, you should think about replanting it outside once the frosts and heavy rainfall are over. This is likely to be in mid-spring.


Try to prepare the ground well ahead of time by applying plenty of organic matter (such as manure) to the soil in order to improve drainage.
You should start doing this over the winter, well before you replant your Stargazer lilies in the spring. If you apply fresh manure too close to planting there’s always a risk of ‘scorching’ the plant tissue, so avoid this if possible.;
, Check your overwintered bulbs carefully for any signs of rot or damage. Plant them in a hole around 5 inches (12.7 cm) deep and at least twice the width of your bulb.


Cover the bulbs with soil, water well and apply a layer of mulch to a depth of about 2 inches (5.1 cm).
Stargazer lilies should be spaced about 10 inches (25.4 cm) apart.
 As your plant flowers in the growing season, pinch away the dead flower heads to prevent seed production.


This helps the plant to store energy that will keep it alive over the winter and allow it to be successfully replanted the following year.
Be sure to let the foliage and flower stems die back naturally without cutting them, as this also helps the plant to preserve energy.
 In late fall you can cut back the brown foliage and stem to about 2 inches (5.1 cm) from the bulb. Lift the bulbs without damaging them and try to keep as much of the root intact as possible. Wash the bulb off under lukewarm water.


It’s also a good idea to apply a fungicidal powder (available at any garden supply store). Apply the fungicidal powder according the the instructions on the packaging.
 Place the roots in a paper bag with some light, soil-less potting mix, ideally one with lots of perilite, as this helps the air circulate.


Overwinter the bags in a cool dry place such as a shed or cellar. This method of overwintering should give your plants the best chance of getting re-established the following year.

