 It’s important to purchase your pug from a litter that has been well cared for. You don’t want to support breeders who force dogs to mate too frequently, have a number of dogs in a small area, or otherwise mistreat their pugs. While these puppies need good homes, giving unethical breeders money perpetuates the cycle. Instead, look for breeders who treat their dogs well and have clean, abundant facilities for their breeding pairs and puppies.


If a breeder is willing to answer questions, let you visit often, and provides a fair and complete purchase contract, you are likely dealing with an ethical breeder.
If a breeder avoids answering questions, won’t let you visit, requires a cash deposit before you can view puppies, or seems uninterested in how you will care for the puppy, you are likely dealing with an unethical breeder.Consider reporting unethical breeding to the Pug Dog Club of America Rescue Committee. They will be able to visit the breeder and determine whether intervention is necessary., It’s important to have all the facts in writing before making any large investment and that includes purchasing your new pug puppy. Most purchase contracts include the cost of the dog, refund and return policies, a trial period agreement, health history of the puppy and parents, and at least three generations of pedigree information. You can ask for the contract to include any other information you deem necessary, so don’t hesitate to ask for more information., The cost of purchasing a full-bred pug puppy will vary dramatically between breeders for a number of reasons, but typically puppies will cost between $500 and $2000. This is based on a number of things including quality of the dog, pedigree, and general supply and demand.


A “pet quality” pug puppy will be less expensive than a “show quality” pug puppy. Pugs who will be able to win at AKC recognized dog shows will be sold for more money than those who do not show signs of being show quality.
Dogs whose pedigree is exceptionally good will also be more costly. You should request at least three generations of pedigree to be included in the purchase contract of the pug. Puppies whose pedigree includes numerous champions or other AKC recognized dogs will likely be more expensive.
Traditional economics like supply and demand also play a major role in determining the pricing. If the breeder has a waiting list of people who would like to purchase their puppies, they are able to ask more money for each one., There are a number of organizations worldwide whose purpose is to find homes for pugs, and these dogs deserve good, safe, loving homes. Start by visiting the Pug Dog Club of America at www.pugdogclubofamerica.com. This organization offers a full list of pug adoption centers and rescues that provide quality puppies and dogs. Adoption also saves money as the new owner is typically only required to pay a fee between $50 and $100., Many local animal shelters also need to find homes for pugs. If you know you want a pug, reach reach out to local animal shelters. In many areas, the shelter will contact you if a pug becomes available. You can also use the ASPCA's pet adoption tool found at http://www.aspca.org/adopt-pet to find a pug near you. Perhaps more than any other pug, those who are in local shelters may be most in need of a new home and family. Due to overcrowding, most local shelters have to euthanize dogs that are not promptly adopted.

