 A good defender must be quick on the feet and constantly on the move. If you stand still too long on the court, you won’t be good at this position.









Mentally envision that you’ve stepped in paint. Ask yourself, how many of your footprints will you see on the court? You want to “paint the floor” by moving a lot and being everywhere. Increase your activity on defense, and you will be more effective.
Try for every single ball. Don’t keep your eye on the ball – keep your eye on the other player. Otherwise you could be tricked by ball fakes. Maintain eye contact with the player you are guarding. Keep the player away from the baseline and force him or her to the front of the rim.
 Good defenders bend their knees. They spend most of the game moving and crouched low. They should also keep their head lower than the head of the person they are guarding. 








Keep feet wide apart and legs bent when on defense. Constantly move your feet. It will be easier for an offensive player to get past you if your legs are together or your feet crossed.
Keep your nose lower than the nose of the person you are guarding. This way you can react quickly to motion made by your opponent. Standing upright can make a defender lose balance. Your feet should be shoulder length apart, with your knees bent slightly. , If you are careful, you can use this technique to be a better defender without fouling the player you are guarding.









If the opponent is holding the ball in shooting position, put your hand on the ball. This will make it harder for them to shoot the ball.
If your opponent has the ball below their mid-section, put your hand on top of the ball. This will make it harder for them to shoot.
 Rebounding the ball can determine the outcome of games. Your team can't score if it doesn't have possession.









Move to the inside position, so you have a better chance at the ball. Don’t stand straight. If you squat down, you will have more power in your jump and a better chance at the ball. When you jump for the ball, keep both hands as outstretched as you can.
 Defenders need to do a lot of running and must stay low to properly guard another player. Defensive endurance training will improve play.









Doing a wall sit is a good way to improve your defensive conditioning. All you need to do is find a wall and sit down, as if you were sitting in a chair (but without one). Stand with your back to the wall. Slide down the wall until your knees are in a 90-degree angle with the floor. Hold the position for about 60 seconds when starting out.
Try jumping rope with two legs and go as fast as you can. Time and count your jumps so you can track progress. It sounds simple, but jumping rope is a great way to improve your conditioning for basketball. That’s because it improves endurance but also agility.
Try agility drills. Start on the baseline, right side. Sprint to the top right corner of the free throw line, shuffle to the left corner, backpedal to the baseline and shuffle to where you started. Then, move to the right corner and do the same thing. Boys should be able to do this in 10-14 seconds and girls in 11-15 seconds.
 Lifting weights will improve your body’s overall strength, which is good on defense when you need to get rebounds or block shots. You want to vary exercises, though.









Do squats. Take a dumbbell, keep feet flat on the ground and go as low as you can, keeping your thighs parallel to the ground.
Try lunges and step ups. Using a barbell or dumbbell, keep your leading foot flat on the ground and your torso erect. Step up on a box and then down again or lunge forward with each leg. , These exercises are divided into pushes and pulls. You can use bands to help you by putting a foot or knee into a band when doing things like chin-ups or pull-ups if they are hard for you in the beginning.









Use a barbell or dumbbell to do bench presses or shoulder presses. To bench press, lie on a weight bench with your feet on the floor. Unlock the bar and lift it with straight arms. Lower it to mid-chest, and then press it upward, locking your elbows. Don’t move your butt off the bench. Try to do this in sets of five reps. Use a barbell or dumbbell to perform bicep curls. When doing a bicep curl, you want to stand straight with a dumbbell in each hand. Keep your elbows in close to your body. Make sure your palms face forward. Then curl the dumbbell until the biceps fully contract and dumbbells stop at the shoulder. Now, lower the dumbbells to the starting position, and repeat. .

