 Stomatitis is a general term for an infection of the mouth, so it can be caused by a variety of things. Veterinary tests will likely give your veterinarian some clues as to the underlying issues and how to treat them.Stomatitis is usually a bacterial infection but in some cases it is caused by a herpes infection.
There may be other factors aside from the central infection that contribute to the seriousness of the problem. For instance, trauma to the mouth or even just stress the animal is undergoing can add to the problem.;
, Your tortoise's illness could be caused by a variety of factors, so your veterinarian could suggest a various treatments. The simplest of these possible treatments is cleaning the area well. This cleaning includes removing damaged tissue.Allowing your veterinarian to clean and remove dead tissue from your tortoise's mouth is important because they have the tools and the know how to do it without causing further damage to the delicate tissues of the mouth.
 Your veterinarian my suggest giving the tortoise antibiotic or anti-fungal medications. These can vary depending on what medication your veterinarian feels would work best for your particular pet and its particular infection., If your tortoise's infection is severe, you may need to do more to help it heal. For example, invasive surgery may be required if the infection is very, very serious and has traveled into the animal's skull.If your tortoise is severely malnourished from its inability to eat, it may also need to be force fed or be given food through an IV at the veterinary office.
 Part of the treatment for stomatitis will require at home care. The most important part of this home care is to keep your tortoise's mouth clean. In cases of a mild infection to begin with, this be the only treatment the tortoise gets.If your veterinarian suggests it, clean the tortoise's infection regularly with an antiseptic wipe, especially after the animal has eaten.To keep your tortoise's mouth clean, make sure it has access to clean water at all times.
Also, make sure that the tortoise's food is fresh and not spoiled. Keeping everything that goes into your pet's mouth clean will help its infection heal.
 To clear up your tortoise's infection, give it the medication that was prescribed by your veterinarian.This medication will usually be applied to the infection site, such as an antibiotic cream that you will need to apply.


Be sure to follow your veterinarian's directions for giving the medication, including giving as many doses as are recommended, even if you can no longer see signs of the infection.
 Part of treating the tortoise at home will be keeping its home clean. Many times small infections can clear up on their own if you keep the pet's home clean and sanitary. However, if the tortoise is returned to a dirty home, the infection may not get better, and may even worsen.Clean your tortoise's home by replacing any food and water daily, replacing any bedding or floor covering, and disinfecting all surfaces.
You should only use cleaning products that are safe for your tortoise. You can pick up cleaning products safe for reptiles at any major pet store, or consult with your veterinarian about what products he or she would suggest., Begin by assessing your tortoise's appetite. If your tortoise is eating less than usual and is not motivated by food as much as usual, it may be a sign of illness. This does not definitively signal stomatitis in particular, but it does signal that something is off with your pet.Bring your pet in for evaluation by a veterinarian if it is not eating and not acting as it usually does.
 Pay attention to signs of discomfort when your tortoise is eating, although these may be hard to identify if you are not very familiar with the pet. It may also drool or rest with its mouth open, which are also signs that there is something wrong.Look in your tortoise's mouth if you can. If it has stomatitis there will be inflammation and ulcers, and possibly white mucus.
 When you bring your tortoise in, your veterinarian should begin by doing a veterinary history. This should include him or her asking you what symptoms your tortoise has and when you first noticed them. They should also ask questions about your tortoise's general health and how you care for it.Your veterinarian will then assess your tortoise's health, looking in its mouth and taking swabs of the affected area for analysis.
In addition, he or she may take some of your tortoise's blood to screen for impacts on the pet's general health.

