 You don't want to bother your fish by constantly moving around and adding surroundings. For most tanks, a filter, heater, air pump, fake/real plants, substrate, and hiding places are enough. Each species has its own preferences, though, so research. Saltwater and brackish tanks are also different from freshwater.
 Many pet owners do not realize that just running the tank's pump and filter for a few day (as recommended by many pet stores) is not enough. Cycling is where beneficial bacteria levels are slowly increased by feeding the bacteria ammonia. Ammonia turns to nitrite, which turns to nitrate. The bacteria will make sure that ammonia from rotting food and waste in the tank is quickly neutralized into nitrate, which is less harmful and can be removed with weekly/monthly water changes.

Good bacteria in an aquarium are the ones that form a biological filter. Bacteria break down ammonia and nitrites so that the water is better for the fish. Without good bacteria most life would not exist. The "bad" bacteria are normally also present but do not cause problems until fish are injured, stressed by dirty water, or suffering from another disease.
 General fish food like "tropical" or "freshwater" won't cut it. Specific species of fish have their own diet, and flakes tend to be of lower quality. Seek out higher quality food (research for your type of fish). Treats, like with other pets, are important too. Some fish enjoy meat, some insects, and some bits of vegetable., Especially for saltwater, sensitive, or expensive fish -- you want to be prepared when some disease hits. Basics include aquarium salt (not the same as marine salt), fungicides, and not just general purpose infection remedies, but different antibiotics for different severity of infections, and fin repair necessities.

It's important to note, however, that some invertebrates (worms) will die in the presence of certain medications.
 This is optional for some but a necessity for others, as this tank can be a breeding tank or a quarantine tank. For people who are serious about breeding, this is needed, cycled and all to protect eggs and fry (baby fish). Many people also use this to quarantine sick fish so they do not infect the rest of the tank. This extra tank needs to be cycled, have a filter, heater (depending on species) and air pump. However, it is usually left bare bottom (no substrates like sand or gravel) and with barely any decorations., Look for vibrant colors, alertness, no white skin patches, torn fins, overly red gills, and no swollen body (for pregnant fish, this may be hard to differentiate). Pay attention to where the fish is housed. Is it in a cramped space with 15 other fish, or does it have space to swim and be healthy? Is there an overgrowth of algae? Is it kept in a tiny bowl/cup? Consider the surrounding tanks and fish in the shop, not just the fish in question.

Watch out for fin infection by comparing fish. This infection often begins with easily unnoticed red streaks in a fin(s) -- soon followed by abnormal lightening of edge colors, perhaps still not noticed at a glance. Then a fraying and rotting of the fin membrane and edges occurs. This infection can lead to totally disabling the fin, spreading to the body and leading to death., If you want a tropical fish but your tank is more like for cold water, do not just say "It's fine" and buy the fish anyway. Your tank needs to be specific to the fish's needs. Some fish prefer sand over gravel, some need hiding spaces... If you already have fish or animals in your tank, will they get along with the fish you're going to buy? Some fish fight ferociously and can rip each other apart. Choose wisely and not out of impulse; you can always come back to the pet store after researching and modifying your tank., When you take your new friend home, it's tempting to immediately dump the fish into your newly cycled, already furnished tank. However, even though you think your fish is suffering in that tiny plastic bag, it will suffer more if you just throw it in the tank. Oftentimes, your tank water temperature is very different from the one the fish is in. The salinity (in the case of salt and brackish water) and water parameters may be different. Acclimating means getting your fish used to the changes so it won't go into shock.

Float the bag in your tank for fifteen minutes for the temperature in the bag to slowly match the tank.
Dump out 25% of the water in the bag and add the same volume of tank water. Wait for five minutes.
Take out 25% again and put in the same volume of tank water. Wait for five more minutes. Then, scoop out your fish carefully (but not the water in the bag) and quickly place it in your tank.
Some people also keep the new fish in a quarantine tank for the first weeks or so to make sure they don't have diseases. This is optional, but a good option for those who aren't willing to risk infecting their entire 300 gallon tank.
 Depending on the size of the tank, some people change weekly and some monthly. Either way, changing water gets rid of nitrates, which in high levels can harm fish and good bacteria. 25% water volume is what most people change out. Topping off the tank with new water can be done whenever necessary (saltwater tanks should top off with freshwater most often, as salt does not evaporate).

Before adding new water, it should be set out in room temperature for at least 24 hours. This won't evaporate all chlorine, and definitely won't change chloramines and heavy metals, but will get rid of some dissolved gases. Make sure you add a water conditioner and anything else necessary for your type of tank.
 For all animals (and plants if you want) count them carefully. Especially in a large tank with many fish, one dead or missing fish can go unnoticed until the owner investigates to find out the cause of an ammonia spike when testing the water. Also, check out the condition of all your fish. If you see one with sickness, quarantine it so you won't infect any more fish. Infections and sicknesses are usually easily treatable if you get to them quickly (you'll be quick if you have prepared your first-aid kit!)., A lot of people don't clean their tanks for some time, and that's usually okay. Twice a year cleaning is common. For small tanks, though, it might get dirty easily. Algae can be left on the glass unless it is overgrown/blocking out light or your view.

Never use bleach or soap to clean the tank. Use cleaning tools you have set aside for fish purposes only.
 A handful of fish food (unless you have a pond or a really big tank) is way too much and wasteful. For most fish, a pinch of food two times a day is enough. To prevent constipation, skipping a feeding day is fine. However, skipping more than a few days is not okay, so you'll need a vacation block, automatic feeder, or someone else to feed for you., Ammonia, nitrate, and nitrite are important to test for. Write down your findings so that you have a record for future reference. Ammonia and nitrites are very important to monitor; fish can stand higher levels of nitrates. Near 0 ppm of ammonia and nitrites are recommended, and no more than 20 ppm of nitrates. Fish can develop open sores, red gills, and have trouble breathing in water with high levels of these.

Saltwater tanks, especially those with corals and live rocks, should be tested more frequently -- including tests for pH and salinity.
 Many fish are curious and will soon get to know your face and will swim towards you. Some pet owners know their fish well enough that the fish will enjoy being petted, going toward the tail, if you're careful about rubbing off their slime coat.