 Eat a healthy, well-balanced diet of fruit, vegetables, whole grains, and quality protein. Eat lots of dark green vegetables such as broccoli, spinach, and kale. You can also eat eggs, yogurt, and low-fat milk to gain healthy proteins. These foods contain vitamin B which helps prevent migraines.


Eat foods rich in magnesium. Magnesium relaxes blood vessels and ensures proper cell function. Magnesium-rich foods include nuts such as almonds and cashews, whole grains, wheat germ, soybeans, avocados, yogurt, dark chocolate, and green leafy vegetables.Oily fish may help prevent migraines. Consume oily fish such as salmon, tuna, sardines, or anchovies three times a week to increase your omega-3 and fatty acids intake., Tobacco use is known to trigger migraines. If you feel that you cannot quit on your own, talk to your physician about strategies or medications that can help you quit. One study has shown that smoking more than 5 cigarettes per day is more likely to trigger migraines. If you are unable to quit, limiting yourself to fewer than 5 each day might have some benefit., Caffeine is something that affects people in different ways. Some people find that caffeine triggers their migraines, while others are helped by caffeine. If you regularly use caffeine and suspect it may be causing migraines, try to cut back a little at a time. Sudden caffeine withdrawal can precipitate migraines, so be aware of that and wean yourself off of caffeine slowly.Caffeine is the prime ingredient in some migraine relief medications, so it is known to help. If you are an everyday caffeine drinker, caffeine may not help you because your body may have already built up a tolerance.
Include caffeine containing food and beverage in your migraine diary and elimination trials to see the effects in your own case.
 A disturbed sleep routine reduces your energy and tolerance to certain stimuli. Lack of sleep and insomnia increases the chances of a migraine. Too much sleep can also cause a migraine. If your body is not getting adequate rest, then headaches happen because of the lack of a regular sleep pattern.Migraines may also happen when you get more sleep than usual, change your working shifts, or suffer from jet lag.
 For many migraine sufferers, alcohol can trigger headaches, nausea, and other migraine symptoms that last for days. There is a lot of tyramine, a trigger ingredient, in alcohol, especially in beer and red wine. Make use of your headache diary to determine your threshold.


Some migraine sufferers find that alcohol doesn't affect them at all, while others can't tolerate even a little bit., Migraines tend to worsen with stress because of muscle tension and increased dilation of blood vessels. Managing stress through the use of relaxation techniques, positive thinking, and time management can help ward off migraines. Relaxation and the use of biofeedback have also been shown to help many migraine sufferers treat a migraine that has already begun. Biofeedback is the person’s ability to control their vital signs, like temperature, pulse, and blood pressure by doing relaxation techniques.Use relaxation exercises, such as meditation, breathing, yoga, and prayer., Regular exercise can reduce the frequency of migraines for many people. It helps reduce stress and boosts your mood. It will also relieve muscle tension that can bring on migraines. Sudden or strenuous exercise, however, has also been implicated as a migraine trigger, so don't overdo it. In addition, warm up slowly, and make sure you're well hydrated before and after exercise. Avoiding exercise in particularly hot or cold conditions may also help.Aim to keep your posture in good shape. Poor posture can trigger head pain because of the tension in your muscles., Dry air can increase chances of a migraine. This is due to the number of positively charged ions in the atmosphere. This raises your serotonin levels, neurotransmitters that increase during a migraine. To help the air, use a humidifier or boil water often to add moisture to the air.