 Ingrown hairs may sometimes cause skin to look darker. Vitamin C is essential for normal wound healing and it also has mild bleaching properties, so applying lemon juice may help to improve the look of your ingrown hair scars.To use lemon juice, soak a cotton ball or Q-tip in lemon juice and apply the juice to the scar. Let the lemon juice dry on the scar and then rinse the scar with some warm water. Repeat this process once per day.;
, Ingrown hairs can tighten up skin tissue due to the inflammation that they cause. You can massage aloe vera gel into your ingrown hair scars to help soften the tissue. Aloe vera has been shown to help with burn scars, but it may also be helpful for scars caused by ingrown hairs. Aloe vera reduces inflammation, especially in the early stages of scar formation. Aloe vera may also help to increase the elasticity of new tissue.To use aloe vera, use your fingers to apply a thin layer of fresh aloe or pure aloe vera gel to a scar. Leave the gel on the scar and allow it to dry.
 Green tea may also help to get rid of ingrown hair scars when applied to your skin. Green tea has antioxidant properties, which may promote healing of tissues and reduce the appearance of scars.To use a green tea bag, steep a bag of organic green tea in hot water for about three minutes. Then, remove the tea bag from the water and gently squeeze out the excess water. Place the tea bag directly on the ingrown hair scar and hold it there. You can repeat this process three to four times per day for 10 – 15 minutes.
As an alternative, you can also soak a cotton towel in green tea and use it as a compress. Squeeze out the excess tea and place it over ingrown hair scars for 10 – 15 minutes, three to four times per day.
 Lavender essential oil may also help ingrown hair scars heal. Lavender oil seems to have anti-inflammatory properties that may promote scar healing.To use lavender oil, place two to three drops of lavender oil in two tablespoons of castor oil and massage the oil into your ingrown hair scars. Repeat this process three to four times per day.
 St. John’s wort oil has been shown to be effective as a treatment for healing cesarean section scars, so it might be helpful for other scars, including ingrown hair scars.To use St. John’s Wort oil, mix a few drops of St. John’s wort oil with two tablespoons of castor oil. Then, massage the oil into your ingrown hair scars. Repeat this process three to four times daily.

