 This is a very simple but effective cake stand for a lightweight, smallish cake. It simply involves choosing a pretty teacup or coffee cup and a saucer of a good size. To create the stand, turn the cup over onto the table so that its mouth sits steadily on the table. Then balance the saucer on the cup so that it sits without wobbling or tilting. (If it still teeters, use a different cup.) You might be able to get away with placing a larger cake plate onto the saucer but be very careful that this doesn't unbalance things, and keep in mind that guests will bump the stand when serving themselves, so the more solid it is, the better. Also you can secure the plate to the cup using poster hanging sticky tack. It will hold the plate and remove easily when you are done.


The cup and saucer could be chosen to fit a theme, such as a flowery cup for a spring afternoon tea or a favorite motif of the birthday guest.;
, Using a variety of objects with pretty plates, you can create a remarkable table piece that allows for adding different cakes (and cookies) at each level of the tiered stand. For this effect, decide how many layers (up to five is usually good), and what items you have handy to create it. For the supports between each plate, you can use cups, egg cups, sugar bowls, small milk jugs, small vases, etc.––anything you have handy in the sideboard or kitchen! It doesn't matter if it's mixed up if you're creating the "eclectic chic" style but if you want it to look more uniform, then stick to one pattern theme and one style of support. To assemble:


Place the largest plate at the base. The basics for creating this stand are––largest plate forms the base, each ascending plate decreased in size until the top plate is dainty and small.
Add the first and most sturdy/strongest support in the middle of the large plate.
Balance the next plate of a slightly smaller size.
Add the next support in the middle of the plate, again ensuring it's safely and solidly balanced.
Continue adding these items until completed.
Assemble the treats around each plate, heaviest at the base to lightest at the top. The top level can be something as cute as a cupcake in a cup or simply some candies in a cup.
 If you're serving cupcakes, follow a similar method to the one outlined in the previous step but only use cups (after all, they are "cup"cakes). Stack a larger cup on the bottom, topped with a smaller plate, followed by a slightly smaller cup and a larger sized plate, topped with an even smaller cup, leveled off with a medium sized plate. For added flair, you can even get away with making the supports from one cup turned mouth down and another cup balanced on top of that cup with the next plate sitting on its mouth. Don't do this for more than three tiers though, as it risks becoming unstable.
 Votive candles are the small candles used for offerings in some faiths and for small decorative lighting at home. The small size of the containers makes them ideal as a stand support. Look for containers with a sturdy base, wide mouth and made from solid material such as glass or metal. Bear in mind that they must be substantial enough to take the weight of the cake. For the cake plate, choose the one that suits the theme of your occasion and is right for the cake. To assemble the cake stand:


Turn the votives upside down. Add suitable glue to the base of each one and glue them together to form one piece. (Use a glue that matches the material––in some cases a hot glue gun might work but if your votives are made from metal, then super glue or liquid nails will work best.) Allow to dry.
Once bonded together, stand the votive support on the table.
Balance the cake plate on the support, checking that it is sitting solidly, without tilting. If wished, you could glue the plate to the votives but this makes the stand permanent.
 Terracotta pots make terrific centerpiece statements when used the right way. This cake stand is ideal for an afternoon tea in the garden or a party where flowers are a predominant feature. Also, terracotta pots are very solid as a support for the stand. To make the stand, find a clean, unused terracotta pot and a terracotta saucer (the one that captures the water when used as a planter). The pot needs to be smaller than the plate but not so small that the plate causes the whole stand to topple over––test the weight and balance in the store before purchasing. To assemble the stand:


Turn the terracotta pot over and squeeze liquid nail glue over the base.
Place the terracotta plate base centered over the terracotta pot and press down to glue together. Make sure the plate sides are facing upwards and hold the pot to the plate for several minutes until fully bonded.
Once bonded, you have a lovely and budget-friendly cake stand ready for use. It's a good idea to line the terracotta plate with foil and a doily or similar item before adding the cake. This will prevent stains and will reassure guests that it's hygienic.

