 Be realistic about the fact you won't be able to get the best of every feature, as you'll have to make tradeoffs.;
, Are you a novice or an expert when it comes to digital photography? If a novice, a point and shoot might suffice. Experts will want more manual control over the exposure process.
 For kids or wildlife, get a camera that acts fast after you click the shutter.
, If you want true HD capabilities, look for 1080 resolution video. If you want to catch close to professional or professional sound, look for a camera with microphone input.
 http://www.dpreview.com, http://www.imaging-resource.com, and http://www.steves-digicams.com are the leading sites for serious photographers, while http://www.cnet.com has good reviews for more casual users. When you're trying to decide between two choices, or just want to explore similar cameras, search for information online.
 Keep in mind that there are tradeoffs, for example, size vs. optical zoom. You probably won't get everything you want.
 Your main options are either AA batteries or a rechargeable lithium battery pack. Rechargeable pack may be lighter and last longer, but when it wears out, it may be difficult to buy a replacement. If camera takes AA batteries, it can usually run on rechargeable AA batteries as well - these are not manufacturer specific and can be easily replaced when needed.
 Decide what's important and get something best at that, rather than middle-of-the-road in everything.
 There are many other things, including the lens, that determine the quality of the image. 3 megapixels is the minimum you should look at. A 3 megapixel camera will get you excellent 4x6 prints, if you want anything bigger consider a 4 or 5 megapixel -or more if your budget will allow. Talk to a photo store professional for more information about how many megapixels you will need your camera to have to make a quality picture in the print size you want.
 Price comparison sites can be helpful but often the best price merchants have terrible service.
 Most cameras come with a limited one year warranty, but extended warranties are usually available.
 If you have time to wait or do not need your camera immediately, we recommend you use price comparison sites such as PriceComparison.com or DealTime.com. You will save time and money finding the lowest price. Consider shopping at a local camera store. You will be paying about the same as you would off the internet, you are getting a person behind the counter who knows more about cameras than the internet, and also an easy place to take your camera back if it should happen to malfunction sometime down the road. And economically speaking, you will be supporting your local towns and creating jobs and keeping the money circulating locally.

