 These are the UFO videos that are clearly made in elementary school, use Lego men, or state in bold letters (or shout at you), "This is a joke!". Assuming you've already put your powers of critical assessment to work at this stage, it's time to proceed to the next signs that a UFO video might not be for real.;
, There are a number of obvious elements that can help you spot the fake UFO video. Here are some things to pay extra careful attention to:.


Can you see any form of attachments to the object that is being claimed as a UFO? For example, strings, wires, stands, etc.
Be aware that invisible thread does wonders and can be very hard to spot unless you are looking for it. Look for glints of light off the invisible thread as the video camera rolls away at different angles, etc.
Is the UFO moving awkwardly, or with a jitter? Wobbliness tends to be a sign of strings and nerves rather than futuristic flying technology. Imagine trying to keep down a cup of alien brew in a wobbly craft? It's probably fair enough to say that if a plane couldn't fly wobbling or teetering in the way that the UFO has been presented as flying, then it's very unlikely the UFO could either - after all, our atmosphere remains the same for the UFO, let alone the comfort needs of the crew.Does the UFO suddenly "disappear" without further ado? Do planes, helicopters or hot air balloons just "disappear"? Not usually. Theoretically, a stealth bomber cloak, 3D cloaking, or meta-material might surround the UFO but if so, why bother to reveal at all and then suddenly disappear? Did it get a whiff of the photographer whose importance was probably considerably less than that of paying attention to either landing properly or keeping the flight path straight? The greater likelihood is that the filming got awkward at that point and just stopped, or the painting tool was put to grand use.
 If there is sound of a UFO in the video, it pays to listen closely as the UFO goes by. How realistic does it sound to you? Or does it remind you of your best friend's attempt at making an alien tune on Garageband late one night?


If the UFO in the video makes noise, it's probably a fake. It is difficult to know but it would be assumed that a UFO in real life would be very careful to keep its noise to a minimum. But more than that supposition, use your hearing senses carefully - a lot of sounds can be synthesized but one person's idea of what a UFO should sound like can easily be very corny (copied from a sci-fi film or show), or just really odd.
If a soundtrack is included, the video has a higher chance of being fake because it's aimed at creating the atmosphere and emotion, making it much more likely that it is staged. If someone really has filmed a UFO, the excitement of it would probably have them uploading it on well before they'd thought to add some spooky soundtrack and turn it into a "perfect" video!

, As the familiar adage says, the devil is always in the details.


If the UFO is zooming by some trees, look to see if they blow because of the wind. If they don't, it's fake.
Look for shadows. Are there any shadows of the person taking the video, or other nearby objects? This will indicate to you that the video is shot close by on an object near to the person filming, rather than up in the sky. Moreover, shadows at night are less likely unless a direct source of light is shining on the UFO and it's near enough something to throw a shadow.
Look for reflections. What sort of reflections do you see? Remember the famous nude photos in kettles of eBay sellers - can you see the camera person in the reflection? If so, they're way too close to their miniature model! Other reflections can also be dead giveaways - anything that's meant to be on the ground, such as a car, will indicate a fake if reflecting in the object.
Look for duplicates in the background. For example, look at the trees or power poles as the filmed UFO zooms by. If the trees or power poles present an exact repeating pattern (looping the film), the video is a fake.
Does it appear that the object is tracked by a video camera that just seems to know without a doubt the UFO's next move? Or, does the video operator get tired of this and turn off the camera after only filming a few seconds even though the UFO is still in beautiful view?, If it does, it is a possibly a big giveaway of the "object" used to fake the UFO for the filming. Some common objects to be wary of include:


The cloud. A conveniently shaped cloud in suitable weather might fit the bill for a clever photographer.
Kid's toys. Some can be convincing, others definitely less so.

Lights. These really are just too seductive for the amateur fake UFO photographer. From LEDs to bulbs, anything can go, and does.
The saucer. Literally. One kid throws it in the air, while the other one starts filming it.
Beer (or other) bottles. If it reminds you of a bottle flying through the air, trust your instincts. Throwing a beer bottle at a party can give people ideas if there's a video camera handy.
Software clones. Does the object or surrounding objects look just like stuff you've already seen on photo/movie/gaming software?

, Using the claims made in the video, do some online research to verify the claims. Things to look for include:


Dates - do the dates match up with other people's recollections of the siting?
Are there news stories covering the alleged appearance of the UFO?
Is there an article or website debunking your particular video as a clear hoax? For example, there are well-known hoax UFO videos and it's a good idea to discard these from the start before you even get excited about the possibility that your video is real!, A really good way to know how to spot a fake is to know how a fake is made in the first place. Do some research online to find out how a fake UFO video is made.Armed with this knowledge, it becomes a lot easier to spot the tomfoolery on a video featuring an alleged UFO! Some of the more common elements of making a fake UFO video include:


Resorting to the overly familiar saucer shape. While it's commonplace as a UFO representation, did you know that this shape has only been "popular" since 1947 and the Roswell incident?Throwing up lights in the background and quickly filming then. This is a very common trick., Be even more concerned if the dog is put forward as a credible witness.
If the video shows a huge object hanging over a very crowded area, such as New York City, but not very many people noticed (remember your research step above here). Other than the "terrified" actor in the video, of course. Indeed, the math of anyone looking at a large building in New York City has already been done and it was found that at least 50 people out of the 8 million people in NYC would be staring at a large building every second of the day.Anyone appearing in the video is acting suspiciously, weirdly, or over-the-top.
If the sound is canned or unnatural.It is filmed too well. This could be the indication of a UFO geek who has spent hours poring over the video shoot, getting the colors, shades, and reflections matching perfectly, all because she has seen Fox Mulder point out the illogicality of a UFO photo on an X-Files repeat. The reality is that special effects are affordable to many people to tinker with these days,and if you really did chance on seeing a UFO "just like that", it's unlikely that your excited, rushing night-time video would be "perfect".
Even the person uploading the video tells you it's a fake project started to help the kids when they got bored one day but it went viral and got distorted into "being real" because some UFO enthusiasts (read, people who really, really, really want to see a UFO) happened to be convinced that it "must" be real!