 This product is sold in drugstores and is an effective way to keep frizz at bay if your hair tends to be dry and coarse. Smooth some in after taking a shower, or apply it while your hair is dry if it frizzes up during the day.
 This oil is made from a tree that grows in Morocco. It has been found to have restorative properties that help hair stay smooth, strong and healthy. It’s so lightweight that you can apply it to your hair as a leave-in conditioner. Just smooth a little into your hair, focusing on the tips, while your hair is still damp after shampooing.


There’s no need to apply as much oil to the roots area, since this part of your hair will naturally get oily faster than the rest of your hair.
 Once a week, try this treatment to get soft, smooth, shiny hair. Take a tablespoon or so of coconut oil and comb it into your hair from the roots to the tips, making sure every strand is covered. Cover your hair with a shower cap or a piece of plastic wrap and let the oil sit in your hair for an hour or overnight. Shampoo your hair two or three times to rinse out all of the oil. When your hair dries, you’ll be impressed with the results.


Coconut oil is solid at room temperature, so you may have to warm it up before applying.
Use unrefined coconut oil, rather than refined coconut oil, since it is better suited to cosmetic use.
 Comb a tablespoon of olive oil through your hair, then cover your hair with a shower cap or piece of plastic wrap. Let it soak into your hair for an hour, then remove the cap and shampoo your hair two or three times to rinse out the oil. Dry your hair as usual.
 This makes a great stand-in for conditioner, and will instantly create a softer, shinier look. Separate two eggs and whisk the whites in a bowl. In the shower, wet your hair and apply the egg whites, making sure to comb it through from the roots to the tips. Let it sit while you do everything else you need to do in the shower, then shampoo your hair to rinse it out.
 Honey brightens, smooths and softens hair, and banana adds some moisture. Mash up a banana with a tablespoon of honey. In the shower, wet your hair and comb the honey banana mask through from the roots to the tips. Let it sit in your hair while you take your shower, then shampoo your hair to rinse it out.
 Look for a deep conditioner that contains nourishing oils and is silicone-free, so your hair doesn’t end up feeling weighted down. Apply it according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Deep conditioning once a week will help your hair look shiny and smooth.

