 Guitar straps come in a wide variety of styles and sizes - some are audacious, some are plain, some are thick and padded, others are thin "seat belt"-style straps. Check out the selection at your local music store or in classified ads to get a sense of the options available to you. Below are just a few things you'll want to consider when picking out a strap:


Material - Many of the most affordable straps are made from the aforementioned seat belt-style material, but for a little more cash, it's possible to buy durable all-leather straps.
Size - Not usually a major concern because the vast majority of guitar straps are adjustable, but you'll still want to be sure the strap is at least long enough to allow comfortable playing while standing up.
Padding - Some guitar straps incorporate padding into the part of the strap that is slung over your shoulder to make playing more comfortable. This is usually made from foam, but sometimes fur or other materials are used.
Aesthetics - Guitar straps come in a huge variety of colors and designs. Pick one that's right for your "sound".;
, Guitar straps typically have leather (or fake leather) ends in the shape of rounded triangles. On each end should be a small hole with a slit cut in the side of it. These holes will support the weight of your guitar while you play.
 Almost all electric guitars have two small knobs that fit into the holes on the strap. The first of these is at the base of the guitar's body - in other words, if you stand the guitar up vertically, it will be at the "bottom" of the guitar. This knob typically sticks out about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) depending on what type of guitar you have. Slip the hole that is farther from the strap's belt-like tightening/loosening buckle over this knob.









To ensure comfort during playing, ensure that you slip the strap hole over the knob so that the fitting buckle faces outwards - otherwise, it may dig into your shoulder.
 Look at the spot where the neck of the guitar meets the body. Nearly all electric guitars will have a knob near here. Slip the second strap-hole - the one that's closer to the buckle used to adjust the strap - over this knob. Put the other end of the strap on this knob.
 Congratulations - your guitar is now "strapped up". Now, it's time to test out the strap. If you are right-handed, sling the strap over your left shoulder so that the guitar hangs in front of you, allowing you to strum with your right hand and fret with your left. If you are left-handed, do the reverse - sling the strap over your right shoulder.
 Now, ensure your strap fits comfortably and doesn't inhibit your movement by playing a few simple chords or songs. Try playing in a variety of ways - standing up, sitting down, and even kneeling or laying down, for instance.
 When you play with a strap, you want your playing to come as easily and as naturally as it would without one. This means that your strap should allow the guitar to hang at such a height that you can strum and fret as you normally would. Use the strap's adjustable buckle to change the length of the strap as needed for your comfort and ease of playing.








