 Whenever you get a piercing, it is important to let a licensed professional piercer do it. They are trained in proper techniques, safety, and sanitation to ensure that your new piercing is placed properly and heals well., If you are trying to keep your new piercing a secret, you need to be mindful about when you get it done. There will be a healing timeframe during which your tongue may swell significantly which can noticeably alter how you sound when you talk. Try to plan your piercing during a time when you can avoid people for at least a few days to give yourself time to heal.
 Make sure you follow all instructions given to you by the piercer for care of your new piercing. Failure to do so could result in infection or a prolonged healing time, which would make your situation and your pierced tongue more noticeable to those around you., There are many fun kinds of jewelry you can get for your new tongue piercing. While these flashy options may be exciting and tempting, they will also be much more visible. Choose a standard barbell option that is easier to conceal.
 Try to pick a clear plastic ball or a flesh-colored ball for the ends of your tongue piercing barbell. These will be less obvious than flashy metal or a colorful ball, so they are easier to hide.
 The best way to minimize visibility of a new piercing is by getting a clear plastic retainer. These are much harder to see, especially in a darker place like inside your mouth. However, these plastic jewelry options are not good for fresh piercings. You need to give your tongue piercing several months of healing time before you use any plastic jewelry in it., People talk. The more people who know about your tongue piercing, the more likely it is that someone you don’t want to know will find out about it. Don’t tell anyone you don’t trust and avoid talking about your piercing in general if you want it to remain a secret.
 Tongue piercings can be difficult to hide because they are in such a visible area. Avoid opening your mouth too widely when you are talking or laughing. Avoid yelling, screaming, or singing (or other activities that require you to open your mouth widely) in front of people you want to hide the piercing from. Practice in the mirror to see what methods conceal your piercing the most.
 When possible, avoid the people you don’t want to know about your new piercing. It would be a better idea to take some days off work while your piercing heals than to go to work with an obviously swollen tongue.

