 Be sure that the transfer is facing up, and lay the garment out completely flat. If you do not have an ironing board, you can lay a towel across a hard surface such as a table, counter, washing machine, or dryer.
 Placing a small towel or rag inside the shirt may help prevent any damage to the other side of your garment. If the towel is making your work surface difficult because it is too soft, try a piece of cardboard or very thin plywood instead.
 Heating the garment beyond recommended settings may cause damage to the material. Some materials, such as polyester, may actually melt if overheated. This method involves direct heat and runs a higher risk of damaging the garment than other methods.
 The iron should be as hot as possible. This may mean that the iron will be hotter than the care instructions for the garment allow. If you are worried about damaging the garment, you may want to try a different method. You could try starting with a medium heat and slowly turning the iron hotter to find the right temperature that will remove the transfer but not damage the garment.
 If the transfer is made of vinyl, place wax paper over the letters and iron directly on the wax paper. The vinyl transfer will essentially melt and stick to the wax paper, and you can peel the letters away from the shirt by removing the wax paper. This only works with vinyl transfers.
 The heat from the iron should essentially melt the transfer away. Start with a corner and work your way across the transfer.
 Once a corner has come off, make quick movements with your iron in the direction of the transfer. It should continue to peel up and possibly burn off as you go.
 Repeat the strokes of the iron directly on the transfer until it has been completely removed. If you garment appears to be getting damaged, you may want to turn down the heat a bit.
 After the transfer has been removed, you may find some adhesive left over. You can try removing it with rubbing alcohol or an adhesive remover such as Goo Gone. Be sure to check a discreet corner of the material for reaction before using any chemical on the fabric.
 After you have removed the transfer and residue, launder the garment as you normally do. Be sure to do this if you used any kind of chemical to remove leftover residue, as chemicals may irritate or harm your skin.

