 There is no use forcing anyone to do something against their wishes.;
, There are several reasons why disabled people choose to ride, ranging from therapeutic, sport, recreation, communing with nature, exploring a relationship with one of man's best allies, educational etc. Hippo therapy can improve the quality of life of a truly engaged disabled person, so it is definitely worth raising as a good outdoor activity for a disabled person champing at the bit to get out there and experience the free movement of nature via a caring animal.
 There are very reputable organizations in many countries that cater for disabled riding. Get their information pamphlets, look them up online and phone them for an appointment. Share the information with the person you are seeking to encourage and ask them to come to the appointment with you. If possible, arrange a meeting with some of the horses to help a familiarization process take place.
 Horse riding can result in innumerable benefits. For one, the relationship between rider and horse is unquantifiable and is a great source of affection, support and connection that is hard to describe adequately in words. Disabled persons who horse ride have been known to increase their levels of confidence, their interactiveness with people and have overcome fear and pain barriers that previously held them back. Physical benefits include improvements in balance, flexibility, muscle strength, toning, spatial awareness and coordination. Emotional benefits besides the bonding include increased concentration skills, planning skills, improved self-esteem, increased confidence and patience.
 Many great plans die for lack of transport and someone must be responsible for this aspect.
 Take the disabled person to a horse riding gear specialist to obtain the appropriate gear. Ask about making modifications as needed and get these done well in advance of lessons.
 You should have already decided in advance if group or individual lessons will work best in the particular situation. Take into account level of knowledge, fears, need for company, availability of teachers etc.

