 Humans have used garlic for medicinal purposes for thousands of years. Experts believe that the same compounds that give garlic its signature taste and aroma also have antimicrobial properties.In order to receive the full benefits of garlic, chop up the herb and add it at the end of cooking to prevent the breakdown of antimicrobial properties.You can also take garlic pills, powders or liquids. The recommended daily dosages are 600 to 900 mg of powder, 4 ml of liquid, and 10 mg of oil capsules.;
, The common bell pepper is an excellent source of certain compounds known to boost the immune system. It contains carotenoid lycopene, which lowers the risk of cancer, as well as beta-carotene, a compound thought to boost immunity.


For best results, eat raw bell peppers to prevent the breakdown of immunity boosting compounds.
 This South Asian spice is considered to be high in antioxidants. It is also believed to be antibacterial and help prevent inflammation. It may also have anticancer and antioxidant properties.Turmeric is commonly used in Indian, Pakistani, and Bangladeshi cuisines. You can also buy turmeric supplements.
 In traditional Japanese and Chinese medicine, various mushroom species, including shiitake, maitake, and reishi, have long been considered important for good health. Mushrooms are a good source of polysaccharides, which boost the immune system’s ability to recognize and attack infectious diseases. Adding shiitake or maitake mushrooms to a dish is a quick and tasty way to add some immunity boosting properties to your meal.You can find shiitake and maitake mushrooms at your local grocery store. You can also buy mushroom extracts designed to boost immunity. Remember to take the manufacturers’ recommended dosages.
 A staple of Asian cuisines, ginger is believed to significantly reduce inflammation and boost heart health. It is also considered an important aid to digestion.Ginger can be cooked with meals, eaten raw, or taken as an extract.


If you are taking ginger extract, remember to follow the manufacturers’ guidelines.
 Developing a habit of drinking green tea daily can be a major boost to your immune system. Green tea contains potent antioxidants and may stimulate your body to create compounds that fight infection. It may also protect against or slow the growth of certain cancers.In order to boost your immune system, drink three or more cups of green tea a day.You can find green tea at your local grocery store.

