 Depending on the length of your quiz, organize the questions into categories. You may also want to organize each category under a single topic. For example, you can create a sports trivia quiz with individual sports as each category so you have 10 questions for basketball, 10 for football, and 10 for baseball.


When choosing categories, choose ones that you're knowledgeable on or passionate about so that it will be easier for you to find the answers and write your questions creatively.;
, A creative title and cohesive design can both give your trivia quiz a sense of cohesion and professionalism. Eye-catching design can draw more participants and make your quiz go viral if you are posting it on social media sites., Create well-written and engaging questions to keep your audience wanting to move on to the next question. Try to create each question as its own game by providing the answer immediately afterwards., Keep your audience in mind. If you're quiz is meant for young children, make sure the questions are age appropriate. If your quiz is meant for a broad audience, mix up the difficulty level. A quiz should be challenging no matter who your audience is but it should also be rewarding so keep the difficulty of the questions varied from moderate to expert level.
 If you are not having fun then chances are your audience won’t either. Let your passion come across. Remember that this is a form of entertainment so keep yourself entertained and imagine your audience laughing or becoming amused at each question., Trivia is fun because it’s an entertaining way to learn something new. The element of surprise or having your audience say, “wow, I didn’t know that” should motivate your questions.”, People have short attention spans especially if you’re planning to post your quiz online. Ask yourself what the best outcome would be because you don’t want to spend 2 hours of hard work creating a quiz that people only want to take for 10 minutes. Keep things fresh and fun for both you and the participants., The construction of the answers to trivia questions are just as important as the questions themselves. Make sure that you have the facts correct and that you adequately explain why someone got an answer wrong. , There are several apps available to create trivia quizzes. Whether for fun or business, research what apps are best for creating and embedding your trivia quizz.

