 Certain people are at higher risk of blood clots or DVT than others. If you fall into one of the following categories, you may want to talk to your doctor about taking special precautions when traveling. Risk factors include:Being older than 40
Being overweight
Not taking anticoagulant medication as prescribed
A genetic blood clotting condition
Having cancer or receiving cancer treatment
Being pregnant or a recent delivery or c-section
Taking hormone therapy or birth control pills
Smoking
A recent major surgery
A broken bone in a lower body extremity (ankle, foot, leg, etc.);
, Consider an injection of anticoagulant medication if you have cancer, had a recent surgery or have thrombophilia. Depending on your medical history and condition, one of the steps that could help is to take an anticoagulant medication such as heparin. An injection of heparin can thin your blood and make it less likely to clot during the long flight. Ask your doctor whether this is a good option for you., Doctor-recommended compression stockings are a good lifestyle change if you are at risk of blood clots or have an upcoming flight.You should ask your doctor or pharmacist about the appropriate type of stocking, which may be a graduated compression stocking. They should go all the way up to your knee and can help improve circulation when used alongside regular exercise., An aisle seat will allow you to move your legs a little bit more during the flight, which will help improve circulation and reduce the risk of blood clots. Book your flight early so you can be sure to get an aisle seat.You may also be able to pay a little more for a row with extra leg room. If you can afford it, this may be another option to give yourself more space to stretch out.
 People who travel on flights longer than four hours are at an increased risk of blood clots. If you can take a vacation or attend an event a little bit closer to home, you will reduce your risk. See if you can meet friends, family or colleagues somewhere a little closer, perhaps less than a four-hour flight away.If a long trip is absolutely necessary, consider breaking it up with stops in between and give yourself time to rest, relax and walk about for a day or two between the legs of your trip. If it is not possible, you should at least give yourself a few hours of rest between flights. In this time, you should walk around and stretch.

