 If you've talked to your doctor about your opiate use, there may be a number of reasons why your doctor may have recommended that you come off of opiates. Common medical reasons for tapering off of opiates include:


Inadequate pain relief— Many people who experience chronic pain and take a high dose of opiates experience improved pain management, as well as greater functioning skills and overall mood, after tapering down or discontinuing opiate use.Decreased levels of pain — Once the pain has become more manageable or disappeared entirely, your doctor will recommend discontinuing the use of opiates.Adverse side effects — Some people experience unpleasant or dangerous side effects related to opiate use, including (but not limited to) constipation, sedation, sleep apnea, injuries (sustained as a result of opiate intoxication or sedation), and overdoseOpiate abuse/addiction — Most doctors will recommend tapering or completely discontinuing opiate use if abuse occurs or addiction develops, Although some individuals are able to successfully come off of opiates at home without medical assistance, some medical professionals will recommend inpatient detoxification for people with long-lasting or severe addiction. The advantage of an inpatient setting is that medical professionals can be on hand around the clock to help treat the symptoms of withdrawal.


Inpatient detoxification is usually recommended for people who are medically unstable (typically those whose pain is so intense that withdrawal could increase the pain they feel), have not succeeded in outpatient programs, are not compliant with outpatient medical advice, or require detoxification from multiple substances.Inpatient services are offered at hospitals and at residential treatment centers.You can find an inpatient facility by searching online, or by asking your primary care physician for a recommendation.
Inpatient detoxification typically lasts three to four days, though it may take longer, depending on the severity of symptoms.Most inpatient detoxifications are then co-administered with a 28 day rehabilitation program for complete care.
 There are numerous detox plans available for inpatients at a medical facility. Each plan has its advantages and disadvantages, and it's important to talk to your doctor and/or an addiction specialist to determine the plan that's right for you.


Medical Detoxification — This detox plan involves tapering down the dosage of opiates. Tapering is done in a controlled medical setting that allows nurses to administer any medication necessary to help counteract the effects of withdrawal, if those effects arise.Rapid Detoxification — This plan involves stopping all use of the opiate immediately. You will be anesthetized and given intravenous opiate blockers (such as naltrexone, naloxone, and nalmefene) to ensure that you do not get high on any opiates you subsequently take. After approximately four to eight hours under general anesthesia, your body goes through sudden and rapid withdrawal, but you will not experience the unpleasant physical effects of withdrawal. You will then typically be discharged within 48 hours after an assessment and medical evaluation. There are risks of complications from the use of anesthesia, however, including the risk of death.Stepped Rapid Detoxification — In this alternative plan, opiate blockers like naloxone are administered intravenously and withdrawal-management medications are administered orally, reaching the same ultimate effects of rapid detox but over a more gradual period of time. Stepped rapid detox may be less taxing on the body than regular rapid detoxification. In stepped rapid detox, you are alert and awake the whole time, but your symptoms of withdrawal are closely monitored and quickly addressed with medication.Buprenorphine — This is an opioid medication used to help ease withdrawal symptoms and help ease you off opiates. It is a partial opioid agonist, meaning you will experience less euphoria, less dependence, and the withdrawal is more mild than with other opiates. It can reduce cravings, suppress withdrawal symptoms, and block the effects of other opioids.Not all doctors can prescribe buprenorphine so you will need to find an addiction specialist who is able to do so. It comes three administration forms including by mouth, through a patch, or via injection.
Methadone — Some doctors recommend methadone treatments to help addicts come off of opiates. Methadone is the most commonly used method of opiate detoxification. In methadone treatment, you will receive daily doses of the synthetic narcotic medication methadone from an approved clinic over a period lasting around 21 days, after which you should be able to discontinue all opiate use. Methadone detox still subjects you to a painful period of withdrawal and may not adequately prevent you from using other opiates.