 Don't laugh too hard or talk too loud just to appear confident; you'll seem insecure and fake. Start conversations: ask people to go get ice cream with you or to go to the pool. Make your social group as large as possible. It depends what type of friends you want, but aim to be interesting. At camp there are normally at least a hundred kids, and there will be all different types of people to get acquainted with - endless possibilities.;
, Ask questions and be prepared to answer them too. Keep in mind that music is a great way to bring people together, so if you're not sure what to talk about, ask someone about their favourite singer or band. Be upbeat, and if you are naturally shy, take your time; don't automatically push people away.
 Make people think of you as the one to come for to have fun. All around camp there are things to do, and you will be highly respected if you can take the tiniest things and turn them into a blast for all.
 If you plan to overthrow a popular girl, don't act exactly like her; people will think of you as fake and desperate. Instead, try to quietly get above her by simply being yourself and being better. You don't have to be her exact opposite either, if that's not the type of person you are. Just be yourself, and people will see that you might have some great qualities she doesn't and want to hang out with you instead. If that girl has a close-knit group of "exclusive" friends, try to include different types of people in your group. Don't be a sheep for the sake of popularity, as it won't work, and you will be stuck being someone you hate. Remember that the social groups of camp are a bit different than in school, so even though there is a popular group, chances are it won't be quite what you're used to.
 If you are taking a bus, talk to a few girls before the bus leaves then once you board the bus ask one to sit next to you. If she's excited you asked and asks you to sit with her on the ride home, you know that she likes you. Bring along some card games, magazines with quizzes, or other multi-player activities to do on the bus. Chances are that unless other people came with a friend, they are probably as bored as you are. You might be able to make friends before you even leave the bus!

, Make sure you bring all the necessary products: a comb, shampoo, conditioner, detangler, mouthwash, toothpaste, deodorant, etc. You will probably get dirtier at camp than you do at home. Take as many showers as allowed without being excessive. Staying clean and cute is awesome, but try not to get OCD about hygiene. Gum or chewing gum could help your breath for a short while, but some camps don't allow gum or mints. Before a social event, make sure you take a quick few minutes in the dorm to brush your hair and teeth and apply deodorant.

