 Before you sit down to write your letter, make an effort to document the violations so you have proof to back up your allegations rather than relying on mere conjecture.For example, if the person who leased the equipment from you has failed to make lease payments for two months, you would want a copy of the account statement showing nonpayment that you could attach to your letter.
Documenting a violation may be more difficult if the person has violated a clause regarding the use of the equipment, but do your best to substantiate these allegations before sending a letter.
For example, suppose a business owner leased a machine from you and agreed to maintain it according to the standards set forth in the agreement. However, a representative of the company that services the machine told you they haven't performed routine maintenance on the machine since it was leased.
In that case, a written statement from the company representative would serve to substantiate that claim, but company records might be better.
You also may want to make a copy of the equipment lease, or at least the page containing the clause the other party has violated, that you can include with your letter.;
, You can draft your letter yourself, but a letter from an attorney may lend greater authority and cause the other party to treat the situation more seriously than they would if the letter came directly from you alone.If you hired an attorney to draw up the lease, you might want to contact them about the lease violation.
Since they drafted the document, they may be in the best position to send the other party notice of a violation.
If you've had additional problems with the other party in the past, or anticipate that you may end up having to go to court, it also may be in your best interest to go ahead and involve an attorney at this stage.
 Your letter should state up front that it is intended as notice of a breach of the equipment lease, and describe specifically the action or inaction on the part of the other party that constituted a breach of the agreement.Your equipment lease may specify that the other party be given notice of a default and a specific period of time to cure that default before additional actions are taken.
If your lease includes a clause that specifies the form and substance of a breach notice letter, make sure you follow those requirements.
Failure to comply with the notice requirements on your lease may mean additional options to recover damages are restricted or foreclosed.
Include what you want to happen as a result of the breach, and give the other party a deadline to respond or to cure the default you noted in your letter.
Typically you'll use the period defined in your equipment lease. However, if your lease doesn't specify a notice period, a week to 10 days from receipt of the letter should suffice.
 Once you've completed your letter, print it off and sign it. Make a copy of the signed letter for your own records and then mail it to the other party using certified mail with returned receipt requested.By using certified mail, you know when the other party has received the letter and can calculate the exact date of the deadline.
Certified mail also gives you proof of delivery if you later need to show a court that steps were taken to resolve the dispute before filing a lawsuit, or that you complied with any notice of breach requirements set forth in the lease.
 When you get the green card back letting you know that your letter was successfully delivered, mark the deadline you gave the other party to respond on your calendar. Expect them to respond using the method required by the equipment lease.If your lease doesn't require a specific method of response, you may receive a phone call or a return letter.
Be as flexible as possible with the other party in attempting to negotiate a resolution to the problem. Keep in mind the time and money required to take other action such as filing a lawsuit.
There's no need to escalate the situation unless the other party does not respond to your letter at all or refuses to negotiate a resolution with you.
If you are able to reach a compromise, make sure any new promises or agreements are put into writing and signed by both parties. Since the original lease was in writing, its terms cannot be legally altered or amended except through a written agreement.
 Your equipment lease may include a provision requiring a certain form of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) as a method for resolving any disputes under the agreement.The two most common forms of ADR are arbitration and mediation. Arbitration is similar to a court trial, in which both parties present their sides of the story and an arbitrator or panel of arbitrators decides who's right and the remedies to which that party is entitled.
Mediation, on the other hand, is a more relaxed, non-adversarial process through which a neutral third party facilitates a mutually beneficial resolution.
If your lease agreement requires binding arbitration, it may preclude your ability to file a lawsuit. Binding arbitration decisions may be appealable to a different arbitrator or panel, but typically cannot be fought in court.
 Follow any notice requirements provided in the ADR clause of your equipment lease. If no notice is required (or the agreement doesn't include an ADR clause), give the other party a week to 10 days notice that you intend to use ADR.If your equipment lease doesn't include an ADR provision, you can still suggest it as an alternative to a lawsuit if you and the other party are unable to resolve the dispute through direct negotiations.
ADR proceedings have the benefit of being less expensive and time-consuming than a lawsuit, and also are confidential.
Keep in mind that most ADR providers require both parties to sign off on the choice and agree to proceed before a hearing or session will be scheduled.
 Unless your equipment lease specifies a particular company to use for ADR, you must choose an arbitration or mediation service that can handle your dispute. Typically both parties must approve of the chosen provider.Check with your state or local bar association, or with the clerk of the local county court, to find out what arbitration or mediation services they recommend or have approved.
Some state and local bar associations have links to approved ADR services on their websites.
If either your lease or the service provider requires the approval of both parties, you'll have to send the other side another letter indicating who you've chosen. The ADR provider may have a form letter you can use.
 Your strategies and level of preparation will vary depending on whether you're using mediation or arbitration, but you still must gather similar evidence and prepare a statement of your claim against the other party.If you're using binding arbitration, you may want to have an attorney represent you at the proceeding.
Although the rules of evidence and procedure typically are simplified compared to a traditional courtroom setting, the binding nature of the decision may justify the expense of hiring an attorney.
The more relaxed style and setting of mediation means you typically can handle things on your own, but you may want to talk to an attorney if you have questions or concerns about how various clauses of your equipment lease operate.
Gather any evidence you have of the lease violation, as well as a copy of the equipment lease. Your ADR provider may require a copy of the lease be sent before your appointment.
 On the day of your appointment, show up at the location at least a half hour early so you have time to arrange your documents and information and get settled before the session begins.For arbitration, each party will be expected to make an opening statement, after which you will each have the opportunity to introduce evidence and call witnesses on your behalf.
Mediation, on the other hand, typically begins with everyone in the same room. The mediator will introduce him- or herself and explain the procedure, then give each of you an opportunity to explain your side of the story.
After these opening remarks, the mediator will move you to separate rooms and go back and forth between you presenting offers and discussing the case until you either arrive at a compromise or reach an impasse.
While the mediation process itself is voluntary, any settlement reached will be put into writing and will become legally binding when signed by both parties.
 While you don't necessarily need to present evidence to substantiate the allegations in your initial complaint, you will need a copy of the equipment lease as well as other documents that demonstrate any efforts you made to resolve the dispute before heading to court.Any attorney you hire likely will want these documents as well, along with any information or evidence you have that supports your claims that the other party has violated the equipment lease.
 If the situation has progressed to the point that you've decided to file a lawsuit, find an experienced business litigation attorney to represent you. There typically is too much at stake to attempt to handle it on your own.Even if you're not sure whether you want to hire an attorney, it can be worth your while to interview a few experienced business litigation attorneys and get their take on your case.
Most attorneys provide a free initial consultation, so you don't have anything to lose on this score, regardless of whether you ultimately decide to hire anyone.
 The equipment lease may specify a particular court that must be used if you're filing a lawsuit for breach of that agreement. Otherwise, you must file your lawsuit in a court that has jurisdiction over breach of contract claims against the person you're suing.Although you may be able to use small claims court (which would mean you wouldn't have to hire an attorney), keep in mind that small claims courts typically cannot order anything other than money damages.
If you have any other demands, such as a return of the leased property, you'll have to sue in state or federal civil court.
Your attorney will work with you to choose the correct court given the location of the party you want to sue and the damages at stake in the lawsuit.
 To initiate your lawsuit, you must draft a complaint that names the person you're suing, describes the agreement between you, and lists factual allegations that constitute a breach of that agreement and entitle you to sue for damages.Your attorney will work with you to compile the factual allegations and determine the amount and type of damages to demand.
Make sure you understand everything in the complaint before you proceed, and ask your attorney if there's something you have trouble with or don't think can be proven.
 When the complaint and all other required documents are complete, your attorney will take them to the clerk of the court that will hear your lawsuit and file them, marking the start of your litigation.The court charges a filing fee to initiate a lawsuit, typically several hundred dollars. If you paid your attorney a retainer, these fees usually will be deducted from that. You also may make arrangements to pay the filing fee separately.
The original complaint and other documents will be filed with the court. You'll get a file-stamped copy for your records, and another copy will be served on the person you're suing.
Service typically is accomplished by having a sheriff's deputy or private process serving company hand-deliver the court documents to the other party. Once this is done, they will complete a proof of service form for the court.
 After the other party receives your summons and complaint, they have 30 days or less to file a written answer or other response, such as a motion to dismiss. If the deadline lapses and nothing is filed, you may be eligible to win by default.At this point, you probably have gone multiple rounds with the other party over these equipment lease violations, so don't expect them to simply ignore your lawsuit.
Usually you'll get an answer, served on your attorney, that denies most (if not all) of your allegations and includes a number of defenses and perhaps even counterclaims against you.
Your attorney will let you know if there are counterclaims to which you must respond.
 Once the complaint and the answer – known as the "pleadings" – are complete and filed with the court, the next stage of pretrial litigation begins with discovery, through which you and the other party can exchange information and documents related to your claims.Be prepared to receive a settlement offer at any time during pretrial litigation. The discovery phase in particular can take several months, and can be incredibly expensive.
As litigation begins to take its toll, the other party may be more open to settling the case so they can carry on with their business.

