 As a hardy perennial, it can handle the occasional drought, but that does not mean you should make a habit of forgetting about it. Once the top inch (2.5 centimeters) of soil feels dry, you can give the plant another watering.


Note that confederate jasmine grown in pots may need more watering than jasmine grown in your garden outdoors.
 If located indoors, you can shield the jasmine with sheer curtains. During the winter, you should allow the plant to soak in at least four hours of direct sunlight each day.


Indirect light is not necessary for jasmine planted outdoors, as long as the jasmine is planted in the ground. Soil dries faster inside a pot than it does in the ground. As a result, a potted jasmine indoors may struggle to retain enough water if kept out in direct sunlight for an extended period of time, while a garden jasmine can stay out in direct sun for several hours without suffering damage.
 If planted in a pot indoors, you should strive to maintain a daytime temperature of 68 to 72 degrees Fahrenheit (20 to 22 degrees Celsius) and a nighttime temperature of 50 to 55 degrees Fahrenheit (10 to 13 degrees Celsius).
 Use a balanced, water soluble fertilizer, and apply it after you water the plant. If the leaves start to yellow later in the growing season, you may need to apply more fertilizer.
 Use twine or yarn. Training the vines to climb will maximize growth.
 Remove the bud at the end of the vine by pinching it out with your fingers or by snipping it off with a pair of garden shears. Doing so stimulates branching and results in fuller plants. The energy inside the plant will be guided away from the single flower bud and redirected toward side shoots, instead.
 Cut the stem off above the node. Regular pruning can be done to cut the plant back, but occasional pruning can actually stimulate further growth in the same manner that pinching the buds back can. Failing to prune your jasmine may cause it to grow wildly, causing it to overflow and get out of control. Pruning allows you to control the direction of the spread.


These cuttings can also be used to propagate more confederate jasmine plants, if desired.

