 Look in tall grass as they are most often found there, or look for young grasshoppers wherever there are small and tender leaves.;
, The container should be at least six inches tall, four inches wide and see-through. Poke small holes near the top of the container and in the lid to allow your grasshoppers to breathe.
 Add dirt or sand to cover the bottom, then add bits of grass, leaves, little slices of vegetables, and other natural objects. Make sure that they fit in the container and are not too big.


You may also want to add a wood block or some twigs.
 When you're catching them, make sure the lid is a little loose so that you can get it on and off quickly, before the grasshoppers have a chance to escape.
, Find a male and female grasshopper, and put them in the container together. Make sure the cage is small enough that they'll find each other. Make sure you have enough food for both of them as they won't breed if they're hungry.


Remember that females have two little hooks near the end of their body, but males don't.
 Keep female grasshoppers alone in a separate container for a week or two after breeding. You can tell a female grasshopper is gravid (pregnant) when her abdomen is larger than usual. Try to have less water in the soil that you provided in her cage, as grasshoppers lay their eggs in the soil. After breeding her, or catching an adult female grasshoppers from the wild, try to watch her often and find out where she laid the eggs. She should lay about 20-160 young, preferably about 80 though. If you don't want to keep her offspring, simply release them into the wild.
 Young grasshoppers are small and eat less, but putting too many may cause fighting over food and sometimes cannibalism due to lack of vegetation. With adult grasshoppers, putting more than one in a cage can cause them to become locusts. ONLY put more than one grasshopper in a cage if breeding them.
 For younger hoppers, make sure you add tender leaves. You can also try to grow grasses or small weeds in the container to provide your hoppers with a constant source of food.
 Do not add too much water.


If the female grasshopper is pregnant, she will lay her eggs at the bottom in the dirt/sand.
 A small spray bottle can be used instead of sprinkling the water.

