 The dynamic of driving in reverse is quite different than that of normal driving because the wheels you turn to steer are at the front of the car. As you back up, make small adjustments by turning the wheel in the direction you want the back of the car to turn toward.Turning the wheel to the left as you back up will cause the back of the car to go left and vice versa.
Stop the car if you feel uneasy about the direction it is heading, then set off again once you’ve gained control.
 As you turn the vehicle, the front end of the car will swing in the opposite direction the back end is turning. Check the area around the front of the car frequently as you back up slowly to ensure you don’t hit or run over anything with the front wheels.If you are turning left as you back up, the front of the car will swing to the right, and vice versa.
Make sure you are going slowly enough that you can check the front of the car for clearance without hitting anything.
 If you are backing up a hill or need to turn, you may need to utilize the gas pedal occasionally while backing up. Once your right foot is completely off of the brake, move it over the gas pedal to the right of the brake. Press down on the pedal slowly to control the amount of speed you pick up as you back up.Make subtle adjustments to your speed by applying pressure to the gas pedal.
Bring your foot back to the brake once you have gained sufficient speed or if you need to slow back down.
 If you need to turn around an obstacle while backing up, you may want to use both hands to manipulate the steering wheel. Using one hand, you can usually only turn the wheel up to ninety degrees in each direction, so if you need to take a steeper turn, using both hands may help. Make sure that you can still see behind you as you place your right hand back on the wheel if you need to.Never cross your hands over one another while turning the wheel. Instead push the wheel with one hand and pull it with the other.
 Backing up can feel quite different than driving forward, and your view is often compromised by the back of the car and a limited view out of your window. Do not hurry yourself while backing up and instead take your time to prevent accidents.Never drive your vehicle in a manner that feels unsafe.
Feel free to stop the vehicle and take a minute if you feel uncertain about what you’re doing.
 When you’ve backed up far enough, press your foot back down on the brake pedal gradually to come to a smooth stop. Be careful not to apply too much pressure too quickly, or you will stop the vehicle abruptly.Use only your right foot to apply the brakes in your vehicle.
Keep your foot pressed on the brake once the vehicle has stopped.
 With your foot firmly on the brake pedal, press the button the shift lever in automatic vehicles and press it forward until it is aligned with the “P” that indicates that it is in park. In standard transmission equipped vehicles, simply take the shift lever out of gear (in neutral) and apply the parking brake by pulling up on the handle or pressing down on the pedal.If you are unsure where to locate your parking brake or how to engage it, refer to the vehicle’s owner’s manual for guidance.

