 Quick scoping, on the other hand, does not require the need to look down the scoop.


The snipers will typically run around, with the sniper in hand, an attempt to kill you without looking down the scope.
 By looking down the scope for a split second, the gun becomes very accurate. By firing instantaneously, the bullet will be shot in the direction that it was pointed at, utilizing the full power of the sniper rifle. These are typically one-shot kills, which can be huge advantage in games such as search and destroy.
 The best class to use is a sniper rifle with either the Intervention or the Barrett 50 cal. The most used gun is the Intervention, though it is very possible to do with the Barrett 50 cal.


Make sure you have FMJ on it. It is necessary for you to get a one-shot kill, because you will likely be killed if you do not kill the other person in one shot. For this example, let's assume that you are going to be using the intervention with FMJ. Your secondary weapon can be whatever you choose. Typically you would use a handgun such as the M9.
 With quick scoping, there are a few essential perks that you need to have enabled.


The most important perk of all is sleight-of-hand. This will be in the first lot of the perks; it is essential for you to look down the barrel very quickly.
The second perk is entirely up to you, but one that is typically used is stopping power. Stopping power in combination with FMJ ensures a one-shot kill 80% of the time.
The third perk that you should consider using its steady aim. This can help hip-fire shooting, which may help your quick scoping efforts. Many people do not like to use this, but some do. If not, ninja is also a very good perk.



Most snipers who quick scope uses a throwing knife as their equipment. If they miss the first time with their intervention, the throwing knife can save your life very quickly. It is thrown almost instantaneously, and always a one-hit kill.
 What comes to your character sensitivity, it must be a balance between control and speed.


You want it fast enough for you have quick reactions toward people.
low enough to where you can control it in a matter that is very accurate.
When not quick scoping, some keep their sensitivity set on insane, but when quick scoping it is usually set it one notch higher than the "high" setting. Some find this a great balance between the two problems, and perfect for quick scoping.

