   Whenever you make changes in your life you will have to deal with the pros and cons. You might need to leave friends or family behind while you strive to achieve your freedom. You might have some hard times and emotional struggles but in the end freedom is worth the cost.;
, It might be people who play a big role in your life, your family, teachers, boss, etc. An atheist may feel trapped if their family is strictly catholic, students often feel stuck when their grades start falling. These are examples of stressful social situations. If you cannot create peace with a person or group of people, move on without them.
 Introduce yourself to that one girl you always see smiling and opening doors for others, start hanging out with people you trust, and in return be a good friend as well. Even if you don't have a lot of common interests its good to have at least a few really compassionate people around in case you need a friend.
 Even if it sounds like something a mother might say to her child, people with manners really do go farther in life. Plus if you make someone else smile, chances are you will smile as well. Showing good manners also make for great first impressions and will make people less shy to introduce themselves to you.
 And when I say happy, I also mean inspired, comforted, or at peace. Find at least three things that make you smile and try to surround yourself with those things. If animals make you happy, get some pictures of animals and put a bird feeder in your yard. If you're a band geek put up posters and quotes from your favorite artists. Also make sure you have something to play your music. Be creative and unique.
 Hobbies are the best when you are the only one you know who does that hobby. Start hula hopping or recycling things to can find at garage sales. Keep a journal that you write one sentence in every hour on the hour, first thing that pops into your head. Do something worth having a conversation about.
 A lot of people feel stressed out about their job or wish they could be their own boss: and you can! Either getting a new job with a friendly manager or becoming self-employed can help make work less taxing on your happiness.
 Maybe the reason you feel trapped is because you have so many responsibilities and obligations that you can barely keep up with your life. Its healthy to keep busy but remember to make time for yourself.
 Do something you never thought you would be able to do. Do something you can be proud of. Call up that pretty girl you met the other day and ask her out, start eating healthy, face your fears. Make small, achievable goals and then just make them a little harder every time. You will be shocked at what you can accomplish.

