 If you can’t get a loan modification or a short sale, your best option for keeping your home is most likely filing for bankruptcy. There are two types of bankruptcy protection available to homeowners, Chapter 7 and Chapter 13. Both types allow the filer to keep their homes. While the details of bankruptcy law are too vast to tackle here, these are the very basic differences between Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 bankruptcy:Chapter 7 bankruptcy is subject to a means test. It is typically reserved for debtors who have little income and assets. Unsecured debts (debts not backed by collateral, like a house or a car) are discharged under Chapter 7. A Chapter 7 bankruptcy stays on your credit report for ten years.Chapter 13 bankruptcy is usually reserved for debtors with higher incomes and greater assets. Under Chapter 13, the debtor's unsecured debts are consolidated. The lenders and the debtor work out a payment plan which lasts from three to five years, paid to a trustee who distributes and transfers the payments to your creditors. A Chapter 13 bankruptcy stays on your credit history for seven years.
Bankruptcy does not keep a secured lender from recovering pledged property, but adds more time to the process. This allows you more timed to work out your finances and find a solution with your lender.
Bankruptcy can remove the liability to pay a deficit, but does not guarantee that you will get to keep the house.
The only way to keep the house is to work out a way to stay current on your payments to the bank.However, bankruptcy and elimination of other debt may allow you to maintain your mortgage by reinstating it.
 If you can’t agree to a short sale, a work out, and are ineligible for HAMP or HAFA, you can approach your lender about turning over the deed to the home in lieu of foreclosure. This is exactly what is sounds like—you give up the home and the bank agrees not to foreclose. However, you should consider this as one of your last resorts. The lender can still hold you liable for the deficiency, which is the difference between what the lender was able to sell the property for and the remaining value on your mortgage., While a foreclosure is a serious event with lasting financial and psychological consequences, it isn’t the end of the world, even if it may feel like it. Even if foreclosure is inevitable, you’ll still have time to make new living arrangements.The lender has to give you a notice of foreclosure at least thirty days in advance of the auction, and even if they sell the home at auction, they will still have to go through the formal eviction process in order to remove you from your home.
At their quickest, an eviction will usually take another thirty days, meaning you’ll have two months to find new lodging from the thirty days’ notice of foreclosure the lender gives you.

