 In order to restore your Android's photos and contacts, you'll have to download and install a data recovery program.


If you have used your Android at all since the factory reset, you won't get all of your previous data back. This is because data recovery programs restore temporary files from your SD card; these files will be overwritten if you use your Android post-reset.
 Some of the best-reviewed programs available for both Mac and PC include the following:"MobiKin Doctor", which offers a free trial to help you recover your contacts, photos, text messages, and so on.
"FonePaw Android Data Recovery", which also recovers contacts and photos; it is free to use initially, or you can purchase it.
 If your browser asks you to pick a download location, choose somewhere easy to access--the desktop, for example--before downloading.


Make sure you're downloading your software directly from its parent site; as a general rule, you should refrain from downloading from third-party sites.
 This will begin installing your preferred data recovery suite. The installation process for each data recovery program will vary, so be sure to read your program's setup instructions carefully and follow the directions on your screen.
 Once you finish installing your program, you'll need to open it before proceeding with the restoration process.


Depending on your installation preferences, your program may open directly after completing its setup.
 This should be the same cable you use to charge your phone.


Your Android will need to be on in order for your program to accurately scan it.
 Generally speaking, you will have to click a variation of "Start" on your program's interface, then tap "Allow" on your Android to enable the program to scan your phone.Most programs, including the ones listed above, will also give you the option of restoring certain aspects of your phone (for example, you can select "Photos" and "Contacts" but leave out "SMS Messages" if you please).
 You'll need to make sure the restoration was effective before you exit your program.
 Your photos, contacts, and other data should have been restored!


If you used your Android after the reset but before restoring your data, you may not see all of your preferred data here.

