;
,


Use an extra bedroom or office space for your business. If you do not have an entire room to dedicate to your business, find a corner in another room that can accommodate your desk, computer and other professional needs.
 There are several different certifications that can be achieved.


Study the requirements for each level of certification and decide which one is appropriate for you. The most common certifications are Certified Professional Resume Writer (CPRW) and Master Resume Writer (MRW).
Take continuing education classes to continue attaining certifications. The credentials will help you find clients and jobs.
 You will need to have some resumes that you can share with potential clients as examples of your work.


Write your own resume. You might want to do several versions, which can demonstrate your ability to write simple and complex resumes.
Write resumes for friends, family members and colleagues. This will give you practice and help you build your portfolio.
Put together a portfolio. You should have a digital resume portfolio as well as a printed version so you can email samples of your work when requested.
 Register yourself as a small business, and check with your Secretary of State about any licenses or registrations you need to have. The regulations are different in every state.
 Promote yourself and your business.


Create a website. You can explain your services and your rates, and give potential clients information about you and your professional background. You can also share relevant information that job seekers might find interesting and helpful.
Partner with local staffing agencies. Most of them will have a clientele of people who are seeking jobs. They might be willing to refer people to you if they need help with resumes.
Create inexpensive marketing materials such as business cards and postcards. Drop these off with colleges and trade schools in your area. Plenty of job-seekers graduate every year and may need help with their resumes.
 Thanks to email and video chat, you can write resumes from home for anyone around the world.
 Two good ones are the National Resume Writers' Association and the Professional Association of Resume Writers and Career Coaches.


Use all of the resources these associations provide. For example, the National Resume Writers' Association keeps a database of its members and their information for when people contact them looking for a resume writer.

