 Deciding to lose weight and choosing to live a healthy lifestyle can seem like a daunting task to some. When a loved one commits to these goals, be encouraging every step of the way. If your loved one is struggling, remain positive and be their cheerleader.


Make sure their efforts don’t go unnoticed. You may say to your loved one, “I am really proud of you for committing to exercising and eating healthy. You’re doing a great job!”
Do not judge your loved one for their choice to make a change. Even if the change is not one you want to make yourself, help them by validating their decision.;
, If your loved one does not meet a weight-loss goal or cheated and enjoyed a high-calorie meal, try to shift their focus to help them stay on track. Do not bring up the setbacks or ask how the setback happened. Remind them of their efforts, big or small, to help them refocus and stay on track.For example, you might say “I think it’s really great that you have been going to a Zumba class twice a week. That is an intense but fun work out!” Remind them of their accomplishments in a positive, supportive way.
 It is okay to ask your loved one about their progress, but avoid doing so incessantly. Your loved one may feel as though they are being pestered, and they may feel less inspired to continue to lose weight and exercise.Plan to ask how it is going every few weeks to remind them that you remember that they are making significant lifestyle changes. If and when they are ready, your loved one will share their progress with you.
 When your loved one discusses setbacks or hurdles, don’t reprimand them. Criticizing their stumble will only add to their guilt, and it may make them less likely to turn look to your for support in the future.


For example, if they confess that they ate the breakfast pastries at work, don’t ask questions like “Why did you do that?” or “How many calories was that?” If they ask for advice, suggest that they bring in a piece of fruit or a low-sugar yogurt into the office for a morning snack to avoid temptations next time.
 Sometimes the most helpful thing you can do for your loved one is to listen to them. Be present in the conversation, and acknowledge the ups and downs. Your support and empathy may be just what your loved one needs.


When your loved one is frustrated, let them vent and empathize with them. When they are happy, let them talk about how good it feels to finish a workout routine or how great it is to have more energy., Using fear to encourage your loved one to stay on track can be counterproductive. Instead of promoting a healthy lifestyle, you may cause your loved one to become defiant and angry.Don’t remind your loved one that being overweight or obese can lead to a variety of health issues, including heart disease, diabetes, and cancer.
 Sometimes meeting weight-loss goals can cause a person to feel like they have to give up things that they love and enjoy. Remind them that their time spent with friends and family does not have to be pushed to the side. A person can still lead a healthy lifestyle and enjoy social, fun activities.


If the two of you used to meet up for an after-work cocktail or go for ice cream on Sundays, suggest that you go bowling, play pool, or take an art class instead., Instead of sending a box of tempting chocolates for Valentine’s Day or baking sugary cupcakes for your loved one’s birthday, give them a healthy gift like a fruit basket instead.Having healthy options around the holidays and other celebrations can help them stay on track and reach their weight-loss goals.


If they love to take yoga or cardio classes, give them a gift certificate for their favorite studio.
Enroll your loved one in a local farm-share program so they can have fresh vegetables delivered to their home each month.
Do not tempt your love one. You may always bring them a cake or pie for a holiday, but if you know they are implementing a healthier lifestyle, ask them about healthier alternatives that they would enjoy.
 Plan to celebrate with your loved one as they progress and achieve their weight-loss goals. Choose a way to celebrate that does not involve indulging in a calorie-dense meal or grabbing sugary after-work drinks. Demonstrate that celebrations can be healthy and unique, and they do not need to be about indulgence or reverting back to unhealthy habits.


When they lose 10 pounds, for example, offer to take them for a game of golf or relax at a nail salon instead of taking them out to their favorite pizza place or ice cream parlor.
When your loved one reaches a larger goal, offer to take them rock climbing, zip-lining, or hiking in a nearby park.
 Leading a healthy lifestyle benefits both your mind and body, and it can be a positive influence those around you. Eat fresh fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, and whole grains. Aim to exercise for 150 minutes each week to boost your heart rate, strengthen your muscles, and burn calories.Leading by example is a great way to influence your loved ones and inspire them to improve their overall health.
 Social support has been shown to help individuals lose weight.If your spouse or another loved one who you live with is trying to lose weight, consider joining the program, too. If you are both working toward a common goal and sticking to a dieting and exercise routine, it will be easier to stay focused and motivated.


If you are both cutting out junk food and sweets, for example, those temptations won’t be stocked in your food pantry at home, which will make the program easier for both of you.
 Consider going to a work-out class with them, or offer to cook a healthy dinner with them once a week. Joining in on their efforts will help your loved one feel supported, and it may inspire them to increase their healthy lifestyle choices if they have someone to join them from time to time.Tell your loved one that you signed up for a 5K walk or race and ask if they would like to join, or suggest that they two of you find a nice walking trail in your neighborhood or local park.