 If you have adopted a child from outside of the United States, you will need to get him a social security number by applying to the Social Security Office.Download and print Form SS-5 from the Social Security Administration’s website.
 To fill out this application, you will be required to provide information about the parents of the child (social security number, address, and phone number).
 You will need to show some proof of the child’s identity when applying for a Social Security Number. You can use one of the following documents for this purpose:An adoption record
A United States Department of Homeland Security immigration document
Hospital or doctor records
Daycare or school records
Religious records (such as a baptismal record)

, For an adopted child, you will also need an original copy of your child’s foreign or U.S. birth certificate and adoption decree. This will attest to the child’s age.
 The most common documents used to prove identity are a U.S. driver's license, a state-issued identification card or a U.S. passport.


If these documents are not available, you may use an employee identification card, a school identification card, a marriage document, adoption decree, life insurance policy or a U.S. military identification card.
The identification document needs to have a recent photograph of the parent.
 You must submit your application in person. Find your local Social Security Office by visiting the Social Security Administration website or calling 1-800-772-1213.


Be sure to check the hours for the office. They may have limited hours on certain days of the week.
 Take the SS-5 form and all necessary documents to the proper Social Security office.
 If you are in the middle of an international adoption, you do not need to have your child’s Certificate of Citizenship in order to obtain a Social Security Number. You must, however, provide this document to the Social Security Administration when you receive it.


It may be more convenient to wait to apply for a Social Security Number until you receive your child’s Certificate of Citizenship. If your taxes are due, however, it might make sense to apply immediately for the Social Security Number. Remember to show the Certificate of Citizenship to the Social Security Office when you receive it.
 Once the Social Security Administration processes your application, you will be issued a new card. It will be sent to your house in the mail.

