 If you have tested your soil and found that it is too acidic, you can raise the pH by adding a base. The most common materials used to increase the pH of soil are compounds made from powdered limestone, or lime, which you can find at most home and garden store. Standard lime comes in four types: pulverized, hydrated, granules and pellets. Depending on your soil type and the amount of moisture in the ground, one of these compounds may be a good option.Pulverized lime is finely ground and more easily absorbed by the soil. However, it is more difficult to spread because it can clog the applicator.
Granular and pelletized lime are easier to spread. However, it is not as effective at altering the soil pH.
Hydrated lime should only be used with extremely acidic soils since it is more water soluble and can quickly increase a soil’s pH.
Some lime sources contain micronutrients like dolomite, which is a mixture of calcium and magnesium carbonates. However, you should only use dolomitic lime if your soil is magnesium deficient. Do not add more magnesium to soils that are already high in it., The ash of burned trees is also quite basic and can add micronutrients like calcium, potassium, phosphate, and boron. Wood ash is not as effective as lime. However, it can dramatically increase a soil’s pH over time. Because of this, you should monitor the soil closely as you apply wood ash.Keep the ash from coming into contact with any plant roots or germinating seedlings because it may damage them.
Wood ash works well in sandy soil.
 In order to get the best results, you will want to till the liming material into the soil about two to three months before planting (usually in the fall or winter) so that there is plenty of time for the pH to change. The lime should be tilled into the soil’s the root zone or the top 7 inches (18 cm) of soil.You can apply the lime by hand if you have a small enough piece of land. You can also use a spreader to apply liming material to a yard.
You can use a rake or a rototiller to work the liming material into the soil.
Because lime is not very water soluble, tilling it into the soil will maximize its effect.
 Lime will have little effect on dry soils, so you will need to apply water regularly. Water activates the lime and helps it seep into the soil. Use a garden hose or sprinkler to apply water.How often you water the soil depends on the size of the plot of land and the amount of moisture already in the soil. Too much watering can leech other minerals out of the soil.

