 Because your bangs will be straight across, you won't need to part your hair to one side as you usually do. Take a comb and place the tip of it an inch or two above your hairline, in the center of your head. You may need to go a bit further back, such as one inch or even to the high, flat part of your head where a comb will balance. Then, draw a downward diagonal line from the center of your head to the end of your eyebrow. Make sure that this is before the recession area where your hair drops down along the side of your head. Then, repeat on the other side. Pull your bangs section towards the middle to separate it from the rest of your hair.After you've done this, you should have a triangle-like shape with the point a few inches above your hair line and the sides of the triangle coming down along the sides of your forehead.
Once you've created a part, you'll want to comb your bangs forward and then pin the rest of your hair back or put it in a ponytail to keep it out of your face.;
, If this is your first time cutting your bangs, it might be a good idea to keep your hair dry so you can cut it the exact length that you want it, but if you are just trimming your bangs, it could be good to spritz some water onto them so your hair is going in the right direction and lying flat on your forehead.








You can also try using a flat iron on your bangs to make them straight. It's important that your bangs don't have any wave to them, because you want to be able to get them as even as possible on your forehead.
Keep in mind that doing this with dry hair will be more accurate, but it may also be more difficult. Mist your hair all over with water to get the best results.
 Straight bangs can come in all different styles, so you'll want to figure out exactly how you want them to look before you cut them. Some people like their bangs to go straight across their forehead above their eyebrows for an edgier look, and others like longer bangs that angle down as they meet with the rest of their hair.
 Taking the hair you've gathered between your pointer finger and middle finger, create a straight line that is even with the tip of your nose. Your bangs will not end up this long, as they would cover your eyes, but this will be a good starting point so you don't have to make a perfect cut right away. Cut the hair below your fingers, but make sure you only cut the hair that is pinched between the front part of your fingers.









You can also use tape to create a straight cut. Place a piece of tape along your bangs, and cut a straight line below the tape at the desired length for your bangs.This is an excellent technique to ensure a straight line. Getting a straight line free hand requires very precise cutting and very sharp shears, so you may end up with a crooked line by doing a free hand cut.
Continue to cut your bangs in 1/4 inch increments until they are your desired length. If your bangs are wet make sure you leave 1/2 inch extra length on them, because when they dry they will shrink up.
If you want to angle your bangs downward at the ends, cut straight across from the middle of one eye to the middle of the opposite eye. Then, once you've reached that point, begin to cut at a downward angle. Then repeat on the other eye, cutting at a downward angle until you've reached the rest of your hair. You can cut a very steep angle, or you can cut a slight angle in your hair -- it all depends on how dramatic you want the diagonal of your bangs to be.Sometimes it helps to take your bangs and twist them once in your fingers, and then cut the straight line. This just pushes the hair tighter together, so you can just make one or two cuts. It also creates a small arch in your bangs, making them shorter in the front and longer on the sides.Make sure to cross check the length before you finish cutting. Check in the mirror and by placing strands of hair side by side to see if they are even.
 Once you have your bangs at the desired length, you'll want to make them look more natural (unless you are going for blunt bangs, in which case you may want a very straight line across your bangs). Take your scissors and make small snips at the tips of your bangs, making sure the scissors are parallel to the strands in your hair.
 Straight bangs usually need more attention, so you may have to straighten them or blow dry them every time you style your hair. If using a blow dryer, grab a round brush and pull bangs from underneath, up at the roots toward the ceiling. Then, once or twice pull your round brush underneath your bangs, from the roots of your bangs to the tips, in an arching motion to create volume. You can also do this same motion with a flat iron.

