 If your boss has warned you about your work output or other job-related behaviors, you might soon require new employment. For instance, your boss might say, “You need to shape up or you’ll be out of a job” or “Your coworkers are reporting problems. Get your act together,” you can be pretty sure that your career outlook is poor. Warnings might also be written. For example, you might receive a memo or email that reads, “This is a warning that if things continue as they presently are, you will be fired.”


If you receive a warning, take the action that your boss recommends in order to avoid being fired. If your boss does not recommend a particular course of action, ask them directly, “What can I do to correct the behavior you’ve warned me about?”

, If you’ve had a poor performance review, management can use it to fire you. The likelihood of being fired increases with the number of poor consecutive performance reviews you receive.You might be able to correct your performance after a poor performance review. If management gives you pointers about how to life your performance levels after the first bad review, act on the advice to improve your performance during the next review.
Management may indicate that your performance is poor by saying things like:

“You’re not a team player.”
“You have a poor attitude.”
”We do not have space for someone with your personality.”



, For instance, if your boss says, “You’ve really embarrassed the company” or “Your mistakes cost us big time,” you’ll likely be given the boot soon.If you cost the company financially, you might be able to help your company see the positives of the situation in order to avoid being fired. For instance, if your prototype rocket engine blew up on the launchpad but the research that went into it led to multiple new patents, you might be able to point to these financial gains to balance the loss of the actual prototype.
 If you have too many bad performance reviews – or even a private meeting with your boss – and you hear that “You’re not a good fit for this company” or “Your performance is consistently not meeting company standards,” you are probably being fired. Typically, there is no way to avoid losing your job in this situation.However, you could ask your boss if there is a way to correct the problem they see. Ask your boss, for instance, “Is there anything I can do to better meet company standards?”
They will probably say there is nothing to be done, but they might offer some pointers and put you on a probation period. In this case, take seriously the advice they’ve offered and work to incorporate it into the way you do your job.

