 One of the most important ways to take care of your skin is to protect it from the sun. A lifetime of sun exposure can cause wrinkles, age spots and other skin problems — as well as increase the risk of skin cancer.For the most complete sun protection:


Use sunscreen. Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 15. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply every two hours—or more often if you're swimming or perspiring.
Seek shade. Avoid the sun between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., when the sun's rays are strongest.
Wear protective clothing. Cover your skin with tightly woven long-sleeved shirts, long pants and wide-brimmed hats. Also consider laundry additives, which give clothing an additional layer of ultraviolet protection for a certain number of washings, or special sun-protective clothing—which is specifically designed to block ultraviolet rays.
 Hair oils, facial oils, saliva, dandruff, dirt, and bacteria tend to settle on pillowcases, especially when you are using them heavily. These contaminants rub onto your face during the night, and the bacteria can cause your face to break out. It should be sufficient to change your pillowcase every 3-4 nights, although some people suggest that you change it every other night—or even nightly.Keep a few extra pillowcases on hand so that you don't need to do laundry just to keep your pillow fresh.
If you don't want to replace your pillowcase so often, try covering your pillow with a clean towel when you sleep. This way, you can preserve your pillowcase, but also protect your face.
 If you sleep in a supine position, your face may be less likely to rub against your pillowcase. This may help prevent dark circles, and it may keep your face from absorbing the bacteria that congregate there.
 Smoking makes your skin look older and contributes to wrinkles. Smoking narrows the tiny blood vessels in the outermost layers of skin, which decreases blood flow. This depletes the skin of oxygen and nutrients that are important to skin health., A healthy diet can help you look and feel your best. Eat plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains and lean proteins. The association between diet and acne isn't clear, However, some research suggests that a diet rich in vitamin C—and low in unhealthy fats and processed or refined carbohydrates—might promote younger-looking skin.Avoid oily or fried foods. Excessive consumption of salts and fats can cause fat to build up on your face, a can cause spots, zits and painful pimples. To have a healthy face you need a healthy system and this can disrupt it very badly.
 Drink two liters a day, or as much as possible. Water will help ease the stress put on your liver, which is directly related to how your skin regulates itself. It will also keep you hydrated, making your skin less likely to dry out.
 Uncontrolled stress can make your skin more sensitive and trigger acne breakouts and other skin problems.To encourage healthy skin—and a healthy state of mind—take steps to manage your stress. Set reasonable limits, scale back your to-do list, and make time to do the things you enjoy. The results might be more dramatic than you expect.


Try some deep breathing exercises or have a nice relaxing bath. Find the time and space to center yourself.

