 By documenting outrageous outbursts or requests, you have some track record to refer to if you’re ever in a position to defend yourself or to file a complaint against your boss. Keep all emails or memos from your boss which document their overbearing management.


Keep a tape recorder or smartphone handy. No boss likes to have bad behavior on record. Just say, “You don’t mind if I record this so we have an accurate record of what’s being said, do you?”
If your boss’s tyrannical behavior continues, you can show this list of their behavior to HR or to a senior manager in the company.
Some states require both parties to consent to recording while others do not. Make sure to check the laws in your state if you think you may need to use the recordings for proof of your boss's behavior., It will benefit you to have a support team in the office, and odds are that you are not the only employee who has run across your boss’s tyrannical behavior. Identify other employees who seem to catch the brunt of your boss’s actions and support each other.If you have a mentor at your company, honest discussions with them may help provide support for you during your boss’s reign.However, be cautious about who you choose to confide in about your boss. Some employees looking for the next step up the ladder of success may use your negative comments against you.
 If your boss’s tyrannical, oppressive behavior does not improve and they are not willing to listen to your appeals, it’s time to talk to HR. Give the HR representative a thorough list of your boss’s objectionable behaviors, and see if there’s any way they can help you.If you’re concerned that HR may not see your side of the problem, explain to them that your boss’s tyrannical behavior cuts down on your productivity and performance.Never tolerate cases of belittlement, sexual harassment, or sexist or racist treatment in the office. Report these incidents to HR immediately.
 Keep a positive attitude and remind yourself that your boss is the one who has the problem. Don’t allow your boss dampen your good spirits or make you feel bad about yourself.


Also pass this positivity on to your boss. Flag your successes at work and let your boss know, so they can be aware of your productivity.No boss or job is worth losing mental health or self-esteem over.

