 Anywhere between eight to 15 cups of water per day is recommended, depending upon your activity level and other factors such as your body weight and exposure to the sun or warm temperatures. Aim to consume at least eight cups of water each day Unless otherwise advised by a medical professional.;
, If drinking enough water is a challenge for you, spreading it out throughout the day can make it easier for your system to handle. Carry a water bottle with you during your work day, or have a glass of water beside you when you are relaxing at home. If you keep it in close proximity, you will be more likely to sip on it throughout the day. Before you know it, you will be on your way to reaching your hydration goals.


Note that even when you don't feel thirsty, it is important to keep your fluids up.
Also, just because it is cold does not mean that you don't need additional fluids — exertion, fierce weather, dryness, etc., can all contribute to becoming dehydrated.
If you experience thirst that is unsatisfied by drinking fluids, this may indicate an underlying condition, such as diabetes, or you may be experiencing thirst as a side effect of medication. Talk to your doctor if you are experiencing these issues.
 Many people underestimate the amount of fluid lost in sweat when they go to the gym or do another form of exercise. It is recommended to drink one to three cups of water prior to beginning your exercise routine, and to carry a water bottle with you as you work out. You can substitute water with a sports drink to replenish your electrolytes (which include salt) as well, as you also lose salt when you sweat (and many sports drinks contain calories that will fuel you to perform better during a tough workout).


For endurance sports, an electrolyte beverage is key as salt is vital to your body's ability to absorb water.For shorter workouts, regular water should suffice.
 The more time you spend in hot weather, the greater your body's need for fluid replenishment will be.To stay hydrated in the hot weather, carry fluids with you. If at all possible, schedule your outdoor activities for the early mornings or the late afternoons when the sun is less strong, as this will decrease your rate of dehydration.


If you work out outdoors and also live in a place with a hot climate, you may choose to do workouts at times of the day when it is cooler out. This will make it easier for you to maintain adequate hydration without having to consume huge volumes of fluid.
 Often when people are sick, they turn to sodas such as ginger ale to settle their stomach. These, however, are an ineffective choice if you are trying to combat dehydration. This is because they contain too much sugar and too little sodium to replenish electrolytes.Alcohol is a diuretic, meaning it increases fluid loss from the body — you may urinate more fluids than you actually drink. The headache you feel when you're hungover is a direct result of dehydration. If you're drying to hydrate, avoid alcohol.Caffeinated beverages have a mild diuretic property. While this should not cause dehydration, if you are trying to hydrate your body, caffeinated beverages are not the most effective choice. Stick with straight water instead., On the other hand, frequent light-colored urine is a sign that your body is well-hydrated. Don't be afraid to check in the toilet as it is actually one of the more effective ways to evaluate your body's hydration status.

