 The idea here is to use similar colors to tone down your colored jeans without becoming too monochromatic in the process.


Pastel jeans have a softer effect that is more suitable for this subtle look. Go for colors like baby blue, buttercup yellow, or light pink, or lavender.
 You can either choose a deeper shade of the same hue or a different hue that lies next to or near the color of your jeans on the color wheel.


For instance, use deep violet with a lavender jean or navy blue with baby blue.
Similar shades, like pink and purple, can be used together, too. A light pink jean would work well with a dark violet blouse.
For this style, you can use either soft patterns—like small floral print—or solid colors.
 Something feminine without a great deal of detail will often work best, especially a flat or ankle boot.


Consider a shoe in a neutral color like black, gray, or dark brown.
You could also use a shade that closely matches the hue of your top. If you have lavender jeans and a dark purple top, for example, you could opt for a grape-colored flat.
For a subtle hint of bling, you could also go for a metallic shoe. Choose a matte metallic over something too shiny or something decorated with sequins, though.
 While a jacket is only optional, nearly any style can work well with this look. Play with a variety of cardigans, leather jackets, denim jackets, light trench coats, and blazers until you find a look that appeals to you.


While the style depends on the cut of your top and your own personal preferences, you should play things fairly safe as far as the color goes. To prevent the possibility of clashing or making the outfit look too loud, choose a neutral color. Light neutrals, like white, cream, gray, and tan, are especially helpful in creating a soft appearance.
A white blazer would work well with lavender jeans and a dark purple blouse, or a gray trench coat can work with baby blue jeans and a navy blue sweater.
 Neutral accessories are the way to go for this look since they promote the overall subtle, mellow theme of the ensemble.


For jewelry, go with simple silver or gold chains and bangle bracelets.
Consider something like a tan or black leather purse as instead of a patterned bag.
 Most of your make-up should be fairly natural, but you can introduce a hint of your chosen color scheme with nail polish, lipstick, or eyeshadow. Only highlight one feature at a time, however; do not color your lips, eyes, and nails all at the same time.


If you decide to wear lavender jeans and a deep violet blouse, you could swipe lavender eyeshadow over your eyes. Alternatively, you could keep your eyes fairly subdued and go with a dark purple nail polish, instead.

