 As you work to get your extended family to accept your children, try to set up regular visits. Letting your family get used to your children and your situation may help. It may also help for your family to become more comfortable with you and your children.


Go visit them and invite them to your house for dinner. Go see them around the holidays, go to dinner, or invite them to take the kids to the park.
Invite them to the children’s performances, games, or activities. This helps you encourage them to become involved in the child’s life.
If your family is intolerant of your children or mean to them, protect your children by not taking them around your family members. You don't want to introduce your children to people who are going to treat them disrespectfully and hurt them.
 Help your family get used to the idea of your children by keeping them in the forefront of their minds. Interacting with your family may help remind them that your children are people and important.


Send new school pictures to them in the mail or tag them in pictures you post on social media.
Send Christmas cards and have your children make small cards to go in the envelope.
If your family is hurtful or cruel about your children, you may not want to send them anything or encourage your children to make things for them.
 When you are trying to get your extended family to accept your out of wedlock children, you should be patient. Give the relationship time to build and the extended family time to get used to your family situation.Changing their mind and gaining their acceptance won’t happen overnight.
 Some family members will eventually come around to your children. Others may never accept them. Your first priority is to protect your children. If the family members are not coming around after repeated efforts, stop trying to get them to accept them. Move on to protect you and your family.


This is especially important if your family members are harmful or hurtful towards your family. For example, they may yell slurs or call your children names, and that is unacceptable.
If these things happen, keep in mind that you were uncertain about the process when you started. Be proud of the efforts you have made and turn to supportive friends for comfort.

