 If you have a sewing machine, making fabric covers is a simple way to cover your notebooks. Pick one fabric for the cover and the another fabric for the flaps on the inside of the cover. You can choose a combination of a print and a solid color fabric, two print fabrics, or two different colored solid fabrics.


You should prewash your fabric to prevent it from shrinking. Iron the fabric before you use it as well.
You will need less fabric for the inside of the cover and more for the outside.
 Use a ruler or measuring tape to get the height and the width of your book for the big cover. To find the height, measure the height of the notebook and add an inch. To get the width, multiply the width of the front cover by two, then add the width of book's spine, and then add another inch.


For example, your height and width may be 8 (height)x 12 ½ (width of book spread open) inches, and then you would add another inch to have 9 x 13 ½ inches.
For the dimensions of the inside flaps, use the same cover dimension for the height, for my example it is 9 inches. To find the width, divide the width by 3. In my example, 13 ½ divided by 3 is 4.5 inches. My fabric will measure 9 x 4.5 inches.
 Using a pair of sharp scissors and a ruler, make a faint straight line on your fabric and cut out your fabric to size. You should cut out 2 larger pieces of fabric for the outside and inside and 2 smaller pieces of fabric for the inside flaps.
 Make a ¼ inch flap along one of the long sides of the inner fabric, and iron it down so that it is creased. Double the fabric, turning over the folded crease once more so that it has a second ¼ inch fold over the first fold. Create a crease on this double fold and then iron it down. Do this on both pieces of the flap fabric., On the inner side of the double fold, use your sewing machine and sew the flap down so that it is closed. At the top and bottom of your fabric back up your sewing machine and go back over the stitches to ensure the stitching does not come undone at the ends. Repeat the process with both pieces of fabric. , Lay out a piece of the bigger fabric with the print or color side facing up. Then place the smaller fabric flaps on top of the bigger fabric so that they are covering the right and left sides of the bigger fabric. The sewn sides of the flap fabrics should be facing in toward the center of the big fabric. Then place the last piece of big fabric on top of the three pieces of fabric with the print or color side facing down.


Pin the 4 fabric sheets together. To keep the fabric in place while you sew, pin about four pins on the bottom and top of the fabric and the three pins on the sides of the fabric.
 Leave a gap of an ¾ inch in the middle of the bottom or top of the cover so that you can turn the cover inside out once you have finished sewing.
 To round the corners, trim the sharp edges of the 4 corner edges off. Then flip the cover inside out. Make sure to get all of the corners all the way turned out.
 Iron the cover to flatten it, and then use your sewing machine to go back over the 4 sides of the cover. You can use a 3/8 inch inseam. This perimeter will close the ¾ inch gap you left, and give the cover a clean and finished style.

