 Nintendo makes it convenient by allowing you to remove all controls at once with the only a few taps.Go into the Parental Controls channel on the Wii U menu.
Enter your PIN.
On the Parental Control Settings menu, hit Delete All Settings. After the warning tap Delete to turn off all parental controls.
 The key here is the inquiry number generated when you indicate you don’t remember your password. You can use this number to generate a reset code that will allow you to change the password as follows.Click Wii Settings (the wrench icon) on the main menu.
Click Parental Controls and then Yes to change them.
When prompted for your password, tap I Forgot. Also tap I Forgot on the next page.
You will be given an eight digit inquiry number.
On your computer, go to this website.
Make sure the Current Date in Your Timezone entry matches the date on your Wii.
Enter your inquiry number in the space next to Confirmation Number and click Get Reset Code. You will be provided a 5-digit Reset Code.
On your Wii, click OK, and then enter the Reset Code and click OK.
Click Delete All Settings to remove the parental controls.
 Nintendo makes it convenient by allowing you to remove all controls at once with the only a few taps.Tap Systems Settings (the wrench icon) on the touch screen menu.
Tap Parental Controls > Change.
Enter your password and tap OK.
Tap Clear Settings on the Parental Controls main menu to delete all parental control settings. Tap Delete when prompted.
 The key here is the inquiry number generated when you indicate you don’t remember your password. You can use this number to generate a reset code that will allow you to change the password as follows.On your computer, go to homebrew-connection.org and download the 3DS Parental Tool.
On your 3DS, tap System Settings > Parental Controls.
Tap Forgot PIN and then I Forgot on the next page. You will be provided an inquiry number.
On your computer, open 3DS Parental Tool and enter the inquiry number.
Make sure the date matches the date on your 3DS and hit Get Key. You will be given a master key.
On your 3DS, tap OK. Enter the master key and tap OK again.
Tap Clear Settings and then Delete to delete all parental controls.
 The key here is the inquiry number generated when you indicate you don’t remember your password. You can use this number to generate a reset code that will allow you to change the password as follows.Tap System Settings (the wrench icon) on the touch screen menu.
Tap Parental Controls > Change.
When prompted for your password, tap I Forgot. Also tap I Forgot on the next page.
You will be given an eight digit inquiry number.
On your computer, go to this website.
Make sure the Current Date in Your Timezone entry matches the date on your 3DS or DSi.
Enter your inquiry number in the space next to Confirmation Number and click Get Reset Code. You will be provided a 5-digit Reset Code.
On your 3DS or DSi, tap OK, and then enter the Reset Code.
Tap Clear Settings to remove the parental controls.

