 You will need a comfortable place, where you won’t be interrupted in order to use automatic writing in a more spiritual way.You do not have to do this exercise for any particular amount of time, so there is no need to set a timer. However, some recommend setting aside 30-45 minutes to do your writing., Are you more comfortable writing with pen and paper, or do you prefer typing on a computer? This is completely based on your personal preference. While there are those that argue that it is best to use pen and paper,you should generally stick to what you are more comfortable doing.


If you’re not sure how you want to do it, try doing it both ways and choose whichever is more comfortable for you.
If you use a computer, use whatever word processor you most typically use (e.g. Microsoft Word, NotePad, TextEdit on Mac, etc.)

, Do your best to clear your mind of all thoughts, for example, about things you have to do later in the day, things you are worried about, etc.


If you are particularly stressed, upset, angry, or worried about something, then put off your session for another time. It will be difficult to clear your mind if you have a big issue you are focused on.
Take a few deep breaths, try focusing on the air going in and out of your nostrils, and how it feels. Is it cold going in and warm going out? Is it shallow or deep? Clearing your mind is a skill that you must practice. As you practice more, you will improve.
 This might be “spirit guides”, “angels”, or “my higher self”, for example. If you wish to do this, you can do it by praying to them or through meditation.Some suggest that this is a good idea, while other’s leave it out altogether. Do what feels right for you.
 Keeping your eyes closed will allow you to let your mind communicate more directly with your hand(s), and keep you from judging what is coming out on the paper or screen.


For this method, it is absolutely imperative that you have your eyes closed. If you feel afraid to close your eyes, then focus your eyes on the wall in front of you. Although you may end up with nothing more than marks on a page, you will improve with time. If the entity you are channeling wishes to write words and sentences, then they will do so.
 If you are using a computer, put your hands on the keyboard as though you were about to type something.
 Type, write, or draw whatever comes into your mind. If you are using paper, this may mean drawing symbols or doodles.


If you want to have questions answered when channeling entities, you can also do this. Begin by writing down the question you want answered, and then letting your hand freely guide you to the answer.Don’t try to interpret anything that you are drawing, writing, or typing as it is happening. Simply let it happen. Your mind may try to come back into control, but do your best to simply let the thoughts flow freely.Only you will be able to know when an automatic writing session is over. Keep going for as long as it feels comfortable, and stop if/when it begins to feel negative or uncomfortable., When you are finished with your session, take a few deep breaths to come back to yourself. If you wish, you can thank the entity you have channeled., At this point, you can see what has come out on the page/screen. Hopefully you find something that makes sense for you. If not, try not to worry. Put it away for the day, and try again tomorrow. This is a skill that takes a lot of practice.Remember that even if you are not able to achieve the result you desire, automatic writing is still great for strengthening your creativity.
 Over time, you may see patterns, ongoing messages or other connections that are worth piecing together.

