 Think about what brought you to confront your depression in the first place and what you had hoped to gain from managing your depression. If you see a therapist, you may have created goals together early in treatment. Go over those goals and see how you are doing.Ask yourself what you want to improve and how you will improve it.


For example, one of your goals may be to challenge negative thoughts. To achieve this goal, practice noticing your self talk and change the script from, “I’m worthless” to, “I have things to offer.” In a few weeks, see how your thoughts have changed or whether you need to change your plan.
Remember that working through depression is a process and you likely won’t achieve all of your goals right away. Be patient in experiencing results.;
, One way to measure the effectiveness of your plan is to notice how your symptoms have changed. If you take medication, notice if your mood has improved, you feel better able to cope with depression, or your concentration has improved. If you are in therapy, see whether your coping skills have helped you deal with depression more effectively. If you’ve created a plan on your own, ask how effectively your plan is in reducing your symptoms.


Don’t expect changes to occur right away, and don’t beat yourself up if you mess up. It takes time for symptoms to decrease. For example, antidepressant medication often takes several weeks, or as long as six months, to be effective or for you to notice an improvement., If your method of treating depression is only through medication, consider getting therapy as well. Medication can help relieve some symptoms, but is generally not intended for long-term use and can have side-effects.Medication is usually not enough to help you cope with depression. You also may benefit from learning and practicing skills that help you cope with symptoms as they occur. If you’re still struggling with symptoms of depression while only taking medications, it may be time to add therapy to your treatment.


For example, if you’re prone to turn to excessive drinking or shopping as a way to cope with unpleasant feelings, you may want to learn strategies for healthier coping. A therapist can help you build healthy skills to combat depression and help you work through feelings of depression.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has been shown to be an effective therapy technique in treating depression.
If after a few weeks you feel like you’re going nowhere in working with a therapist, you may want to reevaluate whether you want to see a different therapist or choose a different approach to treatment.
 Once you receive a diagnosis of depression, it’s important that you fully understand what depression is and what it means to have depression. When first diagnosed, someone from your treatment team (physician, psychologist/therapist, psychiatrist) should explain depression to you and how it may affect you. They should let you know about what to expect for treatment and engage you in the treatment process.If you don’t feel well-informed about your diagnosis and treatment process, start to ask some questions. Make sure you’re clear about what depression is, how it affects you, and how to treat it and prevent it. Ask your therapist first, as this is someone you likely see most frequently.
Ask, “Now that I know I have depression, what can I do to feel better? What helps other people with depression? How can I expect things to change?”

, You may have several professionals involved in your treatment. For example, you may see your primary care physician for initial treatment or for medication. You also may see a therapist, psychologist, and/or psychiatrist to assist you in your treatment. Use your treatment team to help guide you through treatment.Keep regular appointments with your treatment team. Many mental health clinics have professionals working together, so they can stay on top of your treatment and communicate about progress and changes. Call your insurance provider and local clinics to see what options are available to you.
Work with an integrative treatment team that functions together. That way, professionals can adjust your treatment as necessary. If your treatment team is not integrated, consider consenting to share information or switch to a mental health clinic that has integrative care.
 While it’s important to work with psychological experts, it’s also important to include your own expertise in treatment. Nobody knows how you experience depression the way you do, and no one can say how you respond to treatment better than you. You are a big part of treatment success, and it’s important for you to play an active role in your treatment.Show up to all of your appointments, ask questions when things are unclear, and don’t be afraid to say, “no” or “I’m unsure about this.” If something makes you uncomfortable (such as the suggestion to take antidepressant medication), make sure you talk about it with the professional and feel informed.
Healthcare professionals are experts in their field. Still, while it’s important to listen to professional advice and guidance, be sure to voice any concerns you may have or clarify anything you are unsure about.
 It’s common for people with depression to have problems with substance addiction.Substance abuse can involve gradually increasing how much of a potentially dangerous substance you consume, using drugs to escape stress and difficult situations, neglecting your responsibilities at home or work, and inadvertently causing a strain in your relationships.If you recognize that you have a problem with substances but cannot seem to break free, talk it over with your therapist. Address the abuse during treatment. Depending on severity, you may want to address your substance abuse first and attend rehabilitation.


If you’re struggling with addiction and not addressing it in treatment, bring this up with your therapist. Say, “I’m struggling with addiction, and it’s not helping me cope with depression. I need help.”

, Some people with depression feel so low, hopeless, and helpless that thoughts turn to suicide and ending the pain. Having depression (especially long-term and long-standing depression) places you at a higher risk for suicide.If you are actively suicidal, your depression management plan should address what to do, who to call, and how to prevent suicide. If you are suicidal and do not have a plan, discuss this with your therapist and treatment team.


Some antidepressant medication can increase suicidal thoughts and actions in certain people, especially children and young adults.If you feel suicidal while on medications, talk to your prescriber immediately. You can also call emergency services, reach out to a friend or family member, or call a suicide hotline. In the USA, call 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
Read How to Avoid Committing Suicide for more information.
 If you struggle with depression and another disorder (such as anxiety, PTSD, OCD, Autism, ADHD, etc.) make sure your treatment team is aware and able to help you treat whatever other disorder you have. It’s common for disorders to co-occur — having both anxiety and depression or ADHD and depression, for example. Treatment and management plans should focus on helping you cope with both disorders.It’s important for your treatment to address all aspects of mental health. Make sure you address all of your needs.
 Not every person copes with depression the same way. While there are ways that have been supported by research to ease depression, you may find that certain things help while other things do not help. Try different coping and management strategies until you find several that help you cope with depression.


While you may feel resistant to try techniques at first, try to be open and give them a real shot. Ask for variations from your therapist if you’re struggling to find things that work.
For example, your therapist may ask you to practice guided visualization as a way to cope with symptoms. If this works, that’s great! If it doesn’t work, bring this up with your therapist and try something new.
 Exercise is a great way to combat symptoms of depression — in fact, it has been shown to be as effective as some antidepressant medications.Even if exercise isn’t on your management plan, plenty of evidence suggests that exercise can improve your mood and improve even severe depression.If you exercise two days each week with your current management plan but are not feeling better, try gradually switching to three days each week of exercise and see if that helps you feel better. Try to work up to the recommended 150 minutes of moderate exercise each week (30 minutes 5 days a week).


Find a regular exercise program you can commit to for several days each week. You may want to play a sport, go to the gym, or take some dance classes. Try brisk walking, swimming, or even gardening.
Including exercise as part of your long-term management plan can help keep your body and emotions healthy. If exercise is not a part of your plan, discuss it with your provider.
 Part of taking care of your emotional health is taking care of your physical health. If you don’t get enough sleep, symptoms of depression may more easily creep in.You may notice shifts in your mood, be less able to handle stress, and not function well without proper sleep. With proper sleep, however, you are more likely to feel stable in your moods, concentrate better, and function properly.


Practice healthy habits (sleep hygiene) by prioritizing appropriate sleep each night (seven to nine hours each night).
Disruptions to sleep is a cardinal symptom of depression — you may find you experience insomnia (often a sign of severe depression) or that you are fatigued and sleeping too much (often a sign of atypical depression). Talk to your doctor if you are having difficulty sleeping.
 Eat regular meals throughout each day to help you balance your moods and sustain your energy. An improper diet can worsen symptoms of depression and increase mood swings. If you’re feeling drowsy, avoid reaching for the sugary foods and instead opt for complex carbohydrates like whole grains, beans, or green vegetables to give you sustained energy.Don’t let your physical health suffer when you feel depressed. Prioritize taking care of yourself and your body.
Try to eat four to five small meals spaced throughout the day. This can help keep your blood sugar level and reduce moodiness.
 Isolation can increase feelings of depression, helplessness, and distress. Even if you don’t feel like it, spend time with friends and family. Keep up with your loved ones and make time for them. You don’t have to do anything fancy, even a phone call is a good way to stay in touch.If you feel isolated or lonely, try volunteering. It’s a great way to help your community and make new friends. If working with people feels draining, consider volunteering at an animal shelter.
If you struggle to stay socially connected, ask a friend or family member to periodically check on you by making a phone call, stopping over, or sending a text to see how you’re doing.
You can also try meet ups, drop-in centers, or hotlines for social support.
 Depression often affects your thinking, which can affect your moods and behaviors. An adequate management plan will include tools to help you manage your negative thoughts. Perhaps you easily blame yourself for things going wrong, hold yourself in a low light, underestimate your abilities, or think of yourself as “not good enough.” If you fall into these thought pattern traps, it’s important to have a strategy to combat these patterns.Learn to challenge your negative thoughts. Bring your awareness to your thoughts, and ask yourself, “Is this true? Is this accurate? Is this fair?” Ask yourself what evidence you have that supports this thought and if you have evidence that disproves it.
If you notice a negative thought, stop yourself and observe it. Don’t give it any power (such as assessing it as true) and instead, just notice it and let it float away. Say, “This thought does not define me. It is just a thought.”
If thought management is not part of your plan, talk to your therapist about how to challenge negative thoughts.
 Stress can increase feelings of depression, so aim to cope with stress regularly. To lower your overall stress levels, practice something relaxing each day for 30 minutes. Relaxation can help keep depression at bay and stabilize your moods.Practice methods that you enjoy and want to do every day. Start daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation, to name a few.

Mindfulness is a technique used to make you aware of how you are feeling and what makes you feel that way, helping control anxiety and depression. Look for a therapist that specializes in this technique.

