 If out of control, scab picking can be a sign of a bigger behavioral problem called "Skin Picking Disorder." People with Skin Picking Disorder compulsively touch, scratch, pick, or rub their skin, which can result in scarring or worse.Try asking yourself the following questions:


Does your skin picking take a lot of your time up?
Do you have noticeable scars from skin picking?
Do you feel guilty when you think about your skin picking?
Does your skin picking cause significant disability socially or professionally?
If you answer yes to more than one of these questions, you may have SPD.
 Scab picking may indicate SPD or another medical problem, like psoriasis or eczema. It is important to consult a medical professional to find out what is causing it, and whether it is independent or a symptom of a different, underlying problem.


There are any number of different therapies available for chronic scab picking. Some might involve medication to relieve physical triggers, while others use behavioral therapy. Once a doctor discovers what is wrong, she can advise you on the best treatment.
SPD is a variant of Obsessive Compulsive disorder because of the compulsive urge to perform repetitive behaviors.
Your SPD may be related to depression, bipolar disorder, attention/deficit hyperactivity disorder, and an eating disorder. Other conditions similar to SPD include body dysmorphic disorder, trichotillomania (pulling out hair), and nail biting.
 Your scab picking may be due to a physical problem and not to SPD. It may be dermatological, like eczema, for example, an inflammation of the skin that can cause itching. In this case the doctor may prescribe medication like corticosteroids or other topical creams.


Remember, the medicine will treat the underlying cause of your scab picking, but it will not address the habit itself. Even if the physical triggers disappear, you may still feel the psychological urge and need help.
 If your picking is not caused by a physical condition and is Skin Picking Disorder, you may need to consult a professional about getting counseling. One common psychological treatment option is Cognitive Behavioral Therapy or CBT.


CBT is often used to help people replace bad habits with good ones. There are different forms of available for scab picking.
Treatment may involve dermatological therapy, antidepressants, anxiolytics, or antipsychotics.
 HRT is a form of CBT, for example, based on the idea that scab picking is a conditioned behavior. It helps you recognize situations in which you are likely to pick and discourages the behavior by substituting alternative responses, like balling up your fists, when faced with the urge to pick.
 SC is another method that lessens sensory triggers in your environment that lead to picking – that is, “high risk” situations. It teaches you how to avoid circumstances that might lead you to pick, like changing your bathroom behavior if looking in the mirror is your trigger.

