 Contrary to popular belief, the SPF, or "sun protective factor" number, does not signify how strong the SPF is. It tells you how long it will keep you protected from ultraviolet B (UVB) rays––at least theoretically. It is calculated by how many minutes it would normally take for your skin to burn multiplied by the number (SPF value) that tells you how long it should last. So, if you burn in 5 minutes of sun exposure without any protection, SPF 30 will keep you protected for 150 minutes (in theory).The American Academy of Dermatology recommends an SPF of 30 or higher. It is not recommended to use higher SPF formulas because they give a false sense of security in the sun and a higher dose of chemicals on your skin. In fact, experts now say that sunscreen with values above SPF 50 do not provide any more real protection than sunscreen with values below SPF 50.;
, UVB rays are what cause sunburn. However, UVA rays also cause skin damage, including signs of aging like wrinkles or spots. Both types of UV light increase your risk of skin cancer.Look for sunscreen that provides broad spectrum protection, meaning that the sunblock will protect against both kinds of damaging ultraviolet light.The SPF factor refers only to the sunscreen’s ability to block UVB rays.The “Broad spectrum” label refers to the ability to block both.
 Some chemicals are allergens (like parabens), potential hormone disruptors (such as oxybenzone), or just plain unnecessary (like fragrances and other inactive ingredients).Retinoids (a form of vitamin A) are a common inactive ingredient in sunscreens. Canadian studies suggest that these additives can increase your sensitivity to UV light from the sun.Oxybenzone is believed to be a hormone disruptor. It can mimic estrogen in the body and has been shown to alter sperm production in males and may cause endometriosis in women.Octinoxate is another ingredient believed to be a hormone disruptor. Octinoxate can mimic hormones and has been shown to affect the reproductive system and the thyroid in laboratory studies. It can also cause an allergic reaction on some users' skin.Homosalate is a commonly-reported hormone disruptor that may also be toxic when broken down inside the body.Octocrylene has a relatively high rate of reported skin allergies in some users.Paraben chemicals are commonly used as preservatives in sunscreen. Butyl-, ethyl-, methyl-, and propyl-parabens are believed to be linked to allergic reactions, hormone disruption, and toxicity in the body.Look for a PABA-free sunscreen. Para-aminobenzoic acid, or PABA, was used in sunscreens for a long time, but it can cause an allergic reaction in some people, and has been linked to severe liver toxicity at high doses.Avoid sunscreens with added insect repellent. Added insect repellent can actually reduce the effectiveness of sunscreen, and added sunscreen can increase the toxicity of chemicals in an insect repellent. For this reason, experts recommend using two separate products: an effective sunscreen and a safe insect repellent., Remember, no sunscreen is truly waterproof, so you should reapply the sunscreen frequently, according to package instructions.Recent updates to FDA regulations have changed the way water resistance may be labeled on sunscreen in the United States. Labels must now indicate water resistance according to one of two categories: 40-minute protection or 80-minute protection., Wearing sunscreen need not be unpleasant, so try different sunscreen brands and styles to find the one(s) that are best suited for you.Some daily sunscreens aren't as gooey or smelly as some of the heavy-duty outdoor sport formulations.
Some sunscreens come in spray-on, roll-on, and stick formats. However, experts warn that spray-on and powdered sunscreens may cause lung irritation due to the risk of inhalation of the chemical contents. Additionally, these formats may not be as effective at protecting your skin as a liquid-based sunscreen.However, spray sunscreens may be helpful for hairy areas, such as the chest or head.Alcohol or gel-based sunscreens may be more effective for people with oily skin.For those who wear moisturizer, many daily moisturizers contain sunscreen protection. However, if you are using both a moisturizer and sunscreen, add the moisturizer first, then add sunscreen. This helps maximize absorption and protection., Mineral-based UV filters like zinc and titanium are considered least likely to cause an allergic reaction in children and people with sensitive skin, but they may be less effective than chemical-based UV filter sunscreen.Most sunscreens are fine to apply on children older than 6 months.It's generally recommended that you avoid using sunscreen for babies under 6 months of age. Experts say that shade is the best preventative measure (natural, or from an umbrella). If you must use sunscreen on a baby under 6 months of age, consult with your child's pediatrician to decide a safe course of action.Spot test any sunscreen on children. Children's skin is more sensitive and likely to react to sunscreen, so make sure that your child won't have an unpleasant reaction to a tiny amount before applying it all over., In the US, sunscreen must remain effective for at least 3 years after it is manufactured. However, you should always note and follow expiration dates to ensure that you get the best protection.If the bottle does not have an expiration date when you buy it, write the date of purchase on a label and put it on the bottle. That way you will know when it’s time to buy new product.
 It takes about 30 minutes for the chemical agents in sunscreen to fully bind to your skin and offer protection. Apply sunscreen before you go outside, about 30 minutes before you’ll be exposed to the sun.Don’t forget your lips! Apply a lip balm with SPF 45-60 minutes before going outdoors., If you're using a cream, the amount of sunscreen you should use is about the size of a regular golf ball, or 1 ounce (about the quantity it would take to fill a shot glass).Use more than you think you need. During an extended beach outing, you should plan on using between a quarter to half of an 8-ounce bottle.Be sure to cover the most vulnerable areas of your body––the entire face and forehead, especially the nose and tips of your ears, as well as your scalp, the back of the neck, backs of your knees and hands, and arms. Don't forget the tops of your feet, if you're wearing sandals - sunburned feet can be very sore! Any skin that will be exposed to sunlight should be covered.
Don't just grease it on. Put a little on and rub it in. Then do it again and again, until you have a deep, penetrating layer of sunscreen. Do it right and you won't notice it at all, and it will truly protect you from the sun.
Have a friend help with hard-to-reach spots like backs and shoulders.
 Factor in conditions like sweating and/or swimming. As sweat or water washes away the sunscreen you've applied, you will usually need to reapply more sunscreen more quickly than the quoted SPF value would indicate., Light layers of clothing with a tight weave work best.Try a shell or tank top, and then wear a light long-sleeved camp shirt open over that. Long pants will offer more protection than shorts. Natural fibers like cotton are coolest.


Although light clothing does not absorb heat as much as dark clothing, dark clothing offers more sun protection.Very thin clothing, such as a white t-shirt, does not offer much sun protection. Apply sunblock under your clothes if you’re wearing light, loosely-woven clothes.If you’re going swimming, consider a long-sleeved swim shirt, or “rash guard.” These can help you avoid burning while you’re in the water.
 A lot of clothing, especially that from outdoor activity stores, will carry a label indicating the UV protection level of the clothing., Choose a hat with at least a 3-inch (8 cm) brim all around.Baseball caps leave the ears and neck exposed, so they're not the best choice for sun protection.
A hat will also help to protect your eyes from glare.
Make sure children wear sun hats as well. Choose hats that shade the face and the neck., Choose sunglasses that block UV light and wrap around to block light from the sides, too. Long term exposure to UV light can lead to cataracts and may expose the skin of your eyelids to UV radiation. Wear sunglasses in conjunction with a hat to optimize your eye protection.If you're not sure whether your old sunglasses adequately block UV rays, ask an optometrist to have them checked.
 Water is the best choice for keeping hydrated on warm and hot days (and cold days too!). Experts recommend that males consume around 13 cups (3 liters) of fluids per day, and females should consume about 9 cups (2.2 liters) of fluids per day.Experts recommend that you drink about 1 cup of water every 15-20 minutes if you are doing moderate activity outside in the heat.Experts advise that water can usually hydrate you better than sports drinks, despite the touted benefits of electrolytes. That's because most sports drinks have high levels of sugar and sodium. Although these are electrolytes, sugar also contains a lot of calories and salt can dehydrate you.If you’re concerned about your electrolyte levels, grab a handful of pretzels or nuts to help restore them., Both can dehydrate you, and are best avoided. The occasional cold soda is unlikely to cause dehydration,but it’s best to stick to water for hydration purposes. Additionally, alcohol can impair your judgment and increase response time. Up to 70% of deaths in adults and teens that occur during water recreational activities are linked to alcohol.If you do have the occasional summer beer, make sure to drink at least twice as much water as alcohol.
 Thirst occurs in the human body after dehydration has already occurred, so it's important to sip water throughout the day to avoid thirst altogether., If you have an infant, make sure s/he stays well hydrated by giving him or her at least the usual amount of breast milk or formula while you’re outside.In addition, check with your doctor to see when your baby can have small amounts of water, juice, or infant oral electrolyte solution such as Pedialyte or Enfalyte in addition to formula or breast milk.


Because babies don’t sweat the same as adults, they are at greater risk of becoming overheated and dehydrated when outside. Keep a careful eye on your child to make sure s/he is safe and comfortable., The National Weather Service uses weather forecast information to create a daily index that assesses the risk of damage caused by UV exposure. Knowing in advance what the index predicts for that day can help you avoid getting burned., This is especially important between the peak hours of 10 AM and 2 PM; UV is at its highest around the middle of the day, when the sun is directly overhead.If you are outdoors during this time, stay in the shade. You can still sunburn in the shade (or even on overcast days), but shade will help protect you.Create your own shade. As well as using a hat, carrying an umbrella or parasol and making use of it to keep off the sun is a very good way of keeping you safe.
If you have heavy physical activity to perform outside, try to do it in the morning or evening, not the heat of midday. If you do have to work midday, take plenty of breaks and drink at least 1 cup of water every 15-20 minutes.When walking babies and children outdoors, choose the coolest parts of the day. Use a shade canopy over a baby's stroller and ensure that children are adequately covered with clothing, hats, sunglasses and sunscreen when out in the heat of the day.
 UV intensity is correlated with the angle of the sun relative to your position on earth. If your body is casting a short shadow, you may want to retreat into the shade., Spending too much time in the sun can cause heat exhaustion in addition to sunburn. Wet a towel with cool water and place it on your forehead or neck to help you cool down.


Take a swim. Submerging your body in cool water can help lower your body temperature--but don't let it drop too low. Body temperatures can drop 25 times faster in cold water than in cold air, and if your body temperature drops below 95 degrees Fahrenheit, you may experience hypothermia.Knowing the water temperature and air temperature forecasts in advance can help you avoid extreme swings in body temperature.
 Roll up car windows and run the air conditioning rather than dangling your arm out the window. Glass blocks UV light reasonably well, but you should still apply sunscreen to yourself and any passengers.If you’re lucky enough to drive a convertible, make sure to apply sunscreen and wear a protective hat.
 If you experience any of the following symptoms, get out of the sun (preferably someplace cool) and drink plenty of fluids:skin that is hot to the touch
excessive sweating
dizziness or disorientation
fatigue
nausea or vomiting
rapid heartbeat
dark and/or infrequent urination
If symptoms do not improve after a half hour, seek medical attention immediately.

