 You can add your card from Messenger's settings menu within the Messenger app.;
, This will display your Messenger profile and image, as well as various options underneath.
 This will display any cards you've added as well as your payment history.
 Enter in the debit card card number, expiration date, security code, and billing ZIP code.


You must enter a Visa or MasterCard debit card issued by a US bank connected to a checking account., The card will be added to your account.


Not all banks are currently supported. You may not be able to add your debit card yet. If this is the case, keep trying later in case your bank is added.
Messenger does not accept credit cards, pre-paid debit cards, or PayPal cards.
 You can require a PIN whenever Messenger is used to send money with your card. Tap the "PIN" option in the Security section of the Payments screen. Create a four-digit PIN and enter it again to confirm. You'll be prompted for this PIN whenever you try to send money through Messenger.


Don't use the same PIN as your ATM or your lock screen passcode.
 Once you've added your card, you can start sending and receiving money with other Messenger users. Open the conversation with the person you want to send or receive with.
 Depending on your device, the "Payments" button may just be a "$" icon.


If you're in a group conversation, you'll be prompted to select the person you want to start a Payments transaction with.
 You the Pay or Request tabs to enter the amount you want to send to or request from the other person.
 Use the for line as a quick note explaining the payment or request, such as "rent" or "tickets."

, When you send a payment, it will be transferred automatically to the recipient if they have a card attached already. If they don't, they'll need to add a card before the payment processes. When you send a request, the other person can choose to accept it or not.
 Transfers can take up to five business days to process. Make sure you keep the money available in your account until the transfer is complete.