 Create a foundation by casting 15 beginning stitches onto the knitting needle in your dominant hand.


Consult the “Tips” section of this article for more instruction about casting on yarn.
 Work one purl stitch into each stitch of your foundation. Continue until you reach the end of the row.


See the “Tips” section for instruction on purl stitching.
 Work a total of 13 knit stitches across the row. Turn the piece over once you reach the end.


Check the “Tips” section of this article for information about working the knit stitch.
Note that to decrease the stitch count by two, you'll need to slip-slip knit.
 Purl stitch into each stitch of the previous row, working all the way across it.


Note that you'll be working on the wrong side of the work while purl stitching.
Turn the work over at the end of the row.
 Work eight more rows, producing a total of 11 rows. Knit stitch on each right-facing row, decreasing the stitch count by 2 each time. Purl stitch across each wrong-side row.


Make sure that you turn the work over after each row.
In other words:

Knit 11 across row 4.
Purl across row 5.
Knit 9 across row 6.
Purl across row 7.
Knit 7 across row 8.
Purl across row 9.
Knit 5 across row 10.
Purl across row 11.
 Work a total of 15 knit stitches across row 12.


Do not turn the work or follow this row with a wrong-side row of purl stitches.
 Repeat this pattern of 12 rows ten more times, following it in exactly the same manner as before for each repeat.


Once you finish the tenth repeat, work row one again (purl across the row) and complete a final wrong-side row of purl stitches.
 Working from the front of the piece, knit three stitches together; repeat across the row. Cut the yarn at the end of the row, leaving a tail measuring 8 inches (20 cm) long.
 Thread the tail end of the yarn through a yarn needle and weave it through the ending edge of the piece. Roll the flower into a spiral shape to create a rosette, then weave the tail through the stitches to secure the shape.


Note that the binding edge can either go on the inside or outside of the rosette, depending on personal preference. The slip-slip knit side of the flower should fall on the inside, however.
 Trim any remaining yarn tails down to 2 or 3 inches (5 or 7.6 cm), then weave the ends into the stitches to secure them.


The finished rosette will be roughly 3 to 3-1/4 inches (7.6 to 8.3 cm) in diameter.

