 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has a white background with the Pinterest logo on it. Tap on it.;
, Tap the profile icon on the bottom toolbar. This will bring you to your Profile screen, which displays your boards, pins, likes, followers, and following.
 Tap the plus icon under the first boards section to create a new board. A screen or panel will appear for you to fill up the board’s details. You can create just one board for your whole trip, or you can create individual boards for each of the countries or cities you’ll be visiting.
 The first field is for the name of your board. Tap the field and type in the name of the board.
 The second field is for the description for your board. Tap the field and type in the description.
 The third field is for the category of your board. Tap the field and a list of categories will be displayed. Select “Travel” from here so that your board will appear under the correct category when viewed or searched for by others.
 Tap the “Create” button on the top right corner of the screen or panel. Your board will be created, and you will be able to view it from your account dashboard.
 Tap the magnifying glass icon on the bottom toolbar. This will bring you to the Search screen.
 In the search box at the top of the Search screen, enter the name of the places you will be visiting.
 Photo titles matching your search will be displayed. There are also buttons right under the search box for topics related to your search. You can tap on any of these buttons to filter the results and add to your search.
 If you see an interesting photo, tap on it. It will be shown in full screen so that you can see it better.


If you want another angle or view of the same photo, swipe up a bit and more related or similar photos will be displayed. You can choose another photo from here to view.
 If you’d like to add this to your board, tap the “Pin it” button on the top right corner of the photo. Your list of boards will be displayed. Tap on the one where you’d like the photo to be pinned to. The photo is now added to your board, and you can see it every time you open your board.
 The more you add to your board, the more resources you’ll have when it comes time to visit. There are countless items on Pinterest that may help you on your trip.
 You can follow other Pinterest users, including travel organizations and tourist centers. These can be great resources for your upcoming trip. You can also follow other users who have gone on similar trips. Tap the magnifying glass icon on the bottom toolbar. This will bring you to the Search screen.
 In the search box at the top of the Search screen, enter the name of the places you will be visiting.
 There are sections in the search results for Pinners and Boards. Pinners are the people or users in Pinterest. If they appear in your search results, most likely they are people or organizations related to the places you’d be visiting, such as a tourism center or department of commerce. Boards, on the other hand, are created by users such as yourself, similar to the one you did earlier. These are boards created by other travelers when they planned for a trip in the places you’ll be visiting. You can get lots of ideas from these pinners and boards.
 Tap the name of the pinner or board from the results. If you’ve selected a pinner, you will be brought to his or her profile screen. If you’ve selected a board, you will be brought to the board with all the pins.
 Tap the “Follow” button on the top right corner. It will now be easier to find the pinner or the board since it will appear in your own profile screen under “Following”.


If any of your followed pinner or board adds a pin, they’ll also appear on your account home screen.
 Once you’ve followed a pinner or a board, you can now go and look at their pins. If you see anything you like, pin it as well so it will also appear in your own boards. This is a great way to find activities for your trip that you may never have thought of.
 If you want to plan your trip with the help of others, you can share your Pinterest board. Tap the profile icon on the bottom toolbar. This will bring you to your profile screen, which displays your boards, pins, likes, followers, and following.
 It will be nice to hear other people’s inputs and opinions on your board and travel plans. If you are traveling with other people, it’s a good idea to get them involved in the planning as well. Start by sharing what you have. Tap the board you’d like to share. All the pins you’ve collected so far will be displayed.
 Tap the icon with three dots to bring out the sharing menu. You can share this board on Facebook, via email, or with a public link. Tap the corresponding option. Whatever you choose, it will just copy the public link and direct others to your Pinterest board. If the people you share with don’t have Pinterest accounts, they will be able to view but not edit the board.
 If you are open to sharing the board directly with other Pinterest users, such as your fellow travelers, you can add them as collaborators to your board so that they can manage and edit the board as you do.


Tap the plus icon beside your profile photo under the board title. A screen or panel will appear where you can type the name or email of the people you’d like to invite as collaborators. Tap the “Invite” buttons, and they will have the same access to your boards.
 Pinterest will only serve as your guide and inspiration as you plan your trip. You cannot solely rely on the photos you’ve pinned. You’ve created your “dream” boards, you can now create your itinerary.
 Before you make any bookings, you should set your travel budget. You don’t want to splurge on your trip and come home to debts. Pinterest is great for tracking down low-budget fun!

, It is important that you know where to sleep every day. If you choose and book your accommodations early, you can get them cheaper and better.
 If you will be moving from one place to another, it is important that you know how to get there. Are you taking the train or flying? Are you renting a car or taking public transportation? Most airlines and rails offer good deals if you book early. It is also good to do so to ensure your seats.

