;
, It could be with a bunch of Gothic stuff (buckles, cross necklaces or fingerless gloves), AC/DC stuff (with a uniform or a tux, wearing it Rock style, to be comfortable), Slash style (with a leather jacket, aviator sunglasses, and being all mysterious), or just the guy who doesn't care about his style (in fact, it DOES work sometimes). Use your style at all times. If she is in your school and you wear school uniforms, wear something little to mark your style. If you still can't, try hanging out with her outside school, and wear it then, but don't look like you're going to a performance or just ended one.
,, I know it could be hard to invite busy girls to performances, but try to invite those types of girls when they are free. If you invite her to all of them and she can't go to any, she'll feel bad and the next one she'll feel obligated to go.


If you play piano or any keyboard in which you don't use your mouth, it's still cool, and a LOT more romantic. If it's a big piano, and you are like a good friend of hers, invite her over, tell her "Hey, do you know (song name) song? because I can play it on piano (or guitar)".
 If your band is a Hard Rock or Metal band, play a softer, but cool song from older bands (like Aerosmith or Van Halen). Some examples include "Walk This Way", "Sweet Emotion", "Good Riddance (Time of Your Life)", "You Really Got Me", etc. If you sing too, say in the mic "And this song is for ______", and it will be a lot better. If you don't sing, do it anyway, and while playing, look at her from time to time. P.S. MAKE SURE SHE IS THERE.
 When you make a song, even when it's not inspired on her, but still romantic, tell her something like "Hey, I've been like working on this song a while and I would like your opinion about it" or, if any of her friends knows you like her, tell her to give you her opinion. Try not to ask your guy friends, unless they are really sensible. Try not to ask anyone but her if he or she doesn't know who you like. Your friends will tease you, and her friends will interrogate you AND tease you, but it will be worth it in the long run.

