 There are certain times of the day when your baby will be especially receptive to training. These are mealtime, during baths, and at bedtime. Perhaps unsurprisingly, your baby will be most concerned with eating and drinking when it is very young. Especially while your baby is nursing, use meal time to teach your baby signs.“Milk” is a great first sign to use, because your baby will be especially motivated to learn anything that will indicate its desire for the opportunity to gulp down some nourishment.
Eating also provides a great natural opportunity to increase vocabulary, as your baby’s diet will slowly expand, offering the chance to learn new signs for new foods along the way.
Bath time offers the perfect chance to teach the sign for “toy” or “water.” While these words aren’t associated with needs, they are among those items that will likely greatly interest your baby.
 If you’re bored while your signing or convey signs without emotion or excitement, your baby is much less likely to pay attention. In particular, make a point of acting happily when your baby begins to sign. Even if the signs aren’t decipherable, be visibly excited whenever they’ve seemingly begun to consciously try to make their hands do certain things.Incorporate both facial expressions and body language to convey excitement.
Use every means of expression, including the tone of your voice, to indicate that you are having fun when you are trying to communicate with you baby.
 The concept that you cannot have something is one of the harder ideas to teach to a very young human – for you as a parent and for the baby to learn. However, it’s a vital thing to teach your child. Particularly when your baby learns the sign for an object such as a toy and keeps using the sign all day, take the opportunity to tell them no.


Don’t worry that your saying “no” will discourage them from signing. Your baby will not think you’re talking about their sign-making – if they know the sign means something, they will come to interpret your “no” as a denial of whatever they are signing.
 If a babysitter or other caregiver sometimes performs actions of behaviors that you have signs for, see if they’re willing to use the sign as well, as this will boost your baby’s learning process. Some daycares already use signing with babies that they often care for.Beware the haters. Some people simply don’t realize how smart babies are, and will doubt you baby’s ability to sign. Don’t let this bother you; if they’re willing to listen, explain that at the very least, it’s fun and likely diminishes the baby’s frustration.
Don’t worry about a caregiver that doesn’t sign with your baby. This will not detrimentally affect the baby’s learning process.
Consider leaving a visual booklet of the signs you use with your baby to make it easier for a babysitter to sign too.

