 If you have a large amount of quartz with a heavy amount of mud or dirt on it, you can try to rinse it off with a power washer. Set your quartz on the ground (preferably on concrete or asphalt) and rinse off the dirt. Using a power washer is more efficient, but you can also use a hose. You can also go to a coin operated car wash and wash your quartz there with their pressure washers. After you wash it, let the quartz dry out. Repeat the washing process until the quartz is clean.


If there is only a small amount of dirt left on the quartz after rinsing, try scrubbing it with a brush and liquid detergent soap and water.;
, A fabric gun or spot cleaning gun can shoot water at the quartz at high pressure to help remove dirt. These are used in dry cleaning for removing stains and are available for less than 75 dollars. This works well for cleaning small amounts of dirt off of quartz that is in hard to get to areas. The fabric gun shoots a small amount of water at a powerful rate.


Make sure to wear glasses or protective goggles while doing this to avoid getting rock specimens in your eyes., If using water does not remove all the dirt from your quartz, you can try to scratch dirt off with a blade. Quartz is harder than a knife, so you won’t scratch the quartz. Using a binocular, microscope, or magnifying glass when doing this. Scrape off as much of the dirt as you are able to.


Be very careful when doing this, the blade may slip and cut your hand., An air abrasive tool will shoot something at the quartz at a very high pressure to remove the dirt. Use something in the air abrasive tool that is not going to damage the quartz. Instead of using other quartz or garnet sand, use tiny glass beads to clean the quartz. This will help prevent damaging the quartz and removing the shiny surface.You can purchase air abrasive tools online or at hardware stores, such as Harbor Freight Tools.Air abrasive tools range in price from around 20 to 90 dollars.Wear protective eye gear when using an abrasive tool., You can also clean quartz with an air scribe (a tiny jackhammer that is powered by compressed air) instead of an air abrasive tool. These remove chunks of dirt and material that might be stuck on your quartz. Air scribes often take only a few seconds to clean an area, rather than minutes or hours.Air scribes are very efficient, but can be more expensive.Cover your eyes with goggles or glasses.