 You will have to prove who you are and where you live in order to claim the property whether filing online or by mail.


You should write the department an email explaining why you can’t provide the requested document if there is some problem. Use the online form to do so.In order to prove your identity, you can provide a copy of your driver’s license, passport, or other legal photo identification. If the claim is for a cashier’s check, you’re also going to need to provide the original check.
To prove your address, you can provide anything that lists both your name and address, such as auto registration, marriage certificate, a bank statement, a court document, a postmarked envelope someone addressed to you, a school transcript, or a report card.
If more than one person is requesting the property, each person must provide proof of identity and address. If your name has changed since the claim, you will need proof of name change.
 Perhaps you need to claim property for a living person who is unable to do it himself or herself but is still alive. This is possible.


However, to claim the property under this circumstance, you will need to provide certified documents that prove you have authority to do so for the living person.
Accepted documents include power of attorney, guardianship letters or a birth certificate in the case of the owner being a minor.
It should take about 60 days for the department to process your claim. It can take longer if the claim involves stock or mutual funds.
 If the original owner is deceased, and you’re now entitled to the property, you will need to provide additional information.


If the estate is in probate, submit a certified Letter of Administration or Letters of Testamentary. If the estate is closed but was in probate before, provide a certified will copy. Only the heirs named in the will should file the claim. You must provide the heirs’ addresses.
If you are claiming the property for the heirs, you will need a notarized written disclaimer from all of the heirs giving you permission. If the estate was not in probate but the deceased person has a will, provide a copy of the will and a completed affidavit of successor form.
If the deceased did not have a will and you are a legal heir, fill out the affidavit of successor form. All potential heirs will be notified. If the deceased person was not a Washington resident and did not have a will or had an unprobated will, you will need to provide the will, if available, and complete a small estate affidavit for nonresident decedents.