 Menstrual blood is most often red or a bit brownish in color. First periods tend to be darker and lighter than it will in subsequent periods. A first period may be only a few , light spots.


Staining will be in the middle of the crotch of your underwear.
A clear, white or a bit off-white, is not menstruation. This is discharge and it can start about half a year before a first period.;
, Getting your period for the first time is typically a bit of a surprise, as it is hard to predict just when it will happen. And it is a little bit alarming to suddenly be unexpectedly bleeding. Up until now, you have seen blood as a sign that something is very wrong. But as a healthy young woman, getting your period and having a flow is a natural part of life.


This is a sign that you are healthy and reached an important new life milestone. There is no need to panic; this is not a health emergency!
If you can, feel a little happy about this! Usually girls are more private about menstruation than other coming of age moments (like being able to drive), but it is nonetheless a very important one.
 Even though nothing has to be done right away, changing soiled underwear may make you feel better. Dark colored (black, navy blue, dark red) underwear hides things well, so those colors are best. However, plain white underwear is easy to bleach, if necessary. You may also want to select an older pair, as periods can be messy.
 Hopefully, your mother or some other female in your house has shown you where the supply of menstrual pads are. If not, check common locations for these supplies: under sinks, in linen closets, and in mature women's backpacks or purses (if this will not cause a real issue.)


Most pads come with instructions, either on a separate sheet or on the packaging itself. However, it is also pretty self-explanatory. Remove the adhesive strip, adhere to underwear.
Put on a small or medium pad if this is available. It is highly unlikely that your first day will be heavy, and larger ones can be bulky or uncomfortable.
If you do not know or remember where the pads are, look around the house under bathroom sinks, and in the backpacks or purses of any older family members who get periods, if you are allowed to look through them.
Pads are best for your first period. They are the simplest method and least invasive. You may not know how to use a tampon or menstrual cup yet and there is no rush on this lesson.
 If there is no way for you to get a pad, it is time for some old-fashioned female ingenuity. Common household items can work in a pinch.



Washcloth. A washcloth, folded into thirds and set into the crotch of your underwear will suffice. Unless you are very active it should hold in place fairly well. It tends to be bulky but also unlikely to leak. Washcloths typically can be washed afterwards, and white ones bleached if necessary.

Toilet paper: Fold a strip over several times and put it in your underwear. Put it in the crotch of your underwear. This will have a tendency to bunch up, wad up, and tear.

Paper Towel. Paper towels tend to be thicker, more durable and shift less in undergarments than toilet paper.

Old scrap or clean fabric: This could be a number of items, such as old T-shirt fabric or scraps from sewing. These items should be clean but does not have to be sterile. Cut a strip about 3-4 inches wide and 8-10 inches long. Fold it so so that it is still 3-4 inches wide, but only 4-5 inches long.
 Hopefully this is just underwear and maybe pants, but it may also be sheets, chairs, or anywhere you have sat. Usually some cool (not hot) water, some mild detergent, and scrubbing will remove any spots.


Clothing: Rinse the stained area under cold running water until the water runs clear. Add some soap (dish soap works just fine) and rub the fabric together. Rinse it again under the water. If it still is not coming out, add a little spit, some more soap, and try again. Throw them in the washing machine.
 Some young women might be fine waiting, while others really need the comfort of family immediately. There is no right one size fits all solution here.


Even if you decide you are fine and do not really need them to rush home, you still might want to contact them to tell them you got your first period. Some parents may consider this grounds for a celebration, so why not see if you can get them to bring home take out or some other treat?
See if you are able to call a friend and ask them to come over.

