 When it comes to your intellectual property rights, it's important to talk to an attorney. An attorney can advise you about how to create a copyright release that protects your rights while still releasing some of your rights to someone else.Find a lawyer in your area that specializes in intellectual property rights by using a database that lets you search for lawyers by type., One way to make the process simpler is to use a template to create your release. Basically, you'll just fill in the blanks with your information, and sign it. Then, you pass it on to the person you are granting a release to. However, it's always a good idea to have a lawyer look it over before sending it out., As the copyright holder, you decide what happens with your copyrighted materials. Generally, when someone ask you for permission to use your work, they will want the rights to do something specific, such as republish your photo in a magazine or use your song in a movie. You'll make the decision about whether to grant all or some of the person's request. First, though, you need to understand what rights you have.Under the copyright law, you have the exclusive right to make copies of your work, make derivative works from the original work, and display or perform the work as you see fit, including audio recordings.
You also have the right to distribute and sell your work.
As the copyright owner, you also have the authority to grant other people permission to do the same actions. In other words, you can give any other person the same rights you have or a limited portion of those rights., When writing your copyright release, you need to start by identifying the person or company that owns the copyright. Since you (or the company you represent) own the copyright, it's important to state who you are at the beginning.You can start it out with something such as "I, Joe Smith, am the copyright owner..."
It's also important to include your contact information. You can include it at the top like a business letter, where you put your name at the top and then your contact information under it.
You can also create a standard release form, which has a place for you to write your name and contact information.
 Next, you need to use the title of or thoroughly describe the work you are granting permission to use. That way, you are legally identifying which works the person has a right to make use of.For example, you could just use the title of a photo, or you could use the title and describe it, such as "I, Joe Smith, am the copyright owner of the photograph titled 'Girl at Sunset with Water' which depicts a 5-year-old girl in a pink sundress sitting on a rock in front of Lake Michigan at sunset."
You can also just use the title or the description, such as "I, Joe Smith, am the copyright owner of the song 'Bad Mug.'"
If you're creating a standard form, you can write something such as "The above person is the copyright owner for the following work:" Then you can write in a description or name of the work.
 You also need to name the person or company you are granting permission to use your work. That way, you are giving the person written, legal permission, which you can both refer back to later.You could write something such as "The copyright owner gives George Donor permission to use this work for the following purposes:"
For a standard form, leave a blank for the person or company that you can fill in with the name.
 The next part of your copyright release should specify what you will allow the person to do with your work. For instance, you may only allow a one-time reprint of a photo, or you may allow someone to make a derivative work from a short story you wrote.For example, you could write, "The copyright owner gives George Donor permission to use this work for a one-time reprint in the magazine Awesome Mugs."
It's important to spell out exactly what you will allow and what you won't allow to be done with your work. Spelling it out exactly makes it clear for both of you, and you'll have an easier time defending your rights if you are very clear about what you will and won't allow.
 You can grant rights for the life of the copyright, if you prefer. However, you can also limit how long the other person or company has the rights. For example, you can limit the permissions you grant for 6 months or a year.You could write, "The magazine Awesome Mugs has the rights to reprint this image for up to 6 months."

, If you want the person to only have rights on a specific format, you can specify that, as well. For example, you could grant only web rights or only print rights. You could also specify that your work can only be used in public performances.You could write, "The above person only has the right to distribute this work online."

, If you expect royalties or a flat fee to be paid, include that in your release. You'll need to specify when your fee will need to be paid and how much, as well as how the person can pay you. Royalties are generally a percentage of the profit made on the work, to be paid at a later date.For example, you could write, "This work is used with permission under the condition that the authorized person pays the copyright owner a flat fee of $200.00 upon publication of the work. The fee can be paid to the owner's PayPal account at jsmith@bobemail.com."

, As important as it is to spell out what copyrights you grant, it's also important to note that you retain other copyrights. You'll have a legal document to point to if the person tries to overstep their boundaries, plus you retain the rights for any future format that may be developed.For example, you could write, "Any other rights not specified in this document are retained by the copyright owner."

, At the bottom, you need to sign the release with your name. If you are the representative for a company, you also need to include the company's name. After your signature, be sure to include the date you signed the document.The other party doesn't necessarily need to sign the document. However, in some cases, it may be wise, particularly if you are asking for royalties. Consult your lawyer about when it's best to have the other person sign the document.
Don't forget to save a copy for yourself.

