 Click the Start button >> All Programs >> EA Games >> Need for Speed Underground 2.


You can also start it by double-clicking the Need for Speed: Underground 2 shortcut from the desktop, if you have it there.;
, This will open the Career Mode screen.
 This will launch the Career Mode menu.
, You can scroll downwards to view the different races, and when a drift race is highlighted, press Enter to select it.
 The race will start. You can navigate the track and control your car using the following keys:


Up and Down Arrow keys for accelerating and braking respectively, and Left and Right Arrow keys for steering left and right respectively.
 After you have completed the first drift race, do the following to start your second race:


Press “Escape” to bring up the Pause Menu.
Scroll rightwards (Right arrow key) till “Jump to Garage” is highlighted and press Enter.
You will be asked to confirm if you wish to Jump to Garage. Scroll to “OK” (Up/Down Arrow keys) and press Enter. This will take you to your Garage.
On the Garage menu, choose “World Map.” This will bring up the game’s map again where you can select your second drift race.
 Just follow the previous steps to start and complete the third race required to get a sponsor.
 Once you complete the third drift race, you will be presented with a contract from a sponsor. Select “Agree” to sign up with the sponsor.
 Before you get your extra car slot, you will need to fulfill all the requirements on the contract, which are: win three URL races, three races of the sponsor’s choice, and nine other races of your choice. All the other types of races except sponsor races can be accessed by following the steps outlined above and choosing the respective type of race you on the World Map.


To start a sponsor race, proceed to the next step.
 On the Career Mode menu, choose “Return to Explore Mode.” This will take you to the game world (the streets of the fictional Olympic City).


In Explore Mode, look for X-shaped icons on the mini map (displayed on the left bottom corner of the screen). These icons represent the locations of Sponsor races in the city.
Using the mini map as a guide, drive to the Sponsor race.
When you arrive at the location, stop in the race’s marker and press Enter to start the race.
Repeat this process till you win all the current Sponsor’s races.
 After completing all the races that the contract requires you to complete, a new car slot will be unlocked in your garage.


To access your garage, press “Escape” to bring up the Pause Menu.
Scroll rightwards (Right arrow key) till “Jump to Garage” is highlighted and press Enter.
You will be asked to confirm if you wish to Jump to Garage. Scroll to “OK” (Up/Down Arrow keys) and press Enter. This will take you to your Garage.
On the Garage menu, scroll rightwards and choose “Car Select.”
Scroll rightwards to view all your available Cars and Car Slots. You will find that a new Car Slot has been added.

