 Make three piles: keep, donate and trash. Put clothes that are too small in the donate pile, and throw the moth-eaten sweaters that are beyond repair out. If you're debating whether something should go into the keep or donate pile, consider what you'd need to do to make it wearable. For instance, if a raincoat is missing a button, and you lost the matching button, go to a craft store and replace all of the buttons.;
, Clear plastic boxes work well for shoes; or, if your daughter is the type who has shoes and handbags that "go together," invest in a set of hanging sweater shelves and put the matching purses/shoes together on each shelf. It's all about being organized.
 By putting in a few items that make you smile, your whole day and mood will be brighter! Additionally, a small memento can provide inspiration for your outfit!

, If the hamper is in the bathroom down the hall, those dirty clothes are just going to accumulate on the bedroom floor. If you have a large family, it's a good idea to get your own hamper, and simply empty your clothes into the family hamper once your hamper is full.
 If you really want to be organized, color code them. Make green shirts in one section, purple in another, etc. For skirts, there are special hangers that can clip on to the top that are available at any drugstore. Organize clothes by jeans, t-shirts, long sleeve shirts, skirts, and dresses. If you live in an area where the climate changes dramatically with the seasons, organize clothes by season, and store off-season clothes in Space Bags under the bed or in the garage. A big puffy parka in the summer just takes up space.
 You can buy these at a local Walmart, Target, etc. If you have closet doors on tracks and can't do this, a multi-level shoe rack on the floor is useful for organizing shoes that are worn frequently. Put the ones most often worn on the top level. With the shoe organizer on the back of the door, you should put the shoes you wear most often at eye level so they are the first thing you see.
 It can be frustrating or disturbing mentally to see a pile of clothes laying on the floor of your closet. Trust me, once you start folded or hanging them up, you'll feel as if you accomplished something; you'll feel great! Though if you're one of the lazy types, considering having a rule when you have to fold clothes. For instance, if 5 pieces of clothing are on the ground you HAVE to fold them up. At the same time, you become more responsible!

