 You don’t always need the newest and the best item. There are deals to be had if you keep your eyes open to opportunity. Use a little creativity and you can get what you want for minimal amounts.


Buy used. It’s widely known the average new car is a poor investment, but there are a variety of used items that can be purchased to save a lot of money. Look for great deals on clothes at thrift stores, and tools at auctions.Buy at flea markets. People selling at flea markets are often knowledgeable in their niche market. Make no mistake, however, they’re trying to make a deal, and need to sell for less than a retail store to remain feasible.Buy at garage sales/yard sales. Face facts, most garage sales are people looking to get rid of their excess. It’s the possessions they don’t want. They’d much rather make a sale than haul it to the dump. Low-ball every item you see and you’ll walk away with plenty.
 Many rewards programs offer free items, discounted items, or a percentage off just for being part of their commerce family. Collect the key rings, punch cards, and free membership numbers to take advantage of whatever deal is currently the best.
 Make the most of what you have. Be creative and you’ll find a variety of uses for what you already have lying around.



Recycle your favorite fabrics to make a floor cushion.
Use old paint cans to store screws and nails.
Freeze wet sponges and use them as ice packs.Turn an old baby crib into a learning or play area., Buying groceries costs a lot of money because it's not just the food you're purchasing. You're also paying for the labor required to plant, cultivate, deliver, and display the food where you purchase it.


Plant a garden. Depending on the plant, the yield for a year doesn’t take many seeds. In fact, to get a year’s worth some vegetables like squash, peppers, and sweet potatoes, it’s less than 5 plants per year.Hunt and fish for your own food. One mature buck will provide 50+ lbs. of meat. That’s countless meals. And fish are very plentiful in the right spots. You could provide the families meat for quite some time with just a few successful trips into the wilderness or waterways., The food bill, especially for households with several people or teenagers, costs an inordinate amount of money. There are several ways to shave that food bill down, however, and save some money.


Use coupons. Couponing has become an art-form of sorts, with TV shows and people actually completing huge purchases where, at the end, the store pays them. Learn the tricks of the trade, the discount codes, the “cash back” options, and discover the deals.
Take advantage of BOGO deals. BOGO, Buy One Get One, is something that happens at stores all the time. Especially large grocery stores. If you see something nonperishable that your family definitely is going to use in the future (e.g. toilet paper, soap, razors, batteries) and there is a BOGO, it may be time to stock up. The bill might hurt at first, but it will pay off eventually.
Prep your meals before work. Avoid the temptations of going out to eat. You’ll save big money not going out, some approximate it at about $500 per month. Take the time to make your own meals, and you’ll not only eat cheaper, but you’ll likely eat healthier., For very minimal money you can buy quite a bit of rice, beans, pasta, or potatoes. Mix any of those with a whole chicken, that can be separated and frozen for multiple meals, and you’ve got cheap meals for days.