 Select a ripe watermelon. It should feel heavy and firm. Avoid watermelons that have soft spots on the rind since they may be too ripe. Look for a watermelon that has a slightly yellow-colored spot on the rind. This is the spot where the watermelon ripened when it was on the ground. Wash the watermelon before you slice it.If you tap the watermelon, it should sound hollow, not dull.;
, If you're using a large watermelon, use a large chef's knife to carefully cut the melon into four large wedges. To make a small batch of watermelon chips, you'll only need to use one quarter wedge. Set the other quarters aside or just make a large batch of the chips.If you're using a smaller, personal-sized watermelon, you may need to use half or all of the melon.
 Slice the quarter of watermelon into slivers that are triangle-shaped. Try to slice them at least 1/4-inch (6 mm) thin or thinner so they'll dry evenly. Use a smaller paring knife to slice off and discard the rind from each slice.If you want triangular strips of watermelon chips, you can dry these strips or cut them into smaller pieces.
 If you want your watermelon chips to be smaller and similar to tortilla chips in size, cut them again. Roughly chop the triangular strips of watermelon into bite-sized chips. Keep in mind that they'll shrink in size as they dry., Get out the trays that came with your dehydrator. Arrange the watermelon pieces so they're in a single layer. Leave a little bit of room between the fruit pieces to let the air circulate easily., Put the trays with watermelon into the dehydrator and close it. Turn your dehydrator on to the fruit setting. If your dehydrator doesn't have a fruit setting, set it to 135 degrees F (60 C)., Leave the watermelon chips in the dehydrator for 8 to 12 hours. You may want to turn the fruit halfway through the drying time to prevent it from sticking to the trays. The watermelon chips will be dry and chewy once they've finished dehydrating.The time it takes to dehydrate the watermelon will depend on how much water is in the melon, the size of the chips, and your dehydrator.
 Once the watermelon chips have dried, scoop them into an airtight container. If you'd like to store them for a long period of time, add an oxygen absorber packet to the container. This will absorb excess moisture that could cause the chips to spoil.

Consider using mason jars or airtight plastic containers to store the watermelon chips.
 Get out a large nonstick baking sheet. Arrange the watermelon pieces so they're in a single layer. Leave some room between the watermelon pieces to let the air circulate easily., Turn your oven on to the lowest setting that's available. Put the sheet with watermelon in the oven and leave the door to the oven open. You'll need to let as much air as possible circulate as the fruit dehydrates. This is why it's important not to shut the oven door., Keep the watermelon in the oven for about 2 hours. Turn the pieces over and return them to the oven. Leave the door open and dry them for another 1 1/2 to 2 hours. The watermelon chips should be smaller, dry, and slightly crispy or chewy (depending on if you did strips or small pieces)., Once the watermelon chips have dried, transfer them to an airtight container. If you'd like to store them for a long period of time, add an oxygen absorber packet to the container.

Consider using mason jars or airtight plastic containers to store the watermelon chips.

