 Remember to only look for a few seconds at a time, and then look away to allow your eyes to recover. Try not to stare too often at the sun. Even with shades on it can cause some irritation to your eyes. The brightness of the sun is nothing to be taken for granted.;
, There are many cars that have tinted windows. You can look at the sun for a few moments behind the tinted glass. If the glass is not tinted thoroughly then don't stare for too long.
 Try looking at the sun while having your eyelids almost shut. This will be another good way of looking at the sun for a very short moment.



This specially designed glass transmits only a fraction of the sun's light and can be used to view the sun for minutes at a time. These filters do add a green tint when you look through the filter. An advantage of this method is that you can place the filter in front of a pair of binoculars, provided it's big enough to cover both sides or using a pair of filters. With the magnification provided by the binoculars, planetary transits of the sun can be observed. For extremely powerful binoculars, a #14 or #16 filter is advised for safety.
Alternatively, #5 lenses, used for oxyacetylene cutting will also work for shorter observations, like watching a solar eclipse. You can also stack two #5 filters together for the same protection as a #10.
 However, the image of the sun is a more pleasing yellow, and the glasses can be ordered in bulk, as well as be disposed after use.
 An unexposed portion remains as the leader and tail when processing 35mm format film.


This unexposed area appears at the beginning and end of the roll, but depending on the film processor you may only find the tail located after the final photograph. Nowadays the leader is removed by the processor, but if you look through old picture folders developed more than 20 years ago, you may find the 3" leader included with the negatives as well.
 While no-longer as commonplace as they once were, it is a very inexpensive, if not free method.


For 3.5" disks, you will have to pull off the metal door, and then pry the two plastic halves apart and pull out the plastic disc and metal hub. You can cut the plastic portion into two or more pieces with normal scissors so you can use both eyes while viewing.






For 5.25" disks, which are now very rare indeed, cut one of the edges off in a thin strip, and slide the plastic disc out of the diskette from the hole in the center.
 Search the internet and look for videos of the sun. Find recordings of the sun without actually looking at the sun. This will not be anything like the real thing but it will be a remedy.
