 If it has any indications as to style of dress, including any requirements for wearing costumes, follow them as closely as possible. If there is nothing specified, go by what you know of the person who has invited you, the time of day the weather, and the reason for the tea party, according to the following guidelines:


Are you attending tea at the home of the host, or at a luxury hotel? If it's the latter, take the formality up a notch.
Morning tea parties are less formal than afternoon teas. An evening tea is the least formal of all.
The attire for summer and spring teas will be generally less formal than that of fall and winter teas.
Are you attending a casual tea held "just because," or a more formal tea for an event such as engagement or to introduce a dignitary?
If you're still not sure, phone the host or hostess to find out more. Or, if the event is being held at a hotel or tea shop, phone the business and ask for guidance.;
, A tea party is a special event and is reminiscent of former days when people would go to a lot of effort to present themselves well when turning up at someone else's house for afternoon tea. Smart casual will usually consist of:



Women: An elegant dress with a jacket (the dress can even be semi-evening style); or elegant pants (trousers) and a silk blouse with either cashmere sweater or cardigan or a twin set, or a jacket; if you really must wear jeans, ensure that they're very upmarket and elegant; always wear top quality shoes;

Girls: A pretty party dress or skirt and top combination, neat shoes, hair bows, and a hat. And if the invitation says "fancy dress" or "costumes," see the Dressing for a Children's Tea Party section below for more guidance.

Men: A casual suit without a tie; neat trousers and polo shirt or neatly ironed casual shirt; add jackets or elegant sweaters.

Boys: Neat trousers and shirt; perhaps a suit if the occasion really calls for it.
 Tea party hats are appropriate for both little girls and ladies. Look for them at department stores, local clothing boutiques, or websites that specialize in millinery. If you don't find one you like, there are tea party hat kits to make your own hat that can also be purchased online.


Hats that you'd wear to racing carnivals, summer festivals, or any elegant event such as a wedding or anniversary party are all ideal. If you would feel fine wearing it to visit the Queen of England or a Head of State, then it's a perfect hat. Browse through stately magazines for an idea of what's in fashion currently, especially magazines reporting on what royalty around the world is wearing lately.
 A tea party is a fantastic excuse to get your favorite jewelry and other accessories out. Pearls are absolutely perfect, as are brooches, bracelets, and neck chokers. Silk scarves, headbands, bows, silk stockings, and delightful shoes are all definitely encouraged.
 This is an occasion of fun and enjoyment, where delicious food awaits you and good company.

