 If you are looking to bond with a child, start by paying attention when they speak. Kids are just finding their voices, and what they are saying is very important to them. Actively listen when a young child is speaking to you.One way to demonstrate that you are listening is to make eye contact. You can also physically indicate that you are paying attention by bending down so that you and the child are on the same level.
Ask questions as the child is talking. This will let him know that you are interested and engaged in the conversation.;
, Kids need reassurance. When you are having a conversation with a child, try to keep both your words and your tone of voice positive. Avoid sounding judgmental. Try to make them feel like they are a valuable contributor to your conversation.Use more "do" words than "don't" words. For example, say "I like it when you hold my hand crossing the street" instead of, "Don't cross the street without holding my hand." The first sentence will sound more positive and reassuring to a child.
Use phrases that will give the child permission to elaborate. Try saying things such as, "Tell me more." Or, "That's interesting! Why is that?"

, Much like adults, kids do not respond well if you speak in a condescending tone. Try to give a child the same consideration and respect that you would give a friend. Make kids an active part of the conversation, instead of talking at them.For example, don't talk about children as though they are not there. Speak directly to them. Instead of saying to your friend, "Wow, Kevin seems upset!", try saying directly to the child, "Kevin, you seem upset. Can I help you with something?"

, A great way to make a child feel valued is to ask for their opinion. You can definitely guide their choices by providing them with limited options, but by offering choices, you are showing respect. You can also ask a child how they feel about certain activities, or ask them about their day.Try offering choices, such as "Sam, would you like carrots or celery with your lunch?". You could also say, "Sue, would you rather play Go Fish or Crazy Eights?"

, Children pick up on physical cues. Notice what your body language is saying. For example, many people lose patience when talking to children. If that happens to you, avoid letting it show in your body language. Avoid rolling your eyes or shaking your head.


Smile a lot. This will make the child feel more comfortable and safe.

