 The eyeshadow will prime your lid and allow for a smoother application of eyeliner. It will also give the eyeliner something to cling to, so it will stay put and won't smudge or rub off.








Because cat eyes are so dramatic, darker eyeshadow colors can look overdone. Instead, consider using a color that matches your skin tone—or is slightly lighter.
Don't use a cream eyeshadow—the eyeliner won't stick and could easily wipe off.;
, Hold a brush against the side of your nose and angle it until it points to the end of your eyebrow—this is the line you want your wing to follow.You want your wings to be as identical as possible—different lengths, widths, and angles will look off.Another way to look at it is that the wing is an extension of your lower lash line. Let the flick follow the angle of that line and your wings should be symmetrical.If your eyelids are hooded, make the angle less upward and more straight. This will extend your lash line and open up your eyes., The higher you make your dot, the thicker and more dramatic your cat eye will be. Make sure the dots are at the same angle and height on both eyes before moving on.It's much easier to erase a dot and move it than an erasing entire wing.
 Don't pull on your skin while drawing the wing. Though it might make it easier to draw on your skin, when you release the skin and it goes back to normal, the wing will look completely different and probably pretty sloppy. Instead, tilt your head back slightly and lower your gaze so that you can see your lash line. This way you can see exactly what you are doing and how your wing will look when you are finished.
 If you have a round eye, try a thicker wing and line.If you want to extend your lash line and make your eyes look bigger, draw a curved line instead of a straight one. Make sure that the line is curving downwards.
 Depending on how you angled your initial lines, and how thick you drew them, you may or may not need to fill the outline in.
 The pointed tip will allow you to get into corners and clean along lines without accidentally smudging the eyeliner.You can also dip the Q-tip in primer or eye cream and use that to gently remove any excess eyeliner.









Avoid using makeup remover. It might do the job too well and remove any eyeshadow that you put on earlier., Instead, tilt your head back slightly and lower your gaze so that you can see your lash line.









You can try tightlining your eyelid, which means you get the liner between your lashes and up against your waterline, but this can be difficult to do and may irritate your eye.
 Try resting your pinkie on your cheekbone while you do this. It will stabilize your hand and make it easier to get a smooth, straight line instead of a shaky one.








If you are using a felt-tip liner, hold it closer to the middle of the tube so you have more control., You want a few layers on the top lashes and a single layer on your bottom lashes. For a glamorous, evening look, consider curling your lashes or popping on a pair of false lashes.








