 Plan to read a book every two weeks or finish a chapter every day. Once you have the goal, just rearrange your time to ensure that you meet it. Reward yourself with a nice meal or a good movie if you meet your goals., Go to the library and explore your options. Read the back of the book, the prologue, or just the first page and see if you like it. Ask friends who like to read what books they enjoyed and why. Keep looking until you find a book that is good for you.


Often it takes a while to get into a book, but if you have made it through the first fifty pages and still aren’t interested, consider moving on. Getting stuck on a book that you don’t like can hold you back from reading., Reading books from the same genre can get old with time. Though, you might think you know what you like to read, there are plenty of genres that you haven’t tried yet. Experimenting with a new genre might introduce you to something that will revitalize your desire to read.If you have been reading a lot of non-fiction, try some fiction.
If you typically only read classic novels, try some modern fiction.
Maybe you historically prefer fantasy novels, but it never hurts to try some detective literature. Sherlock Holmes always makes for a good read.
 Reading can become a tiresome habit if you’re always reading as if it were a responsibility. Nonfiction can teach you a lot about the world around you, but so too can a good story. High literature can be edifying, but if tough writing is making it hard for you to pick up the book, consider moving on to something light and easy., Find friends or family that are interested in reading the same books with you. Then set a schedule to meet once every week or two weeks to talk about what you have read. Having a deadline will give you the incentive to finish up on time. Doing it with other people can make reading a fun social activity that brings you closer to your loved ones.If you don’t want to go out of your way to create your own book club, see if you can find one that already meets. Meetup.com can be a good way to find likeminded social groups, including book clubs interested in your favorite genres.
 You should find some reason inside you that gives you the motivation to finish books. That motivation can vary from person to person. But, once you’ve found, it your reading schedule should fall into place because you will want to make it work.


Maybe you want to be smarter than your peers and know that you can show off your intelligence better if you do a lot of reading.
Maybe you want to fix the world and know that you can only accomplish that if you know more about how the world works.
Maybe you want to make money and know that a good idea can be very lucrative. 