 The super strength and industrial strength relaxers are traditionally used on African American hair because it is so resistant to straightening. Nothing wrong with that. Just don't use it every time. Alternate between the mild and strong relaxers (of the same brand) so your hair gets some rest between uses of the strong stuff. If you relax every 6 to 12 weeks, ask your beautician to use the super strength on every 3rd or 4th visit. Your hair will have grown out enough to avoid overlapping the super strength relaxer and the milder one will allow your hair to remain relaxed yet still strong. Also apply basing cream to the ends of your hair. This will prevent the ends from over processing due to relaxer runoff.;
, By tradition many African Americans use conditioner often. As a result they have healthy thick hair. Condition is a good friend. Conditioner strengthens hair. Condition the length and ends of your hair daily or at minimum every other day. Do not put water on your scalp daily either, just the ends. Simply wet your ends about 2 inches (5.1 cm) from your scalp to the ends of your hair. Apply the conditioner according to the instructions. Your hair will love you for it. Conditioning your ends will keep them thick full and rich and they will not break easily.
 After conditioning your ends, you will need to moisturize them. Find an excellent moisturizer (Ultra Black Hair is one of the best) and apply it to the ends while your hair is still wet. Again, do not apply moisturizer to your hair full strength. Place a small amount in a container or the palm of your hands and add water to dilute it. Be sure the water and moisturizer are well blended then apply to the ends of your hair only (from about 4 inches (10.2 cm) below your scalp to the ends of your hair. Dry hair is brittle: keep it moisturized for flexibility and less breakage.
 Blow dryers are called blow fryers by The Long Hair Community for good reason. The intense heat of these machines is very damaging to African American hair types. Never blow dry your hair. Simply allow your hair to air dry. Heat damaged hair is extremely weak and breaks easily. To have strong hair, you must avoid using a blow dryer.

