 To get a crafting table, you'll first need to gather a little wood from somewhere in the world around you. The easiest way to do this is to simply find a tree. Unless you are in area without any, like a desert or ocean biome, you shouldn't be too far from one.


There are several other naturally-occurring sources for wood blocks as well, though these are much rarer than trees. For instance, wood blocks spawn as part of houses in plains or savanna villages, as well as in witch huts.;
, Once you've found a source of wood blocks, getting them for yourself is easy. Simply break down the wood blocks with your bare hands by getting close to it, looking at it, and holding down the "attack/destroy" button. Cracks will spread through the block and it will eventually break. If you have an axe, this will go faster, but you don't need one to break the wood block. Pick up the wood block once it breaks.


The default controls for the "attack/destroy" button in the different versions of Minecraft are:Computer: Left click

Pocket Edition: Hold down on the block you want to break

XBox 360: Right trigger

, Open your inventory. You should see a single wood block in one of the spaces. Each block of wood can be made into four wood planks, which is exactly how many you need to make a crafting table.Use these instructions to make wood planks in each version of the game:

Computer: Press E to open your inventory. Drag the wood block into the crafting space in the top right. Drag the stack of four wood planks down into your inventory.

Pocket Edition: Open your inventory and select the wood block. Click on the wooden planks, then click on the wooden planks on the right to add them to your inventory.

XBox 360: Open the crafting menu with X. Select the wooden planks from the Structures menu and confirm your choice with A.
 Now, you should have four wooden planks, which is exactly how many you need to make a crafting table. It doesn't matter what sort of wooden planks you have (e.g., oak, birch, etc.) — any will do.


To make your table, use the following steps:

Computer: Press E to open your inventory. Left click on the stack of four wooden planks, then right click on each of the four spaces in the top left. Drag the crafting table into your inventory.

Pocket Edition: Open your inventory and select the wood planks. Click on the crafting table, then click on the crafting table button on the right to confirm.

XBox 360: Open the crafting menu with X. Scroll to the right in the structures menu and select the crafting table. Confirm your choice with A.
 Congratulations — you've just made a crafting table. However, you can't use it to make tools and other items until you set it down somewhere in the world. To do this, first, make sure it's in one of your equipped item spaces. Then, switch to the crafting table, find an open spot for it on the ground, and use the "place block" button to place it in the world.


The default controls for the "place" button in the different versions of Minecraft are:Computer: Right click.

Pocket Edition: Tap the area you want to place the block while it is equipped.

XBox 360: Left trigger.
 Once the crafting table has been placed on the ground, you can use it right away. Opening the crafting table menu lets you craft tons of items and tools, making it an absolute must before you can start delving deep into the world of Minecraft. It also gives you a larger 3x3 grid to craft items in the computer and Xbox versions (as opposed to the 2x2 one you initially have.) However, you won't be able to make anything until you have some basic materials in your inventory (see step below.)


The default controls for using the crafting table in the different versions of Minecraft are:

Computer: Look at the table and right click.

Pocket Edition: Tap the crafting table.

XBox 360: Look at the table and hit the left trigger.
 Now that you have a crafting table, you can use its bigger crafting area to make many of the basic items that you need to start exploring and conquering your world. The crafting "recipes" below will get you a basic set of wooden tools that you can use to mine stone, fight creeps, and more. For a complete list of crafting recipes, consult the official Minecraft Wiki, which has a page and recipe for every craftable item in the game.Sticks: Two wooden planks (arranged vertically in two slots)

Wooden Pickaxe: Three wooden planks across the top row, one stick in the middle spot of the two rows below. Good for digging through rock.

Wooden Sword: One stick in the bottom middle spot, two wooden planks in the spots above it. Good for fighting creeps.

Wooden Shovel: One wood plank in the top middle spot, two sticks in the spots below it. Good for digging through dirt.

Wooden Axe: One stick in the middle spots of the bottom two rows, one wooden plank in the top middle spot, the top left spot, and the left spot of the second row. Good for cutting through wood.

