 If you will be cooperatively raising your children along with their other parent while separated, it’s important to get on the same page about the children’s day to day lives. Children find structure to be comforting, and uncertainty about basic aspects of their everyday lives will add to the stress and frustration they may be going through.Organize and keep a regular schedule regarding who brings the kids to school or picks them up. These aspects of a child’s life matter more than you think.
 You and your spouse should come to some agreement about the rules that will be maintained in both households, as well as discipline for breaking these rules. While some rules may vary, any agreement about when and how you discipline your children will benefit everyone involved.For instance, agree on a curfew for children that are old enough to go out with friends on the weekends. Agreeing and enforcing even basic criteria will present a unified disciplinary approach.
Additionally, talk about the things your children are allowed to possess. If possible, prevent scenarios in which certain things - such as violent video games, for instance - are allowed in one household and not the other. Imbalanced disciplinary approaches will become divisive and detrimental for everyone.
 Either in person or on the phone, avoid allowing your children to witness emotional disagreements between you and their other parent. These disagreements will likely occur, but you should both take care not to risk further traumatizing your children by continuing to fight in front of them.When you have something to speak about with your children's other parent, set up a time to meet when your children are not present or simply call them on the phone.
If they are unavailable when you call, ask them to agree to a time to talk, and specify what it is you're hoping to speak about.
 This may admittedly prove to be challenging. Remind yourself that it in the best interest of your children to treat their other parent with respect. In particular, do not say anything disparaging about their other parent. Focus on the positives of their other parent, and remember that your children will have a strong attachment to them.Set a good example for your children about how to act with maturity and kindness.
Do not, under any circumstances, make an effort to undermine your children’s relationship with their other parent. This can be hurtful to both your child and your relationship with them.
 Children of any age will likely develop a stronger bond with one another while going through a divorce together. Never be envious of the strength of a relationship your child has with another member of their family, and encourage these relationships if at all possible.If your know one of your children has been having a rough time, ask them if they’ve talked to their siblings about it.
This applies to kids of similar ages, who may understand how each other are feelings, or of different ages, who may be able to offer advice or comfort to one another.
 You should wait a while before introducing your children to new romantic partners following a divorce. This is especially important if infidelity had been one of the reasons for your divorce. Your children's comfort and access to you should take immediate precedence to any romantic relationships following your divorce.Don't expect your children to immediately be fond of a romantic partner - particularly if you had been having an affair during your marriage.
Whatever the circumstances, know that your children will likely come to respect any new relationship you develop, though it will take time.

