 There are not a whole lot of places to find Lugia once you've missed the event needed to catch it in Fire Red. However, you can get Lugia in Gold, Silver, and Pokémon XD, though a little work is required to transfer it to Fire Red.


If you know someone who has caught Lugia in Gold or Silver, this is the easiest way to get the Pokémon and trade it over. Simply use a Gameboy transfer code and move it to your Fire Red game.
If you own a GameCube and Pokémon XD, you can trade for a special Lugia with a unique move.;
, Unless you've beaten Pokémon Silver, your only other chance to get Lugia is through Pokémon XD. To do so, you'll need some supplies, and must meet a few conditions:


Gameboy with Pokémon XD
Gameboy Advance with Pokémon FireRed.
Gameboy to Gamecube transfer cord.
Your must beat the Elite 4 and get the National Pokedex on your Fire Red game to trade from XD.You must beat Greevil in Pokémon XD.
 Lugia is much easier to catch here than in Fire Red, so make sure you nab it on your way to beating the game. Luckily, even if you knock him out, you can always come replay the level and try to catch him again.You can find Lugia during your battle with DeathGold.
You should strongly consider using your MasterBall on Shadow Lugia, as it is extremely difficult to catch without it., FireRed doesn't have information for Shadow-type moves, so you can only trade Lugia if you purge it. TO purge it, you need all nine chambers of the purification chamber to be at "max tempo," meaning that each chamber has a perfect cycle of types. But there is an easy way to do this without catching a ton of different Pokemon:Go to Oasis Pokestop.
Catch 36 Hoppips at any level.
Fill all nine chambers with Hoppips
Purify Shadow Lugia in one of the tanks., To transfer, turn on both games and connect the cable. Head to the "Basement" in XD and to a Pokecenter in Fire Red, clicking on the computer in the right corner. You should see a "Network" option that allows you to trade Pokemon. Send you Lugia over and you're good to go!

