 Spider webs should be removed as you see them. This can help spiders from infesting your home. As you move through your day-to-day cleaning, be on the lookout for webs. Make a note of any webs you see to clean later on.;
, The best means to remove spider webs is by simply using a vacuum. A handheld vacuum would be easiest to maneuver. However, if you don't have a handheld vacuum you can also use a vacuum with an extension nozzle.









Simply use the nozzle or handheld vacuum to suck up any webs you see. If webs are stuck in, you may have to go over the area quite a few times.If you notice any cobwebs on furniture or curtains, vacuum over them. Then, use a lint roller to remove any leftover bits of web.Be sure to check under furniture. Some types of spiders may make webs in dark areas. Once a week, flip over your couches, chairs, tables, and other items of furniture to check for webs. If you notice any webs, vacuum them up.
 Some places may be difficult to reach with a vacuum cleaner. Any nooks or crannies you cannot reach with a vacuum can be cleaned using a soft duster with a handle. If you don't have one, use a rubber band to secure an old sock to the end of a yard stick or ruler. You can then use this tool to remove webs.
 Speckled ceilings, also known as popcorn ceilings, can be difficult to clean. Spider webs on these kinds of ceilings can be frustrating to remove. Using duct tape can be a good trick. Take a regular paint roller and wrap duct tape around it, with the sticky side of the tape facing outward. Then, roll this over your speckled ceiling in order to remove cobwebs. It may take a few rolls to get the webs out completely.
 Spiders often make webs in the corners of windows, settling between the screen and window. If you want to remove spider webs from these places, follow guidelines often used for cleaning older windows. Spray down the window and screen with water. You can use either a hose or a spray bottle.









If you're spraying from outside, a garden hose with a spray nozzle attached can be sprayed onto the window. You can spray into the screen, aiming at the unwanted spider webs. If you're spraying inside, just use a standard spray bottle.Remove the screen and use a smaller spray bottle to dislodge any remaining spider webs. From there, clean the windows with your chosen cleaning supplies. You can use window sprays you would buy at a local department store or simply use soap and water. Clean the window thoroughly, making sure to remove any remaining residue from the spider webs.To prevent reoccurrence, replace screens that have cracks and tears in them. This will stop spiders from getting into your home to begin with.
 Go over the nooks and crannies in your home. Double check for spider webs or infestations in these places. If you live in an area where poisonous spiders are a hazard, you want to make sure your home is free of webs. The best way of preventing spider infestations is catching them before they start.