 Even if you consider your sales pitch incredibly interesting and persuasive, you only have about a 60 second time frame to get someone interested in what you have to sell. You should be able to get anyone interested in what you’re selling in one minute or less.
 If you sound like you are forcing the conversation, your audience will either become disinterested or annoyed.


Give the person you are selling to the opportunity to ask questions and make comments, and be sure to genuinely listen to what they say.
Ask open-ended questions that require your audience to give a complete response. Yes-or-no questions shut down conversation and make you seem closed off from hearing what your audience may have to say.
Don’t manipulate their answers. Trying to put words in a persons mouth will frustrate them and make them less interested in hearing your pitch.
 You would be better able to sell something to a close friend or family member, right? That’s because you have a bond with them that makes them want to help support you. If you are able to build a genuine relationship with a person, they will be much more likely to buy something from you., Even if telling the truth means pointing out a flaw of your product or service, be honest. This is appealing to many people; honesty is refreshing and desired in a salesperson., Thinking you know how a person will respond or how a sale will go will likely lead to disappointment. You will react in a set manner and lack the flexibility necessary for a good sale. Allow your pitch to be fluid, matching both your audience and the environment.
 Whoever you’re selling to, whether it be a lady from down the street or the CEO of a company, will want to feel justified in their opinions. Should your audience agree or disagree with your pitch, validate them so that they know their opinion is justified.


If they disagree with what you tell them, agree that the way they understand things is correct. Simply help to change their perspective with solid examples and real conversation.
Validate their need for your product. Help them to feel justified in their purchase of what you’re selling.

