 What activities are safe and beneficial for you will depend on what illness you’ve recovered from and what your health status is. If you’re getting back to working out after an extensive knee surgery but are otherwise healthy, you’ll want to do different activities than if you’ve been bedridden for 6 months. When in doubt, ask your doctor what your limitations should be., The range of motion of a joint is how far in what directions a joint can move, and this should sometimes be limited after surgery. For instance, after shoulder surgery your doctor or physical therapist may advise you that you need to avoid reaching overhead until you’re healed. Be sure you understand what movements are safe for you to do before you start exercising., Swimming is a non-weight bearing cardiovascular exercise – in other words, it gets your heart rate up for a good workout without putting stress on your joints. If you’re recovering from knee, hip, or shoulder surgery, swimming can be a great way to start. Swimming and aqua aerobics are also beneficial exercises if you have arthritis or problems with balance like after a stroke.For painful joints, also do isometric exercises of the surrounding muscles. Isometric exercises are those that tighten and release the muscle, which makes it stronger. For instance, if your knee is weak or painful, work to strengthen your quadriceps muscles.
 The American Cancer Society recommends that those living disease-free or with stable disease exercise regularly. Numerous studies have shown that exercise not only improves wellbeing, mental health, strength, and physical wellness, it may decrease recurrence rates in some types of cancer. Make a goal to exercise for 150 minutes each week or longer, and do strength training 2 days each week.Always consult your doctor or care team before starting an exercise program.
Cancer survivors have some specific needs and limitations during exercise. For instance, chlorinated pools may irritate skin if you’ve had radiation therapy, using heavy weights may be unsafe if you’ve had cancer in your bones, and you risk falling if you have numbness in your feet and use a treadmill.Making a plan with your care team is the safest way to start a fitness program.
 It’s natural to wonder whether it’s safe to exercise after having a heart attack or heart surgery. You can, and should – just start very slowly. Begin with 2 to 5 minutes of walking the first week, repeating it a few times during the day if you can. Increase that by 5 minutes each week. Set a goal to be able to do 15 to 20 minutes of light exercise per session by the fourth to sixth week of your recovery.It’s very important that you also do cardiac rehabilitation sessions, which are specifically designed for heart patients. A cardiac rehab professional will assess you and advise you on how best to advance your activity level., Physical activity decreases your blood sugar, so if you have diabetes or are recovering from an illness that has affected your pancreas you should check your blood sugar before exercising. Some medications also affect blood sugar, especially insulin and diabetes medicine – though others have this as a side effect.Talk to your doctor about exercising if blood sugar is a concern, and always have a snack on hand while working out in case your blood sugar drops.

