 Download the app from the Google Play store by going to this link: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/hangouts/knipolnnllmklapflnccelgolnpehhpl


Download and install the app by clicking the blue download button in the upper right corner of the pop-up.
The app will work for all common operating systems, including Linux.
 You will see various icons. Each icon has a different function.
 Click on the icon, that looks like two people to access your contacts. Press the big green button with the plus symbol to search for a person. Click on the person's name to start a conversation with them.
 To the right of the people icon, click on the icon that looks like a speech bubble to see previous conversations.
 To the right of the speech bubble icon, click on the icon that looks like a phone to start a phone call. Search for a name or phone number in the field next to an icon of your country's flag. If you use the same Google account on your phone, you will be able to see all contacts from your phone, even if the person does not have a Google account.


You can call any number, but you will need to add credit to your account by clicking on the plus sign to the right of the dollar value. Follow the instructions on the web page that pops up in order to add money to your account.
 While in a conversation, type messages by clicking and typing in the input field that says "Send a message." You will know when you are in a conversation if the header of the window displays the name of the person you want to talk to.
 Click on the smiley face icon to the left of the chat box to reveal emoticons. You can pick from a wide variety of different faces to better express your emotions over text.


Send a picture over chat by clicking on the icon to the right of the chat box that looks like a painting of a mountain. You can upload any photo that you have on your computer.

Hover over the same icon to reveal the pencil icon. Click on this icon to draw a picture and send it.


Start a video call with the person by clicking on the icon that looks like a video camera in the upper right corner of the window.
To the right of the video camera icon, click on the three vertical dots to add more people to the conversation, block the person, archive the conversation, or delete the conversation.
 Click on the three horizontal lines in the upper left corner of the screen. You can:


Share a status to your contacts.
Change sounds for incoming calls and messages under the Notifications header.
Change when the Hangout app starts and how it is displayed on the screen under the Hangouts App Settings header.
Enable transparent UI by clicking on the "Enable Transparent UI" button. Clicking this button will make it so that any new messages pop up as bubbles on top of any other windows you may have open.
See a list of archived hangouts, invites, hidden contacts, and blocked people.

