 There is no one version of cool — it is more of an attitude than a set of interests or beliefs. Being cool requires confidence, an attitude that says "I don't care what you think, I'm doing this for me." If you don't like you, how can other people? Be comfortable in your own skin, and make choices that help you respect yourself. Respect for yourself is ten times more important than others' respect for you. Moreover, confidence in yourself is the number one thing most important thing you can do to be "cool."


What do you enjoy doing? What kinds of people to you admire?
Not everyone is cool to everyone else. Just because one group of people don't find you cool doesn't mean that another group won't think you're the best thing since sliced bread. Stop trying to find what other people think is cool; just be your confident, cool self. The admiring friends and followers will follow., If anyone suggests something to do, as long as it's legal, healthy, and doesn't go against your principles, don't turn it down. Be known to be someone who will support fun activities. Finding new hobbies or games leads you meet new people and gives you great stories and unexpected new ideas to bring back to your friends. Traveling, picking up a new sport, going to see a young band, or trying out some hobbies will broaden your horizons and friendship group.


Finding and sharing great new music, movies, and TV is a great way to show that you're up on the coolest new pop culture.
Trying new things gives you new things to talk about. This can help you start a conversation with anyone, since you might know a little bit about their favorite things.
 Typically, the funnier you are the cooler you become. Laughter is contagious, and your name will spread like wildfire along with the chuckles. But humor isn't just about cracking jokes. It includes being able to take a joke that is directed at you with grace and good will. Cool kids see themselves as a level above the rest, slightly detached and unworried by small jokes or slights. A mean joke just rolls off of them, because they don't care enough to get upset. They know that jokes are ultimately harmless.


The best way to deal with a joke aimed at you is to send another joke right back. This shows that you can handle the pressure calmly, but are also willing to stick up to yourself.
 Put yourself out there and go to as many events and social functions as you can. These could be dances, sporting events, parties, shows, etc. Support your friends at their events (like their games or concerts) as well, showing people that you care and can be relied on as a good pal.
 This is the most uncool thing that you can possibly do. Remember that being cool is about being true to yourself. It is about giving off the aura of individuality and confidence. If you're doing things to intentionally look cool, you'll never actually look cool. You need, instead, to ] and let the coolness come naturally. Once you're confident in your own abilities and coolness, you're the coolest kid on the block.


A recent study showed that kids who try to be too cool in high school have a higher rate of drug use and lower life satisfaction than the kids who just acted like themselves. Ultimately, those true to themselves end up cooler and happier.