 Sandwiches are a go-to beach snack for many people, but they also tend to become “sand traps” — either the sand blows in between the bread slices or parts of your sandwich fall out into the sand. Instead, try wrapping your favorite sandwich filling in a whole grain tortilla or flatbread, which will provide greater protection and easier handling.Peanut butter and jelly is a classic for kids, of course, but really any type of sandwich can become a wrap — just make sure to keep meats and cheeses in particular cold throughout the day.;
, No matter what you do, sand is going to end up everywhere on you (and your stuff) during a beach day. If you’re licking your fingers while eating cheese curls or even nibbling on pineapple spears, you’re likely to end up with a sandy claw (and mouth) by the end of your snack.It’s best to skip the fatty chips or cheese curls anyway, and if you’re going with sticky fruit pieces, bring a fork to pick them out of a resealable container.
 Whole fruits like bananas, oranges, and apples come with a built-in sand barrier — their skin. While cutting up your fruit beforehand may seem more convenient, keeping it whole will reduce sand infiltration.Peel a bit of the banana or orange, eat the goodness inside, then repeat. You’ll reduce both stickiness and sand consumption.
While whole berries are refreshing and tasty, they’re also more likely to attract sand. Try making a mixed berry smoothie instead and keeping it cold in your bag.
 The more fingers you need to put on a food item to eat it, the more sand you’re going to transfer to it. Big slices of watermelon that require both of your kid’s hands to eat, for instance, are likely to turn their hands and face into pink-hued sand art.


Wraps are easier to eat with one hand than sandwiches, and properly chilled fried chicken or kebabs can also pack a handy protein punch., Fresh-cut veggies are one of the healthiest snack options at the beach or anywhere else. Some cut veggies, like cucumbers or even bell peppers, are moist enough to attract sand easily. Carrots and celery, though, tend to be dry enough to prevent looking like they’ve been breaded in sand for frying.Bring along some hummus or peanut butter for dipping, if desired. But expect to eat a bit more sand if you do!

, While a fresh salad that’s bursting with veggie goodness is a filling and healthy snack option, it can also be a bit unwieldy to eat on the beach. Just like turning your sandwich into a wrap, though, you can condense and partially sand-proof your salad by wrapping your desired ingredients into a large lettuce leaf.Use a toothpick to keep your lettuce wrap together, if necessary. Just make sure you don’t eat it!

, Ice cream is another beach classic, despite the stickiness and messiness, but only if you can get it from a beachside stand. It’s nearly impossible to keep it cold enough to prevent melting (or potential contamination) if you bring ice cream with you.


Cookies may be a better option to satisfy your sweet tooth, but skip the melty chocolate chips or sand-attracting frostings or glazes. Consider peanut butter or oatmeal raisin cookies instead., Soda, iced tea, juice, and alcohol can all make appealing refreshment options when you’re at the beach. However, the healthiest, most refreshing, and most convenient option is regular old water. Bring lots of water, keep it cold, and hydrate early and often throughout the day. This is especially important on a hot, sunny day, and for kids.Fresh fruits and veggies also provide some hydration, but make sure you’re drinking enough water regardless., Sure, it can be enticing to see a beach day as an excuse to “let go” and chow down on your favorite unhealthy foods. If you must do so, though, wait until the evening after your beach day. While you’re on the beach, stick to lighter, healthier, and hydrating options.Lighter, healthier foods like fruits, veggies, and a grilled chicken lettuce wrap will leave you feeling more energetic, less bloated, and less likely to become dehydrated.

