 Resume templates can be very useful if you are uncertain about how to format your resume, or you are not confident using the formatting tools on Word on another word processing programme. If you prefer create your own format and not to use a template, start by planning out which sections you will be including and how they will be organised. A resume should generally include the following sections:


Education and qualifications.
Work and volunteer experience.
Skills and qualities.
It should also include your full contact details and state that references are available upon request., There are a number of different types of resume, including the chronological resume, the functional resume, the combination resume, and the curriculum vitae (CV). The chronological resume lists your work experience from your most recent position to your earliest position, with your responsibilities for each position listed under the position title and dates you held it. This type of resume helps you to show how you have progressed over time.Most chronological resumes only cover the last 5 to 10 years of your employment history.
You may wish to include positions earlier than this if they are appropriate to the job you're seeking.
This is the format most American employers prefer to see resumes in.
 The functional resume lists your key job skills first, then follows with a list of positions you've held. It can be useful to highlight your particular skills while hiding gaps in your employment history, but it is generally not advisable for students or recent graduates to use this format.It can be a useful format for those looking to translate their current job skills into a different field.
 A third option is the combination resume, sometimes known as a skills-based resume. This format enables you to highlight your skills most prominently, but also to tie them to your practical work experience. This can be helpful if your skills are more relevant than your work experience for the position you are applying for, but this format is unfamiliar to some employers and it is generally preferable to opt for a chronological resume.


A combination resume might list your key skills at the top before providing a short account of your experiences.
This type of resume can be helpful for those entering the job market with little work experience, or for those trying to change careers., A curriculum vitae serves the same basic purpose of a resume, but there are different conventions that govern how it is written. The curriculum vitae is a comprehensive list of your job experience from your current or most recent position to your earliest. Unlike the chronological or functional resume, which typically run 1 to 2 pages, the CV is as long as it needs to be to encompass your experience.


The CV is commonly used when applying for positions in Europe, and also when applying for positions at colleges and universities worldwide.
CVs can be thought of as living documents that records all your work and achievements, which will generally grow and develop over time more than a resume.