 Make sure you know what day and time they are leaving, and what day and time they plan to return. Most importantly, find out what tasks they want you to take care of while they are away. This typically includes taking in their mail, watering plants, caring for their pet (if applicable), shovelling their driveway (in the event of snow), keeping an eye on their house for safety reasons, etc.;
, If you're taking care of chores inside the house, you'll need a house key. Always ask for their cell phone/hotel number or e-mail address in case of an emergency. Most importantly, make sure you know where everything you will need is located, whether it be pet food or a garden hose.
 Even if they refuse, offer to give your friend a ride to the airport instead of them taking a taxi. Ask them if they need help packing or would like to borrow anything of yours for their trip. There can be a lot of stress in preparing before embarking on a trip, so be as helpful as possible.
 Once they are gone, fulfill your duties. Follow their exact instructions with your best effort, and be sure to give them a call as soon as possible if you don't understand something or a problem arises. Carrying out the most common tasks includes:


Taking in the mail. Go to their house in the afternoon or evening to gather their mail. Bring it into their house if you have a key, or take it back to your house if you don't. When entering their house, put the mail neatly into piles with newspapers on the bottom, magazines in the middle, and envelopes on the top. Arrange these piles on a table or counter where they will easily find it. If you bring them back to your house, keep them in a box so you can easily give it to them upon their return.







Caring for plants. Water all of the plants you are requested to, both indoor and outdoor. Give them plenty of water and do so either in the morning or evening if they are outdoors. Remember to turn off the hose or faucet when you finish.







Caring for pets. Depending on the pet and your friend or neighbor's instructions, you could be feeding the pets, playing with them, walking them, cleaning up after them, etc. It solely depends on the type of pet. Most importantly, in any case, make sure the pet survives and does not get lost or run away.







Shoveling snow. In the event of a snowstorm, be sure to shovel your friend's driveway and the sidewalk in front of their house, even if you weren't asked to. The snow will likely turn to ice within a few days, making it very difficult to shovel. If you want, gather a group of friends to help you out; the more you recruit, the less work you will have to do.

Watching their house. Once a day, simply check around your friend or neighbor's house to make sure there is no vandalism, signs of a break-in, or other serious event. If there is, be sure to contact the police right away and alert your friend. Both the homeowner and house sitter can take steps to reduce the risk of theft or break in.
 Offer to pick them up from the airport, help them unpack, etc. Hopefully, your friend or neighbor will be appreciative and thankful for your help and will likely offer some kind of reward. At the very least, you can count on them to do the same for you when you go out of town.

