 Everything is easier to appreciate when it's matched well with a suitable environment.


A good rock song by Aerosmith would be better appreciated in a high volume environment, and a classic soul piece by Barry White or Issac Hayes is better when played in a quiet room since they sing slow jams that are sensual or romantic.

Salsa wouldn't sound appropriate in a fancy, up-scale opera house in Washington D.C. However, it would sound perfect in a dance club in Miami.;
,


Rock and roll originated in the 1950s with Elvis Presley and was popularized by The Beatles.






Rap/Hip hop began in New York in the 1970s. DJ Cool Herc is generally considered the father of hip-hop, which grew out of the all night dance parties that he threw in the Bronx after moving there from Jamaica.
R&B, or Rhythm and Blues, was created in the late 1940s and eventually, in the 1950s -60s it evolved into soul.
No one person really knows where and when Salsa, one of the most important and most popular genres of Latin-based music, was created. Some people say it started in Cuba, others say in Puerto Rico and others go even further into Central and South America, pointing to Colombia, Brazil and Argentina. The word salsa means 'sauce' or 'saucy' in English, and this term was first used in the 1960s to describe this fast and exotic, beat-driven Caribbean music. The most influential artists at the beginning of Salsa were Hector Lavoe and Celia Cruz.


Classical music has inspired lots of today's music.To hear classical music's influence on rock, first listen to some Beethoven (5th and 9th Symphonies) and Mozart (Serenade 13 "A Little Night Music"), then listen to Queen's "A Night At The Opera." It's fun to note the evolution of music, and you will begin to hear the influence of what's come before what's happening now. Mozart wrote great, singable "tunes" or melodies. Beethoven did, too, but with more muscle. Classical music covers a huge range of diverse music: try to listen to different works form different times, places, and styles. Listen to the music of composers such as Gustav Mahler, Igor Stravinsky, and Dmitri Shostakovich to get a sample of more modern and aggressive classical music.






Rock and Roll can be loud, soft, trashy or slick; it can encompass pop, metal and blues. It's fun when you have friends over, because it's popular. Rock encompasses everything from The Beatles to The Police to No Doubt to Pantera - it's all sub-genres of the same verse/chorus/verse/chorus/bridge/verse/chorus structure. Car sing-along are encouraged.






Progressive rock is a blending or fusion of jazz, classical and rock and roll influences. This genre encompasses bands like Pink Floyd, Yes, Genesis, King Crimson, Jethro Tull, Spock's Beard, Dream Theater and Nektar. Songs are usually quite long compared to other genres, and tend to progress through 'movements' similar to classical music. Concerts seem to be the place to go to enjoy this with others who like the same style of music.

Rockabilly is raucous and fun, somewhat old school, but it almost always follows a predictable structure, so it feels familiar - Elvis, Eddie Cochran, Buddy Holly, the Blasters, and the Stray Cats are great examples. Try these at parties where you want people to dance.
Folk Music has been around forever; it's generally the song of a people. Folk songs are passed down from generation to generation, usually just by being sung; "You Are My Sunshine," "Jimmy Crack Corn," and "This Land Is Your Land" are all examples of American folk tunes. There are modern folk singers who have appropriated the genre, such as Bob Dylan and Pete Seeger. Folk has woven its way into every genre of every country's music (in the USA, Simon & Garfunkel, the Mamas & Papas); it is the indigenous music of the land where you live. It's fun at campfires because everyone usually knows all the words.

Country & Western music has roots in old cowboy songs (which is really the Western in the C&W), Hawaiian and folk tunes. Try Hank Williams, Tammy Wynette, George Strait, Vince Gill, Carrie Underwood and Keith Urban. Nice at picnic style family gatherings because the old people tend to not complain about it.
Pop is really just a softer sort of rock; but there are pop punkers, too. The Monkees, vocal acts like ABBA, Ben Folds Five, k.d. lang, and pop-punkers (also called alternative rockers) Fall Out Boy, and The Killers are all fine choices. Great at smaller, more informal gatherings, or to sing along with in the car.






Rap and Hip Hop was originally identified with urban African Americans, starting back with Run DMC and Sugarhill Gang, evolving to the more pop, mainstream sounds of MC Hammer, and eventually including 50 Cent, Eminem, and others. The content can be challenging (language, subject matter - mostly for more mature listeners).

Broadway, Musical and Opera are also fun to sing along with during housework, in the car, and with friends. Carmen, by Bizet is great - compare "Toreador" to the "Imperial March", from Star Wars; La Boheme by Puccini inspired the modern version, Rent. The Magic Flute, by Mozart, is the second part of a trilogy in the fairy tale genre; the first being "The Philosopher's Stone" a collaboration between Mozart and three other composers, and the third being "The Labyrinth" by Winter, (after Mozart's death) all using some of the same musical material. Ring of the Nibelung, by Wagner contains the amazing, bold "Ride of the Valkyries, and inspired Tolkien's trilogy, "Lord of The Rings"; the music is available separately by Howard Shore." For clever lyrics, Kander and Ebb musicals can't be beat - try "Cabaret" the movie soundtrack or "Chicago". Even Disney musicals can be fun to sing along to with kids - try "The Little Mermaid," or "Beauty and the Beast," or "Lady and the Tramp." One composer considered among the most brilliant of all time is Stephen Sondheim. Many people who claim not to enjoy musical theater end up enjoying his work a great deal. Among his best and most famous works are "Sweeney Todd" and "Sunday in the Park with George."
Probably venturing into dangerous territory here, but even Disco is fun if you're in the right frame of mind. Donna Summer is the undisputed queen of disco - sensual, sexy vocals and pulsating disco beats abound; or the Bee Gees' lush falsettos, or KC and the Sunshine Band's joyful, up-tempo takes on trivial subject matter. This is light-hearted fare, great to get people on their feet and dancing. Be sure you alternate with other good dance music as these beats are hypnotic.
Swing, like Benny Goodman, the Harry James band, Arte Shaw, and others is a great classic that alternates well at dance parties with disco stuff. These are mostly Big Bands - sort of modern orchestras featuring lots of horns, brass and woodwinds (try Louis Prima's Sing Sing Sing - swingin', daddy-o!). Or you can go new retro with Brian Setzer's Orchestra or the Squirrel Nut Zippers; the main difference is that the newer versions feature electric guitars as or more prominently than the brass and winds.
Standards - these old-school gems are being rediscovered and valued for their wonderful, romantic lyrics and sweet, strong vocal melodies, which can be accompanied by simple piano or acoustic guitar arrangements. Try these out by yourself first - your friends may not understand. Tony Bennett, Doris Day, Judy Garland, and Frank Sinatra all set the world on fire back in the day with songs like You Made Me Love You, Paper Moon, Swanee, and Black Magic. New artists working in this genre include Michael Bublé and Jason Mraz.

Jazz is complicated. Mostly instrumental, it comes in flavors. Most jazz features saxophones or pianos, rarely guitars. There's all-instrumental jazz that really is best appreciated alone or with a friend who understands it as you do. There is no discernible beat or melody, and it's a struggle for the average listener to relax when listening. This music is best appreciated by true aficionados, most people will find the music too atonal to latch onto well. Then there's so-called New Age Jazz or Smooth Jazz, which includes artists such as Billie Holliday, Ella Fitzgerald, Dave Koz or George Benson. Much easier listening - most friends will like it. It's nice for small, intimate gatherings.
There are also recording artists whose music doesn't really fall into easily identified, comfortable categories. Josh Groban sings American pop songs in English, but also chooses unusual works in Italian, French and Spanish, in a much more classical vein. Norah Jones can be seen as a smooth jazz artist in one song, a pop artist in another. And what would we call Weird Al Yankovic? Is he a comedian, or a singer? As mentioned in the first paragraph, context is everything, and in the right environment, one can appreciate all sorts of musical endeavours and artists.

