 Save those documents to your computer or cloud storage. Before you close your account, make sure that you look through any places in your email where old pictures, files, or documents are stored. Additionally, look through old emails for any email exchanges that you may want to save. Some of these documents might be valuable to you.If you are going to close your entire account, not just your email, and have a Microsoft account: Live, Msn, Hotmail, or Outlook, you should save or download any of your documents or files saved to your OneDrive. Or if you have any information on your Xbox, make sure it is backed up before you close your Microsoft account. None of the progress that you have made on your games or scores will be saved after you close your account.;
, First, sign into the account website in order to see if you have any money on your account. You may have loaded money onto your account for a variety of reasons. For example, you may have put money on your account to call abroad when you were out of the country.


If you have a Microsoft account, spend the money on digital content in the Windows Store, the Windows Phone Store, or Xbox before you close your account.
Likewise, other providers like Google will have stores where you can purchase media before you close your account.
 Product keys are for products you purchased through Microsoft. A product key is the 25 character code that comes with a Microsoft product and allows you to activate your product. In case you have to reinstall your product, you should save this code. Also, if you have passwords for websites or services saved on your email, do a search for passwords, and save those in a new document/ location.


If you purchased any products like Microsoft Office online, you had to purchase it through an email account. Try typing “product key” or @DIGITALRIVER.COM, @TRY.OFFICEFORMAC.COM, or BUY.OFFICEFORMAC.COM into the search bar to find the email with the product key code and the order number. Save the entire email in a new document and location.
 Let your friends, family and professional contacts know how to reach you. Go to the contacts page in your email, and select the boxes next to each contact that you want to notify that you are closing your account. Then select “Email” in the group details pane if you have Gmail.Write an email that informs your contacts that you are closing your account, and give them a new email address that they can reach you at.
Ask your contacts to update their contact information to your new email address.
 If you are going to close the whole account, not just your email, make sure you cancel your subscriptions. For example, if you have a Microsoft account, you may have OneDrive or Office 365 subscriptions. Sign into your Microsoft account website, and go to "Services and subscriptions". Cancel any of the paid subscriptions you have, and follow the instructions to unsubscribe.


If you have any other subscriptions through your email account but not with your service, go to the support page of any services or retailers you have subscriptions with, for example, Skype. Locate the information for how to cancel your subscription, and follow the necessary steps. 