 A typical 12 oz soda can works fine, as well as a larger "tallboy" style can. Make sure all the soda or beer is out of the can and rinse it out with clean water. Let it dry before continuing with the process.






;
, The next step is to make holes in the center of the can's side. A pencil or pen is also an effective hole-poker.









If nothing is available, consider breaking the can's tab in half and using the sharp point to create a series of small holes.
 Since you'll want to place your smokables on the other side of the hole you'll smoke out of, make it the opposite side of the mouth of the can. Use your thumb to press in a shallow rut.
 Use the needle, pin or other piercing implement to poke a pattern of holes over the basin formed by the indention. They don't need to be big, but the more of them you make, the better. Create a grate-like pattern.
 Pick location which feels most natural to cover with a finger or thumb as you smoke, then use a sharpened pencil or a pen to pierce the can.
, This will vaporize chemicals used to coat the interior of the can before you light up. You can also sand the paint off the indention and the adjacent area. This removes a large part of the potentially harmful material that might be vaporized as you smoke. You can use the end of the hole-poker you used, or some sandpaper is some is available.
 To smoke, place your tobacco or other smoking material on the indentation, hold you mouth to the drinking hole in the can, and cover the cab with your thumb. Inhale to fill the can with smoke and release the carb when you're ready to inhale.
 Heating and inhaling aluminum has been linked to Alzheimer's and other neurological diseases. While it's true that it's difficult to heat the aluminum to a high enough vaporization point using a simple Bic lighter, it's also inefficient and probably best to not mess with.









The basic principle of the soda-can pipe can also be transferred to widely available things like apples, potatoes, and other things that don't have the harmful potential for side-effects. Smoke at your own risk.

