 You can support the child with ADHD by giving them ample time to write down their homework assignments in their notebook. The child’s teacher should post the day’s assignments on the board and read them out loud to the class. Giving the child enough time to write down their homework assignments will ensure they are able to then process the information and bring their assignments home to work on.You may ask the teacher to hand out a typed assignment sheet to take home, especially if the child has attention deficits that make it difficult for them to copy down the homework in their notebook.;
, You can help the child stay on track at school by setting up a folder for completed assignments. This folder can be the place where the child puts the homework assignments to bring home. It can also be the place where they put assignments they have completed. Children with ADHD do well with these kind of physical reminders.If the child tends to forget to hand back in their assignments, their teacher can include a sheet for a parent to sign once the homework has been completed and packed in the child’s bag. This will serve as a reminder to the child’s parent to check that the homework has been done and is packed in the child’s school bag.
 Some children with ADHD forget to bring their school books home, which can make it more difficult for them to complete their homework. You can make sure this does not happen by arranging for your child to have two sets of school books, one for at school and one for at home. You may ask the child’s teacher to help you do this and arrange for the set of books to be kept at school., It can also ensure the child with ADHD stays organized.
Another option is to get the child to join a homework club, where they spend time with other students and a tutor after school to get their work done. This can be useful if the child’s medication is still working after school and you want to keep them motivated to do their schoolwork.
 If you find the child is getting overwhelmed with their school assignments, you may set up an Individualized Education Program (IEP) for the child. Talk to their teacher and/or the special education coordinator at their school about arranging for an IEP.You can then work with the child's teacher to modify the IEP so the child has less homework or a lightened workload. For example, as part of the child's IEP, maybe the teacher assigns only the odd-numbered math problems for the child or five homework questions instead of ten. This can help the child still learn and get their work done, without being overly stressed or frustrated.
You may also talk to the child’s teacher about spreading out the child’s assignments so they are not due all at once as part of the child's IEP. You may sit down with them and create a schedule of assignments that will fit the child’s abilities and time management skills. This can make the child feel less overwhelmed, but still get their work done.

