 Giving in order to get what you want may seem counter intuitive, but knowing what you have to offer is the first part of finding what you want. There are many career fields to choose from: architecture, planning and environmental design, arts and education, business, communications, engineering and computer science, environment, government, international relations, law and public policy, nonprofit, health and medicine, sciences, and trades, for example, becoming a carpenter or an electrician. Each of these fields involve practices and disciplines. Knowing which of these disciplines or practices is your passion will help you know what you want.
Your passion can sustain you financially if you become highly skilled at one or more of those fields. These fields all contain human needs that are not going away. The way those needs are met (the services, practices and disciplines) may change and grow, but you can change and adapt with them.
Do not feel compelled to choose only one skill or field. Think about how these areas might intersect in a way that makes sense for your passion or what you want to do.
 The more experience and knowledge you get about the fields you could be interested in the more you will find yourself gravitating toward a specific area. Each field has traditions, ideas, practices and knowledge you can learn and grow from from. You should always be challenging yourself intellectually.


Make a habit out of reading the literature associated with your field. Start reading the books associated with the field that you are interested in. For example, you can read The Joy of Cooking, an influential and classic cookbook, if you love cooking. However, you can also read lots of great cooking blogs to become well informed about your passion.
 Every field, discipline or practice typically contains an active working community. If you live in a large enough city, there will be a group of people who are also pursuing the field(s) you are interested in. If you become close to these individuals, you can can find a strong sense of belonging that can help motivate your growth in that area. The friends you make and their connections may help get you into a job, internship, mentorship or acceptance to a program you want to be in.
 Talking is a good way to process your ideas about the big decisions you make. Tell other people about what you want, and do not be nervous about how you sound. Talk to other people who are both supportive and know you very well. They may be able to give you encouragement and feedback that will help you grow.


Do not take things personally. If people do not understand your dreams, that is okay. Find a community with people who are also pursuing your same interests to stay supported. Continue to ask for honest feedback from a variety of people. And feedback from people who are knowledgeable about what you are doing will be especially helpful.
Friends or family will often feel compelled to give you what they think is the best advice. However, it may not always fit what you want. Be a good listener but continue with the plan that makes the most sense for what you want to do. It is natural for people to feel compelled to help you problem solve your life quickly. But there will mostly likely be no quick answer.
 Talk to people who are good at doing what you want to do, and ask them for feedback. You should make this a practice. For example, if you are a teacher, ask other teachers to watch you teach and give you feedback.


Often it is difficult to correctly perceive what you are doing wrong. However, we all do things wrong, and we need it to be called to our attention.
Dwell on the progress you want to make instead of your feelings of insecurity. It is difficult not to take things personally; however, this is an excellent skill to hone.
 There will be no straight paths for where you want to go, because it is based on who you are. Who you are is also unique and changing, so be aware that your path may shift a few times on your journey.


For example, if you want to be a musician for worshiping communities, you should work toward one of the many parts that it will take to do that job. You may want to study spirituality or practice playing music in bands. Later you may decide that you want to work as a music therapist rather than be a worship leader. You will be able to handle this change, because you have already worked on something in a similar vein.
 Sometimes we grow and change as people through experiences and relationships, and we realize that our passions have changed. Be flexible and responsive if this is the case. Find ways to leverage your previously honed skills into the new passion that is coming through in your life.


Changing your mind about what you want is something that happens to lots of people at some point in their lives. This is a sign that you are probably just learning and growing a lot.

