 These medications work by interrupting your dog's stress and pain response between the brain and nervous system. They reduce stress and relax your dog for several hours. These products may even allow your dog to sleep peacefully. Always consult a veterinarian and get a prescription before giving your dog a sedative.Ideally, you should only use these medications in emergency situations rather than sedating your dog every time they travel. With repeated use, your dog will need increased dosages to achieve sedation, and these high levels of medication can be harmful to their health.
Sedatives may be beneficial when traveling for long distances or before transporting your pet via plane, boat, or train.;
, These are the most frequently used type of medication for motion sickness in dogs and people. They are available in a variety of forms both over the counter and by prescription. Please ask your veterinarian before administering any medication to your dog.


Dimenhydrinate should be given orally at a dosage recommended by your vet once every eight hours. This is the most well-known anti-nausea medication, commonly referred to by its brand name Dramamine.
Cyclizine is given at the dosage recommended by your vet every eight hours. It is sold under a number of brand names, including Nausicalm. You can buy cyclizine over the counter in most pharmacies.
Promethazine should be administered orally or intramuscularly at the dosage prescribed by your vet every 24 hours. This product is only available by prescription, and includes brand names like Phenadoz and Promethegan., There are medications specifically formulated for animals that are known to be very effective. Cerenia is the most commonly used veterinary-specific anti-nausea medication. Depending on your dog’s size, Cerenia can be administered in doses between sixteen and sixty milligrams. Your veterinarian will need to prescribe Cerenia.


Dogs should not eat for at least an hour before taking Cerenia.
Give your dog Cerenia at least an hour before travel for best effect.