 Every state in the United States allows some level of corporal punishment. However, some states limit who can inflict corporal punishment and where it can be inflicted. Check with your state laws to determine the extent someone is allowed to physically punish you. For example:


Corporal punishment is allowed, to a degree, in every state for parents disciplining their children in the home.
No federal law prohibits corporal punishment in schools. However, 31 states prohibit corporal punishment in public schools.For example, Iowa explicitly bans the practice in all private and public school settings.However, Florida, for example, allows teachers to use corporal punishment so long as they follow certain policies.Some states only allow certain individuals to use corporal punishment. In Texas, only parents, grandparents, stepparents, and guardians can use the tactic., Even though corporal punishment may be allowed in certain circumstances, every law has limits. Be sure you understand whether an adult's actions toward you cross a line between corporal punishment and abuse. Also, even though an adult's actions towards you may not cross a legal line, it does not make those actions right.


For example, in Massachusetts, a parent can be held criminally liable if the force used against you is unreasonable; if the force causes physical harm, gross degradation, or severe mental distress; or if the force used is not reasonably related to your punishment.In Florida, a teacher can be punished if they use corporal punishment without it being in the presence of another adult who has been informed of the reason behind the punishment., If you are unsure whether you are the victim of corporal punishment, consider if you have been on the receiving end of any of the following actions (or similar actions):


Spankings;
Slaps; and
Being hit with a ruler or other tool;

, You can also identify corporal punishment by the effect it has on you. If you are not sure whether some form of physical punishment could be considered corporal punishment, consider if you have been effected in any of the following manners:


Lowering of your self-esteem;
Interference with your learning processes
Feelings of loneliness, sadness, and abandonment;
Thoughts of violence; or
Difficulties being social., If you are a parent, handing out corporal punishment can have negative effects on you as well. If you are not sure whether your form of punishment may be considered corporal punishment, think about how you feel when you hand out punishment.


Corporal punishment can make you feel anxious and guilty.
Taking part in corporal punishment can make you act violently in other settings.
Corporal punishment can stifle your relationship with your child.