 If you celebrate Ramadan, you're not supposed to eat or drink from sunrise to sunset. That includes water, any type of food or liquid, and things like gum.Fasting isn't just about not eating. It's about learning to have sympathy with others, learning self-restraint, and giving to others in need.;
, Exceptions are made for people who can't fast. The elderly or those who are sick are exempt from fasting, as are pregnant and nursing mothers. Others who have strenuous occupations are exempt as well. Generally, you try to make days up later when you can't fast, but others also give to charity to help feed the hungry or volunteer at local nonprofits.Similarly, people who have conditions such as diabetes may find they are not able to fast, especially if you are a Type 1 diabetic.Really, it's up to you whether you think you can fast or not.
 Kids usually don't start fasting until puberty. A common age to start fasting is 15. However, some practice half or even whole days at a time in preparation for when they do fast. In some cases, a family member might offer an incentive of money or a treat as a reward for the number of days the children fast., Most Muslims also fast from certain behaviors during the month of Ramadan. From sunrise to sunset, you should refrain from things like smoking or having sex. In addition, you're supposed to take special care to watch your behavior during Ramadan, making sure you don't lie, cheat, get angry, or other things of that nature., Because you fast during the day, you must get up before the sun rises to eat your morning meal. Traditionally, this meal is called suhoor. It's also a good time to get hydrated for the day.Try eating some protein, as well as fiber-rich foods (think whole grains, fruits, and vegetables) to help keep you from getting too hungry throughout the day. If you're practicing halal, as well, make sure to buy halal meat and look for the halal symbols or kosher symbols on dairy and other products.
 It's customary during Ramadan to invite friends and family over to break the fast. Muslims and non-Muslims alike can join in the fun and community, so don't be afraid to throw your net wide. Also, the fast is usually broken with a dried date or two.The evening meal that breaks the fast is called the iftar.You can make foods such as falooda kulfi, baba ghanoush, halwa puri, or Adana kebab.
 Because iftar is a celebration, you can put up decorations during the month. Often, decorations involve any kind of moon and stars. Lanterns are also popular. Kids, especially, enjoy decorating the home with this symbols of the lunar calendar., "Halal" refers to what is forbidden in Muslim laws in general, but it is most often brought up in relation to food. Halal is similar to kosher in some ways, as they both require a specific way to kill the animal.Also, both forbid the eating of pork and (in some cases) shellfish. Though there are differences, looking for the kosher symbol on dairy and non-meat foods in non-Muslim countries is acceptable because it usually means the food doesn't contain a meat product, such as gelatin.
 Typically, you'll perform the prescribed five prayers a day that you would the rest of the year, including the fifth prayer after iftar. However, many Muslims (mostly Sunni) also pray an extra prayer during this time, called tarawih or taraweeh. This prayer is divided into four cycles, where you stand, bow, prostrate, and sit. During the standing period, you will read parts of the Qur'an.For this time of year, the Qur'an is divided into thirty parts. Therefore, you're essentially reading 1/30 of the Qur'an each night.
You can do these prayers at home, but you can also visit the mosque for prayers.
 Ramadan is a time of holiness and reflection, so you should consider visiting the mosque more during this time. The taraweeh is performed in most mosques every evening during Ramadan.Many mosques also provide food for breaking fast, if you prefer to eat at the mosque.
Some people even spend the last ten days of Ramadan solely in the mosque, devoting themselves to prayer.
 If you are able, you should give to those poorer than you. Generally, you give at least 2.5% of your assets (zakat-al-mal) during Ramadan. You can donate to those you know personally who are in need of assistance. However, if you don't know someone to donate to, you can also give to local charities and food banks.Typically, you also give another smaller amount (zakat-al-fitr) before the beginning of the final festival in Ramadan, Eid ul Fitr.

However, how much you give is always up to you.
 You can assist at a food bank, for instance, or serve food at a soup kitchen. Where you volunteer is up to you, but charity is one of the five pillars of Islam. Therefore, it's a good idea to practice it during Ramadan., Because Ramadan is based on a lunar calendar, the new moon marks the start of the Eid al Fitr. This signifies the end of Ramadan, and it is a three-day festival that includes eating a daytime meal., This time is also a period where you offer thanks to Allah for helping you practice self-restraint while you were fasting. You're also thanking Allah for the strength to fast., Consider buying a new outfit for this celebration. Children, especially, usually get new clothes for this festival, but you can join in the fun, too. If you don't want to buy a new outfit, dress up in your fanciest outfit for when you go visiting., If you didn't decorate for iftar, decorating for Eid al Fitr can be fun, especially if you're going to have family visit. Lanterns, moons, and stars are traditional, but you can decorate however you see fit., Some Muslims exchange gifts with all their friends and family, but the focus is really on the kids. Kids usually get sweet treats, candies, and gifts of money during this time period., Now is a great time to go visit family and friends, as well as have family and friends to your house. It's easier to travel now that you don't have to fast, and it's a good way to celebrate. Typically, you'll go visit your parents, kids, or other family members, as well as friends you haven't seen in a while., Though the fasting has drawn to a close, charity is still important. In fact, many consider it more important during Eid al Fitr. Consider giving money to those in need and volunteering your time to help others.