 Get a bucket big enough to fully submerge your rayon. Fill it warm water and mix in about a capful of mild baby shampoo., Submerge your rayon in the water. As it soaks, gently massage the rayon with your hands. Work the shampoo/water mixture into the rayon so the fibers relax. Keep massaging and soaking the rayon until the mixture is thoroughly mixed in. Times will vary depending on the size of the garment you're shrinking.The goal here is to make sure all the fibers are completely saturated, so keep massaging until the rayon is thoroughly wet.
 Remove the rayon from the water and rinse out any lingering baby shampoo using cold water. After rinsing the garment, get some of the moisture out by gently pressing it with your hands. Only press the garment. Do not wring it, as wringing can break fibers in the garment. , Lay a cloth or towel down on a flat surface. Take your rayon garment and stretch it flat over the towel., Roll up the towel your rayon is lying on. Roll the rayon inside the towel tightly. Press the towel gently once it's rolled up to remove any excess moisture from the rayon., Un-roll the towel so the rayon is lying flat again. Use your hands to reshape the rayon into its original size. There is no secret or special method to use. You simply need to stretch the rayon with your hands as long as it takes to get it to its original size. Times will vary depending on how much shrinking occurred.Be careful not to stretch the rayon larger than it originally was. You do not want to create another problem while trying to resolve shrinking.
 Rayon should be transferred to a dry towel after you've stretched it out adequately. Lay it flat, like you did the first time, and let it air dry.If you want to speed up the drying process, you can leave a fan running in the room.
Dry rayon in a room where it will not be disturbed by other household members or pets.
 As rayon is a more delicate type of fabric, it's more prone to damage during washing and drying. If at all possible, have your rayon clothing or other items professionally dry cleaned. This will prevent shrinking and stretching over time.If an item is labeled "dry clean only," do not attempt to wash it at home.
 If you do wash rayon at home, treat it gently. Wash it in cold water and on the gentle cycle. Rayon should also be placed in a mesh bag prior to washing to protect it., It's usually best to air dry rayon on a flat surface to avoid shrinking. If you do decide to dry rayon in the dryer, place it in a mesh bag first. Do not dry it for a full cycle. Only dry it for about half a usual cycle and then let it air dry the rest of the way.In general, only use a dryer to speed up the drying process. Do not use a dryer to dry rayon completely.

