 Measure your shower to determine the size of liner and shower curtain you will need. You will want your liner to fit in your shower for appearance and so it does its job of preventing water from escaping into your bathroom. Most liners for a standard size shower are 70 inches by 72 inches.


There are extra long liners that are 70 inches by 84 inches or 72 inches by 84 inches.
You can purchase an extra wide liner that is 144 inches by 72 inches.
If you have a stall shower, instead of a traditional bathtub size shower, there are shower stall liners that are 54 inches by 78 inches.;
, Most liners are vinyl, but you can also purchase liners in fabric (such as nylon or polyester). Some people think that vinyl liners look cheaper than fabric ones, but vinyl liners stick to the sides of the tub to help prevent water from spilling on the floor. Vinyl liners are also easier to clean because you can just wipe them down with a sponge or cloth.


Fabric liners tend to be machine wash only and blow away from the tub, which can cause water to spill. However, fabric liners are more durable and last longer than vinyl liners. , You can purchase liners that have magnets that weigh down the liner to help it stay in place. You can also purchase liners that have suction cups on the bottom to help it stick to your tub and not blow away., If your liner has grommets along the top, it is less likely to rip. Grommets reinforce the top of liner where the holes for the rings are. If your liner might face a lot of wear and tear (particularly in children’s bathrooms), you might want to opt for grommets., You can get a liner that is resistant to bacteria and mildew. The packaging on the liner will specify if it prevents bacteria and mildew. This is especially important if you live in a humid environment or don’t have good ventilation in your bathroom., You can get liners in many colors, not just clear or white, to match your shower curtain. You can also use a liner alone, and have no shower curtain to keep things simple.For simplicity, choose a white or clear liner.
You could also choose a solid color liner that coordinates with the pattern on your shower curtain.
 You should measure the size of your shower to see what curtain you should buy. When it comes to choosing a curtain size you have options depending on how you want the curtain to look. You can get a floor length curtain or have your curtain just touch the top of the bathtub. A standard shower curtain is 72 inches by 72 inches.


You can purchase stall curtains that are 54 inches by 78 inches.
Extra long curtains are 72 inches by 84 inches or 96 inches.
Extra wide curtains are 108 inches by 72 inches., You can get a fabric shower curtain in polyester, cotton, or a blend. They are usually machine washable but some are dry-clean only.Cotton shower curtains are easy to maintain, but need to be used with a liner. Vinyl shower curtains repel moisture and do not necessarily need a liner with them.


You can opt for fabric curtains in microfiber because they are soft and water resistant., You can get a curtain in many colors and patterns, from color blocking to holographic designs. Think about the overall appearance of your bathroom and try to coordinate your shower curtain. You can make your shower curtain the focus of your bathroom or just a subtle detail.For example, if your bathroom has a tropical theme, you might want to get a shower curtain that has an image of palm trees and the ocean.
 Instead of having one curtain for your shower, you can have two. Put one shower curtain on each side of the shower to frame your shower like a window.


You can cut a shower curtain in half then hem the edges and put them on each side of one rod if you want the curtains to open down the middle.
If you are using a liner, cut and hem the liner as well., Make sure to buy shower rings for your curtain and liner. You can get basic rings or more decorative ones. Have your shower rings match the decor of your bathroom and curtain.


You can buy a hookless shower curtain that does not need rings for a ceiling-track curtain rod.