 If a used article smells strongly of some offensive odor, don’t throw it in the hamper with the rest of your dirty laundry. Store it separately until it’s time to wash it. Prevent your other clothes from picking up the foul smell.


Seal it in an airtight container if you’re worried about the offending article stinking up the whole room.
 Don’t fill the washer’s drum all the way to the top with laundry if you have any clothes that smell particularly gross. Keep those articles more accessible to water and detergent by washing them in smaller loads. If you have a bunch of smelly clothes, wash them together as one small load (or break them up into multiple small loads if you really have a lot). If you only have one or two stinky articles, however, either:


Wash them by themselves with no other dirty clothes.
Wash them with a small load of smaller articles, like socks.
 If the article in question has picked up a general odor like cigarette smoke or fish (as opposed to a smell emanating from a localized stain), squeeze some drops of dish soap into a container large enough to hold it. Then fill it with warm water. Add the clothes and let them soak for roughly ten minutes. Then:Pour all the contents (soap, water, and clothes) into your washer. Stir them around by hand and then let the clothes sit for a half hour.
Add detergent and start the appropriate wash cycle for that article, including a spin cycle to dry. Use the hottest water that your clothes’ fabric-care tag recommends.
 If the odor is due to a localized stain (as it would be with, say, a dirty diaper), create a thick paste by mixing baking soda with water. Depending on the size of the stain(s), start with a tablespoon of baking soda. Stir in just enough water to hydrate all of the baking soda without dissolving any so you can still spread the paste around easily. Then:Spread the paste over the stain and give it about ten minutes to set in.
Add the clothes with the paste still on them to the washer, plus 1 cup of white vinegar.
Start the appropriate wash cycle for that item, including a spin cycle, with the hottest water that your fabric allows.
Repeat if the odor is still detectable afterward.

