 There are many Vamplets to choose from, and they all have different personalities. Lily Rose Shadowlyn is sweet, and loves to cuddle, but she can give lethal "vampire kisses." Count Vlad Von Gloom is a descendant from Dracula and is very royal. Choose wisely. There are six in all and they all have their ups and downs. You can read about all of them in the Hall Of Horrors on the Vamplets website.;
, Vamplets, like any other creature, need food. Blood can help calm your little creature of the night and less liable to bite you. They HATE milk. When Destiny gave them milk first, they threw a tantrum. Which is why they never have milk, you can get a blood bottle on the vamplets website.
 A shady spot in your bedroom will do just fine. Most vamplets come in a coffin, you can use that for them to sleep during the day and take their naps. Include stuffed animals (Midnight Mori will need a stuffed unicorn to put her to bed), bedtime stories (Dracula, Alice in Wonderland, and Coraline are good stories to name a few), toys (spikey ball, tug -o-war chain, doll haunted house), and decorations (mini bouquet of roses, little black rug, etc.)

, There are some clothes for Vamplets available for purchase on Etsy. You can also make vamplet shirts out of socks. You can try sewing tutus, onesies, and other garments as well.
 Whether it's listening to Emilie Autumn until they fall asleep, or reading Twilight to them until they get so bored they decide to sleep, create a bedtime routine. This bedtime routine should be placed around how busy you are. It could be very quick or a rather long process.
 If Burton Creeperson JR. decides it's perfectly acceptable to paint a self portrait with blood on your wall,or Howliss complains about how hot the sun is on his fur, or Lily Rose has a temper tantrum for no reason, you need to discipline them. This can be done by placing them in an enclosed pitch black space for a certain amount of time, or giving them a stern talking to. But never physically hurt them!

, Vamplets have special needs. Vlad Von Gloom needs a larger amount of blood, Mori needs a pretty stuffed unicorn to fall asleep, Evilyn needs a padded coffin because of her day walking,Howliss needs an umbrella for how hot he is in the sun, Make sure you fit to their special needs so they don't act out.
 They all like Bottles of Blood, But usually want a side. They eat poison black applesauce, sweetened and unsweetened.

