 Find out for sure if they are truly worried about you. If not, ask them why they feel it is necessary to tell Mom and Dad every little thing that you do wrong. If all of your offenses are really very minor, expect the reason for your sibling’s tattling to be either:A belief that they are punished more than you for being “bad.”
A desire to be seen, heard, and rewarded.
A defensive tactic to redirect attention away from their own bad behavior.
 Set aside your own frustrations. Imagine your family life from their perspective. Ask yourself if their complaints are valid.If so, work together to come up with ways to improve matters. For instance:


Offer to talk with your parents about how your sibling is treated more harshly. If that doesn’t work, make a point of being their ally. Do favors to improve their situation, like relaxing rules when you’re babysitting or smuggling goods for your sibling when they are grounded.
Spend more time with them if they feel overlooked. If your parents tend to talk more about your own achievements at dinner or with people outside your family, mention your sibling’s to even the score so they feel recognized.
Join forces if they are only ratting on you to keep your parents’ focus away from them. As long as their own hijinks are relatively minor, become co-conspirators with readymade alibis!

, Obviously, don’t snitch on your sibling if you want them to stop tattling on you. Additionally, as you grow older, beware of your parents confiding in you more and more regarding your sibling, as though you were your parents’ equal and not your brother or sister’s. Expect your sibling to resent this, even if your parents were the ones who started the conversation. When the topic turns toward your sibling, decide whether you should disengage. Ask yourself:Is the vein of talk positive or negative?
If I overheard my sibling and parents having this conversation about me, would I be upset?
Are my parents asking me for specific help with my sibling, or are they just complaining about them?

, Even though you are trying to improve your relationship with a sibling who snitches, avoid backing them into a corner and framing them as “The Snitch.”Allow them the room to grow out of this behavior by leaving labels out of it. Also, avoid blinding yourself to their improvement should they grow out of this habit.


Avoid labels in general, since these may warp your perception of each other and lead to strained relationships in the future as you outgrow these roles with age.
Remember: there is a difference being tattling and telling. A sibling who used to tattle on you might have a valid reason to inform your parents about behavior that genuinely concerns them later on.
 Let go of grudges from past fights, disagreements, and betrayals. Whether your sibling is younger or older than you, recognize that they are older than their past selves and no longer that exact person. Give them the benefit of the doubt and assume that they have matured. Clear the air by opening a conversation about conflicts that have stuck with both of you so you can bury them for good.Keep the conversation lighthearted, with an air of “I can’t believe that happened.” Always use the past tense to show that you have moved on and no longer consider either of you as “that person.”
Practice what you wish to say beforehand so you can ride the wave of any pent-up emotions on your own, rather than risk getting tripped up by them during your talk.

