 Purchase a toddler-sized toothbrush with soft bristles for gentle brushing. Initially, you can help your toddler brush their teeth, but you should still be responsible for the cleaning. A small child won't be thorough. Most children are capable of brushing alone between the ages of 6 and 8.


Encourage them to brush their teeth by making a game of the process. Try using timers, playing songs, and dancing in the bathroom.
Be a role model. Brush your teeth with them so they will want to join in, too. ;
, For example, you can have your child learn to clean up their toys. Buy or make a toy basket, box, or chest and encourage your child to clean up after they play with their toys. Show them how to do it, and describe your actions. You can say, "Amy, can you see how I put your games away? You try it now with the Legos."


Make it a game by seeing who can pick up the toys the fastest. You can toss the toys in like a basketball to make it a game.
Have children practice sweeping. If your child struggles to hold a large broom try to buy a mini broom at your local discount store or toy store.Since it may be difficult for your child to sweep the entire floor, work little by little. Duct tape one tile or area on a hardwood floor. Sprinkle sunflower seeds or bits of tissue paper beside it. Have them sweep it up and place it in the duct taped area. Once they get the hang of it you can remove the duct tape and have them try sweeping the dirt in a dust pan.
You can also make a homemade recycled broom using a bottle for your child.
 If the child usually eats in their highchair, it might be time to do a little switch-up. Once you feel that your child is ready, or if they indicate an interest, you can give the grown up table a try. Have your toddler sit at the dining room table with the whole family.


It could be hard for your child to reach the table. You can place a few cushions on the chair and have them sit on it. Push the chair in so they can reach easily. Show pride if child sits and behaves themselves. Once they tackle sitting and eating, you can start teaching them table manners. , One way to do this is to have your child organize the utensils. This is another great way to teach basic skills while involving kids in the process of being part of the meal and clean up.


Have your child practice putting the spoons, forks, and butter knifes back where they belong. It will take patience and time for your child to understand each place for the utensil but they will eventually get it.
Every time they put the utensil in the wrong area, guide them and place it in the right area. You can offer patient guidance by saying things like, "Oh, that's not where the fork goes. Can you try again?" or "Let's work together and try to find where this butter knife goes, Joey."

, Shoe lacing is one of the most fundamental skills you can teach your child. They will likely have already starting putting on and pulling of their shoes, so tying them is the logical next step. To start, demonstrate what you are doing and encourage them to give it a try. It can take time for the child to tie their own shoes but the more they practice, the sooner they will get it. Try to make it fun and easy to remember by pretending the loops are bunny ears.


Sit cross-legged on the floor with your child. That way, you will both have the same perspective. Have them practice on a shoe with soft laces.
Create a "bunny ear" (loop) with each lace. Show your child how to cross the "ears", one over the other so that it creates an "x" shape.
Loop the bottom ear under and through the top ear. Then pull the ears away from each other. You and your child will have tied the shoes with a simple (and fun) knot., Begin by encouraging your child to wash and rinse themselves. Give them their own sponge and washing rag. Show them how to clean between each body part, especially the areas that are hard to reach such as the ears and belly button.


Introduce them to the shower head so they can get used to not taking baths. Have them practice using the shower knobs, adjusting the water amount and heat. Leave out a bathrobe or towel for your child to dry off once they have finished their bath.
Once your child has gotten the hang of taking a bath, they can start bathing alone. Check on them every three minutes and anytime they call you for help.
It is not safe for children under 6 to be left alone while bathing., Show them the basics such as zipping their zipper, buttoning their jeans, putting on a shirt, and pulling up their underwear. Tell them what you are doing together (i.e "We are putting our pants up, Daniel"). Once they know every step of changing, you can give them the clothes they'll wear in the morning or night and have them change alone.


Children often begin trying to dress and undress themselves at about 18 months. Help them learn simple things first. Start with t-shirts and socks and other articles that don't have zippers or buttons.Have kids place dirty clothes in the laundry basket. They can practice their tidying up skills after getting dressed or undressed.

