 The Pebble app acts as a hub where you can control which apps you will use with your watch. The icon is an orange Pebble watch face with “hello” written inside a text bubble in the middle. Tap it on your home screen or app drawer to open the app.
 You will be brought to the MY PEBBLE screen in the Pebble app by default. Swipe in from the left edge to see the left panel. Tap the GET APPS option in bottom of the panel to enter the Pebble Store. Tap the search icon in the upper right corner of the screen to bring up the search bar at the top of the screen. Tap the search bar, and type “Phone and Pebble Finder,” and results will come up., Phone and Pebble Finder should appear in the results. Tap the ADD button opposite the app name to add it into your MY PEBBLE screen. Despite the app’s name in the store being “Phone and Pebble Finder,” the name that will appear in the MY PEBBLE screen will be “Phone Finder.”

The Pebble watch can hold up to 8 apps in its internal memory. If you have more than 8 apps, including watch faces, the Phone and Pebble Finder will be added to the Locker. This is where you can swap between Pebble apps without having to enter the Pebble Store over and over.
 After you tap the ADD button, a pop-up should appear telling you that you require the companion app to get things working. So tap the “Go get it” button at the lower right corner of the pop-up, and you will be taken directly to the app’s description page in Google Play., In the app description page, the green INSTALL button should be visible opposite the app’s icon at the top portion of the page. Tap it, and then tap the ACCEPT button at the lower right corner of the Permissions page that will pop up., A notification will appear in the status bar telling you that the app is currently downloading. When it reaches 100%, it will tell you that it has successfully installed., Hit the Back button on your device until you are taken back to the Pebble store., Swipe in from the left edge of the screen to summon the left panel. Tap the MY PEBBLE button, which should be the first button in the left panel., The MY PEBBLE screen is divided into two sections. The top section is a horizontal scroll list of apps that are currently loaded into your Pebble watch. The bottom section is the LOCKER, which is a list of all the apps you have added but for which there is no room in your Pebble watch, since it only allows 8 apps installed.

If your MY PEBBLE has more than 8 apps installed, in the top section of the Locker, tap a loaded app to bring up its description in a pop-up. Tap the UNLOAD button at the bottom of the pop-up to put that app in your LOCKER. Now, look through your LOCKER for the Phone Finder app, and tap it to get its description pop-up. Tap the LOAD button at the bottom of the pop-up to upload it to your watch. It should take a couple of seconds, and then it will tell you that the app has been loaded, and the LOAD button will turn into UNLOAD.
If there are less than 8 apps installed into your Pebble when you added Phone Finder, the app should already have been loaded into your watch when you tapped the ADD button earlier.
 Press the middle button at the right side of your watch. This will load the list of apps that you installed on your Pebble. Press the down or up button on the right to scroll down the list, and then tap the middle button when Phone Finder is highlighted., You should reach the Phone Finder screen in your Pebble. The up button will turn on the vibration motor on your phone and will not stop until you press the middle button or if you press the STOP button on the phone’s screen; this is ideal if you are in a quiet room and wish to find the phone without disturbing others. The down button will cause the phone to use its call ringtone at the highest volume setting.

A bluetooth connection between two devices usually has a 50-meter range and will be reduced if there are obstacles between device. As long as you keep both devices within range of each other (like in a room, for instance), the watch app will be able to ring the phone.
 Now that the alert is either blaring across the apartment or vibrating somewhere, you can begin hunting for the phone. Using the ringing alert makes sure you can easily find the phone because it rings at the highest volume. Simply look for the phone in the direction at which you can hear the alert coming. The vibrating alert is noticeable in quiet conditions and can be felt when it is directly under you. Listen for rapid rumbling; you might have left your phone on a table or on the floor.

If you cannot hear the phone vibrate, switch to using the ringing alert.
The phone may be out of range, so if you do not hear the phone ring, try moving around the area while pressing the alert button of your choosing.
 When using any of the two alert modes, the red STOP button should appear on the phone screen. As long as the phone and the pebble have not lost their Bluetooth connection, the app will keep ringing the phone. Once you have located the device, tap the STOP button to cease the alert.