 Just open a web browser on your computer, and go to the Couchsurfing website at http://www.couchsurfing.org.;
, The log-in button is on the middle of the page. Click it, and enter your username and password on the small log-in window that appears.


You cannot leave a reference for someone if you’re not logged into your Couchsurfing account.
 On your Couchsurfing home page, select the user profile you want to write a reference about from your list of friends on the left menu panel, or by searching for that person from the list of users or hosts.


Once you find the member, click on his or her name to open his or her profile.
 Once you’re on the other user’s profile page, scroll down and click on “Leave a Reference” at the bottom-right section. You will then be directed to the Leave a Reference page.
 Enter all the required details about your experience with the other member to make it as accurate as possible.



Met in Person. Specify whether you’ve actually met the other member in the flesh or just through the Couchsurfing website. Select the corresponding radio button (Yes or No ) for your answer.

Couchsurfing Experience. State the kind of experience you had with the member. Have you hosted, surfed, or traveled with him or her, and for how long? Specify the correct number of days from the drop-down list.

Overall Experience. Click on the drop-down list to rate your experience with the other user. Was it overall a "Positive," "Neutral," or "Negative" experience?

My Experience Reference. Type in an explanation for the reference. Include any additional information you think is relevant on the text field provided. If you don’t have anything more to say, you can leave this option blank.
 Just click on the “Save Connection Information” to submit. Your reference will be reviewed by the Couchsurfing team before it gets posted. If the reference you created is deemed valid, and that you had indeed interacted with the other member, the reference will then be displayed on his or her profile.

