 It’s a blue icon with a white “A” in a circle. You’ll typically find it on your home screen.
 This button (which also displays a magnifying glass) is at the bottom of the screen., Type Discord into the search box, then tap it when it appears in the search results. This opens the Discord page on the App Store., The button will now change to "INSTALL.", The app will now download to your device. When the installation is complete, the “INSTALL” button will change to “OPEN.”, If you’re still on the Discord page in the App Store, tap OPEN. Otherwise, tap the blue or purple icon with a white game controller (labeled “Discord”) on your home screen.,

If you already have a Discord account, enter your email address and password, then tap Log In.
 You’ll have to provide your email address, a username/handle, and a password to create your account., A confirmation email will be sent to your account. Additionally, a pop-up will appear., This lets Discord send you notifications., Start by opening the app you use for email (e.g. Mail, Gmail, Outlook) and then select the message from Discord., You may have to scroll down to find it. This verifies your email address and launches Discord., Discord will now walk you through doing things like adding friends and creating a server. Follow the on-screen instructions until you reach the Discord home screen., It’s the blue or purple icon with a white game controller. You’ll usually find it on your home screen., It’s near the top-right corner of the screen and looks like a person with a plus (+) sign., The tag is composed of your friend’s username and a special code assigned by Discord. Your friend will have to provide you this code., It’s at the bottom-right corner of the keyboard. A friend request will be sent to the user you added. Once they’ve accepted the request, you can start chatting with them.

To chat with a friend, tap the ☰ button at the top-left corner of the screen, then select your friend’s username. This opens a direct conversation with your friend.
 You can get one by asking a friend who uses Discord, or by searching the web for Discord servers for your gaming preferences.

When you get a URL or code, copy it to your clipboard so you can easily paste it into Discord. To copy it, highlight the entire code or URL with your finger, tap and hold the highlighted text, then select Copy.
 It’s the blue or purple icon with a white game controller. You’ll usually find it on your home screen., It’s at the top-left corner of the screen., It’s in the left column, inside a dotted circle., It’s a large green button near the bottom of the screen., A pop-up menu will appear., The copied URL or code will now appear in the blank., The server will now appear in the list of servers along the left side of the screen.

Select the server to view available text and voice chat channels.
To join a channel, tap its name in the channel list.
 It’s the blue or purple icon with a white game controller. You’ll usually find it on your home screen., It’s at the top-left corner of the screen., It’s in the left side bar, surrounded by a dotted circle. This opens the Servers screen.,,,, This icon will appear in members’ server lists. To access the server, members will click or tap the icon you select., A pop-up will appear, requesting access to your microphone., This allows you to use Discord’s voice chat feature. Your server will now appear in the server list on the left side of the screen. Tap it to view its settings., It’s the purple icon with a white game controller icon. You’ll usually find it on your home screen., It’s at the top-left corner of the screen., Server icons are listed along the left side of the screen.,
If you want users to be able to chat using their microphones, create a voice channel.
 You’ll type it into the “Channel Name” box at the top of the screen., If you haven’t created roles, just select “@everyone.”, It’s at the top-right corner of the screen. The channel is now created. You’ll be able to access it at any time by opening the server and tapping it in the channel list.