 An aquarius is unlikely to be swayed by regular flirtation. They are intellectually oriented by nature, and tend to prefer a partner they can learn from. When first attempting to woo an aquarius, showcase your intelligence.When you strike up a conversation, mention something cultural. Ask about a current event or a recent film you just saw.
Try to notice something about an aquarius and make a comment. For example, maybe you saw them reading a particular book earlier in the day. If you've read that book as well, that may be a good means to strike up a conversation.;
, An aquarius is unlikely to be seduced by flattery or charm. They long for partners who can match them intellectually, and do not want to be simply fawned over up by a partner. When wooing an aquarius, share your opinion. This will make you stand out from potential suitors.During a discussion of, say, a current event, unabashedly share your thoughts. Even if an aquarius disagrees, they will be thrilled at the opportunity to have a rich intellectual discussion.
Never agree with an aquarius to please them. They will see through this and are not interested in partners that are not intellectually challenging.
 An aquarius needs a lot of stimulation to be entertained. However, they also have a tendency to dislike plans. Independent thinkers by nature, plans can be seen as a form of control. When planning dates, keep things flexible.Light plans work best. You can agree to meet somewhere around a given time and then see where things go.
Do not be surprised if an aquarius suddenly has a whim they wish to follow. The mention of a movie involving horseback riding, for example, may cause an aquarius to propose an impromptu trip to a nearby ranch.
Be willing to follow along in these endeavors. An aquarius needs someone willing to go along for the ride.
 Consider going to internet cafes, readings, intellectual events, book stores, new restaurants. An aquarius will love these types of places. An aquarius loves intellectual pursuits, so a date involving all things cultural will be vastly more appealing than the traditional dinner and a movie., As an aquarius values culture and class, strive to dress up rather than down. You do not have to show up wearing a full suit or an evening dress, but think twice before throwing on jeans and a t-shirt.Strive for slightly nicer clothing when beginning the relationship. Throw on something you'd wear to a more formal event. This is bound to show off your classy side, which will be appealing to an aquarius.
 An aquarius will want to know what makes you tick. They have an intellectual interest in others over an emotional one, which can come off as somewhat removed at first. However, if an aquarius seems to be analyzing you, this is a good sign. It means they're interested.Feel free to share your personal ideals, opinions, and future plans with an aquarius. This is how they feel close to a person. Talking about personal feelings may bore or confuse an aquarius, at least at first.
While an aquarius can be quite charming and witty, they can be rather closed off emotionally. If an aquarius seems hesitant to reveal their emotional side, this is not a bad sign. They simply find intimacy through different means.
 In a relationship with an aquarius, you will have to be the warmer party. An aquarius will want to learn from their partner, and one thing you can teach an aquarius is the importance of intimacy. As you bond intellectually, gently nudge an aquarius to open up emotionally. You will usually have to be the one to initiate moments of emotional intimacy, but with time your aquarius partner will appreciate this.Encourage an aquarius to share their feelings. Begin to share yours in small increments. An Aquarius may approach your feelings on an intellectual level, at least at first, but they are loyal and kindhearted partners. An aquarius is more than willing to eventually form an emotional bond.
While an aquarius may seem unmoved by romantic gestures, they do need a lot of emotional gratification. Do not be afraid to put your heart on your sleeve. Your gestures are not unappreciated, even if it seems that way at times., An aquarius will not give up their independence for anyone. Do not push your aquarius partner to do so, as this will only backfire. Respect the fact an aquarius needs a higher than average amount of alone time, and may not always consult with you on decisions. If you try to stifle an aquarius's individuality, they're likely to lose patience with you.Never try to tell an aquarius what to do. If an aquarius asks you for advice, or expresses uncertainty about something, offer guidance without making specific suggestions.
Avoid pressing an aquarius to give up independence. If you want to be with an aquarius, you need to accept the fact they will always have a strong sense of individuality. Do not be surprised if an aquarius retains their own interests, tastes, and friend circle throughout the course of a relationship.
 It can take an aquarius a long time to open up emotionally. Establishing intimacy with an aquarius may prove more challenging than doing so with other signs of the Zodiac. However, an aquarius has a strong sense of loyalty and a kind heart. If you are patient and understanding, an aquarius will eventually prove to be a kind and loyal partner., If there's one thing an aquarius values as much as intellect, it's loyalty. When dating an aquarius, you can expect a loyal partner. You will have to show loyalty in return, or an aquarius is unlikely to be interested in your longterm companionship.Once an aquarius shows vulnerability, you have their loyalty. Do not betray this loyalty at any cost.
Stay true to your aquarius partner. Do not harbor secrets or resentments. When necessary, rise to the defense of your partner. An aquarius will not waste time with someone incapable of loyalty in a relationship.
 Longterm, you'll need to keep up with an aquarius. An aquarius wants to learn over the course of a lifetime, and longs for a partner they can learn from each day. Work on cultivating your intellectual interests. Read a lot, keep up with current events, and get involved in cultural activities in your community. If you're not intellectually interesting, an aquarius will move on to a new partner., Most people need some alone time in a romantic relationship. An aquarius needs more alone time than average. Do not be surprised or offended if your aquarius partner needs a few nights a week alone. This is normal, and should be respected.Avoid bothering an aquarius when they're caught up in alone time. If you interrupt an aquarius while reading, for example, you're likely to be met with hostility.
Understand an aquarius is not rebuffing you when they need alone time. This is merely how an aquarius recharges and re-energizes.
 If you try to force an aquarius to choose between you and their dreams, they will not choose you. An aquarius is a passionate and ambitious individual, who needs a partner willing to support their various endeavors. They want someone willing to share their adventure, and meet new challenges with curiosity. When dating an aquarius, be open to any new pursuits.