 A pharmacist dispenses prescription medication to patients and offer expertise in the safe use of prescriptions. They also provide advice on how to lead a healthy lifestyle, conduct health and wellness screenings, provide immunizations, and oversee the medications given to patients.Many pharmacists work in community pharmacies in drug stores or grocery stores. But they can also work in hospitals and clinics.
Becoming a pharmacist takes years of education and training. Aspiring pharmacists can spend between six years (fast-track) to thirteen years completing pre-requisites, Pharm.D coursework, clinical rotations, and exams. So be prepared to devote a lot of time, effort, and energy into this career.As of 2012, the median annual wage for pharmacists was $116,000., While in high school, focus on science courses like biology, chemistry, and physiology. Notice how you perform in these subjects. It helps to be strong in these subjects if you want to become a pharmacist.


You can also get your GED or equivalent educational degree.
 Your Bachelor of Science degree must come from a four-year program. During your bachelor’s degree, you will need to complete at least two years of pre-pharmacy coursework, including anatomy, biology, calculus, chemistry, physics, and sociology.Look for schools that offer a pre-pharmacy program. If you are currently an undergraduate student, talk to your guidance counselor about possible pre-pharmacy programs in your state or country. Pre-pharmacy programs prepares you for admission into a pharmacy program. The focus in these programs is boasting your grades in math, biology, and chemistry.
Getting good grades in a pre-pharmacy can help you get into a better pharmacy program.
There are databases of pre-pharmacy schools where you can filter them by state, annual tuition costs, and college type (public or private).It may also be helpful to do an online search of the pre-pharmacy programs you are looking at applying to, and reading any forum posts by previous or current students in that program., This test is a requirement for admission to most pharmacy schools. It measures your overall academic ability and your scientific knowledge.You can prepare for the test by studying the PCAT handbook and guidelines. You can also take a PCAT preparatory class or hire a private tutor to help you study.
Not all pharmacy schools require you to take the PCAT. But more than 75 percent of all pharmacy programs require applicants to submit scores for the PCAT.Check with the schools you plan to apply to and note if the PCAT is listed in their admission requirements.
The minimum PCAT scores will vary from institution to institution. Check the requirements of the institution to determine the PCAT score needed to apply., These programs usually take four years to complete. Once accepted into a Pharm.D program, you will study subjects like pharmacology and medical ethics in the classroom. You will also complete supervised internships in hospitals and retail pharmacies.If you have a busy schedule or a current career, you can take pharmacy school online.A list of the top pharmacy schools in the U.S., as of 2012, can be found here: http://grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/best-graduate-schools/top-health-schools/pharmacy-rankings. The top five schools were University of California - San Francisco, University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, University of Minnesota, University of Texas - Austin, and University of Kentucky.
Your first year in the Pharm.D program focuses on the fundamentals of the trade. You will learn about reading and using dosage forms, pharmacy law and ethics and patient counseling.
The second and third years focus on advanced principles like institutional pharmacy, pharmacotherapy and health management. You will also home in on a pharmaceutical speciality and think about where you would like to work after graduation and exams.
Year four is all about practice experience. You will perform clinical rotations to put your knowledge and experience to use. This includes interacting with patients, recommending medications, and guiding administrative staff to better support customers and the community.
 To get your license, you will need to pass the North American Pharmacist Licensing Exam (NAPLEX). NAPLEX is an 185 question test that measures your knowledge of practice of pharmacy, from distributing medications safely to educating your patients on optimal health care.In some states, students must pass a Multistate Pharmacy Jurisprudence Exam (MPJE).
Graduates of pharmacy schools not in the U.S. or outlying territories must pass the Foreign Pharmacy Graduate Examination Committee (FPGEC) Certification.
If you fail the NAPLEX, or one of the other required exams, you can apply to retake it. However, some states have a limit on the number of times you can retake a test or other requirements. For example, in California, if you fail the California Pharmacy Jurisprudence Examination four times, you’ll need to complete additional educational training before taking the test again.
 There is ongoing demand for pharmacy services throughout the U.S. and other countries. This is due to the increasing number of prescriptions filled each year, and the increased number of medications available on the market. There is also an increased demand for patient services, as pharmacists can work in a wide array of settings and positions. As well, as the elderly population goes up, so does the demand for pharmacists.The demand for pharmacists is going up in settings like hospitals and clinics, so look for positions in these settings. Talk to your professors in your Pharm.D program and don’t be afraid to network among your colleagues and recent graduates of your program.
With higher demand for pharmacists, the competition for good pharmacy positions has also increased. Students who complete a residency program may improve their job prospects.
Certification from the Board of Pharmacy Specialties also looks good to potential employers.