 You have the right to move out at your 18th birthday, drop out of school (don't do that), to not attend school (don't do that), to enter into contracts, vote, to have control over the disclosure of the records (except specified in FERPA) http://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/fpco/ferpa/index.html and any other rights granted in your state.;
, You have the same rights as those in other states except you can't get married in Mississippi until 21 and in Nebraska 19. In Alabama, although the age of majority is 19, you can get married at 18. in ALL 50 STATES, you can move out at 18.
 Stay at a hotel but your mail goes to your friend's house. That way CPS will be less likely to contact you.
 Park a car next to your parent's home and put a camera in the car. A nanny cam is a hidden camera that is installed within an object such as camera in a tissue box. http://www.knowyournanny.com/ has good cameras. Use the CPS tracking sheet or create your own. http://www.slideshare.net/Lawlaloopsy/cps-tracking-record It should contain the row number, the date of the visit, the place of the visit, (if they might visit a friend, your school, your mental health agency or anywhere pertaining to you) the time they came and the time they left, and a comments column where you can write observations you made about CPS such as them bringing a school staff member along to your parent's home or CPS holding your inappropriate drawing. Write the comments small so you have room to write more comments but big enough for you to read. Attach extra pages or post-its if necessary and put the date or the row number so you know what visit that belongs to.
 This is one exception to FERPA. If you have or had truancy problems and CPS calls your school to make sure you are there, they will likely call your school and make sure you are in school at 18. However, they cannot do anything if you're not in school. For example, if you go to juvenile detention or court for not going to school, that won't happen anymore once you turn 18. CPS also might ask about your behavior and/or progress in school. Because you are not living with your parents, your parents will not know about your behavior and therefore cannot talk to CPS about it. Therefore, CPS might ask your school or your friend's parents if you were staying with your them about your behavior/progress or whether you are going to school or not.
 friends, people you are staying with, your doctor) not to answer CPS's questions. Describe what the CPS workers look like so they will be less likely to answer their question. Professionals (i.e. your doctor, school or mental health agency) will be more likely to answer CPS questions.
