 The skipping side kick is used to bring you in range of your target so that you can make contact with the side kick. This kick is also called the hop step side kick.


You should master the normal side kick before attempting the skipping side kick.
 You will usually begin from this position so it is best to practice from here. A common position is to stand with your left foot in front and right in back facing mostly sideways. Your right hand would be by your chin with your left 12-16 inches (30-40 cm) in front of your left shoulder.
 This gives you an advantage when you move forward into your kick later. Keep your knees bent so that you can move easily from this position., This is the “hop” or “skip” or the skipping side kick. Move forwards toward your target as you jump. You should be jumping off both feet at the same time.


You will not be jumping in a huge leap forward. You will just be jumping to bring your body and leg to the right distance from your target for your side kick. , The higher you can bring your knee to your chest, the higher you will be able to kick your target. , You can make contact with either the sole or the heel of your foot.


If you are sparring, then it is better to strike with the sole of your foot.
If you are trying to break something such as a brick or board you should use the heel of your foot. This way you drive all the strength and force of your kick through your heel, which is the strongest part of your foot. , You will rotate your non-kicking foot until it is facing backwards to gain more power in your kick. As you straighten out the last bit of your knee, rotate your foot to bring the strength of your hip into the kick.


This should be the same as the normal side kick. , Bend your knee and then bring your foot down to the ground. You will land with your foot in front of you rather than bringing it back. , It is equally important to practice this kick with the other foot as well. Keep practicing often with both legs to develop muscle memory for the kick. This will make it easier and quicker in sparring sessions.

