 Hearing a strange noise is usually your first clue that there’s an intruder. You’ll also get a general idea of where the burglar is in relation to your position. There’s plenty that simple listening can tell you about your situation. Be "all-ears" and listen very closely to what the burglar is doing.


Do you hear footsteps or other noises coming your way?
Does it sound like the burglar is talking to someone else?
Can you hear your property being picked up and packed?

, After locking the door, try to hide as best you can. Use heavy furniture to barricade the door, further impeding the burglar’s attempts to get inside. Don’t unlock the door until you are completely sure the area is safe or the burglar has left.


If the room you’re hiding in has a closet, hide in it as well. Lock it if possible.
If you can’t find a good hiding place or lock the door, you may need to move to a more secure room.
 Don't make a peep. Do not, under any circumstances, yell out to the burglar; all this will do is give away your hideout and the burglar will find you faster. Breathe as quietly as you can. If you’re in the room with anyone else, don’t discuss your plan or argue about what to do., If there’s a landline in your hiding place, use it, otherwise use your cellphone to call the emergency services. Make sure you know your address, because you will have to tell the operator your address so the police can come to your house and clear out the situation.


It’s important to keep your cellphone charged and nearby, so that you can quickly grab it as you hide.
Be prepared to give the operator a quick, concise description of the situation.
Any questions they ask is to determine how much help you need, so it’s important to describe the situation as accurately and urgently as possible., Don’t leave your hiding place until the police arrive. Don’t leave until they can confirm to you that the area is safe. If they haven’t managed to catch the burglar, make sure to let them know about any particularly good hiding places in your home. That way they can check more thoroughly.


Be wary of the burglar pretending to be the police. If you can’t get a good look at their identification (say because you’re still hiding), you can call 911 to check if you’re dealing with a real police officer.