 They also draw attention to your eyes and softly frame your face, which looks youthful.The fringe should start from a deep side part and swoop to the other side, covering most of your forehead.

The bangs should end somewhere between your eyebrow and cheekbone.
Add a little volume by lightly teasing the hair at the crown of your head. This will further soften the look.;
, They create subtle volume and can round out your face shape. Layers also add movement to your style, which has an anti-aging effect. Face-framing layers work especially well because you can accentuate your best facial features with them. Get the layers cut where you want to accent a feature.

For example, you could cut the length of the layers to fall by your high cheekbones, nice jawline, gorgeous eyes, great smile and so on.Get at least nape-length layers that are slightly shorter in back to add plenty of swing to your style.
 An angled bob simply means that the back is slightly shorter than the front. This angle can add a lot of movement to your style. The layers in the bob provide volume. A classic angled bob should reach the bottom of your jaw in front and get increasingly shorter toward the back.Your bob can be chin-length or shoulder-length, depending on your preference.
Style your bob with a side part, so that some of the layers frame your face. Similar to bangs, a side part can give your face instant youthfulness.
 However, this cut is the shortest possible cut to get, so it’s not for the faint of heart. Many older women opt for a pixie cut because it allows them to embrace their gray hair and look younger at the same time. People with oval, square, and heart-shaped faces look best in a pixie cut.This cut is short and textured. It requires minimal styling, which is a huge bonus to many people who go for this haircut.
Get regular trims to keep this short style looking fantastic., It’s a great option for someone who doesn’t want to cut a lot of length off. The lob provides anti-aging benefits similar to the shorter, classic version. Styling it with loose waves can create a carefree and youthful look that soften the face.

Depending on your layers and what you want to emphasize, start your waves at eye level or cheekbone level.
Top it off with a deep side part and long bands that sweep across your forehead.
 They also add dimension to your style and brighten your complexion.Get a cut that includes face-framing layers and then have your stylist give you soft, subtle highlights around the face.

Avoid cool or ashy tones, which can dull your complexion. Ask for highlights in warm colors like butter and honey.
 There are many different cuts that can make you look younger, but the key is choosing one that looks most flattering on you. Face shape, current hair color, current length and hair texture all factor in when getting the perfect cut. Make an appointment with your hair stylist and have a consultation with them. Let them know what your goals are and what cuts you'd like to try.

Have your stylist assess you physically and provide their professional opinion about how to move forward.
Ask the stylist to provide several options that would be flattering on you and take some time to think about it.
 As you age, oil production decreases and your hair loses the ability to retain moisture. Both cause long hair to get dry and frayed more easily. Hair that looks dry and dull can be very aging, so if you’re unable to keep your locks in peak condition, go for a lower-maintenance hair style.

Do a deep conditioning treatment at least once every week to give your hair a much-needed dose of moisture.
Limit shampooing to every other day to prevent stripping hair of its natural oils.
Get frequent trims to avoid fraying ends.
 Adding volume creates movement and lifts the face because it draws the eyes upward and outward. It makes your hair look much fuller, as well, which is helpful if your hair is thinning. If your hair is naturally straight and fine, get a cut with long layers. When you blow dry it, create soft curls at the ends by using a round brush.

You can also set your hair with Velcro rollers for additional waves.
Avoid using a lot of product, which weighs hair down.
Tease your hair lightly at the crown for volume at the roots.
 As you age, one of the main goals for your hair is to keep it looking soft and loose. A side part will help you soften your style and look younger. A long side part also frames the face, which is another anti-aging hair strategy. Add long, side-swept bangs to capitalize on this already youthful-looking style., Add a few subtle, face-framing highlights around your face to soften the look, add dimension and brighten your complexion. Your dark hair will look for more natural, as well.

If you’re fair-skinned and your hair is thinning, definitely avoid dyeing your hair too dark. The dark hair will contrast with the whiteness of your scalp and accentuate the thinning.
Dyeing your hair too dark can look very one-dimensional and wig-like, which you definitely want to avoid.
 Going too light – especially bleaching – can wash your complexion out and make you look tired and pale. Bleaching can also over-process your hair, which is damaging and causes your strands to become dry and brittle. Avoid bleaching and dyeing your hair all-over blonde.

Instead, ask your stylist to create a darker base and then add golden highlights throughout.
Avoid ashy and platinum cool tones. Opt for warm-colored highlights.
 This is true for your bangs and the rest of your hair, too. You can appear more youthful if you create a loose style with tousled waves. Don’t do anything that makes your hair look stiff or sculpted. Too-perfect hairstyles can age you, as well.

Rumple your style up a little to loosen it and soften your appearance.
Tease your hair lightly at the crown to get it a bit of volume and movement.
 They can also damage your hair, and that breakage can lead to thinning hair and a receding hairline. If you want to wear one of these styles, make sure to keep it loose and natural-looking. Pull a few face-framing wisps out of the style to soften it further.

Avoid exaggerated styles and creating extreme volume, which unfortunately can make you look older.
Keep it natural-looking by going easy on the hairspray and teasing.