 The world today is fast and impatient, but being a better person involves taking the time to work on your values. Decide what values and virtues are most important to you. Create a personal system of morals by joining clubs and organizations that will help you build your virtues, like a sports team, community service clubs, choir, or student government.Empathy, honesty, patience, humor, and perseverance are just a few examples of good values.
Consider some clubs and activities that might help you develop values. For instance, joining a sports team can help you practice perseverance. Joining student government can help you develop dependability, and doing community service can help you cultivate empathy and generosity.
Think about how you can put those qualities into practice throughout the school day. For example, if you think generosity is a good value, then find a way to really brighten someone’s day by sharing something that belongs to you.;
, Making a genuine effort to do something is an important part of self-esteem and positive thinking. Put your best foot forward at school, in an extracurricular activity, or at work if you have a part-time job. Be able to say, “I studied my hardest and put all my effort into this,” even if your test score is a little less than you were hoping for.
 Work on your school work over time. Do your homework and study a little every day, rather than cram the night before the big test. Don't procrastinate on a big project, especially if it's a big portion of your final grade.


You'll be less overwhelmed with your schoolwork in the long run, and will have time to deal with unexpected problems with the material you might face.
If you have any trouble understanding something, never hesitate to get extra help. Ask your teacher to spend a little more time covering the material with you. See if your school offers peer tutoring services.
 Being confident in an understated way is a great way to approach your classes, after-school activities, and friendships. No one likes being around a show-off or someone who’s overconfident in a fake way, so don’t put others off by being too cocky. Just work on developing your self-esteem and an easygoing sense of pride: you are a unique person who has great qualities, interests, and talents and no one on Earth is exactly on you.Make decisions about your diet, how you schedule time for studying and activities, and exhibit self-control in your behavior in and out of school in order to gain a sense of independence. Independence can really help your self-esteem.
Don’t be afraid to try new things or make mistakes: if you mess up, have the confidence to treat it as a learning opportunity!
Be confident about your emotions: everyone has them, and everyone has to manage their emotional lives. Work on building your self-esteem so you can better manage positive and negative emotions., Wear clothes and accessories that represent you and make you feel good. Know your own likes and dislikes, and express who you are. Dress for success: wear what not only makes you comfortable, but what makes you feel happy and ready to put your best foot forward.


It doesn't need to be expensive, trendy, or flashy: you style should just make you feel confident and happy.
Don't pretend to like something to get someone's attention. People being around will appreciate your different interests and want to get to know you better.

