 Due to the extreme number of variances between models, it is highly recommended that you research how the process will work for your specific model. These steps will give you a basic rundown of the process.
 To mod a 360, you will have to load custom firmware onto the DVD drive that is installed in your console. Changing the firmware on the DVD drive is referred to as “flashing.” This will allow the drive to read burnt discs.


To flash the DVD drive, you have to identify which drive you are using. There are 4 different vendors for the 360 DVD drive: Samsung, Hitachi, Benq, and Lite-on. Samsung disc drives have long notches cut out of the center opening of the tray. Hitachi trays have several small holes and two distinct small notches in the center opening. Benq and Lite-on have the same tray with a smooth center opening.
To differentiate between a benq and Lite-on drive, you have to pop out the bezel located in the front and center of your console, right underneath the disc drive. If you see white wires then it’s a Benq; if you see yellow wires then it’s a Lite-On. If the Xbox is from before April 2008, then it is a Benq as Lite-on was not introduced until then.
From the 4 vendors there are 12 different models of disc drive, each requiring slight variations in the process. Samsungs are the most simple to flash, Lite-ons in general are the most complex.
 In order to flash the drive, it will need to be connected to a PC. To get access to the drive so that you can do this, you will need to take apart the 360.


Remove the front panel first by turning the 360 upside vertically and pulling the panel out from the bottom.
Remove the vent plates on both ends of the console. These are attached with tabs that have to be popped out one at a time. Gently pull on the plates while releasing the tabs.
With the plates removed, lay the 360 upside down. Remove the bottom place by pressing in the tabs around the console.
Once the plate is removed, undo the screws from the steel chassis. Turn the 360 back over and remove the top plate. You can now access the DVD drive.
 Most computer SATA ports are located inside the case, physically attached to the motherboard. You will need to open your computer to run a cable from the 360 DVD drive to your SATA port.


The DVD drive will need to be powered in order to flash. While you can run the power from the 360, this is not recommended, as the 360 logs each time that the system powers on with no DVD drive connected. This will most likely lead to your console being banned.
Since the power connector is not a standard one, you will need an adapter that will let you connect your PC power supply to the 360 DVD drive.
 There are multiple ways to flash a drive, including command line prompts. The easiest way is to download and run JungleFlasher which combines all the different flashing methods into one program that runs through Windows.


Be sure to follow the guide available on the JungleFlasher website so that you perform the correct flash according to your DVD drive model.

