 Researchers have found that the clothes we wear really has an effect on our self-esteem. For example, wearing a superhero costume can boost confidence and make people feel stronger. Women perform better on a math test in a sweater than in a swimsuit. A white coat gives people more “mental agility.”Focus on wearing clothes that make you feel comfortable, such as a nice soft sweater, your favorite jeans, or a suit and tie.
Examine your wardrobe and make sure your clothes fit your style.
Wear colors that you like - these will help boost your mood. If you can’t decide on a color you like, a good go-to color is blue because people general respond positively to it., Find outfits that will look good to you when you look in a mirror because they match your body type or include accessories that show off your good features. There is no perfect body type, but there are good and bad clothes for particular body types. Clothes that fit because they match your type are more likely to look good on you.


For example, if you have broad shoulders and narrow hips, avoid scarves with patterns (calling attention to your shoulders), shirts that accentuate your shoulders, and footwear that looks small for your body type, but do wear pants that make your hips look bigger and shoes with wider heels or boots with buckles that call attention to your feet. If you have a round body type, avoid too much fabric in the middle of your body, belts, and skirts less than knee-length, but do wear details above your bustline and below your hipline., When you look like you think about your appearance and are taking care of yourself, your self-confidence is boosted. You will also help others focus more on you as a person, rather than one minor aspect that may be perceived as a flaw.Take care of your skin. Wear sunscreen and have a good daily cleaning regimen.
Keep your fingernails trimmed and clean.
Have a hairstyle that suits your face.
Iron your clothes if they are wrinkly.
Have good posture. Sit and stand with your shoulders straight.
 Whether or not exercise actually changes your physical appearance, it can change your perception of yourself. This can lead to increased self-esteem. A national survey of physical activity and weight showed that people who were not satisfied with their body size were less likely to be physically active, regardless of how much they actually weighed.This finding suggests that just being physically active can be related to a better self-image.


The amount of exercise needs to be enough to give you a sense of accomplishment. You should regularly exercise. But you don’t need to do any specific type of exercise, nor do you need to exercise for any specific amount of time.
 Certain foods, such as those high in carbohydrates and fat, can cause you to become sluggish and negatively affect your mood. Foods that can improve your mood are those that are low in fat and release their energy slowly. These foods give energy for sustained periods of time. They do not carry the risk of weight gain, bloating, and irritability. Certain foods can also help you grow stronger hair and nails. These benefits can improve your overall self-image.

