 Avoid large hives and honey producing hives.
 You'll need:

Light-colored and smooth-textured clothing
Gloves (leather preferred)
Head gear (Bee keeper veil preferred)
Insecticide spray
Plastic garbage bag
Soap and Water
Materials to close off area (depends on where the beehive was located)
Bee-smoker (optional, helps calm bees which will make them less likely to sting.)

, Clothing is a very important part in the process of removing beehives. Light colored clothing with smooth texture is best for removing bees. If dark colored or rough texture is warm bees may become aggravated.


Gloves offer great protection for your hands, thick gloves offer better protection for you. Leather is the preferred gloves for the removal of a beehive among professionals. If no gloves or thin gloves are warn you may get stung or feel the sting through the thin layered gloves.
The head gear that professionals use is a beekeeper's veil. This offers great protection while not hindering your vision. Don't wear anything too thin and or nothing, this will leave your head/face open to bee stings.
Try not to wear heavy scented odors, such as : perfume, cologne, and scented deodorant. If worn the bees may get your scent confused with flowers.
 Locating a beehive may be trickier than it sounds. Many beehives are located in hard to reach places such as chimneys, inside walls, in the bark of a tree, and in the ground. The sooner you locate the beehive the better. The longer a beehive remains untouched the bigger it gets and harder to remove., The best time to remove a beehive is late in the winter or in the early spring. During this time the beehive population is smallest. Bees are asleep in the early morning and in the evening, this is when it is safest to remove.


Bees are less active at night, and will likely all be at the hive then. However, it's harder to see and effectively kill bees at night. You may miss bees or smaller hives nearby

, Consider the fallout of removing the hive, and make sure you're ready for it.

Prepare to have repairs following the removal of a large honey bee hive from a home. Walls or structure may need to be cut away to gain access
Plan to bee proof to avoid further infestation in areas where the hive and honey can't be removed (behind stucco and brick).
Consider evacuating those with allergies, children, pets and elderly from the immediate area where a hive is active.
 One of the best ways to remove a beehive is by using a good/strong insecticide. In order to kill the bees inside you may need to repeat the spraying of the insecticide a couple of times. Approach this part of the task only when you're geared up in your protective layers.

The best place to spray the insecticide is in the hole of the beehive. Spraying in the beehive will give the most effective results. If unable to spray directly in the hole of the beehive, spray on it. This will give the same results but will take more spraying applications.
Never attempt to move a large hive and only disturb hives when small enough to eliminate with household chemicals.
 Once the spraying is done, and you don't see any bees flying in an out of the hive, it is time to physically remove the beehive. Removing the beehive will prevent other bees from moving in., Using a plastic garbage bag is the best way to dispose of the beehive. Once you place the beehive in the plastic garbage bag, securely tie the bag. Place in the trash container and put out for trash pickup.

Cleaning is an important process to do once the beehive is removed. Beehives are full of dangerous bacteria that should be cleaned thoroughly. Scrub the area with soap and water for the best results.
Make sure all of the hive and honey is removed whenever possible. Honey and dead bees may attract other bees, wax moths or ants. Scout bees will also find old hives and a new colony will move in if not removed.
 Closing of the area will prevent future bees from moving in. Plug all the entrances where bees could gain an entry point. Seal off all openings in the walls, and insert screens if necessary. If there is a hole in a wall a fresh new coat of paint will seal up the hole.