 Without judging, ask yourself, what is it that is making me doubt myself, and is there any real evidence that if I got everything in place and organised myself it still would not work? If it didn’t work last time, that does not mean it will not work this time, because this time I can do things differently. As Edison said, “I did not fail. I’ve just found 10,000 ways that won’t work”. This step is mostly about observing yourself and noticing when you start to listen to that voice of doubt.;
, What works for one person may not work for another. It does not make you any less successful if you have to go about things differently from how your neighbor or your friends do them. You are your own person, and you have your own unique take on the world. If you need to take a little extra time or go down a different route to reach the same destination, then so be it. It is not really about the destination anyway; it is about the journey. If you are reaching for a goal, no matter what it is, and the way you are going about it does not work for you, then change tactics.
 A lot of people want things to be "perfect." You often hear that word bandied about, but perfection is a relative term and one that a lot of people use as an excuse. If things go wrong or not according to plan, then it is not the end of the world! Perhaps things went wrong to demonstrate the fact that this is not the right way for you or that you are not being true to yourself. Maybe things went wrong because--guess what!--sometimes things go wrong! So if you have a setback, don’t tell yourself that everything is ruined and you might as well give up. Take a look at the situation and see what is salvageable. It might sound trite, but sometimes it is true that when one door closes another one opens. Instead of focusing on everything going to hell, take a moment to look at the lesson learned and the opportunity to try again.
 There is no one less useful than a person who enables your self-sabotage. Beware anyone with the Homer Simpson style of encouragement: “Kids, you tried your best and you failed miserably. The lesson is, never try." It might be time to cut that person out of your life. What you need are people who will tell you what you need to hear, not necessarily what you want to hear. Seek out groups or networks where people are doing the same thing that you want to do. This may allow you to get some proper perspective, to know that it can work out and it's not all a waste of time.
 It is helpful to take a look at why something is not working and to think about whether you have set yourself a goal that is beyond your reach right now. This does not mean that you cannot work towards it, but you may need to crawl before you can leap tall buildings. Be realistic about your goals and realise that sometimes it may take a while to get there.


Start with what are called "SMART" goals. SMART means Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and Timely. Here is where you can refer to Step #2 above. Change tactics if you need to. Do not be too hard on yourself if you have set an unrealistic goal. Just because it is not realistic right now does not mean you can’t take steps to make it more realistic later. You may need to acquire knowledge or learn some skills.

