 You can use random colors, or you can try to pick colors that complement one another. Consider what you want your bracelet to represent. For example, you can choose your favorite colors, the colors of your favorite sports team, or seasonal colors (e.g. orange, black, and purple for Halloween).


Try writing down the order of the colors so that you don't forget. For example, if you have chosen to use red, blue, and green bands, assign a number to each color: red (1), blue (2), green (3). If your design is more complex, it is even more important that you plan out the specific color order.
 The open, concave end of the curve should face toward you like a "frown." Stretch the rubber band over the peg beneath. Then, hook the next color over the second peg to the one before until you have your desired length.









It may take some trial and error before you get the length of your bracelet right.
If your loom is not long enough for your preferred length, you can move down the loom in an S-pattern. Alternately, once you have loomed a section, you can join it to another chain.
 You can also loop this band over the peg three times for a smaller hoop, to which you will later attach an S-clip or C-clip.
 Slip the hook inside the "frown" through the loose or triple band. Hook that band, then bring it back up through the "frown" over the peg. Make sure this band is not caught on the peg, and is only still attached to the loose or triple band. Hook the band to the peg above the peg from which you moved it.









If you made your chain in the S-shape, simply follow the pegs back the way you came.
 Hook the band at the bottom of the peg (the one stretched over two pegs), and bring it up through that "frown" (between the peg and the bands), thus unhooking it from its peg and re-hooking it to the peg above.
 Slowly pull your bracelet from the loom. If your bracelet falls apart when you remove it, you did something wrong.
 Make sure to grab all the band on the top peg. Starting at the bottom of your chain, unhook the bands from the pegs going back up your chain until it is free from the loom. To finish the bracelet, attach the S-clip or C-clip to the free end of the chain in the loop that is right at the bottom.









If you want to add more length to your chain, start at the top peg again and link bands into your desired length. Instead of adding another loose or triple band when you reach the bottom peg, simply hook the original chain (where the S-clip or C-clip hangs) to the last peg.

