 Use 1 part castor oil to 2 parts olive oil as a base, though you may vary this ratio depending on your own skin needs. The castor oil functions to clean your skin, and the olive oil serves as a restorative carrier oil. You can also substitute hazelnut oil for castor oil, and sunflower or another light-weight oil (such as canola) for the carrier oil.To apply oil cleansers to your skin, pour a small amount into your cupped palm. Rub your hands together, then apply to your skin with your hands using smooth, circular strokes. Massage for 1-2 minutes until the oil has soaked in. For a deep clean, leave the oil on your skin for up to 10 minutes.
Follow by draping a steaming wet washcloth over the area. Leave the washcloth on your skin for about a minute, or until it cools.;
, Combine 1/3 cup honey and 1/3 cup liquid castile soap into a liquid soap dispenser. Add 3 tablespoons distilled hot water and 2 tablespoons almond oil. Put the lid on and shape the bottle well so that all ingredients are combined. This mixture will be good for up to 6 months, but you'll need to continue shaking every day or so to prevent clogging.You can also substitute avocado or another nourishing oil for the almond oil.
To apply, press down on the dispenser and fill your palm with the liquid soap. Rub your hands together, creating a lather. Then, rub the soap gently onto your skin. Repeat as necessary until the oily skin has been completely covered with soap, then rinse with warm water. Dry by pressing a soft towel to your skin.
 Dilute 1/4 cup of apple cider vinegar with 1 cup distilled water. Add your favorite essential oil to the liquid, and mix well. Seal tightly to prevent evaporation. You can store this mixture in a glass jar for up to 3 months.Good essential oils to add to this cleanser might be lemon, lavender or geranium.
To clean your face, dampen a cotton ball with the solution and wipe over the oily parts of your face. Don't rinse it off.
 Pour 1/4 of the tea into a glass jar, and add 1/4 cup liquid castile soap. Stir in 3/4 tablespoon grapeseed, sweet almond, or olive oil, followed by 8 drops of essential oil. Finish by adding a few drops of Vitamin E oil.The best essential oils to use for oily skin are tea tree, bergamot, geranium, or lemongrass.
You can substitute rose water or distilled water for the chamomile tea, especially if you're using chamomile essential oil.
This mixture makes a good all-over body wash. Add another 1/2 cup of water or more to dilute.
Keep this mix in a plastic bottle near your sink or bathtub.
 Cut a lemon in half, then squeeze 1 half of the lemon over a small glass jar. Add 1 tablespoon of raw honey to the lemon juice, then stir well. Add a tablespoon of warm water to make it more liquid. When it's a good consistency, coat your face with the mixture and allow to sit for 1-2 minutes.Rinse your face with warm water, then dry with a soft cloth.
This mixture is meant to be used fresh, not stored.
 Mix 1 teaspoon raw honey with the white of 1 egg, and stir well. Add about 1 tablespoon plain white flour, or enough to form a paste. Apply the mixture to your face and allow it to dry. After about 10 minutes, rinse with warm water.Make sure not to get this mixture into your eyes.
The egg whites are said to firm up your skin, as well as soaking up excess oil.
 Peel, core, and chop an apple into medium sized pieces. Put the apple pieces and 1/4 cup water into a small saucepan and heat until the apple is tender to the touch. Add a teaspoon of lemon juice, and mash the ingredients together with a fork until they're well blended. Finish by adding a teaspoon of either dried sage, lavender, or peppermint to the mix.Apply this mixture to your face and allow to remain there for 5 minutes.
Rinse with warm water.
This mixture won't store well. Apply as much as you can to your face, then dispose of any excess.

