 Make your wife feel good by giving her compliments or praise. Think of the compliments you gave her when you first started dating. Tell her those same compliments and how they still make you love her even more.Start the day by giving your wife a compliment. Let her know at the start of the day how beautiful she is and how lucky you are to have her.
Be persistent. If she refuses your compliment or she undercut’s your compliment because she doesn’t think you are sincere, be persistent. Tell her again and look into to her eyes, then give her a hug to let her know that you are serious.
An indirect way to compliment your wife is to stop ogling other women. A harmless glance never hurt anybody, but if you stare or make a comment it will hurt your wife’s feelings. Keep your focus on your wife; she will appreciate it.
Brag about her to other people. If she hears you she will adore you. Or somebody will eventually tell her what you said and she will appreciate it.;
, This does not mean you need to go out and buy expensive jewelry, clothes, or a hand bag; rather, something thoughtful like a surprise back rub, a hot bath with rose petals, or a bouquet of flowers sent to her work.Buy her a cozy robe she can wrap herself up in after a hot bath or shower.
Give her some time alone to relax and do what she wants to do around the house.
Cook her favorite dinner. All she has to do is show up and sit at the table. You do the rest.
Get her some plush slippers to wear around the house.
Prepare a picnic all by yourself and pick a scenic location.
Good smelling toiletries are always a hit. Give her some bath goodies and prepare a hot bath with rose petals. Then, have her cozy robe and plush slippers ready when she gets out.
Chocolate, of course, always works.
 Women love to receive original love letters from the person they care most about and, in today’s world, a love letter is very rare indeed. Sending “I am thinking about you” texts, tweets, or emails are nice, but putting something down on paper and placing it in an envelope with her name on it is something special. She will certainly consider this a thoughtful gift.Write down your most romantic thoughts and memories on nice letter paper. Make it smell good by spraying a small amount of her favorite scent on it. Be romantic and write a letter for every week of the year.
Don’t copy something you found on the internet. Make sure your letter is original and sincere by expressing your appreciation and clearly describing your feelings as you write down your thoughts. This will personalize your letter.
Try poetry. Even if you never wrote a poem before, she will certainly appreciate your effort.
 This does not mean the typical, and perhaps boring, dinner and a movie. Instead, try something novel, inspirational, or adventurous that provides a lasting and romantic memory for life.Try something spontaneous and adventurous like arriving at the airport with no bags or destination and jump on a plane to somewhere you never been before.
Do something inspirational, like participating in a new activity together. Try making pottery, go ice skating, or take a class on how to give a sensual massage.
Seek out something novel, like a hot air balloon ride, horseback riding, or rock climbing.
 The nice thing about long marriages is that you create a lot of good memories. Don’t let those memories get stuck in a photo album or in reminiscing – relive them. Treat your wife like she is your girlfriend all over again.Take a trip back to where you first met. Kiss her and compliment her like you did when you were trying to win her over. Visit the restaurant where you had your first date or go to the movie theater where you watched your first movie together.
Sit down and watch your wedding video again. Tell her how beautiful she was on that special day and how she is still beautiful to this day.
 People often get caught up on how many times a week they have sex or become so busy with their job, kids, and other responsibilities that sex becomes more of an act that an intimate encounter. Try to take one day a week to slow things down and become deeply intimate with your wife by spending quality time in the bedroom together. Show her that making love to her is still something that is important.There is no actual “right amount of sex” for a married couple to have. Focus on quality rather than quantity if you are trying to get your wife to love you again. Concentrate on all the special actions that demonstrate to your wife that you are “making love” rather than “having sex.”
Although it’s nice to have candles lit after a hot bath with soft music playing in the background for a romantic encounter, quality does not necessarily mean romantic. Quality sex should be intimate and a desire to show your wife that you truly love her.
 Practice good health and hygiene. Your wife will be proud to be at your side if you dress and smile nice. She will probably appreciate it if you stay in good shape. Take a shower every day, wear clean clothes, and brush your teeth and hair.This also means to clean up after yourself. Throw dirty clothes in the hamper and clean up the sink when you are finished shaving.
Mind your manners. Living with somebody for a long time gives comfort and security that should not be taken advantage of. Use manners when you have a bodily function, such as saying, "Excuse me" when you burp or pass gas.

