 By looking at an example of how a proper model of an origami Pokéball should look, you will be able to gain a better sense of how to create your own.;
, The first step in the entire process is to make all of the pieces beforehand for convenient use. In order to do so, you can figure this out in How to make 3D origami pieces, or you can follow this explanation:

Take one of the squares of the paper and hold it in your hands with the longer side kept to the bottom. Fold this in half, bringing the bottom of the paper to the top.






Fold again from right to left in a light-weight fold.






Unfold the last fold made and flip the paper sideways. Fold the right side of the paper to the bottom line in the middle. Repeat the same step with the left side.











Turn paper over and fold down the outer corners of it.






Fold the two visible top 2 flaps down. The shape resulting is a triangle. Fold this in half and one piece should be officially done.
 You'll need:

approximately 47 black pieces for the poke ball-lining layers.
approximately 244 white pieces for the bottom of Pokéball structure.
approximately 221 red pieces for the top of Pokéball.
 Take notice that each piece has two extending sides and 2 pockets for which they will be able to build upon each other.
 You must make sure to keep them alternating like bricks so that each new piece you put on is resting on two different pieces.






So to put it another way, grab one piece and take the right leg and insert it into the left pocket of another piece. With the left leg of the first piece, place it inside the right pocket of a third piece.
,,,, Start small from the bottom and gradually have the pieces shape themselves outward.



The ball should look like this from the side, becoming larger as it approaches the middle.
 After the white-half of the ball, begin the middle-lining portion with both black and white pieces.
, After completing one full layer of the black pieces, the ball should look like this.
 Once the black middle-lining has been made, continue the process with the red pieces. This should just be like creating the white-half of the ball, except now you will be making it backwards.
 Do so by forming a circle instead of a layer like so:

,,,, Now, you are fully equipped to catch some 3D origami Pokémon!

