 Your baby might be colicky because they slip off the nipple or gets too much milk at once. A nipple shield is a small flexible silicone or rubber device you can place over the nipple to help your little one get a better grip on their mother’s breast and modulate the flow of breastmilk. If you believe your child’s condition is caused by an excessively strong flow of milk or an inability to latch onto the breast properly, try a nipple shield.Nipple shields are available at your local pharmacy.
 There are three options for feeding your baby. You could breastfeed, bottle feed using breast milk, or bottle feed using formula. If your child shows no signs of improvement after every other attempt to soothe or improve their feeding habits, try changing the way you’re delivering milk to them.For instance, if you’re breastfeeding your colicky baby and cannot seem to alleviate their colic, try bottle feeding instead.
Talk to your doctor before changing how you feed your baby. Your doctor can rule out other underlying problems. For example, they may recommend a special formula if they believe your child is allergic to dairy milk or they may suggest that you cut out certain items--such as caffeine, dairy, or soy-- from your diet.
 Lactase drops are a supplement containing lactase, an enzyme that helps your colicky baby break down the primary sugar found in milk, lactose. There is some evidence that lactase drops will reduce the time your child spends crying. Always speak to a pediatrician before giving your baby any medication or supplements, including lactase drops.You can obtain lactase drops at your local pharmacy or online.
If you breastfeed your little one, you will have to first obtain a breast pump to express breastmilk into a bottle. You can then mix the lactase drops into the breast milk and feed it to your baby in a bottle.
Follow manufacturer directions for more information about how to add lactase drops to your baby’s formula or milk. Typically, you’ll just stir two to four drops of lactase into the milk., There are a number of other conditions that could be confused with colic, so it is a good idea to at least talk to your baby’s doctor about their condition. Note the frequency, time, place, and duration of your little one’s crying before speaking with your doctor. Relate the information you noted so that your child’s doctor can make an accurate diagnosis.The doctor may be able to determine if colic or acid reflux is causing your baby's problems. Acid reflux is often confused with colic, and it is a common cause of fussiness in babies.

