 Strict parents are hard to deal with, but if you add the word 'Christian' on top of that, particularly if you don't share their faith, you may struggle with their decisions. Their rules may seem unfair and unnecessary to you. The first step to overcoming this obstacle is by realizing what your parents are doing. If they're setting harsh rules, Christian parents are just doing what they feel is right as parents and within their faith. Sometimes it seems that they are overreacting and surrounding you with prison walls, but they are just trying to create Godly boundaries.;
,
Do they make an effort to teach you about God?
Do you feel like they think they are trying their best to raise you?

, Parents who parent based on their faith are just doing what they feel is best. Christian parents don't always get it right, but they think they are. Once you realize that they aren't on a mission to hurt you, life will be significantly different.
 How are you reacting to everything? These questions may require an honest evaluation of your life.


Are you becoming more reserved and spiteful to your parents every time they bring another rule into your life?
Do you feel like you are growing to hate them?

, Are you becoming more rebellious just because of how they are reacting to situations? Becoming rebellious just leads to stricter rules. Your parents are not prison guards. You will never be able to completely change your parents. You can just change you. The way you react to your parents requires maturity and a lot of self evaluation.


If you have come to the conclusion that you are becoming more rebellious due to your parents' rules, think about how that might affect you in the long term. Your parents have got you by a collar like a dog. Once a dog, who is always kept on a leash, is free- he is gone. He is gone forever. Running and free. If you are like the dog, you would have been kept on restrictions. You are living in an extremely tight Christian environment. That's an extreme. Once you're free: you'd be living in another extreme. You wouldn't have found middle ground.
 Chances are, you don't want to live in the other extreme of life. Your parents are still going to be in control of you because you are reacting to their restrictions. Making choices just because they conflict with the ones your parents would make isn't forming your own path.


As you grow and gain independence, you'll be free to pick and choose parts of their lifestyle that you like and don't like, compromise with them, and maybe even find some parts of their parenting techniques that you agree with. Finding and being open to that middle ground is likely to lead to better relations and a more fulfilling life than if you just make all your decisions based on rebellion.
 Mentally isolate everything that your parents are and isolate everything that you wish you could be in the extreme. Figure out what you want in your future.
 Trying to find a middle ground in the midst of extremes is like describing a place that you've never seen. What are you supposed to? If your parents say no to a party with some wild friends  your instant response will be to sneak out to it. That's your extreme nature kicking in. Stop, think about it, and figure out what you really want. Do you want to be going off to the party because your parents don't want you to, or do you really feel as if this is the life you want to be living later on?


Find circumstances while you are still in the house where you can imagine yourself making decisions on your own. You can't make decisions yet, because you are living in such a strict house, but you can imagine your own reactions to situations.
 This may not seem easy, but in the end, they are still your parents. As a Christian child, it's your responsibility to honor your parents and love them even in the hard times.
 They may or may not listen. If nothing changes, just know that you won't be in their house forever. You will soon be out and living on your own. You can look forward to that.
 Look positively at the situation. Know that they love you, they want what's best for you, they just are struggling to figure out a way to achieve that. Love them anyway.

