 Concurrent owners should decide on an asking price before anything else. The failure to agree on whether to accept a buyer’s offer is the most common reason for joint-property sales to fall through. It's great if you and your co-owners can come to a quick agreement on an asking price, but if you find this to be a sticking point, get an appraisal. This will give you an objective starting point for negotiations, which should make it easier to come to an agreement with a buyer.
Settle on a price range, which would include the ideal selling price and the lowest acceptable price. Then establish a schedule for lowering the price. You can prepare to drop your asking price a little if the home doesn't sell in a pre-determined length of time.
 Before you put the home on the market, work out with the other owners how costs will be shared. You should take into account the costs of inspections, escrow, agent’s commission, and especially repairs. Remember to account for repairs that the buyer may request as well as repairs you undertake before putting the house on the market.
 If the property owners are widely separated geographically, consider granting power of attorney to an owner near the property so that they can quickly make decisions about the sale such as accepting an offer. Be very cautious about this. If you don’t trust the other owners to make a proper decision, don’t sign your rights over to them.
 While it isn’t ideal, you should plan for this contingency. The scope of repairs a buyer may ask for could be too large for one owner to afford. It’s best to have a plan in place beforehand so that you'll know how one owner would be expected to compensate the others in the event of a shortfall. , Hire an experienced and capable real estate agent with whom everyone in the group feels comfortable. Since you’ll be signing a contract with the agent, make sure you base your decision on factors likely to benefit you and not merely the agent. For example, don’t pick an agent based on friendship or familial relationship. Choose an agent with a track record of success in your locality. Find out more at Select a Realtor.
 Since the property is owned in common, the sale won’t be valid until all of the owners have signed the sale contract. If it isn't possible for all the owners to be present, the ones who are absent will have to assign power of attorney to another owner.

