 The felt can be any color you want, except for white. You will be adding a white tooth shape on the front of the pouch. If you use white felt, the tooth won't show up!, Fold both of the narrow edges down by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Pin them in place, then sew them down, as close to the inside edge as you can. You can do this by hand or on a sewing machine. You will be using these hems as tubes for the drawstrings., It needs to be about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) tall and 1½ to 2 inches (3.81 to 5.08 centimeters) wide. If you need to, draw the tooth shape first using a marker, then cut it out., Flip the rectangle so that the hems are on the back, and the smooth side is facing you. Pin the tooth to the top of your rectangle, about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) down from the top, hemmed edge. Make sure that it is centered.

If you drew the tooth first, make sure that you place it marker-side-down.
 If you want to use the tooth as a front pocket, sew around the bottom and side edges; leave the top edge open.If you want to use it as an appliqué, sew all the way around the tooth.

If you don't know how to sew, you can use hot glue or fabric glue instead.
You can also sew around the tooth using your sewing machine, but it may be difficult due to its small size.
 Fold the rectangle so that the hems are on the inside and the tooth is on the outside. Sew up the sides using a straight stitch; you can do it by hand or use a sewing machine. Do not sew the upper ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). You want the sides on the hems to remain open so that you can insert the drawstrings.Use a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance.
 Use a safety pin or a dull needle to pass the string through the left side of the 'front hem. Then, pull the string through the right side of the back hem so that it comes out on the left side. Tie both ends of the string together.Repeat this step with another 14-inch (35.56-centimeter) piece of string on the right side of the bag.
You can use string, yarn, or cording.
If the drawstrings are too long, trim them down.
 Place your tooth inside the front pocket on the bag, or into the bag itself. Pull the drawstrings shut, and place the bag under your pillow. Wake up the next morning to find money in the bag.