 Before you start your report, make sure all the information or evidence you have is at hand and readily available.


Make copies of any original documents so you can send the copy and retain the original unless instructed otherwise. If you're filing a report online, you will want to make digital copies of your documents, which may include scanning the original document or taking screen shots.
Information or documents that might be useful to investigators include any emails or letters you've received related to the fraudulent activity, bills, and account statements.;
, The website is run by the federal government's Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, which coordinates efforts of several federal law enforcement agencies including the FBI to combat financial fraud.The task force was created in November 2009 in the wake of the financial crisis, and aims to investigate and prosecute financial crimes across all sectors and financial markets.While you may think of crimes such as identity theft and credit card fraud, financial fraud also encompasses corporate fraud, predatory lending, securities fraud, procurement and insurance fraud, and other types of illegal financial activities., After you click on the tab to report fraud, you will find a list of a number of different types of financial fraud handled by different federal agencies.The task force includes more than 20 federal agencies, U.S. attorney's offices, and various state and local law enforcement agencies, and has a broad mission.In many cases the situation you want to report may fall under more than one category. For example, if someone attempts to steal your credit card or bank account information online, this could constitute identity theft as well as computer-based fraud or cyber crime.
If the incident you want to report falls under more than one category, you should consider reporting the fraud under both categories. Different agencies may be involved depending on the subject matter of your report.
 Clicking on the type of fraud you want to report will take you to a listing that gives you the specific agency to which that type of fraud must be reported along with the agency's website, telephone hotline, and other contact information.The website directs you to the agency where you should report that particular type of financial fraud, which may or may not be the FBI. Keep in mind that while the FBI does have a hand in investigating all types of fraud, certain agencies may be better situated to investigate fraud in specific areas.
For example, mail fraud typically should be first reported to the U.S. Postal Inspection Service rather than to the FBI, even though the FBI may become involved at some stage of the investigation.In contrast, mortgage fraud and loan scams may be first reported to the FBI by calling the FBI tip line at 1-700-225-5324 or submitting the online tip form. However, you also may want to submit a complaint or other information to the Housing and Urban Development Office of the Inspector General.