 Dab it above and below your eyes and along the inside of your nose bridge on both sides. Blend it in well with your fingers or a makeup applicator.
 This time, choose a bold, dark color, like jet black, dark purple or navy blue. Make a thicker dark line just below your lash line on your bottom lid, and just above your lash line on your top lid. Use your finger to lightly smooth out the sharp-looking edges of the line.


You can extend the eyeliner line past the corner of your eye a few millimeters for an even more dramatic look.






Go ahead and use white eyeliner on the inside of your lash lines to brighten up the area.
 For a nighttime look, go darker and more definite. Apply a dark shadow to your eyelid, then use a lighter shadow for the area between your eyebrow and eyelid. Blend the edges together with your finger or a clean makeup sponge. Consider the following color combinations for different skin tones:


If you have a pink or peachy undertone (know as "spring" by makeup manufacturers) try sky blues, peaches and pastel pinks, yellow greens, and caramel colors.
If you have a blue or pinkish undertone (summer) try pastel pinks, sky blues, lavenders and plums, and shimmery golds.
If you have a golden or peachy undertone (autumn) try brilliant golds and coppers, ruddy or warm browns, and caramels.
If you have a blue or pink undertone (winter) try blues (any shade!), bright pinks, icy silvers, and beiges.
 Once you get the hang of doing your own eye shadow, experiment with other colors to find the combination that makes your eyes pop the most.


If you have brown eyes, try earthy tones such as browns, deep or olive greens, rustic purples and dirty blues.
If you have green eyes try ruddy browns, coppers, and purples.
If you have blue eyes, try dusty browns, emerald greens, periwinkles, and pinks.
For hazel eyes try browns or olive greens, coppers and silvers.
 Always finish a bold eye with a few sweeps of black mascara. For even thicker lashes, let the first layer dry, then add a second layer of mascara.

