 Smiling is one of the easiest ways to choose to act happy. In fact, the physical act of smiling can actually help immediately improve your mood.So, make an effort to smile more throughout the day.


Listen to music that makes you smile during your daily commute.
Think of humorous things to put a small grin on your face.
Smile at people that cross your path throughout the day.
 Trying to be happy can actually make you a happier person.While you don’t have to be selfish and unkind, definitely make an effort to be sure that you are thinking about yourself and engaging in things that make you happy. Schedule time for these things. Just as you would a meeting or other event, put them on the calendar and make them a priority.
 It is okay not to do things that you feel interfere with your happiness. Although you probably can’t say ‘no’ to everything that you don’t want to do, it is okay to occasionally turn down things that really aren’t enjoyable for you.


If you are volunteered for something that you really don’t want to do, try saying, “I’m sorry, but I won’t be able to. I am already over-extended”.
If you aren’t comfortable saying ‘no’ directly, then try saying, “I would like to help you, but I don’t want to commit to something that I might not be able to do. Let me see how that fits with my plans and I’ll let you know”.
 People generally assume that happy people do nice things. Indeed, doing kind things, and sometimes simply the right thing, can actually make you a happier person.Make the choice to be nice, fair, and to help others when possible.


Choose to brighten a stranger's day every day, whether it's a compliment, holding the door open for someone whose hands are full, or volunteering at a soup kitchen.
When possible, help people who are bullied, teased, or just having a hard time in life. Think about how unhappy they must feel in their situation.
Forgive others for small things they have done wrong. Often we hold on to petty grievances. Making the choice to move past these feelings is not only compassionate, but key to boosting your own happiness.
 Meaningful activities are those that give our life purpose and definition. They can be anything from talking with a friend and deepening that relationship to trying a new sport. Choosing to engage in meaningful activities can boost your happiness by giving you a sense of accomplishment and connectedness.Participate in a class or group where you can not only learn something new, but also possibly form new friendships; for example, martial arts, language class, or a book club.
Volunteer with a local community organization or agency. Use the opportunity to not only share your skills, but also as a chance to make new connections.
Doing something personal or private like meditating can also be meaningful in that it brings peace and well-being to your life.
 Choosing to act happy also means choosing to treat yourself right. It’s hard to have a good attitude, participate in anything, or even smile when you don’t have energy or can’t focus. Make a decision to do things that will enable you to be happy.


Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can cause a number of harmful effects on your physical, mental, and emotional health. Making sure you are getting enough sleep can greatly improve your happiness.
Decide to eat nutritious meals and snacks. Certain foods can elevate (or decrease) chemicals in our body that can affect our mood. Choosing to eat healthy meals and nutritious snacks can help improve your overall mood and long-term happiness.
Engage in physical activity. Physical activity is a proven mood-booster and energizer in the moment. Over time, regular physical activity can make you a generally happier person by reducing stress and health concerns.Give yourself a treat every once and while. Whether it’s a vacation after you complete a big report or a small piece of candy just because, choose to do something nice for yourself simply because it will make you happy.

