 The first sign of ants in your kitchen is a warning to you. Scout ants are wandering ants, either singular or relatively few in number. They investigate your kitchen for food and supplies. If these ants return to the nest to inform the other ants, more will be on the way.Waste no time:


Cleaning your kitchen
Sealing all food and removing all sources of sticky, sweet, greasy, and meaty foods from their access.;
, Wash all dishes as they're used or place them into the dishwasher and shut the door tight. Wipe down all of your cupboard, benchtop, and counter surfaces with vinegar.


Vinegar not only cleans and disinfects, it is also an ants deterrent.
Remove all sources of garbage and keep the kitchen bin shut tightly.
Rinse all recyclable containers before putting them into storage., Food that's fallen on your floor or been lost in your kitchen's nooks and crannies will be an open invitation to ants. Crumbs and bits of food that have gotten caught in kitchen area rugs will attract ants in the same way.


If you're prone to forgetting to sweep and vacuum your kitchen area, you might want to try getting into the habit of doing it at the same time every day, like after breakfast or dinner.
 In particular, check jam/jelly jars, sauce bottles, pickle bottles, cordial bottles and honey and syrup containers. Place your honey jar and any other sugary ant favorites inside a bowl of water.For more details on the bowl of water technique, check out How to keep ants out of honey and How to keep ants away from cat food.
 Use airtight containers or similar ant-proof containers for food storage. Be relentless with this for 3 to 7 days. The ants, having nothing to eat, will go elsewhere. This works because the ants are following the chemical trails left by other ants, who did find food.You may also need to seal fragrant items such as cleaning powders, deodorants, and the like in case these attract the ants' initial attention. Be alert to any congregations of ants around non-food sources.