 Many people appreciate senior dogs because they have few of the behavioral problems that puppies have. They tend to be house trained and do not chew on things. Because they are accustomed to a human schedule, they often do not need attention during the night. In general, senior dogs tend to be well behaved and require little training.Because they are older, senior dogs are often less energetic and more easy going.
Many older dogs are already trained and understand basic commands.;
, Although many senior dogs are well trained, some may have behavioral problems due to improper training or because of abuse and neglect. Because of this, you may have to house train, leash train, or crate train your dog. If your dog has serious behavioral problems, you may need to enlist the help of a trainer or behaviorist to manage it.Your dog’s bad behavior may also be a result of aging-related problems like hearing loss or poor eyesight. Be sure to have a veterinarian check your dog after you adopt it.
 Because you are adopting a senior dog, your relationship will shorter than if you adopted a puppy. Your senior dog may pass away after only a few years together. Make sure that you are emotionally capable of bonding with and then losing your pet.Dogs suffer from age-related health problems like cancer, heart disease, organ failure, diabetes, senility, and arthritis.
 Adopting a dog can be expensive and time consuming. You will need to make sure that you are capable of financially caring for a dog and be able to give it the time and attention it deserves. You should determine if your budget could handle the additional expenses of a new dog. You should also look at your schedule and figure out if you have the time for things like walking and playing with your dog.The ASPCA estimates that a dog costs anywhere from $500 - $1,000 each year depending on the size. This will increase if the dog is sick or needs shots/vaccines.Your senior dog may also have some chronic health issues that you will need to deal with. These health concerns will require more of your time and money to address.
 If there are any other people who live with you, check with them before you adopt a senior dog. Make sure that everyone in your family wants to adopt a dog and is willing to help with it. Ask your roommates if they are cool with a senior dog living with you. If you rent, be sure to check with your landlord to make sure that pets are allowed.Because a senior dog may have health issues, you should let your family members and roommates know what to expect. This is particularly true if it involves any messes that your dog makes.
With your family and roommates, you need to determine who will feed, walk, train, clean and generally care for the dog.
Depending on where you live, your landlord may have the right to increase your security deposit.

