 Do you have a favorite scary movie, or a favorite spooky character? Do you like zombies, or ghosts, or ghouls? Create a theme around that!


Your theme can dictate the kinds of costumes your guests wear. For example, you might host a Dead Rock Star party, where everyone must come dressed as their favorite dead rock star.You can also theme your games and activities at your party. One idea is to have a pumpkin themed party—have your guests compete to carve the best pumpkin, and then serve as judges for the finished products.;
, There are countless fun recipes for Halloween treats that you can try out and serve at your party.


Try making some “Witches Fingers” by dyeing some honey with red food coloring, dipping pretzel rods in it, and rolling the honey-dipped pretzels in crushed peanuts.Craft special Halloween-themed drinks for your party guests. You could try the “Pugsley Adams Punch” which calls for equal parts orange juice, white grape juice, cranberry juice, pineapple juice, apple juice, and lemon-lime soda, then garnish the glasses with a gummy worm., Set aside a room in your house, or use your garage or backyard, and create a walk-through haunted house to scare your party guests with.


Use spooky sound effects and music to make the house even scarier. You can buy Halloween sound effects CDs or download them to play at the party.
Use red and black lights to create a spooky ambiance in your haunted house and at your party.Have friends volunteer to hide in the haunted house and jump out to scare other guests as they walk through.
 These can range from costume charades where your guests have to guess each other’s costumes, to playing hide-and-seek in the backyard once it gets dark.


One fun game to create for your guests is a DIY costume table. Use some leftover materials from school projects or crafts and allow your guests to make their own masks when they arrive.Another activity to try is to have your guests “guess the body part” in covered boxes. Use things like cooked noodles to feel like intestines, peeled grapes to feel like eyes, and a chunk of jello to feel like a liver. Challenge your guests to guess which body part they’ve felt!, Decide if you want to go more on the scary side, or if you want to dress up as something more subtle. If you themed your party, you can make a costume that matches that theme.


Many teenagers like to dress up as their favorite celebrities for Halloween. To do this, try to include things in your costume that make it more obvious who you are dressed up as. For example, if you are dressing up like Taylor Swift, you might draw a number 12 on your hand, and carry around a fake Grammy award.Zombies are a popular costume idea with many people in the last few years. Use Halloween make-up, fake blood, and special effects to make yourself look like the undead.