 You don't have to know any of this if you are a good and safe driver. However, if you are a driver who gets your car, yourself, your passengers, or others in a dangerous situation where an accident is possible, don't feel too guilty. Even the best drivers have an accident now and then.;
, Studies have proven that we drive where we are looking. If someone pulls out in front of you, look beyond that car. You will instinctively steer and head towards that point.
 What's happening? Why are you in danger? Where are you? Ask either the driver or another passenger, or if you already know, make sure you keep the information handy within your brain.
 These are your seat belts and air bags. Before you even buy a car, you should know where the air bags are. Older cars usually have air bags in the front seats, while newer models have air bags in every spot of the car. Always put your seat belt on. If you are part of a family that does not practice regular seat belt use, consider these facts:


You will not have time to put your seat belts on as a dangerous situation develops
The law requires you and your children to wear seat belts
If you are in an accident, your monetary recovery will be less because of your own negligence. Whatever your reasons are for not a safety restraint (too uncomfortable, not fashionable, unneeded), using them is always better than suffering injury or death, or to have your passenger injured or dead.
 If you have books in your car, place them on the floor. If you put them on a seat, they could fly up or forward in an accident, hitting and potentially injuring someone. Small objects such as small car games for kids or craft objects (stamps, glue sticks, etc.) should be placed under the front seat. This will prevent them from flying up and hitting someone. Heavy items in the boot (trunk) should be tethered or tied down, particularly if you have folding rear seats. A 70kg load will move forward with a force of nearly 2000N in a 30 mph (48 km/h) collision - easily enough to come through a rear seat.

