 Trace the top of a flower pot on a sheet of 1½-inch (3.81-centimeter) thick foam. Cut it out just inside the line that you drew. Wedge the foam disk into the pot, ¾ inch (1.91 centimeter) from edge.If you'd like to paint your flower pot, do it before adding the foam disk.
If the disk is very loose, secure it with some glue around the edges.
 Press down on the eggs as you roll them. This will help you create a pill or capsule shape, and make it more cactus-like.If you can't find any Styrofoam eggs, you can buy some Styrofoam balls, and saw down the sides instead.

For a more natural-looking cactus, try to use small, medium, and large eggs.
For a small, simple cactus, use just one egg.
 Insert 1 to 2 toothpicks into the narrower end of each egg. Press the toothpick end of one egg into the side of another egg. Keep doing this until you have assembled your cactus. The toothpicks will act as anchors and help keep your cactus together.Put the smaller eggs on top, and the largest one at the bottom.
Avoid making your cactus too big, especially if you are using a small flower pot.
 Insert two toothpicks into the bottom of your cactus. Coat the disk with a layer of glue, and press the cactus into it., Mix 1 cup (100 grams) of all-purpose flour and 1 cup (240 milliliters) of cold water in a bowl. Consider adding 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 grams) of salt to prevent mold.Stir everything together with a spoon.

You can also make papier mâché glue by mixing equal parts of white school glue and water., Gather some soft paper, such as newspaper or newsprint. Tear it into different sized strips, about ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) wide and 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) long.

It might be tempting to cut the paper, but tearing it is actually much better because it allows the paper to blend together more smoothly.
 Press the paper against the cactus, and smooth it out with your fingers. Keep applying strips in a similar fashion.

As you move on to your second layer, you may not even need to use any glue.
Use smaller pieces of paper on the curves and seams.
 Cut the ends off of several toothpicks down to 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Poke the toothpicks, flat-end-first, into your cactus at random.Try to do this while the papier mâché is still wet and pliable.

If it is too hard to insert the toothpicks, poke holes into the cactus with a skewer first, then insert the toothpicks.
Add a drop of glue at the end of each spike before inserting it to help it stick.
 This may take a few hours to even overnight, depending on the conditions in your home. The cactus will dry faster if it is warm and dry. You can help speed up the drying process by setting it out in the hot sun., You can paint it using acrylic paint or tempera paint. For a smoother finish, paint the cactus with primer or gesso first.You can use one shade of green, or several different shades for a more natural look.

Consider sealing your cactus afterwards with a an acrylic spray sealer. This will make your work last longer.
 Cut squares out of pink tissue paper, then scrunch them over the end of a pen or pencil to create a cupped flower. Glue the base of each flower to your cactus.

Don't want pink flowers? Try red, orange, yellow, or white.
 To prevent the "soil" from getting all over the place, paint the disk around the cactus with glue, then sprinkle your desired soil on top.