 The single best way for you to improve your writing is to, well, keep writing. Practice may not necessarily make perfect, but it can help to develop those skills and improve them. Keep writing, daily if possible. It is only through continued practice that you will improve.


Be determined and develop a regular schedule that you can live with. Along with studying, set out some time for writing.;
, Patience also plays a major role in improving your writing because practicing your writing it requires a large amount of time, concentration, and control. Don't give up if you don't improve at all because making your writing look cool and natural may take some time.
 This may sound backwards, but to be a good writer, you need to be a good reader. Try to read something everyday. Expand your knowledge by reading different types of writing. If you are primarily a fiction reader, start reading the newspaper or non-fiction books. Read articles online versus magazine articles and see if you notice the differences in writing styles. If you happen to read something that you really enjoy, study the article or story. Use the tips you find to improve your own writing. On the other hand, when you read something you don’t care for, make mental notes of the mistakes the writer made and try to avoid them when you sit down to write.
 Like it or not, your grammar skills play a big part in your writing. You may not want to think about nouns, verbs, adverbs, conjunctions or prepositions, but if you want to be a good writer you need to know what they are and how to use them correctly. Using the proper punctuation will ensure that people are reading your sentences correctly. For instance, if you intended a sentence to end, but didn’t end it with a period, your readers wouldn’t be able to make sense out of your writing. Don’t forget to use the spell-check function that came with the word processing software on your computer.
 If you are determined to improve your writing skills,read on.


First of all, find a pen you like to write with. Finding the right pen might take a while, but it's definitely the most important step. But, remember that a costlier pen doesn't necessarily mean it's better for you.
The second most important thing is, of course, a good notebook. Choose the ruling which you are most comfortable with - be it wide, college or narrow.
Find a good spot for writing. The place you choose should not be distracting.
Now, find a sample of some handwriting you like and want to imitate. This will give you a goal. However, this is not mandatory.
Now get to writing. Slow down your writing considerably. Always remember that legibility is more important than aesthetic beauty.
Observe your writing very closely. Are there particular letters you write in unique ways that are not legible? If so, practice more standard formations for the whole alphabet. Concentrate on overall letter formation, the slant of each letter and the beginning and ending of your strokes.
Move on to complete words once you've made it all the way through the problematic alphabets. Pay attention to character spacing, the way your letters flow from one into the next, and also the spacing between words.
Try to make writing a habit. Write letters instead of e-mails whenever possible. Keeping a diary is extremely useful.
Try writing with your non-dominant hand. This will slow you down, help you think about the writing.
Develop a test sentence for yourself and write it every week. This will help you gauge your progress at the end of the month.
 You will see the improvements you have made. As your skills and your confidence grow, you will find that writing not only comes easier to you, it becomes something you enjoy doing!

