 There are many different types of negative behavior. Your parents probably don’t do all of these things, but it’s important to pinpoint exactly what kind of behavior they are exhibiting that is bothering you. Common behaviors include:


Undermining. For example: "I thought you might mess up the order, so I bought it for you."
Insulting. Example: "You look fat in that dress"
Underestimating or writing off.Example: "You're probably not going to be a good sprinter."
Reinforcing a stereotype. Example: "You're a woman, so you should do teaching, not scientific research."
Blaming.Example: "It's your fault your coworker was harassing you – you always wear sexy shoes."
Making excuses for someone. Example: "It's alright to eat junk food. You had a bad day."
Limiting someone. Example: "You're a good painter, but you'll never become a really great artist."
Making unfavorable comparisons. Example: "Your cousin Jimmy is always on the honor roll. Why aren't you?"
Hostility, threats, or verbal abuse.
Ignoring someone.;
, Think about your parents’ behavior in the past and try to figure out what kind of negative treatment it is. It might be helpful to make a list of specific incidents where your parents behave in a negative way.


This will help you pinpoint the negative behavior so that you can talk about it more clearly.
 If your parents’ negative behavior is fueled by their love for you and their desire to see you succeed, then you are in a better position to have a conversation with them about how their negativity makes you feel. If your parents don’t have good intentions, this conversation might be more difficult.


Negative behaviors driven by good intentions can include things like trust issues, being overprotective, or coddling.
 Sometimes negative behavior is because of a misunderstanding or due to a personality conflict. These types of negative behavior are usually resolvable with a little communication and effort. But if your parents are abusing you, you might need to take more drastic action.


Abuse includes physical abuse (hitting, kicking, using physical force to restrain, etc.), verbal abuse (insults or cursing that make you feel bad), and emotional abuse (anything that doesn’t make you feel safe and loved – this can be from abandonment, threats, etc.).If you think you are being abused, you should tell an adult you trust. Another family member, a teacher, a school counselor, your pastor – these are all good options.

You can also call the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline for help (1-800-422-4453).But make sure you don’t falsely accuse your parents of abuse. There is a big difference between parenting/punishing and actual abuse. And an accusation like that could get your parents in serious trouble.
 Try to pick a time when they are in a good mood. If you start a conversation like this when they are already angry, it will not go well for you. If necessary, ask your to schedule a time., It is important to be open and honest. Tell you parents clearly what you want to talk to them about by making an observation about their behavior that bothers you.


For example: "Mom and Dad, I've noticed you make disparaging comments whenever I talk about my college plans."

, You need to provide examples of their behavior that hurts your feelings so that your parents can’t dismiss your observations right off the bat. You can refer to the list you made of instances when they behaved negatively toward you if you find it helpful.


Say: "For example, you told me I shouldn't join the science club because you think I'm bad at Biology."

, It is important not to make this conversation all about placing the blame on your parents.You need to take responsibility for your part, but also tell them about your feelings. Explain why you're hurt because your parents may not be aware of how their behavior affects you. Discuss your feelings, but don’t get overly emotional.Use "I feel..." statements. For example: "I feel hurt and devalued when you compare me to Cousin Jimmy. I feel like you're saying my hard efforts are no good."
Defend yourself. Say: "I'm confused when you scold me for making a mess. I always pick up after myself, and my room is organized."
Ask why the parent is doing the behavior. They may have a misguided idea, and think they're doing the right thing.
 Ask nicely, and if possible, provide an alternative.Tell your parents how it makes you feel and that you would like for them to try to stop making you feel that way. Give them an alternative solution to their current behavior.


For example: "I would like you to stop blaming me for the behavior of my little brother. I'd rather you address his problem with talking back rather than claim that I'm setting a bad example when I'm clearly polite."

, Sometimes it is hard for people to hear that they are making mistakes or hurting someone else – especially for a parent to hear that from their child. If your parents get upset, make excuses, or become defensive with you when you try to talk to them, be sure to remain calm. Let them say what they want to say, but remind them that this conversation is about how their actions make you feel.
 It may take your parents a little bit of time to process this new information about how their behavior makes you feel. You’ve been thinking about it for a long time, but it might come as a sudden shock to them. Give them some time to adjust and figure out how to change their behavior on their own.
 If your parents refuse to acknowledge the problem or change their negative behavior, it might be time to seek outside advice. Ask your parents to attend a counseling session with you or talk to the pastor at your church together. Sometimes having another adult to listen objectively can really help solve the problems.
 Think about times that your parents have acted negatively toward you and consider if their behavior is warranted by some past action of yours.Even if you have changed, you might need to work on showing them that you have changed.


For example, if you used to sneak out a lot, but have changed your behavior, your parents might be suspicious of your whereabouts and constantly think that you're up to no good. Since their suspicious are founded on previous truths, talk to them about it.
Say something like, "Dad, I know I snuck out a lot last year and got into trouble. I realized that was really dumb, and I've cleaned up my act and stopped hanging out with those people."
Keep up your responsible behavior to show that you're serious., Think about the circumstances under which your parents treat you negatively and try to determine if there is a specific cause behind it. If there is a misunderstanding, address this.


For example, if your parents get annoyed when they think you're not listening, say: "Mom, I know you think I'm not paying attention because I'm looking at this book, but I really am listening to you."

, If your parents treat you negatively every time a certain thing happens, try to figure out what this thing is. Maybe they see something that you’re not aware of and you need to learn how to prevent these situations in the future.For example, if your parents become negative every time you get a phone call from a certain person, ask them about it. Maybe they overheard a phone conversation in the past that they didn’t approve of and they are worried about you. The only way to clear up any confusion is to talk about it.

