 Certificate programs are designed for students who already have a medical field degree, or for licensed medical professionals who want to expand their medical service offerings. Certificate programs typically take less time to complete than a degree, and are offered through vocational schools, community colleges and medical training institutes.


Evaluate the certificate curriculum. Coursework for a sonography certificate typically includes basic physiology, pathology and anatomy courses, in addition to sonography classes like principles of sonography, obstetric ultrasound, vascular sonography, abdominal ultrasound, instrumentation and medical ethics. Certificate programs usually provide hands-on learning through clinical rotations and classroom practicums.;
, An Associate of Applied Science (AAS) in Diagnostic Medical Sonography degree provides the education and training needed for entry-level sonography jobs. Most AAS degree programs take about 2 years to complete at a community college, university or medical training institute.


Assess the curriculum. AAS degree programs typically require courses in anatomy, physiology, pathology, patient care and medical ethics. Students can expect to take sonography classes like ultrasound instrumentation and sonography techniques, as well as specialized courses in abdominal ultrasound and gynecological ultrasound. The curriculum requires classroom studies, lab work and clinical education, which is usually affiliated with a local medical center or hospital.
 A bachelor's degree in diagnostic medical sonography is a 4-year program at a college or university. The Bachelor of Science in Diagnostic Medical Sonography degree prepares students for entry- and mid-level sonography jobs.


Evaluate the curriculum. A bachelor's degree in diagnostic medical sonography usually requires courses in anatomy, pathology, physiology and medical ethics. Students take sonography courses that address the principles and methods for abdominal, vascular and pelvic sonographic examinations. Classes may include sectional anatomy, physics of ultrasound, abdominal sonography, vascular sonography, and obstetrical and gynecological sonography. Students usually participate in internships at hospitals, clinics and campus medical centers.
 Working professionals may decide to pursue a Master Degree in Diagnostic Medical Sonography because they want to enhance career opportunities. The master degree is usually sought by those who want to become administrators, private industry consultants, academic or commercial researchers or teachers.


Review curriculum to determine applicability to achieving goals. A master degree can be earned in less than 15 months if there are few or no prerequisite courses to take. The classes are focused on topics like healthcare trends and ethics; research methods; epidemiology; writing on medical topics; clinical pharmacology; special issues connected with cardiac, pediatric or vascular sonography; and applied clinical training.
 The diploma programs are an option for students who have already earned a bachelor’s degree or associate’s degree in an area that may or may not be related to medical imaging. The students who do not have an Allied Health degree or a degree in medical imaging may have to complete more prerequisites than someone who has been working in Radiologic Technology or Nuclear Medicine. Typically, the diploma sonography program can be completed in less than 18 months.


Assess how the diploma program will enhance career options. Since students already have a degree, the program consists of courses that concentrate on sonography training. The typical courses include principles of sonography; imaging of the abdomen, obstetrical and gynecological areas; cross-sectional imaging; ultrasound instrumentation; ethics and legal issues; and medical management. Students will also take specialty classes if they choose a vascular or cardiac concentration.

