 If your teacher or lecturer has already provided the topic for you, you're all set and you can skip onto the next step if you want. But if your teacher hasn't, then you need to think of one. An excellent topic should draw people's attention to read the article just by reading the title/topic. A couple interesting ideas are: Money isn't as Important; Looks Don't Matter; What Soda Can Do Besides Increase Weight (this is a really interesting topic, and, yes, it's true that soda has a good side)


Make sure that your topic relates to the assignment, and that you can support it using various mediums, such as the internet or a book.;
, Most people think that writing the introduction is the toughest part of the essay, but, really, the introduction is one the easiest parts. All you do is write a topic sentence, and follow-up with a couple interesting facts about it. Just a couple sentences (3-5) should complete your introduction.


Write a hook. Grasp the readers attention by adding facts or other interesting info about your topic. This is placed at the start of your paper, and if used correctly, will hook the reader into reading more.
 For example, if your introduction is: "Everyone should help animals. If you ponder about this topic, we humans are extremely spoiled compared to the creatures, from colossal to puny. By joining hands and using our continuous-increasing technology, together we can help the animals at every chance we can, one creature at a time.", then your next paragraphs should be saying how you can help the creatures.
 A thesis statement is a one or two sentence summary about what your paper is going to prove. Make sure this is detailed, specific, and well written. The thesis statement is an essential element of any paper.
 A typical paper will have two-three sub topics for support. These will be stated at the start of each body paragraph, and also in your thesis.
 You already have your topic sentence, which is your claim. Now, use textual support and other data to prove this claim. Use books, the internet, and even videos to support your topic sentence. The commentary is the main part of any writing piece.
 Write your reaction to the support you have just provided. Include your opinions and beliefs about the topic.
 When writing a conclusion, you should put together your main point (this should be your last sentence of the entire essay), a little bit of the introduction, and a little bit of the in-between paragraphs (the paragraphs between the introduction and conclusion). In other words, your conclusion should contain bits of your other paragraphs, and the last sentence should be your main point.


For your conclusion, state your thesis in a different, unique way. Summarize your whole paper, and leave a lasting impression on your readers.

