 Whenever safe and possible, speak up in response to homophobic statements or actions you witness. If you hear someone using slurs or calling a bad thing "gay," speak up. If you hear someone being bashed, defend them.If it is a friend, family member, or close acquaintance who is exhibiting homophobia, appeal to your connection. "Karen, I think we both value tolerance and kindness towards all people. The way you addressed my gay friend last week made it sound like you didn't want him around; can you explain what was going on?"
If it is a stranger, simply state your beliefs: "I find that language very offensive.";
, If you or someone you know has been discriminated against or harassed by a business owner, a store employee, a boss, a teacher, or someone else who represents an institution, don't let it rest. If the harassment takes place at work, talk to HR and your supervisor, and file a complaint if nothing happens.


Report homophobic words and actions that you experience in a place of business or other organization. If someone at a place of business says something offensive, report them to a higher up.
If a business or public institution in your neighborhood is engaging in homophobic slurs or discriminatory practices, report them to an organization such as the Better Business Bureau: https://www.bbb.org/consumer-complaints/file-a-complaint/get-started

If the person or people who engaged in the harassment or discrimination is the highest on the totem pole, take them to the court of public opinion: consider organizing a protest, writing a letter to a local paper, or passing out informative flyers about the homophobia.
 Do not hide your own sexual orientation or gender identity. Insofar as you feel safe and comfortable doing so, be open about your love life, and introduce your partner to others. Tell your acquaintances how you prefer to be identified.


Even if you are in a heterosexual partnership or generally pass as straight, consider speaking up when questions of identity or attraction arise.
If a coworker asks if you have a boyfriend, for instance, you might say, "I actually date men and women, but yes, I do have a boyfriend."
Coming out is a personal decision and depends on many factors. Make sure you are safe and in a position to fend for yourself before you come out to somebody homophobic.
 Take a hard line when voting: do not vote for anyone who is not explicitly pro-LGBTQ. If you don't know where a politician stands, call their team and ask, or look up their voting record.


Check out endorsements by LGBTQ organizations such as the Harvey Milk LGBTQ Democratic Club: http://www.milkclub.org/endorsements2016


, Do not give your business or time to institutions that practice homophobic policies. Boycott institutions headed by leaders who donate to homophobic candidates. Don't enroll in classes at schools with anti-LGBTQ policies.


If you aren't sure where an institution stands, check for explicit language about equality and minority protections on their website.
Look for administratively-recognized LGBTQ student groups at schools.

