 Stick your finger into the top inch of the soil. If it feels dry, give your plant another healthy dousing of water.
 Clematis only need about six hours of direct sun per day, and they prefer to have their roots in shade. Placing the clematis near an eastern or western window, or in a shady spot on your deck or patio, should provide sufficient light.
 The amount of fertilizer you add after that will vary based on the type you use. A rose fertilizer a month or two apart should provide enough nutrients, or you could give the plant a liquid fertilizer high in potash two to three times a month. Too much fertilizer can cause harmful salts to build up in the soil, however, so you must monitor your plant to determine if it is still healthy.


The label "10-20-10" refers to the percentages of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. Nitrogen produces leaves, phosphorus strengthens the roots, and potassium helps flower growth. The fertilizer you choose should be balanced in nitrogen and potassium with a slightly higher content of phosphorus.
 Once the vine starts growing, insert a bamboo cane or thick stake at a slight angle into the pot, getting it as close to the side of the pot as possible to avoid disrupting their roots. As the vines grow, gently tie them onto the cane using twine or yarn. Proper vertical support will allow your clematis to become bushier and taller, leading to more foliage and a greater amount of flowering.
 There are three types of clematis, and each has its own pruning requirements.


For clematis that bloom early on the previous year's growth, you should remove all the dead and weak stems as soon as the plant flowers.
For clematis that bloom between mid and late summer on old and new growth you should only remove dead growth once the plant gets crowded.
For clematis that bloom between mid and late summer on new growth alone, you should remove all growth from the previous year, only leaving the lowest pair of buds.
 Clematis wilt and leaf spot are the two most common diseases faced by this plant. Infected stems should be removed, and the remaining plant should be treated with fungicide.

