 File sharing is the act of trading files directly with other users. Soulseek is by far the safest and most reliable file sharing client available for free. It also provides access to one of the widest selections of music anywhere on the Internet.


As with all file sharing programs, be careful downloading files from unknown sources. Programs such as soulseek do not scan for viruses or prevent users from sharing malicious files. It is up to the user to download safely.
Sharing music through a file-sharing program is illegal if you do not own a copy of the music you are downloading. Providing music for others to download also increases potential charges against you. These programs are typically safe because they are community patrolled, but be aware that there is a legal risk in sharing music you do not own.
 The latest version can be found at http://www.soulseekqt.net/news/node/1. Just click the topmost link under the heading for your operating system (Windows, Mac, or Linux).
 Double-click on the file you downloaded to run it and install the program.
 You'll be asked to create a username for yourself; this doesn't really matter, so pick any name you want.
 Most Soulseek users won't let you download from their libraries unless you share some of your own. You don't necessarily have to share your entire library, although it's considered polite to do so.


Click the Options tab.
Click the File Sharing tab on the Options page.
Click the Share Folder button at the very top of the window.
Navigate to the folder you'd like to share and click “Share.” You can do this as many times as you want, if you'd like to share multiple folders.
 Click the Search tab and enter your search into the text field. Hit enter to see results. Check the bitrate (on the right side of the results) and the file format (MP3, M4A, and FLAC files can all be found on Soulseek), and if you like what you see, double click to download the file(s).


You can sort the list by Transfer Speed to download from users with a fast connection.
To download an entire album at once, double-click the directory above the track listing. You'll download everything in that directory (that is, everything you see in the album folder). Some users do not sort their songs by album, so be careful that you don’t set an entire directory of thousands of songs to download by accident.
Search results update continuously for as long as you leave them open.
Each new search you make opens up a new tab under the search bar. You can close these when you're done with them.
 Click the Transfers tab to see two more tabs, Uploads and Downloads. Downloads shows you what you're currently downloading or waiting in line to download. Uploads shows what files, if any, other users are downloading from your computer.


Light blue text means you're still waiting to download that file. If your entire album list stays light blue for too long, try right-clicking and choosing Retry Download to kick-start it. Most users have a set number of downloads they allow at a time. This means that there is often a line to get the file you want.
Dark blue text indicates the file is currently being downloaded. You'll see a progress bar on the right, as well as a bitrate indicator for the transfer. Higher numbers mean faster downloads.
Green text means the file was successfully downloaded. There will also be a full progress bar next to the file name.
Red text means your download was canceled or aborted. This can happen for many different reasons. Wait until the rest of the songs have finished downloading, and then retry any red downloads before searching for them elsewhere. You can right-click the file and select Retry.
 By default, Soulseek stores your completed music in a folder on your hard drive called “Soulseek downloads,” in a subfolder named “complete.” Once you have the files you want, drag or copy them from the download folder into your music player of choice.

