 It may be early, but it’s not too early for some light music. The more adventurous might try a talk program like NPR’s Morning Edition, which will hold your attention and gently induce you to concentrate. Classical music or jazz is also very pleasant in the morning.
 They say that breakfast is the most important meal of the day. Studies show that eating a good breakfast is key to having good levels of energy and concentration throughout the day. To get the most of it, try to eat within one hour of waking up and at the very latest by 10am.Most important meal of the day and waking up.


What you eat matters nearly as much as when you eat it. For example, foods like eggs, yogurt, chicken, and almonds contain tyrosine, which induces your body to produce the wake-up chemicals dopamine and norepinephrine.Orange juice and cream of wheat are also a good breakfast foods, as they have vitamin C and iron, respectively, which give you energy.
 Like in a shower, a quick shot of cold water will trigger your body to release adrenaline, boost your heart rate, and promote blood flow to the brain. An added benefit is that the water will hydrate your body after a night of sleep. Dehydration is known to cause tiredness., Coffee sometimes gets a bad name, as does caffeine. In reality, coffee is perfectly healthy for you so long as you limit yourself to 3 or 4 cups per day. Apart from its waking properties, coffee has possible benefits with antioxidants and for brain health.If coffee is not your favorite, try tea as an alternative. Energy drinks and soda are also options, but usually are full of sugar or other artificial ingredients. Also be aware of how much milk and sugar you use in your coffee and tea – these can add hundreds of extra calories.
The average up of coffee has about 100mg of caffeine, while black tea contains about half as much.According to the Mayo Clinic, the average adult can safely consume up to 400mg per day. More, however, may lead to feelings of irritability, jitteriness, or nervousness, insomnia, and rapid heartbeat.