 In order to download your Audible books, you'll need to log into audible.com with your Audible or Amazon account.


If you've already downloaded your Audible files (.aax, .aa) from other sources, skip down to the next section for instructions on converting them.;
, You'll need this program in order to download files from the Audible website if you're using a Windows PC:


Visit audible.com/sw.
Click the "Download" button in the "Windows PC" box.
Click "Select" above "Download to my computer."
Click "Install Audible Manager" and follow the prompts to install the program
Run Audible Manager after installing it and then sign in with your Audible or Amazon account.
 Once you're logged in, click the "Library" link at the top of the Audible page, or visit audible.com/library.
 This will display additional options, including the Download options.
 If you don't have the Audible Download Manager installed, you'll download the setup file for that instead. If you do have it installed, you'll download a special file which will automatically open the Download Manager. If you're on a Mac, the file will download to your iTunes library.
 This may take a while, especially for larger books.
 This is a program designed to remove DRM from Audible files and convert them to MP3 (or other common formats). InAudible is not an official program, and does not have it's own website. Due to its dubious legality, it cannot be linked in this article. You can find it through various torrent sites.Run the installer after downloading InAudible to install it on your computer.
There is a beta version of InAudible available for Mac computers, though it may be even harder to find than the Windows version. If you can't find a Mac version of InAudible, you can use Wine to run the Windows version. See Open EXE Files on Mac for instructions.
 You'll see most of the options are grayed out until you select a file.
 This will open a file browser.
 Browse your computer for the Audible file you downloaded in the first section. In Windows, the default location is:


C:\Users\Public\Documents\Audible\Downloads

, By default, the converted file will be placed in the same directory as the original Audible file. You can change this by clicking the "..." button next to "Output File."

, MP3 format is selected automatically, though you can choose from several other options.


If you're planning on adding the file to your iTunes library, select "AAC / M4B" as the format.
Check "Embed Cover" if you want the cover image included in the converted file.
 If you want to retain the original chapter splits, check this box to split the file up. This will create a separate audio file for each chapter of the recording, so it may not suit your needs.
 The rest of the settings can be safely ignored for now, at least until you're more familiar with the quality of file that the conversion produces. Once you click "Begin Conversion," InAudible will begin converting the Audible file into the format you specified.
 The conversion process will take roughly two seconds for every minute of audio. This means that longer books may take quite a while to convert. You can monitor the progress at the bottom of the InAudible window.
 Once the conversion is complete, you'll have a new audio file without any DRM restrictions that you can play on any compatible device. If you selected MP3 format, this means you can play it on virtually any device.

