 Part of being more self-aware (and, by extension, more sincere) involves recognizing your best qualities, as well as your weaknesses. This can help you recognize your true self, and avoid being pretentious or insincere.


Ask people you know and trust for an honest evaluation of your best and worst qualities, as well as your strongest and weakest talents.Practice self-reflection on a daily basis. This can help you become more aware of yourself and keep negative qualities/characteristics in check.
Think about what (if any) types of people seem to dislike you. This can give you some idea of how strangers perceive you and why.
Reflect on what situations you perform poorly in. This can help you determine where your strengths and weaknesses lie., Your life experiences shape and define the person that you are. Pretending to be something that you're not, or pretending to have lived through experiences you do not understand, will quickly reveal you to be a fraud. Instead of trying to hide your roots or your true persona, embrace who you are and where you came from. Others will recognize that you are being true to yourself and will respect you for it.Examine your life's experiences and your set of personal beliefs to find what resonates with you most. That is most likely a part of who you really are.
Take time to recognize and evaluate your thoughts and feelings on a daily basis. They will help you realize whether or not you are being sincere and genuine.
You cannot be "real" if you don't know what real is for you as an individual. Search your feelings and you will know whether or not you're being true to yourself.
 Honesty requires a certain amount of vulnerability on your part. But when you make yourself vulnerable, others usually respond in kind. Being honest and direct about your thoughts, feelings, and beliefs will help others get to know you on a mutually-sincere level.Don't exaggerate your responses, reactions, or feelings.
Let people know how you really feel without beating around the bush or misleading anyone.
If you think someone is an interesting person, show it by offering your full attention. Take a genuine interest in what other people say and think.
Remember that being honest and forthright doesn't mean hurting other people's feelings. If you think an honest, direct answer could upset someone, you may want to consider approaching that situation with a little more tact.
 Being mindful means learning how to be aware of yourself, your actions, and your feelings in the present moment.When you practice mindfulness, you force yourself to confront the way you think and feel in the immediate now, which can help you get a better, more sincere sense of self.Focus on your breath. If you find your thoughts wandering, just return to your breathing. Concentrate on the physical sensation of air blowing in and out through your nostrils, as well as your abdomen moving up and down. Notice the way your stress or anxiety seems to melt away as you continue breathing.
Engage your senses in everything you do. Try using as many of your senses as possible when you perform daily activities like eating. Use your sight, smell, touch, and taste to fully experience an orange before you eat it.
Practicing mindfulness helps you block out any internalized expectations you may have placed on yourself, and instead allows you to experience the present moment as your real, authentic self.

