 To keep your Ocicat in excellent physical condition, you will need to feed her a diet of high-quality cat food. One good way to choose a cat food is to read the ingredients. If the first two ingredients listed are meat (not meat by-products), then the food is probably high-quality. If not, then keep looking.


Make sure that the food contains taurine. Taurine is an essential amino acid that all cats need for good vision and heart health. Most cat foods will contain this ingredient, but if you find one that does not, then do not buy that food.;
, Some people free feed their cats, which is when the cat has access to unlimited dry food all of the time. This method of feeding can cause some cats to become overweight or even obese, so it is not ideal. Instead, maintain a regular feeding schedule for your cat and follow the guidelines on your cat’s food package to determine how much food to give your cat.Take the recommended daily feeding amount listed on your cat’s food package and divide it in half. For example, if your cat weighs between five and nine pounds, then the cat food package may suggest a maximum daily amount of 2/3 of a cup of food per day. To divide this into two portions, give your cat 1/3 of a cup in the morning and 1/3 of a cup in the evening.
Cats prefer small meals, so your Ocicat is more likely to finish her food if you give it to her in two portions.Ask your Ocicat’s veterinarian if you are unsure about how much to feed your cat.
 Your Ocicat will need to have access to a bowl of fresh, clean water at all times. Make sure that you have a special stainless steel or ceramic bowl for your Ocicat’s water. Wash the bowl daily and change out the water at least once per day., Ocicats like treats as much as any cat, so try to give your Ocicat a special treat now and then. You can buy treats in the store or try giving your cat some acceptable human foods for a treat. Just make sure that treats do not exceed 5% of your cat’s daily calories. Some good treat options include:canned tuna
lean deli meat
cooked chicken or turkey
cheese
cooked eggs
cantaloupe chunks
steamed broccoli
mashed potatoes