 The stem should snap when you bend it. If the stem does not snap when you bend it, the plant is too young. If you cannot bend the stem easily, then the plant is too old.The best time to take a cutting is during the morning, during spring or early summer.


The leaf nodes appear as little bumps along the stem. They are important, as that's where the roots will form.
If it is not possible to find a sprig without any flowers, choose a sprig with as few flowers as possible, and nip them off. Producing flowers take a lot of energy, and your cuttings will need all the energy they can get to put out roots.;
, Sterilize a sharp knife or garden shears with rubbing alcohol, and then cut a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) section from the top of the plant. Cut at an angle, just below the node. If there is no node 4 inches from the top of the plant, cut at the node closest to the top., The water should be deep enough to hold several of the leaf nodes. Avoid submerging any leaves in the water, however, or you will risk rotting the leaves.
 A bright window is ideal, as long as there is no direct sunlight. While sunlight is important for plants, too much sunlight can burn or wilt the leaves., Because there is so little water in the cup, it will grow murky and stale quickly. You will need to pour out the old water and fill the cup with fresh water every day until the roots develop. This will take one to two weeks.
 When the roots are about 1 to 2 inches long, take the cutting out of the water and plant it in a small pot filled with good-quality soil. Make sure that the soil is damp but not soggy. Keep the pot in a bright window, but out of direct sunlight. The pot must have a drainage hole at the bottom.


Consider dipping the roots in rooting hormone to encourage root development before planting it in the soil.
 Once the cutting is large and strong enough, you can choose to transfer the plant to a larger pot or your garden. Keep in mind, however, that catmint is an invasive plant. If you choose to plant it in your garden, make sure that you surround it with a brick, plastic, or wood border so that it does not spread over your entire garden.


While not as attractive to cats as catnip, catmint still attracts cats. If you dislike cats rolling over your plants, you may have to protect your catmint by rolling chicken wire over it.

