 Look for the Bucket Fill tool in your Tools panel. Click and hold until tool options appear. Select "gradient," then click on the gradient bar at the top. Adjust the hues and values as desired. Select an area using the Lasso or Magic Wand tools, then apply the gradient by clicking and dragging. The result is a smooth transition between two colors.
 Make a copy of the layer or area you're trying to adjust. Past it on a new layer above the original. Select an eraser tool with soft, diluted edges and a soft opacity blend between 5 and 20%. Gradually erase the top layer until you've achieved the desired effect.
 If you have two or more layers you'd like to overlap, adjust the opacity slider above each layer name. This controls how transparent each layer is.
 Choose a brush and find the tablet options in the brush settings panel. Enable "transfer" and set the brush to adjust opacity depending on the pressure you apply to your tablet. You can use this with any shape and type of brush, but there are great custom options from online brush makers that provide a milky or oily feel.


Once you've selected your transfer brush, just select the color you'd like to blend in and stroke lightly over the base image.
 Select the smudge tool in the Tools panel, represented by a finger icon. In your brush panel, select a soft, round smudge tool, and turn up scattering to about 20%. Smudge together colors near the border a painting-like transition.


You may need to play with the smudge strength value on the top bar to get the desired effect.
 Place one color over the other, on two layers. Click the New Layer Mask button in the Layers panel, next to the top layer. Select the mask and apply a white to black gradient within the mask. The 100% black area will display only the lower layer, and the 100% white area will display only the upper layer.
 Select the border area you'd like to blend. Navigate to Filter → Blue → Gaussian blur on the top menu. Adjust the slider to taste. To repeat this, select additional areas with the Lasso tool, then press Ctrl+F to apply the same filter.


Use command+F instead on a Mac.
 If you are using vector graphics, create two vector shapes of different colors. Alter the properties to add a feather radius. The shapes will blur along the edges, blending wherever they are near each other. Increase the feather radius value for a greater effect.
 Select the Mixer Brush from the Tools panel, represented by a paintbrush and drop of paint. (In some versions, you may need to hold down the Brush icon to reveal this option.) Visit the Brush settings menu to check out several new options. Each of these will imitate a painter's techniques, such as dragging two colors of wet paint together.

