 Creative, or expressive, therapies are a group of therapies that focus on music, art, and dance to help you work through life issues and manage your depression.Take some time to find out what creative therapy options might work best for you and be available to you.


Visit the International Expressive Arts Therapy Association or the National Coalition of Creative Arts Therapy at to more about creative therapies.
Find out more about creative therapies by talking to your mental health provider. You might say, “Could you tell me more about creative or expressive therapies and how they might help me?”
Ask for a reference to a therapist that practices creative therapy if your mental health provider doesn’t. You could ask, “Could you provide me with a reference to a respected creative therapist?”;
, This form of creative therapy works by allowing you to express yourself, stimulate your senses, communicate in ways other than talking, and more. It’s a great way to exercise your creativity and a number of studies have found it to be an effective way to relieve depression.You might enjoy and benefit from art therapy if you enjoy drawing, sketching, painting, sculpting, etc.
You can get more information about art therapy at the American Art Therapy Association webpage.
 Similar to art therapy, music therapy gives you the opportunity to use creativity to relieve your depression. Music therapy, as the name suggests, uses sound, music, and musical instruments to help you express yourself and address any underlying issues you may have.If you already play an instrument or have musical talent, this form of expressive therapy might be a good choice for you.
Visit the American Music Therapy Association webpage to more about music therapy as an option for you.
 With this form of expressive therapy, you use movement and dance (with or without music) to express yourself.Not only are helping to relieve your depression through the therapeutic part of this form of creative therapy, you are also being active which improves your health.


Consult with your healthcare provider before beginning a dance or movement therapy program. You could say, “I’m interested in dance therapy. Do I have any physical reasons why this isn’t a good idea?”
Find more information about this form of therapy at the American Dance Therapy Association webpage.

