 This pattern looks great with alternating colors, so choose your favorites. You can also make a fishtail using more than 2 colors if you'd like. Since this is a tighter pattern, you'll need about 50 bands total.
 Hold the pencils together so that the eraser ends are facing up. Now take your first rubber band and twist it around the pencils so that it makes a figure 8 around them, with one loop around each pencil. Scoot the figure 8 down the pencils a little to make sure it won't slip off.
 This time, don't twist them — simply slide them over both pencils. You should end up with a little stack: first comes the twisted band, then a couple more bands that are slipped over both pencils.


Remember to alternate your colors. The third band should be the same color as the first one, with an alternating color in between.
 Start by holding the pencils so that they're facing you. Now use your fingernails to grasp the right loop of the first band (the twisted one). Pull it up over the other bands and over the tip of the pencil, then let it drop in between the pencils. Now do the same with the left loop of the first band: grasp it with your fingers, pull it up over the other bands and the tip of the pencil, then let it drop in between the pencils., Don't twist it, just slip it around both pencils and scoot it down so that it's resting on top of the last band. Make sure to use your contrasting color.
 Hold the pencils to that they're facing you. Now use your fingernails to grasp the right loop of the lowest band. Pull it up over the other bands and over the tip of the pencil, then let it drop in between the pencils. Now do the same with the left loop of the lowest band: grasp it with your fingers, pull it up over the other bands and the tip of the pencil, then let it drop in between the pencils.
 Keep adding a band to the top and bringing in the loops of the lowest band. Each time you do this, another segment of the bracelet will form. Keep going until the fishtail is as long as you want it to be.


To figure out when it's long enough to make a bracelet, wrap the fishtail around your wrist. It's ready when the two ends are long enough to meet.
You can also stop after just a few segments if you want a fishtail ring.
 When it's as long as you want it, carefully slip the final loops off of the pencils. Use a C-clip to hold all of the loose loops together. Finally, pull up the first loop from the beginning of the bracelet and connect it to the other end by slipping it into the C-clip. Your bracelet is complete.


If you want the bracelet to be longer, just loop the last few bands back over the pencils. Keep adding bands and bringing in the bottom loops until it's long enough, then fasten the ends together with the C-clip.
If it's too long, you can just pull out the last few bands until it's the right length, then fasten the ends with the C-clip.

