 Don't be mean and shout it at them, but explain you want to do some serious cleaning and wish to not be disturbed as it may affect your cleaning progress.;
, Any music will do as long as you like it! Put the music on quite loud so you don't get distracted by any street noise.
 Get some air in your room. This will give you a nice breezy, feeling as you work, and you'll have more energy overall.
 This is essential. Put on some new covers if you want. A new bed cover can really brighten a room and personalize it! If you'd rather not change the covers, it's alright to do it another, but make sure you have it made and looking nice with a fresh pillowcase and a couple of stuffed animals if you'd like.
 Put everything that's on the floor onto your bed, apart from furniture... that can stay where it is. This way, you won't be able to sleep in your bed at night with all the clutter on top. You'll be forced to get it all done.
 The floor is now clear of all your junk, making it a good time to get rid of all those bits of dust and gravel you keep stepping on.
 Use it as a time to grab a drink and eat something if you're hungry. Being dehydrated isn't fun... especially when you're tasked with the mundane chore of cleaning. If you want, take a water bottle to your room so you can drink as you go. Don't drink too much though or you'll end up spending more time on the john than cleaning your room!

, Put clothes away in drawers and on closet hangers. Put items away in a place where similar things would be found (eg. Books in a bookshelf, cosmetics/perfumes on a dressing table etc.) Remember that if you don't clean it all up you'll be forced to sleep on the floor. An excellent motivator for the lazy.
 When you finish the cleaning overhaul, leave your room for that day. Completely de-cluttering your room is certainly enough for one day- trying to organize it as well is overkill and will leave you despising cleaning. Try organizing you room about 2-3 days later, so you are still in the cleaning mood but not dreadful of any five-letter word starting with 'c.'


Find extra shoeboxes laying around, label them, and use them as handy stackable organizers. Very cheap and easy to find space for.






Clear out your extra drawers and re-arrange the items inside. With some clever placing, you can end up with double the space for things to go inside.






Display objects on dresser tops or bulletin boards. This saves space inside drawers or cabinets, and gives your room a personal touch by putting on display items you love and cherish. A bonus if you want to change the way your room looks and clean it at the same time.
 You deserve to relax after working hard, pushing off your laziness, and cleaning up your room! Now, the mundane task of making sure your room doesn't get messy again...

