 Invite them to dinner to discuss the options. Consider your budgets and the grandchildren’s interests and ages. (If you live far away, get everyone on a conference call or use Skype.) Budgetary concerns to address include:


The amount of money the parents can contribute towards expenses.
The amount of money you can contribute towards expenses, including airfare, if needed.
The amount of spending money that can be allotted for each grandchild.;
, If you have more than one grandchild, try to accommodate the desires of each grandchild. This can be a little tricky, but you may be able to work out a plan that will ensure no one gets disappointed. If one grandchild wants to go camping and another one wants to visit a city, try to reach a compromise. Suggest a weekend camping trip and a weekend in the city. Perhaps one grandchild wants to go to the mountains, and another grandchild wants to go swimming at a beach. Try to combine the essence of each wish and plan a vacation destination to a mountain area that also has a lake for swimming. If you can’t reach a consensus, you may have to resort to drawing straws or flipping a coin. If finances are tight, honestly explain to your grandchildren the amount of money you can realistically spend on your shared vacation.
 Even if you want to provide an educational trip to a national monument or park for your grandchildren, be open to their wishes. The goal is to spend time together and have fun. If they think the perfect vacation is a week at a theme park, be willing to go along with it. Keep in mind that it is just one week for you; it’s a lifetime fond memory for them.
 You will be the temporary legal guardian when your grandchildren are with you, so be sure you have all the legal documentation you might need:


A notarized letter from the parents that gives permission for emergency medical treatment.
Copies of the grandchildren’s medical, dental and prescription insurance cards.
Certified copies of their birth certificates or their passports. If you plan to travel with your grandchildren in North America, and they are under the age of 15, you will have to have certified copies of their birth certificates. If you plan to travel internationally, your grandchildren will need passports, no matter what their ages. (Remind the parents that they should allow at least 6 weeks to apply for and to obtain any needed passports.)

, Planning a trip can be a lot of fun, but if you find it stressful or confusing, let a travel expert well versed in multigenerational vacations plan the trip for you. All the details will be taken care of beforehand, leaving you that much more time to enjoy your grandchildren.

