 Although it’s not commonly thought of as a physical activity, household cleaning is a great way to pass your leisure time, and to avoid succumbing to a sedentary afternoon or evening. Focus on more physically demanding aspects of cleaning: vacuuming, sweeping, scrubbing out sinks and bathtubs, and washing dishes by hand.Cleaning daily is an effective form of activity, as it involves plenty of physical activity: lifting, bending, stretching, and repeated physical motions can raise your heart rate and improve your health.;
, Rather than paying someone else to rake your leaves, pull weeds, trim hedges, and mow your lawn, take care of these activities yourself. Although yardwork is typically thought of as a chore, it can be a great way to spend time outside doing physically taxing activities.If you have a garden—or would like to start one—it is a great opportunity to spend your leisure time in a physically active way. Plant vegetables and flowers that will grow well in your area, and tend and water the plants daily.
Sweeping is one of the best ab workouts you can get. Sweep your front steps, walkways or driveway for a great workout.
 If you don’t often visit a gym because of the financial or time commitment involved, plan to work out at your home, during leisure time, instead. If you don’t already own any weights, dumbbells, or exercise equipment (such as a treadmill or exercise ball), then you might begin by making a small investment in the equipment you’ll be most likely to use.Keep in mind that weights and equipment are not necessary to be more active and get good exercise.
 Especially if you live with your family or with a roommate, incorporate an activity with them into your leisure time. Look for an activity that your family members can all participate in together, such as a family swimming, aerobics, mini golf, bowling, or yoga class.Ask your roommate or a small group of friends to take up an active hobby with you, such as playing tennis or jogging.
If you have children, consider taking them on a “family walk” following your evening meal. You can walk around the streets of your neighborhood, even for as little as half an hour. If the kids would prefer, they can ride bikes instead of walking.