 You can’t have your best day if you’re tired and irritable, so you want to be well-rested. You may want to get into bed early in case you have trouble falling asleep.Children between the ages of 6 and 13 should aim for 9 to 11 hours of sleep.Teenagers typically need between 8 and 10 hours of sleep.Adults usually require 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night.To ensure some quality sleep, try lowering your lights about two hours before you plan to go to bed to get your body ready for rest.You may want to stop watching TV or playing around online approximately an hour before you plan to go to sleep to give your brain time to calm down.;
, The earlier that you start your day, the more time that you have to make it positive and happy. Even getting up 10 or 15 minutes earlier may give you more time in the morning, so you don't feel as rushed or stressed as you begin the day.If you have trouble getting out of bed in the morning, try setting your alarm 10 minutes before you actually want to get up. That will give you a little time to lie in bed and let your mind and body get ready to face the day.
 It may sound silly, but taking a few minutes to picture the good things that you hope will happen during the day in your head can help improve your mood and get you started on the right foot. You can do it before you get out of bed or in a comfortable chair where you can close your eyes and allow the vision to come together. Be as detailed as possible, and keep your thoughts positive.You start your visualization with something as basic as how delicious your breakfast will be and move onto what route you'll take to work or school, how well the presentation you have scheduled will go until you reach the end of your day.
While you're visualizing your day, feel free to imagine even further into the future to the rest of the week, month, or even year. That will help establish a lasting sense of positivity for your life.
Listening to your favorite inspirational song as you visualize your day may help really bring the image to life., They say breakfast is the most important meal of the day, and if you want to ensure that you have your best day ever you need proper fuel. A healthy breakfast should be well-balanced, and may contain fruits and vegetables, whole grains, lean protein, and/or low-fat dairy. Start your day off right by having a tasty, nutritious breakfast. If you’re worried about not having enough time to prepare your breakfast in the morning, you might want to make it the night before.
Some breakfast options you might consider include an egg white omelet with veggies, a fruit smoothie with yogurt and wheat germ, oatmeal with nuts and cranberries, whole wheat waffles with peanut butter, multigrain pancakes with fruit and yogurt, and a tortilla with eggs, salsa, veggies, and low-fat cheese., We all know that exercise is good for us for a variety of health reasons, but it can also improve your mood. That’s because it releases endorphins, which are neurochemicals that serve as natural painkillers and can bring about feelings of euphoria and well-being. If you want to have your best day ever, it helps to start with an endorphin rush. Aim for at least 10 to 30 minutes of exercise for the biggest mood boost.Running is usually the best workout when you’re trying for an endorphin rush, but a brisk walk or bike ride is a good alternative if you’re not a runner. Weight training also works well when you’re looking to release endorphins., In many cases, if you look good, you’ll feel good, so if you want to have your best day ever, you may want to consider your appearance. Wear your favorite shirt, do your hair in your favorite style, or take the time to do your makeup -- whatever makes you feel most confident about the way you look.