 Your skin is covered in a layer of dead skin, oil, and good bacteria that help prevent harmful things from entering your body. Showering washes this layer away.Clean skin is important for good hygiene, but washing too frequently is unnecessary, and can make it more difficult for your skin to protect your body from contaminants and infections.


Generally, people don’t need to shower more than every other day or every three days.You may want to consider showering more often if you work with the public or the infirm, take public transit daily, or have a physical job that requires exertion.;
, Bathing in hot water and for too long strips helpful and necessary oils from your skin,and it can aggravate certain skin conditions like rosacea and eczema., Just like hot water, strong soaps will remove oil from your skin and leave you feeling tight and dry.When you do bathe, choose mild soaps or cleansers that don’t contain artificial fragrances. Look for soaps that:


Contain soothing and moisturizing ingredients like aloe, witch hazel, and vegetable oils, and herbs or botanicals such as chamomile, lavender, rosemary, and peppermint.Don't contain sodium lauryl sulfate or alcohol, which can both dry out your skin.Match your skin type. For instance, if you have dry skin, look for moisturizing soaps. For sensitive skin, look for fragrance-free and hypoallergenic soap.
Clean your skin without stripping away skin and oil., Instead of rubbing dry with a towel when you’ve finished bathing, gently pat your skin with a towel and let the remaining moisture air dry.This will ensure you leave a layer of oil on your skin that will help keep in moisture and prevent dryness.
 This will remove the top layer of dead skin, and reveal the fresh, new, radiant skin below, giving your skin a healthy, glowing appearance. Avoid using acids, such as lemon or tomato juice, on your skin and especially your face. They can strip away your skin’s natural oils, and make you more sensitive to the sun.


Regular cleansing, exfoliation, and moisturizing can help prevent breakouts and blemishes, and keep your skin looking young and healthy.
For dry skin, look for an exfoliating product that has no additional cleansing agents (or very mild ones) and a moisturizer. For oily skin, choose a balancing exfoliating product that also offers deep scrubbing., Along with keeping moisture against the skin, which keeps it from drying out, moisturizers also protect the skin and improve its tone and texture.Consider using a moisturizer that has an SPF rating for some additional sun-protection.


As an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory, olive oil can also be applied topically to the skin as a natural moisturizer. Sweet almond, coconut, and jojoba also work as moisturizers, as do Shea and cocoa butter. You can use these products on their own, or look for moisturizers that contain them.
Look for lotions or gels instead of creams if you have oily skin, but opt for creams if you have dry skin.
For acne-prone skin, look for moisturizers that contain salicylic acid. But if you have sensitive skin, look for calming ingredients like green tea, vitamin C, and aloe., Eating foods that come in all the colors of the rainbow ensures that you’ll get the nutrients, vitamins, and minerals that are vital for good health. Fruits and vegetables will help promote healthy skin because they promote a healthy body. Eating a diet that’s rich in these foods can lead to a lower risk of heart disease, stroke, and high blood pressure, can regulate blood sugar and weight, and aid with digestion.Eat dark, leafy green vegetables.
Eat brightly colored foods that are orange, blue, yellow, red, and purple.
Tomatoes, for instance, are great for the skin because eating them can help protect it from sun damage, make your skin smoother, and boost collagen.
 Foods rich in antioxidants, selenium, coenzyme Q10, and flavonoids all promote healthy bodies and radiant skin. Antioxidants and selenium prevent damage done by free radicals, which are thought to contribute to wrinkles, tissue damage, and dry skin.Coenzyme Q10 is an antioxidant produced by your body. Flavonoids are the by-product of plant growth, and have both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.


Foods that are high in antioxidants include whole grains,berries, apricots, beets, squash and sweet potatoes, tangerines, beans,and olive oil.
Foods that contain selenium include whole-wheat pasta, Brazil nuts, button mushrooms, beef and turkey, oysters, shrimp and crab, snapper and cod, and some other fish.Coenzyme Q10 can be found in whole grains, fish, organ meats, and soybean, canola, and sesame oils.Flavonoids can be found in things like dark chocolate and green tea., Vitamin C can boost the collagen and elastin in your skin, and these proteins prevent wrinkles, lines, and sagging.Vitamin A helps keep your skin fresh and glowing by preventing dryness, reducing dark spots, and smoothing wrinkles. Vitamin E is an antioxidant that fights the damage done by free radicals.Foods rich in vitamin C include peppers, citrus fruits, dark green vegetables, papaya, and kiwi.You can also try strawberries, pumpkin, and pomegranate for high doses of this wrinkle-fighting vitamin.Foods packed with vitamin A include dark leafy greens, oranges, carrots, cantaloupe, and eggs.
Vitamin E can be found in nuts and seeds, olives, dark leafy greens, and vegetable oils., Fats are necessary for healthy skin, especially omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. These fatty acids keep skin bright and moisturized, and prevent dryness and blemishes.Good sources of these essential fatty acids include:


WalnutsOlive and canola oil
Flaxseeds
Sardines, mackerel, and salmon

, The skin, like every part of the body, needs proper hydration to function optimally. Sufficient hydration can prevent dryness and flakiness, which will prevent wrinklingand make lines less noticeable.


The traditional guideline for water consumption is eight cups (one cup is equal to eight ounces, or 235 ml) per day. However, fruits and vegetables contain water, so eating them counts toward your daily hydration.The best rule of thumb is to listen to your body about water consumption, so if you’re thirsty, drink up!

, Sugar in your diet can lead to wrinkles and sagging skin. Sugar molecules attach themselves to protein molecules, and when this happens it can damage collagen and elastin.While there are many foods that are good for you—such as fruit—that contain sugar, watch for added sugar in processed and pre-made foods.
 This is essential for healthy lungs, your cardiovascular system, and your body as a whole, including your skin. Exercise helps your skin because it improves circulation, increases the flow of nutrients to the skin, and removes dirt from the skin’s surface. Furthermore, it may also slow the skin’s aging process.Be sure to rehydrate your body after a good workout.
 Stress can wreak havoc on your skin and body as well as your mind, and the hormones your body releases in response to stress can exacerbate things like acne, psoriasis, rosacea, and eczema.Furthermore, stress can increase healing time in your body, so breakouts will take longer to go away.Yoga and meditation can be beneficial for your skin because they are both stress-relieving activities.
 Smoking, like stress, has a negative impact on your health, skin, and appearance. Smoking decreases blood flow, which is necessary for healthy skin. It also damages collagen and elastin, while the physical motions associated with smoking lead to wrinkles around the mouth and eyes., Sleep is important for many reasons, and healthy skin is just one of them. For one, when we sleep, our bodies secrete certain growth hormones, and this leads to collagen production., While a minimal amount of UV exposure is necessary for vitamin D production (20 minutes is enough for most people ), too much sun can damage your skin and lead to skin cancer. Furthermore, sun damage also causes the signs of premature aging, including freckles, age spots, and wrinkles, and it destroys collagen and elastin.Avoid the sun when it’s strongest, which is generally between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.Seek shade any time you find yourself out in the sun.
Wear a broad spectrum sunscreen with an SPF between 30 and 50 all year round. Choose cosmetics and moisturizers with an SPF as well.
Wear protective clothing that has a UPF (ultra-violet protection factor) rating. Wear long-sleeved shirts with high collars, pants, and wide-brimmed hats.
 Skin cancer is the abnormal growth of skin cells caused by DNA mutations, and the primary cause of these mutations is UV exposure. If you notice irregular changes in your skin or notice moles that weren't there before, talk to you doctor immediately. The most common signs to look for that indicate cancer or precancerous cells are:Moles that have irregular borders or asymmetrical features, have more than one color, or change over time.
Sores and lumps that are not caused by bites, scrapes, scratches, or bumps.
Blemishes, markings, or changes in the appearance or texture of your skin.
 It's important to be aware of things that irritate your skin, allergens, and other sensitivities so that you can distinguish between a regular reaction to something versus a skin change or condition that requires the attention of a doctor or dermatologist. There are many issues that can plague the skin, and you should seek medical attention if you notice symptoms including:Unexplained hives, blisters, rashes, or scaling
Weeping or oozing sores or pustules
Chronic inflammation, redness, itching, or discoloration
Moles, bumps, or scaly tumors (warts) that won't go away

, Using too many anti-aging products can actually over-stress your skin, making it look even older. No one product can fight wrinkles, dark spots, and tightness all by itself, so don't try and tackle them all at once. Pick the issue you most want to handle and focus your time and money on that -- you'll get the best results.If a product irritates your skin, stop using it.
Skin ages naturally, and you cannot stop this process with every cream and technique in the world. Instead, focus on keeping your skin healthy -- it will look young as a result.
 Daily moisturizing is one of the keys to healthy skin at any age, but it becomes even more important as you age. Your skin will naturally dry out over time, but you can keep it healthy by using a well-formulated moisturizer each day to keep your skin young and supple. No one product works for everyone, so get one that sounds appropriate for you.


Get a moisturizer with SPF 15-30 to help protect your skin against UV light for the best results.There are specially formulated moisturizers for dry, oily, sensitive, wrinkled, and many more types of skin. Getting one that feels right for your skin will help get the best results the fastest., The more vitamins and minerals you can get from your diet, the better. This only becomes more important as you age. However, you should consider taking a supplement as well if you are worried that you aren't getting enough skin-healthy nutrients. Good foods to aim for include:


Leafy greens, like spinach and lettuce.
Fish, especially those high in Omega-3's (salmon, freshwater white fish, etc.)
Berries, which are generally high in anti-oxidants., Anti-oxidants help prevent "free radicals" from damaging your skin's DNA. Luckily, anti-oxidants are made up of natural vitamins and minerals and are found abundantly in nature. While a diet high in antioxidants is important, you can also apply some it topically, right to your skin, for great skin health:


Acai oil
Green tea extract
Retinol, These products are considered great, safe ways to exfoliate your skin, remove unsightly dark spots dead skin, and help your skin stay young. Look for creams with a 5-10% concentration of one of the three following products, using once a day and gradually upping the frequency if it is comfortable:


Alpha-hydroxy acid
Salicylic acid
Hyaluronic acid, Many skin-care products claim they can "completely erase wrinkles" or turn back the clock twenty years on your skin. If these products really delivered on those promises, however, you would never see another wrinkle again. Keep your expectations low -- your goal should be healthy, happy skin, not the same skin you had when you were thirty.Even claims like "clinically proven" are actually baseless -- "clinically proven" just means that consumers were allowed to try the product before it was sold., As you age, taking care of your skin becomes just as important. Your skin care habits don't need to change radically as you get older. Remain vigilant about sunscreen, drink plenty of water each day, eat a healthy diet, and get plenty of sleep. If you keep these habits throughout your life your skin will remain vibrant and youthful.