 Before you even begin training your dogs, you’re going to have to adopt them. However, when you adopt them, make sure to house them separately. This way, you'll be able to train them and incorporate them into your pack individually.


The best way is to adopt one dog at a time.
Make sure each dog gets love and attention while they are isolated from each other.
Make sure the period of isolation is not too long. Isolation should not occur for more than a couple weeks at the very most.
Never conduct total isolation. While you may be isolating your dog from other dogs, do not isolate him or her from people.;
, The first step in training a calm and submissive pack is to begin one dog at a time and assert your dominance as pack leader. Beginning with one dog will enable you to master your relationship with that dog and to build a relationship in which you are the dominant party.


Always talk to your dog in a commanding tone.
Always keep calm (but be assertive) when you are training individual dogs.
Always have direct eye contact with your dogs.
Stand tall over your dogs.
Avoid trying to train multiple dogs at one time, since they might try to establish themselves as pack leader or build a hierarchy that undermines your position., During and after you’ve established dominance, you need to begin to train your dogs with verbal commands. Verbal commands are an extremely important tool in your arsenal of creating a calm and submissive pack.


Master commands such as “sit,” “down,” and “no.”
Move on to more complex commands such as “roll over”,” “run,” and “play dead.”
Make sure your dog can understand verbal rewards and positive reinforcement such as “good boy” or “good girl.”, After you’ve begun building a relationship with an individual dog based on you being the pack leader, you should quickly begin to set boundaries. Setting boundaries will help create a calm and submissive pack.


Perhaps the most important boundary is the way you act. If you act calm and are assertive, your dog and your larger pack should be calm and submissive. They should emulate the way you behave.
One important boundary is that you should always lead and/or walk first. Your dog should never go in front of you.
As pack leader, the space around your pack is yours, not that of any individual dog.
Make sure your dogs respect your personal space, too. Jumping up on you, sitting on you, or getting in your face are signs that they do not recognize you as pack leader and do not recognize the boundaries you are trying to establish.
Your dogs need to be able to read your body language in addition to understanding your verbal commands. They should be able to understand if you are unhappy that they are violating the boundaries you have established., Communication is key in creating a calm and submissive pack. As a result, you need to be able to master the art of communication with individual dogs and the pack as a whole. Make sure to:


Teach your dogs a wide array of verbal commands that they can take. Make sure they obey commands as "sit" or "stay" as a pack.
Know how to signal to your dogs non-verbally.
Listen and watch your dogs. Often, your dogs will communicate with you both verbally and nonverbally as well. Looking for their communication is almost as important as your way of communicating with them., Once you’ve trained each dog individually, you need to start integrating the individuals into your pack. As pack leader, you are the core of the pack. Making sure you integrate one dog at a time is a sure fire way to maintain your dominance.


Integration should be a positive and calm event. Dogs should not freak out or growl at each other. If you’ve done your job and have established yourself as pack leader, it should go without a hitch.
Once each dog has been trained individually, progress to training two dogs together as a pack.
Once this has been mastered, continue adding dogs to training sessions until all are calm and submissive together.
If you have any potentially problematic dogs, integrate them last. You don’t want them setting the tone for the entire group.
 A very important part of training and maintaining a calm and submissive dog pack is knowing your pack. If you don’t know your pack and the specific personalities of each dog, you won’t be able to manage your pack and exert your dominance as alpha.


Observe your pack and see how they interact. You could write this in a list, too: Sawyer see another dog, begins to get aggressive; Huck then jumps the fence; Bella barks continuously.
Situations can escalate because each dog prompts bad behaviors in the others.
Spend time with each dog individually to get an idea of each dog’s personality.
Think about your dogs not just as a pack, but as individuals within a group. , Rewarding good behavior is essential in creating a calm and submissive pack. If you don’t reward your pack, then your dogs will be confused about what is acceptable and unacceptable behavior. They also won’t try as hard to please you, as alpha.


Reward your dogs with treats and food.
Reward your dogs verbally. Say things like “good boy” or “good girl.”
Reward your dogs physically. After your dogs do something good, tell them they are “good” and then pet them or pat them.
Positive reinforcement is much more effective than negative reinforcement., After you’ve asserted your dominance and established yourself as alpha, you should begin to create a hierarchy in your pack. Use your dominance to create hierarchy. A hierarchy will help you maintain a calm and submissive pack.


Establishing hierarchy does not involve specific training, but results from the way you treat your dogs and from natural dynamics within the pack.
Feeding dogs in order is a good way to establish hierarchy.
Allow your lead dog to walk first or ahead of other dogs.
Praise your lead dog first.
Make sure that the dogs you pick to be higher in the pack are the dogs that respect your authority the most and are very good at taking commands and following your example., The best way to troubleshoot issues is to spend some time observing the pack interact and taking direction from you. After you’ve observed your dogs for a while, you’ll have a good idea of problems and what needs to be done to improve your pack and make it more submissive and calm.


Notice first what "problems" each specific dog has and make a written list with the worst problem at the top of the list.
The list might say Sawyer is aggressive towards other dogs, Huck jumps fences, Bella barks all the time, and so on.
If you notice that the pack has problems that stem from how the dogs interact with each other, the issue may be that you’re not exerting yourself as alpha well enough. Spend more time working with each dog and asserting your dominance., Pick the problem that begins the situation and address it first. Targeting a specific problem instead of targeting a specific dog or the pack in general is usually the best way to trouble shoot problems in a pack.


If the problem is an individual dog’s actions, target that dog for retraining. So, if Sawyer is aggressive towards other dogs and that is what creates a pack situation, start by training him not to be aggressive through one-on-one training.
If the problem is the way two dogs interact, work with each dog individually, then work with them as a team.
If one problem is potentially dangerous to another human or animal, always address it first., If one of your dog still tries to exert its role as alpha after you’ve integrated him or her into the pack, you need to remove and retrain that dog. This way, when you are successful in retraining the dog, he or she can be reintegrated into the group.


Remove the dog and devote time to training the problem dog.
Focus on setting boundaries that your dog respects. If your dog respects your boundaries, your dog will respect your role as alpha.
Your goal will be to assert your dominance., When an individual dog does something wrong or behaves poorly, reprimand that individual dog. If you reprimand the pack, the dogs who are behaving appropriately may be confused about what they did wrong. As a result, always work with the problem dog to correct his or her behavior.


Make sure to deal with problems quickly when they happen. In most cases, dogs have short memories. Issues need to be dealt with quickly.
Reprimand verbally with commands like "no" or "bad."
Never strike your dog.
Use your hands, but not with anger. Use your hands and body to instruct the dog, not to punish him or her. For example, use your hands to guide your dogs in a certain action or direction. But remember, always move your hands slowly.