 Whatever object you use will occupy the attention of the person you are stalling time with.Pick something eye-catching, colorful, but easy to handle and appropriate for your situation. For example, if you are in a basketball game, you only will be able to use the ball. But if you are in another practical situation you can use something for your subject to focus on instead of the time.
You can try items like bright clothing, dangling metal objects like jewelry, stationery, noisemakers, anything that will re-focus your subject's attention.;
, For some situations, you may need to swap in an equal object to delay attention.


First make sure you have an identical replacement for whatever you are swapping out. For example, if you are trying to stall on cleaning up from a broken vase, you should have the replacement vase ready to be put in place.
Be as exact as you can with matching the make, model, size, color of the replacement so as not to arouse extra attention.
Look around the location you need to replace the object and ensure that you can do the replacement without disturbing the surrounding area.
 This is for situations where you need to come up with a prop-based stall more quickly, and most likely need to use an object on-hand.Estimate the size, color, and shape of the prop you are using to stall with.
If this is a replacement situation, it just needs to pass a "quick glance" until you've bought yourself enough time. But the object should still approximate the replacement. For example, if you are stalling by temporarily replacing a personalized black coffee mug--at least use a similar sized generic black coffee mug in the meantime.
If this is a distraction situation, then you need to use something simple, but attention-getting. Toying with a ball, accessories, even blowing bubbles with chewing gum could temporarily redirect your subject's attention.
 This is a different way of getting attention in that it will get the subject to be entertained by the replacement prop instead of being focused on the time.If this is a replacement situation, then you should expect that you may "tip-off" your subject that something is amiss since the substitute is likely not going to match the original. But since it's a superior object, it may overwhelm the sense of loss. For example, if you lost someone's favorite DVD, but get them the Blu-Ray version of the same movie, they may delay in blaming you for the loss.
If this is a distraction situation, you should consider an elaborate set of props for distraction that include lights, sound, moving objects, perhaps an interactive component like a selection screen for your subject to focus their mind and motor skills completely instead of on the passage of time. Video games are an excellent way to do this.
 You can mix and match the equal, lesser, and superior substitutes as you see fit for the situation.


The more distracted your subject is the less they will pay attention to the passage of time, and the more successful your stall will be.
Mix simple and complex props that stimulate vision and hearing senses--these are going to be the simplest senses to access.
If you can arrange a tactile (touch-based) prop for stalling, do so--it will help consume your subject's attention.

