 Open up to your parents about who you are. Find a time that is less stressful for them and you. Consider finding a way to make it a private conversation away from your other family members.


Having a one-on-one conversation that is deeper and more meaningful may help you to trust them and to feel loved by them.
Consider timing. Identify times in the evenings or on the weekends when you and your parents may have more time to really talk about what's on your mind.
Avoid giving up on them if a calm and loving conversation doesn't go as smoothly as you had hoped the first time.
 Be assertive about who you are. Be confident about what matters most to you in life. Express what you love. Express what bothers you. Avoid dismissing your feelings or repressing them because your parents may have a different view.When you're feeling down or struggling with something, be willing to ask for help. Ask them to provide reassurance.
You may need to state it outright, rather than assuming they'll "know" what to do. For example, let's say you're having a difficult time with your friend, you could state to your parents that you're going through a difficult time, and then say, "I could use some reassurance and support right now." While it may feel awkward at first, it will make clear what your needs are.
 When you feel yourself getting upset with your parents, avoid trying to confront them in anger. You cannot force someone to love you for who you are through your anger. If you are having difficulty talking to your parents without getting upset, then consider doing the following:Find a place that makes you feel calm. Try to remove your negative thinking about yourself and others in this space.
Take a deep breath. Use breathing exercises. Consider meditation or praying.
Focus your mind on letting go of hate, anger, and resentment. Focus instead on loving you. Write out your feelings in a journal. Consider using art such as drawing or painting as a way to release your frustrations.
Communicate with your parents when you are better able to share your feelings in a calm way.
 If your parents will not love and accept you for whatever reason, you can at least set boundaries about what is acceptable to say to you and how you expect them to treat you. Let them know what you will not accept in your relationship with them and what will happen if they violate your boundaries.


Use "I" language when communicating your boundaries. Using "you" language can cause people to become defensive and sounds blaming. Do not say, "You always tear down my accomplishments and my work. You're so unsupportive and such a bully!"
Instead, you might say, "Mom, I know you don't agree with my chosen profession, but I feel hurt when you say it isn't a respectable career. From now on please keep your comments about my job to yourself. If you continue, I'm going to stop coming to Sunday dinners."

, While your parents may have certain expectations of who you should be, and what you should become, help them to remember each person has their own interests, preferences, and identity. This may be very difficult for some parents to accept, but it is important to express how you are your own person.


Tell them that you will treat their interests, preferences, and beliefs with respect, and that you hope they will do the same. Stay true to your word, and show them that you can respect their differences.
Recognize that your parents may have certain backgrounds or values that reflect how they act and what they say.
Think about what matters to you. If you are seeking their love and respect, then tell them, "Despite our differences, I hope that you can love and respect me."

