 You can't hook up with her if you don't ask her out, can you? Tell the girl that you've had a great time talking to her and ask her if she wants to pick up the conversation over drinks and dinner some time. Or if you're forward and met her out at a club or a bar, just ask her to come back home with you, but remember that this may make you look like a player if you're just getting to know each other. But if all you want to do is hook up, then hey--ask her to come over.


If you really like the girl, then you should take her on a few dates first before you try to really hook up with her.
 Once you've got her alone -- whether it's later that same night or after a few dates -- you should set the mood before you try anything so she's feeling more romantic. If she's going back to your place, make sure everything is clean, that the lights are relatively dim, and that you have some provisions -- wine, cheese, chocolate, or other sexy snacks.


Be an absolute gentleman when she comes over. Take off and hang up her coat and ask her if she'd like something to drink or eat.
 You don't have to go overboard. Just tell her she looks great that night, that you love her earrings, or just say that you like spending time with her. Make her feel special before you even make a move.


Don't be insincere. Tell her something nice that's actually true. She'll be able to tell if you're just buttering her up with compliments to try to get her to hook up.
 If she seems receptive and you're sitting next to her, then you can try some light touches before you start kissing her. Put your arm around her, place your hand on her knee, or even squeeze her hand to let her know that you're into her. You can even gently stroke her hair or put your arm around her waist if you're feeling more forward.


See how she responds. If she's comfortable with your touches, then she'll move closer to you, smile, and will start putting her hands on you too.
Once the light touches have done their trick, you can try to kiss her.

