 While some organizations such as the UN have broader missions, there also are smaller organizations that focus on specific human rights issues such as human trafficking.


For example, the Carter Center's Human Rights Program has been focused on the role of religion in advancing women's human rights. If you've witnessed a human rights violation that you believe falls within that focus, you might consider contacting the Carter Center or one of the activists working in its human rights program.Organizations that monitor human rights include nongovernmental organizations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. These organizations monitor, analyze, and research human rights in various areas and compile reports for individual governments and intergovernmental bodies to use.While nongovernmental organizations cannot enforce laws or punish those who violate laws, they can put pressure on governments to go after those who violate human rights or enact sanctions against countries with records of human rights abuses.Intergovernmental and governmental organizations can enforce human rights laws and international treaties, but their abilities and enforcement mechanisms may be limited. Many of these bodies such as the Human Rights Council engage in many of the same activities that the nongovernmental organizations.Human rights commissions such as the Commission for Human Rights of the Council of Europe are a third type of international human rights organization. These organizations typically are independent bodies affiliated with another international governing body that report to that body., Particularly if you intend to contact an international organization such as the UN, you must be able to point to the particular part of international law that is being violated.


Basic human rights that most all cultures agree upon are articulated in documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.The UN website for the Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights also has information on specific human rights treaties and reports on the performance of signatory countries under those treaties., When you write your report to the organization you've chosen, be sure to include all relevant information and as many details as possible.


At a minimum, your report should state all relevant facts in chronological order. Include dates, times, and places of all incidents, along with as many names as you can, both of victims and perpetrators. Include all the contact information you know along with your own.Basically, include anything and everything in your report that might help the organization investigate the report. Even if you think a detail is irrelevant, it could be what leads the investigator to find victims or perpetrators of human rights abuses and bring them to justice.
When you observe a possible human rights violation, write down as many details as possible while it's happening, including taking pictures, to establish a record you can later pass on to the appropriate organization., Most international organizations have an address or toll-free telephone number you can use to submit tips or more extensive reports about human rights violations.


Organizations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International all have telephone numbers and email addresses where you can send reports of human rights violations., If a representative of the organization contacts you, be prepared to provide additional details, documentation, or the names and contact information of possible witnesses.

