 New York residents who already have one of the following types of NYS licenses: Class D, Class E, or Non-CDL Class C are eligible to apply for a CDL.


Class D is an operator license for passenger cars and trucks with GVWR of 26,000 lbs or less. It covers vehicle tows when the other vehicle is 10,000 lbs or less. There is limited motorcycle coverage as well.
Class E is a livery license; it covers the same vehicles as class D, plus for hire vehicles that carry 14 passengers or less.
If you don’t already have any of the above licenses, you will need to get a regular Class D or E driver license from the New York DMV, or a CDL from another state, before you apply for a commercial license.Once you qualify for a CDL, you will need to surrender your regular driver license. You are only allowed to have one driver license of any kind at a time. Having more than one can result in fines or jail time.If you have a valid CDL from another state, you may apply for a New York CDL at a DMV office. You will need to surrender your current CDL to get a New York CDL. You will still need to provide fingerprints and pass a background check.There are additional requirements for driving hazardous materials vehicles. Check with the New York DMV for specifics.
You will not be eligible to apply for a CDL if you have any of the following on your driving record:

leaving the scene of an accident
violations involving alcohol and/or drugs
felonies involving a motor vehicle

;
, Not all large vehicles require a CDL. RVs, military vehicles, emergency vehicles, and farm vehicles are usually exempt from CDL requirements. Class A, Class B, and Class C vehicles require you to have a CDL before you may drive them.Class A vehicles have a gross combination weight rating of 26,0001 pounds, or a trailer with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 10,000+ pounds.Class B vehicles are single vehicles with a GVWR of 26,0001 or more pounds.
Class C vehicles are vehicles that are designed to transport at least 16 passengers. Buses and any vehicle that requires hazardous materials placards are also Class C.
 In agreement with Federal regulations, New York DMV has two categories for CDLs: Interstate Commerce and Intrastate Commerce. These categories help determine which type of CDL you are eligible for. Failure to correctly state which type of commerce you intend to drive could mean you lose your license.Interstate commerce means that you drive a Commercial Motor Vehicle (CMV) from one state to another state, or from one state into a foreign country.
Intrastate means that you will drive a CMV only within the state of New York.
If the cargo you’re driving began or will end its journey in another state or foreign country, you must select Interstate commerce.
 There are two statuses for CDL holders in New York: Excepted and Non-Excepted. Drivers who fall under the Excepted commerce category are exempt from needing a medical certification (see Step 4). Non-Excepted commerce drivers must provide a medical certification.Excepted (EI or EA) commerce categories are usually restricted to the transport of people and farm goods, such as farm machinery, supplies, and crops. A full list of the Excepted driving activities is available from the New York DMV here.
Non-Excepted (NI or NA) commerce categories include all other driving purposes than the ones listed under the Excepted category.
If you drive for both Excepted and Non-Excepted activities, you must select Non-Excepted.
 Federal regulations require all CDL holders who operate under the Non-Excepted commerce category to have a Medical Examiner’s Certificate.Talk with your physician to help you determine whether your health status is acceptable for a CDL.


There are certain restrictions placed on commercial drivers. You will need to disclose certain medical conditions, including:Seizures or epilepsy
Eye disorders or diseases (but not glasses or contact lenses)
Heart disease or heart attack
Lung, kidney, liver, or muscular disease
Fainting, dizziness, or loss of consciousness
Sleep disorders (e.g., narcolepsy)
Stroke or paralysis
Missing limbs
Alcohol, narcotic, or habit-forming drug use


Federal regulations require you to pass a physical examination every 2 years to maintain a commercial drivers license in New York. The physical examination will take into account your current health and prior medical history.
 This manual will help you prepare for the written knowledge test. You must pass this written test to receive your CDL learner’s permit. You can find the manual online at the New York DMV website, dmv.ny.gov,or you can get a copy from any New York DMV office.


You can also get a copy of the manual by calling a DMV Call Center. A list of DMV Call Center numbers is available on the New York DMV website.From area codes 212, 347, 646, 718, 917, and 929, call 1-212-645-5550 or 1-718-966-6155
From area codes 516, 631, 845, and 914, call 1-718-477-4820
From area codes 315, 518, 585, 607, and 716, call 1-518-486-9786
For assistance for the deaf, call 1-800-368-1186


If you already have a valid CDL from another state, you will not need to complete the written knowledge or road test. However, you will still need to provide a Medical Examiner’s Certificate, if applicable. You will also need to provide your fingerprints and pass a background check when required.
 You will only need to study the sections of the manual that apply to the type of CDL you’re applying for. You will take the written and skills test for the specific class and type of vehicle for which you want a CDL.The New York DMV offers CDL practice tests online. These tests may help you prepare for the written test, and you may take them an unlimited number of times., You must have a registered Medical Examiner certify your vision, hearing, blood pressure, and general physical condition before you can apply for a CDL or learner permit.Your healthcare provider may be on this registry, but you should double-check before scheduling a physical examination to make sure that your provider has a National Registry number. The New York DMV will reject certificates that don’t have a National Registry number.


Beginning on May 21, 2014, all USDOT Medical Examiner’s Certificates must be provided by an examiner on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners. You can find that registry here.
Check with your employer. Some employers may cover the fee associated with getting this certificate.
 You must pass the written test for the CDL you need in order to get a learner permit. In addition, you’ll need to bring several items with you to the DMV as proof of your identity.Bring your existing driver license and your Social Security Card for proof of identity. You must also bring 2 additional documents, such as utility bills or pay stubs, that display your full legal name.
Bring a total of $50 to pay fees. The application fee for the learner permit is $10. This fee allows you to take the written tests. The fee for the road test (skills test) is $40. You must pay this fee before you may schedule your road test. The DMV accepts cash, credit cards, and checks or money orders.

If you are transferring your license from out of state, you will need to bring a $10 application fee and a licensing fee. Licensing fees will vary depending on your age and commercial driving class.


Bring a completed Medical Certification Requirements for Commercial Drivers form (Form MC-31). You will also need to bring a Medical Examiner's Certificate that proves you are fit to drive a commercial vehicle. You must pass a physical examination every 2 years to maintain a commercial driver license in the state of New York.
 You must apply for the CDL learner permit (and the CDL) in person. Bring the identification and certification documents you collected in the previous step. You will need to pass the written test for the CDL you’re applying for before you get a learner permit.


You can find a list of New York DMV offices on their website. You can also call a DMV Call Center to find your closest office.

From area codes 212, 347, 646, 718, 917, and 929, call 1-212-645-5550 or 1-718-966-6155
From area codes 516, 631, 845, and 914, call 1-718-477-4820
From area codes 315, 518, 585, 607, and 716, call 1-518-486-9786
For assistance for the deaf, call 1-800-368-1186


Because of high demand, you should make an online reservation before visiting DMV offices in the following locations: New York City, Westchester, Nassau, Suffolk, Rockland, Onondaga or Albany Counties., You will be asked questions based on the information you reviewed in the commercial driver license manual. You must answer at least 80% of the questions on the written test correctly in order to pass the test and receive your learner permit.


All questions are multiple choice. You will need to give the correct answer from three possible choices.
You may not bring anything into the testing room except a #2 pencil. You must never bring a cell phone into the testing room.
If you fail the test, you cannot retake it the same day. However, you can retake the test as many times as you need to pass it. There may be a $5 fee to retake the test.
 You must practice with a person who is at least 21 years old, who has the same commercial driver license (and the same endorsements) as you’re applying for. If you have a family member or friend who is a licensed commercial driver in New York, ask to practice with them. There is no minimum hour requirement for driving practice in New York, but you should practice as much as possible to be confident on the road test.


If you have never held a commercial driver license before, the New York DMV strongly recommends that you find professional training before you apply for a CDL. To pass the required driving skills tests, you will need to have practice driving under various conditions. You will also need to know how to inspect commercial vehicles and attach and remove tractors and trailers.The New York DMV recommends the Professional Truck Driver Institute (PTDI) for training. Its courses meet industry and federal standards. Many commercial employers require drivers to have taken PTDI training.You may find other CDL training by looking at industry websites such as Trucker’s Report., The road test includes many knowledge and skills areas. Make sure you are proficient in them before you take your road test. Retaking the road test costs $40 each time. You can expect to see the following on the CDL road test, but study your CDL manual to make sure you have covered all applicable areas.Safe operations regulations and commercial motor vehicle safety control systems
Safe vehicle control (control systems, basic control, shifting, backing, visual search, communication, speed management, space management, night operation, extreme driving conditions, hazard perceptions, emergency maneuvers, skid control and recovery)
Relationship of cargo to vehicle control
Vehicle inspections
Hazardous materials knowledge
Air brake knowledge
For combination vehicles: vehicle inspection, tractor/trailer coupling and uncoupling

, Once you’re comfortable and confident with your road skills, you should schedule an appointment to take your road test. You can schedule the road test online at the New York DMV website.You can also schedule a road test via phone by calling 1-518-402-2100. (This number operates 24/7.)


You must pay the $40 fee before you can schedule a road test. You can pay that fee in person when you apply for your CDL learner permit, or you can pay it online with a credit card.
When you make the appointment, you will be required to provide the Client ID number displayed on your learner's permit and the receipt number that was given to you when you paid the road test fee.
 Arrive at your appointment at least 30 minutes early with your learner permit, Medical Examiner's Certificate, and your commercial vehicle.


During the test, if you have or cause an accident, commit any single traffic violation or dangerous action, or lose more than 50 points, you will fail the road test.
If you fail the road test, you may schedule a new test on the next available date. You may not take more than one road test per day. You must also pay the $40 fee again before you can schedule a new road test.
 After you pass the road test, you will receive a "Road Test Results" Receipt. However, as of May 23, 2014, this no longer gives you permission to drive. You must wait one day before visiting a DMV office with this receipt to pay for and receive your Commercial Driver License document.The New York DMV no longer issues 10-day temporary license documents. You will get a temporary CDL valid for 90 days that you can use until your photo CDL arrives by mail. It should arrive within 3-4 weeks.
Bring your Medical Examiner's Certificate every time you visit the DMV regarding your CDL to avoid processing delays.
 The requirements for renewing your CDL are the same as for renewing a regular driver license except for the medical certification requirements. You must present your medical certificate each time you renew your license. You can’t renew a CDL online.In New York, driver licenses expire on your birthday. The DMV will send you a renewal notice about 50 days before the expiration date, along with a self-certification form for your driving type (Excepted or Non-Excepted). You can renew your CDL up to one year before it expires.
If you renew your license before it expires, you don’t have to take the written or road test again.

