 Some of the household products used in this method might irritate the skin. Make sure to wear latex gloves to avoid this. If you’re working on a table or countertop, make sure to cover it in newspaper before proceeding.
 The right product depends on the surface you’re cleaning as well as the amount of residue you need to remove. Avoid using oily products on porous surfaces, and be careful about using corrosive products such as vinegar on metals and stone. Some household products are much more effective than products specifically designed for removing sticker residue., This is likely your best choice, as it doesn’t leave any residue, dries quickly and it’s best at neutralizing sticky residue.If you don’t have rubbing alcohol, you can use vodka. Avoid sweet alcohols like rum as they can leave their own stickiness behind.


Moisten a rag or cloth with alcohol and rub the surface vigorously.
After about 15 seconds of rubbing, check the surface to see how much residue is left. Continue rubbing until the surface is clear.
 Letting some cooking oil soak into the sticky residue will allow you to remove it more easily. Because it lacks strong chemicals, it can be ideal for more sensitive surfaces. However, some will absorb the oil and cause a stain; avoid porous surfaces such as wood or cloth. If you’re unsure, test the oil on a small, inconspicuous spot of your surface. If it wipes off without a trace, you can go ahead.


Dab oil onto a paper towel and lay it over your surface.
Wait a few minutes for the oil to soak into the sticky residue.
Remove the paper towel, and scrape or rub the residue away., While it requires a bit more effort than alcohol, dabbing sticker residue with vinegar will make it easier to rub off.Make sure you dilute the vinegar in a bit of water to get the best solution. Avoid using vinegar on marble, stone, aluminum or cast iron. These surfaces can be damaged by vinegar.Moisten a rag or cloth with vinegar and rub the surface vigorously.
After about 15 seconds of rubbing, check the surface to see how much residue is left. Continue rubbing until the surface is clear.
 A safe alternative to many acidic products, the oiliness of peanut butter is great for removing sticky residue.If you’re not sure what product to use on a particular surface, peanut butter is a safe choice.


Spread peanut butter onto the sticky surface and let it sit for 15 minutes.
Wipe off the peanut butter; the majority of the residue should come off with it., This product is specifically designed to remove sticker residue. It’s safe to use on many surfaces, but tends to leave an oily residue behind.Follow the instructions on the packaging. They’ll tell you what surfaces the product is safe for in addition to how to use it.
 Since mayonnaise contains both vinegar and oil, it’s well suited for removing sticky residue. However, you should make sure to avoid using it on porous surfaces, like wood, plastic and cloth, as it could stain these.Spread mayonnaise onto the sticker residue.
Rub the surface until the residue is gone.

