 When designing clothes, it’s important to think about how your garment will look on the body. This is why most designers draw their designs onto a human form. It can be intimidating and time-consuming to have to draw a figure from scratch every time you make a new design, so many designers use a croquis.This just means a template you can use each time you sketch out a new garment. You will need to start by drawing the outline of a person in pencil. This is an intimidating prospect, but it doesn’t need to be difficult.


If you’re not too daunted, freehand it. The idea here is not to be anatomically correct, and most designers’ croquis drawings are rendered in some kind of personal style. Your design will look even more unique on a figure you drew yourself. Don’t worry about small details; think of your drawing as a 2-dimensional mannequin.
If you don’t feel up to the task of drawing a human figure from scratch, use someone else’s work. Trace an image from a book or a magazine, or download one of the hundreds of free croquis templates you can find online.Many designers use something called the 9 heads method to make sure their drawings are evenly proportioned.The idea is to use a head as a unit of measure, and to draw a body that measures nine heads from the feet to the top of the neck.Draw a straight vertical line, and divide it into 10 equal parts. This will be your guide as you draw.
Section 1 starts just under the head, and measures the body from the top of the neck to the middle of the chest; section 2 measures from the middle of the chest to the waist; section 3 from the waist to the bottom of the hips; section 4 from the bottom of the waist to mid-thigh, section 5 from mid-thigh to knee, section 6 from knee to upper calve, section 7 from upper calve to mid-calve, section 8 from mid-calve to ankle, and section 9 measures the foot., You are going to need to be able to trace this drawing onto another piece of paper laid on top of it. To make that possible, you’ll have to retrace the lines of your figure drawing with a dark pen., For this step you will need to put down the pen and pick up a pencil again. Lay another piece of plain white paper on top of the croquis you just drew. You should be able to see it relatively well, as long as you used a dark pen and your paper isn’t too thick.If you have a lightbox, this would be a good time to use it. Just lay the croquis onto the lightbox, put the blank sheet of paper on top of it, turn the lightbox, on, and trace away.
If you don’t have a lightbox and are having trouble seeing through your paper, try taping the two sheets of paper to a window on a bright day. You’ll have to trace at an odd angle, but the effect is basically the same as if you used a lightbox.
 Still using your pencil so you can erase inevitable mistakes, lightly draw the garment you’ve been imagining. Start with more general things like the basic shape of the garment, and gradually add details as it takes form. When you are satisfied, retrace the whole drawing in pen., You can use whatever drawing materials you want for this step. Markers and colored pencils work particularly well, since they lend themselves to layering. Start with the lightest colors you plan on using, and shade in larger areas with long, consistent strokes that move in the same direction as the fabric. Gradually incorporate darker colors, patterns, and shadow as you go., Now that you have a croquis, starting a new design should be much faster. Just trace the figure, and get going.

