 Collect all documentation relating to your bills including financial records, tax records, pay slips, credit card bills, checking and savings account records, bank statements, utility bills, insurance records, and other bills. Ensure you have your own copies of these materials. If possible, the documentation should be stored outside the marital home; perhaps at your attorney’s office if you have one. , In general, the debt brought into a marriage by one spouse remains the individual debt of that spouse after divorce proceedings. If the debt is in the name of one spouse only, consider that debt individual debt for purposes of paying bills during a divorce. , Debt that is held in the name of the married parties jointly will be considered marital debt and will need to be divided up during divorce proceedings. , Individual debt, which was incurred solely by one spouse, can easily be dealt with as individual debt that should only be paid by the spouse that incurred the debt during the divorce proceedings.


This type of debt includes debt incurred before marriage, student loan debt, and credit cards used by only one spouse.
However, individual debt that is incurred for the benefit of both parties (regardless if it is in the name of just one spouse), such as utility bills, credit cards used by both spouses, and expenses for the children of the marriage should be considered marital debt. , Unsecured debt is debt that is not tied to property that serves as collateral for the debt such as a car or home. Unsecured marital debt, including jointly held credit cards, should be paid off prior to beginning divorce proceedings, if possible.


If it is not possible to pay off such debt before separating, joint debts should be divided and paid equally through divorce proceedings.
If any debt is incurred on the joint credit accounts by only one spouse after separation, that spouse should be responsible for repayment of that portion of the debt. , The general rule with regard to joint secured debt is that the person who remains in possession of the collateral for the secured debt should be responsible for paying for that debt during divorce proceedings.That is, if a spouse maintains the possession of a car that was purchased during the marriage, that spouse should be assigned with responsibility for paying for that car during the divorce proceedings. , While parties going through a divorce should take some steps to create distance between themselves and their spouse in a financial sense, maintaining some joint accounts to pay joint debt out of might be necessary.


If the payments for utilities or any other joint debt will continue throughout divorce proceedings, it may be necessary to maintain certain joint accounts.
However, it may be necessary to cancel any joint credit or utility accounts to ensure either spouse does not accumulate additional joint debt during the divorce proceedings., If the couple intends to maintain their marital home during the divorce, whether both or just one spouse is living there during the proceedings, the utility bills must also be assigned to the spouses and paid.


In some cases, the couple may decide to split the bills evenly and pay out of a jointly held account, in which each spouse contributes to during the divorce proceedings.
In other cases, utility bills may be divided between the spouses. In other words, for instance, one spouse is assigned to pay the phone bill and electric bill, while the other spouse is assigned to pay the water and cable bill.
In dividing up these bills, consider who is living in the marital home (if only one spouse is remaining in the residence), who is using the utilities, and (if only one spouse is remaining in the residence) whether the other spouse is maintaining another outside residence., Try to come to an agreement with your spouse as how to handle the bills while your divorce is proceeding. This agreement should encompass all of the relevant bills and provide an answer as to who is responsible for paying each of the bills in either or both of your names. , Do not rely on oral communications between you and your spouse when deciding who is responsible for bill payment during divorce proceedings. Make a written list of all the relevant bills and who is responsible for paying them, at what times, and in what amounts. This agreement should be dated and signed by each party.


It is highly advisable to enlist the help of an attorney to come to an amicable decision regarding who is paying what bills during the divorce. An attorney can provide you with more detail on the general rules based on your unique circumstances as well as to point out common practices in the event of a disagreement or to help you and your spouse avoid pitfalls that could lead to trouble in the future based on bill paying during divorce proceedings. , If you are unable to come to an agreement regarding the payment of bills during your divorce either with or without the help of an attorney, you can ask the court to help you.


If you have already started your divorce proceedings in court, you can request a hearing in front of the judge to help determine what the terms of bill paying should before the divorce is final.
If you have not yet gone to court for your divorce, you can file for legal separation and the bill payment details will be an issue before the court and the judge will help you resolve any disputes. The division of bills will be included as a part of your separation agreement. The court can help resolve any disputed issues and the agreement can be filed and legally recognized by the court.
The procedure for filing a legal separation varies from state to state and even within states. For more information on how to proceed with a legal separation, contact your local court clerk’s office and ask for the proper forms to begin the action. 