 Add ½ cup (120 ml) of heavy cream, 4 ounces (113 g) of cream cheese that’s been softened, 2 tablespoons (16 g) of powdered sugar, and 4 tablespoons (32 g) of instant banana pudding mix to a large bowl. Use an electric mixer to blend the mixture on medium until it’s thick and fluffy.You can substitute vanilla instant pudding for the banana.
 After the cream cheese mixture is combined, add ½ a mashed banana and ¼ cup (55 g) of crushed pineapple that’s been drained to the bowl. Use a spatula to gently fold them into the mixture., Once the banana and pineapple are mixed into the filling, use a spatula to place it in a piping bag. Chill the piping bag in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to 1 hour.If you don’t have a piping bag, use a plastic zipper bag. Just snip off a corner after the mousse is fully chilled and you’re ready to fill the berries.
 For the stuffed strawberries, you’ll need 12 large, fresh berries. Use a sharp knife to cut off the tops of the berries, including the stems, and remove the center of the fruit with a tomato scooper. Next, trim the bottom of the berries so they’ll stand upright.Make sure to wash and dry the berries thoroughly before cutting them.
 Add 4 tablespoons (45 g) of semisweet chocolate chips to a microwave-safe bowl. Heat on high for 25 seconds to melt the chocolate. Next, mix in 1 tablespoon (14 g) of butter, and stir until the mixture is smooth.You can substitute other chocolate chips, such as bittersweet or milk chocolate, if you prefer.
 Set a piece of parchment paper on a cookie sheet. Next, dip the bottom of the strawberries into the chocolate mixture and then into a shallow dish with 4 tablespoons (49 g) of finely chopped nuts so the nuts will stick the chocolate. Place the berries on the cookie sheet, and chill in the refrigerator for 5 to 10 minutes.You can use any type of nuts that you like, but walnuts are a classic option.
 After the chocolate and nuts are set on berries, remove the cookie sheet from the fridge. Pipe the filling into the berries with the piping bag, and set them down on the parchment paper again., Once the strawberries are filled, you can add whatever toppings that you like. Typical banana split fixings such as hot fudge or chocolate sauce, sprinkles, and cherries are ideal options.If you prefer, you can omit the toppings completely.

