 His advice will be crucial to identifying areas and mannerisms that you need to make more masculine. Ask him to give you pointers with clothing, a general explanation of popular sports (if necessary), and have him look at and correct your posture.
 Shortening your hair will make your look significantly more masculine. The simplest and easiest way to do this is to go to a male only barber and ask for a "boy cut." If the barber refuses, saying that he only cuts men's hair, tell him that you need a boy-cut for a sport you're playing, like baseball, and that your long hair gets pulled out too frequently otherwise.


You can also hide your hair with a baseball hat.
If you can't bear to part with your lovely locks, a bald cap and a male wig might be the way to go.
If you live in a rural area and are concerned the local barber might spoil your disguise, you may want to find a gay or gay-friendly salon.Likely, these establishments will be more willing to help you with your masculine cut.
 If your breasts seem too obvious, try wearing a sport's bra or swimming suit top that is small on you to give your chest a flatter, more masculine appearance. Don't use elastic wrap or tape, which can be harmful to your breasts. If the sport's bra/swimsuit approach doesn't seem to be cutting it, layering several of these may make your breasts look smaller.Breast binding, which is the technical term for using constrictive materials to make your breasts flatter, can be unhealthy if done for a prolonged period of time. If you experience back pain, trouble breathing, chest pain, or a rash, you should stop binding your chest and consult a doctor.It is recommended that you don't bind for more than 8-12 hours at a time., Men and women have very distinct communication styles, and by paying attention to these, you will come across most naturally as one of the boys. The main points to keep in mind are:


Don't talk about personal problems
Participate in good-natured one-upmanship

Man: "I was tearing it up on Call of Duty last night!"
You: "Yeah? That's great. Sounds almost as good as my 71 kill streak last Saturday. What was your kill ratio again?"


Ask fewer questions
Be direct in your opinions and thoughtsMan: "What did you think of the assembly we had earlier today?"
You: "It was pretty lame."



, A good place to shop for a new, masculine wardrobe is a secondhand store. You should aim to buy plain colors and simple patterns, clothing like jeans, plaid shirts, cargo shorts, and t-shirts. Over-sized sweaters are also a great option if you have prominent breasts.


Baggy men's clothing, like jeans and sweatpants, are suitable for hiding your curves.
Bite the bullet and buy some men's briefs, boxer briefs, or boxers. Even though it's unlikely anyone will get a good look at your undergarments, a thong peeking out of your sagging jeans could ruin a great disguise.
Avoid "feminine" colors, like pastels and shades of pink. A stereotypical disguise will be the hardest for others to see through.
Make it a point hide your feminine features beneath clothing, like shaved legs or armpits. Men rarely shave in these places, and failing to hide your bare legs might compromise your disguise.
 Try not to sway your hips or keep your knees together. Men also stereotypically keep their hands occupied while walking. You can do this by holding something or putting your hands in your pockets. When you sit, sit for comfort and not for consideration. Spread your legs even if there is someone sitting beside you. While sitting, lean back slightly more than you normally do.If you decide to cross your legs while sitting, do so with your ankle on your opposite leg.
 Especially if you are younger, you may not need to change your voice at all, and some people have voices that could naturally be mistaken for either gender. Avoid pitching your voice too high, as this might strain your voice. Oftentimes, a light, quiet tone will come across as the most believable voice for your disguise.


Try to inflect the ends of your sentences upwards, as this is a common characteristic of female speech., Using a name similar to your own might make it easier for you to recognize when you're in disguise, though some prefer something completely different to separate the biological identity from the disguise. For instance, you might change Christina to Christian, Alexa to Alex, or Tory to Troy.


If your name does not easily gender-bend, you might want to use common male name, like that of a close family member.

