 Find out where certain guns are that pack the big punch, like the shotgun, the rocket launcher, and the sword. Gun locations vary on different maps, and you need to know them ahead of time to succeed.


Learn the maps one at a time by yourself by playing against a friend in Local Multiplayer. The better you know the maps, the better the battle will be.
Once you know where everything is, practice with one or two friends., Once you've crouched, you no longer appear as a little red dot to your enemies. This is perfect for a stealthy kill, especially if you're using a shotgun, which needs to be close range, or you're trying to hide out of the way to squeeze off a few sniper shots. Having the element of surprise, especially on smaller maps, will make a big difference., In multiplayer, every death gives the other team a point or takes you off the map, hurting your team. As such, you can't fight every person you see just because they're in front of you. If you know you can only get 1-2 weak hits at an enemy running off, save your grenades and ammo. Similarly, if you're outnumbered or fighting a player with better weapons, more visibility, or the advantage, try and find a way out instead of going down in a blaze of glory. You'll save your team a point and live to fight another day.


Before starting a mid-range or long-range fight, ask yourself if you could get the kill at this distance.
When you're weak, like when your shield breaks down, get behind cover. At the very least, force the opponent to use a grenade instead of giving them the easy kill with their bullets.
 Dual-wielding combos can be an excellent strategy in up close combat, try these weapon combos. However, duel-wielding prevents you from using grenades or items. When possible, resort to duel-wielding in the heat of a fight, then drop a weapon if you're out in the open or need to adjust your game plan.


SMG+ Magnum
SMG+Plasma Rifle
SMG+Plasma Pistol
Magnum + Charged Plasma Pistol (instant kill if both are head shots), Don't be a lone wolf trying to track down your kills on your own -- you will be better as a team. When you've got someone else with you, you can bring down enemies in half the time, making it difficult for them to get any shots off against superior numbers. Just as importantly, traveling with a team prevents you from getting ganged up on, and even if you die you have a teammate who can quickly finish up the kills you started. Keep communicating, letting your team know:


When an enemy has a power weapon like a sword, grenade launcher, sniper, etc.
The locations of the other team or objects (like the flag, bomb, etc.)
When you're using explosives that might hurt teammates.
Where you're going, if you're making a move (like capturing the flag).
 A player who keeps their cool always has the upper hand. Stay out of open terrain or low areas with lots of high vantage points around you. Never chase after someone for a kill, especially if they can see you well in advance or have cover. Stick to cover whenever possible, only leaving when you need to get an item or you know you can get the kill. While most people think about getting as many kills as possible, the best players stay alive as long as possible.