 This might require a little bit of digging, often where the water is coming out of the ground is not always the source of the leak. Once you have isolated the leak, turn off the water to that line, or area. Make sure you buy the correct diameter repair pipe and couplers. PVC pipe often has information about size and test-strength printed up and down the sides.;
, Clean out as much water, mud and dirt as possible. Approximately 4 to 6 inches (10.2 to 15.2 cm) on each side of the break, cut the pipe with a PVC cutter and be sure to wipe both ends clean of any mud (outside and inside). Paper towel can be stuffed into the end of the pipe to prevent dirt/mud from re-entering. If the pipe cracks when trying to cut it, place a small amount of PVC primer to the spot where the blade touches the pipe and let it sit for a couple of seconds before applying pressure to the cutter. This will soften the pipe and make it easier to cut without cracking. Remove the broken pipe but save for future subsequent steps.
 Prime the inside of 2 straight couplers. Attach a coupler to each pipe end by applying a coat of glue on outside of the pipe end and also to the inside of a coupler. Working quickly, firmly slide the coupler onto the pipe edge using a twisting motion, pushing hard until the pipe hits the lip inside the center of the coupler. Hold the coupler in place with pressure for 15-20 seconds. The clear glue dries in approximately 10 seconds and the blue glue in approximately 20 seconds so you must work quickly. Repeat for the other pipe end.
 To determine the length of the repair pipe, measure from the middle of one straight coupler to the other using a tape measure. If you don't have a tape measure, lay a piece of pipe down into the trench and measure it by eye, marking with a pen or pencil for your cut.
,, Twist pipe hard into coupler until you feel it stop. Wait at least a full minute for that to dry then apply glue to the remaining pipe-end and coupler. With your final fitting, you may have to pull hard on the sprinkler-line pipe, either to the side or up, in order to get the replacement pipe to slip into the coupler. Don't worry, PVC is strong. Allow all fittings and joints to dry completely (3-5 minutes) before turning water back on in that line.
 With a repair coupling you can slide it all the way on the new pipe section, prime & glue the other pipe, and slide the repair coupling onto the old pipe.
 Grind down the inside center edge if it's a standard coupling. Then prime and glue one or both halves, depending on length of crack, and prime and glue the old pipe around the crack, and apply the half-piece(s) over the crack. Seals the crack and it's faster than cutting out the cracked section of pipe, especially if the cracked pipe is adjacent to another pipe or if it's simply hard to dig out enough.
