 With any diet change or restriction, it's always important to talk to your doctor first. They will be able to tell you what's absolutely necessary and important for you to avoid in your diet.


If you have been diagnosed with Celiac's disease or a gluten sensitivity, talk to your doctor about the best way to avoid gluten in your diet. Also, ask if there is any medication or dietary supplements they recommend to ensure that you're consuming adequate amounts of all essential nutrients.
Ask your doctor for resources on gluten-free living. There are a variety of things to consider as you embark on this new diet.
If you do not have an allergy or Celiac's disease, there is no medical reason to completely eliminate gluten containing foods (or any other foods) from your diet. However, if you've tried following a gluten-free diet and you feel better or you feel healthier, then by all means continue following the eating pattern that makes you feel your best.;
, The first and most important part of reducing the amount of gluten in your diet, is being able to read food labels and front of pack marketing on food packages. This will help you decide what you can and cannot eat.


Recently, there was legislation passed that defined what "gluten-free" means on labels. Although food manufacturers are not required to label products as gluten-free, if they do, they must comply with the following definition: "the product contains less than 20 parts per million (ppm) of gluten."Although true gluten-free products may contain less than 20 ppm, it has been proven that these levels of gluten do not cause adverse side effects in those who have Celiac's disease or a gluten sensitivity.Many foods will be labeled as gluten-free. However, there are some foods that are not required to have any labeling in regards to gluten and these include: meat, shelled eggs, liquor, wine and beer.Do not get confused by the claim of "wheat free." This doesn't always mean the product is gluten-free. It should specifically say "contains no gluten or gluten-free."
Also read labels on medications, supplements, cosmetics and play dough as these items may also contain gluten.The "gluten-free" labeling may appear in a variety of places on food packages. Check the front, back, nutrition fact panel and near the ingredient list for these claims. If a product doesn't specifically say "gluten-free" and you're unsure if it would contain gluten, do not purchase or consume it.
 If you want or need to follow a gluten-free diet, one of the first steps is to clean out your kitchen. You'll need to remove all food containing gluten so that you not longer consume or cook them.


Read all the labels and ingredient lists to ensure you find every single item containing gluten. If you're unsure if a food has gluten, stick to the safe side and get rid of it.
Check the pantry first. This is most likely where you'll find the most gluten containing products. Items that may contain gluten could include: bread, pasta, cookies, crackers, chips, cereals, pancake or waffle mix, tortillas, condiments and sauces, or croutons.
Your refrigerator or freezer may also have some gluten containing foods like: marinades, dressings, sauces, frozen waffles and pancakes, beer, fresh pasta or soy sauce.
You can either discard foods (especially if they've been open), give them away to friends or family or donate unopened items to a food bank.
In addition make sure to sanitize and thoroughly cleanse any cutlery or dishes that have come into contact with gluten containing foods. Even if you have all gluten-free products in your house, but use contaminated cutlery, you can transfer small particles of gluten to foods and it may cause a reaction in those who are sensitive to it.
 After you've cleared out your kitchen, you'll want to consider replacing some of those items with gluten-free alternatives.


Some items will be easy to replace by just switching to a gluten-free version. For example, switch to gluten-free soy sauce, dressings and marinades. It's also simple to make these at home using gluten-free ingredients.
You may also consider switching to all gluten-free grains (like breads, rice, pasta, waffles or crackers). However, many gluten-free versions of these foods have different tastes and textures due to the lack of gluten. Be prepared for these to be a little different than what you're used to.
One thing to note about many gluten-free foods is that they are frequently higher in calories and other ingredients due to the increased processing required to make these items. If weight is an issue, make sure to be aware of the extra calories you may be ingesting by switching to all gluten-free foods.
You may also want to consider switching the grocery store where you do the majority of your food shopping. Since gluten-free foods have become much more popular, there are many health food stores, organic grocery stores and speciality grocery stores that offer a much larger array of gluten-free foods. Find one in your area especially if your local grocer doesn't offer a wide enough variety of appropriate foods.
 Following a gluten-free diet can be difficult at first. Gluten is surprisingly present in many foods. This can make following a gluten-free diet a little overwhelming at first.


Talking to a registered dietitian who is a health and nutrition expert is a smart option to start with. Many dietitians are specialized in the areas of Celiac's disease and other food allergies.
Search for a local RD online or ask your doctor (especially the doctor who has diagnosed you with either Celiac's disease or a gluten sensitivity) to refer you to a local or specialized RD.
Talk with the dietitian about your current diet, your worries regarding switching to a gluten-free diet and to help give you tips for meal planning, cooking and eating out.
 After being diagnosed with a condition that requires you to be gluten-free, you'll need to re-learn how to cook and prep your meals without gluten-containing foods. Sometimes this might be very easy, while other times it can be more difficult.


Swap out your typical pasta, bread or wraps for gluten-free items. Make sure you read every label to ensure you're purchasing a gluten-free item. However, it should be very easy to find these items gluten-free.
Many food manufacturers use corn, quinoa, bean or rice flours to make gluten-free versions of items like bread, wraps, pasta, muffins or bagels.
Bake with gluten-free flour mixes. If you want to avoid the overly processed gluten-free substitutes on the market, you may consider making your own. Many grocery stores sell specific flour mixes that are gluten-free and make baking very easy to do at home.
 Although you will be restricting many items from your diet, there are still plenty of foods that you can and should eat on a regular basis. Most importantly is fruits and vegetables.


Both of these food groups are naturally gluten-free. In addition, they are also naturally low in calories, but high in a fiber, vitamins and minerals.Include a fruit or vegetable at each meal to help balance out your diet. Measure yourself: 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad greens or 1 small piece or about 1/2 cup of fruit.If you typically purchase canned, frozen or other processed fruits and vegetables, double check the labels to make sure they are gluten-free. Typically all fruits and vegetables are gluten-free but if they have been even minimally processed, they make have been exposed to other gluten-containing products or may be mixed with seasonings or sauces that contain gluten., In addition to fruits and vegetables, it's also important to still include adequate amounts of protein at each meal.


Most protein sources in their raw form are also gluten-free. You need to be careful when you get into protein sources that are pre-cooked, come as a part of a pre-made meal or are served with any sauces or gravies that could contain gluten.
Protein is an essential nutrient for everyone's diet. Including 1 or 2 servings at each meal can help ensure you're consuming enough for your body.
Measure out a 3-4 oz serving of protein.If you're watching your waistline, stick to leaner protein options like: poultry, eggs, low-fat beef, pork, seafood or low-fat dairy.
 Although gluten seems to be present in many grains and many different foods, there are types of grains and starches that are 100% gluten-free and can be consumed without worry.Try:


Rice
Corn
Quinoa
Millet
Buckwheat
Teff
Gluten-free oats (double check the label)
Amaranth

, If you're avoiding large quantities of food or entire food groups due to an allergy or sensitivity, it's advised to consider taking supplements to help you meet your daily recommended intakes of a variety of vitamins or minerals.


Vitamin supplements may be needed, especially in those who have celiac's disease. If your disease is untreated or you have a flare up, you're at risk for not absorbing iron, folate, B12, Vitamin D, zinc and magnesium appropriately.Even if your Celiac's disease is properly treated, a few daily supplements can ensure you're absorbing every nutrient properly.
It's typically recommended to take a daily multivitamin, plus extra iron, b12 and Vitamin D. Your doctor will give you specific dosages for each item depending on your most recent blood work.
Always tell your doctor what supplements you're taking, the dosage and the frequency you're taking them.
 Dining out might be intimidating if you have Celiac's disease or a gluten sensitivity. However, with careful planning and ordering, you can enjoy restaurant meals without worry.


Call ahead to restaurants and talk to the manager about whether or the restaurant can accommodate your needs. As gluten sensitivities and allergies have become more recognized, many places can offer gluten-free meals without a problem. But it's always smart to check.
Always talk to your waiter and inform them of your allergy or condition. Ask that they inform the manager and chef and other cooks to make sure that everyone who will be handling your food is made aware that your meal should be gluten-free.
To be on the safe side, you might want to consider ordering more plain dishes or ordering dishes without the typical added seasonings or sauces.

