 Gently stabilize it by holding it steady with one or both hands. Pet your cat and talk to it in a soothing voice to calm and reassure it.If your cat resists you or is prone to scratching, then wrap your cat in the towel so that just its head is sticking out.
 Once your cat is calm, place your non-dominant hand on top of your cat’s head in front of its ears. Wrap your fingers around the bottom of its cheekbones for leverage., This should cause your cat’s mouth to open involuntarily. Pick up the pill with your other hand. Hold the pill between your index finger and thumb. Then place your middle or ring finger on the lower molars to keep its jaw open. Do not place your finger on top of the canine tooth, i.e., the sharp fang, to keep its jaw open.If your cat will not open its mouth, then you will need to pry it open. Do this using the middle finger of the same hand holding the pill. Place your middle finger over the small incisor teeth in the front of your cat’s mouth at the bottom. Then apply gentle pressure to push your cat’s jaw open.
 Drop the pill as far back as you can on your cat’s tongue, i.e., the base of the tongue. Or, use your index finger and thumb to push the pill over the back of your cat’s tongue. If you do it this way, you must do it quickly to prevent your fingers from getting bitten.Alternatively, you can use a pill syringe to place the pill at the base of your cat’s tongue. This way you can avoid having to put your fingers in your cat’s mouth.
Coat the pill with butter to make swallowing it easier.
 Once you have placed the pill at the base of its tongue, use your hands to keep its mouth closed by applying gentle pressure. Also re-position your cat's head so that it is level instead of tilted back; this will make it easier for your cat to swallow the pill. Gently rub your cat’s throat or blow in its nose to encourage it to swallow the pill.Try not to let your cat go until the pill is swallowed. Place a drop of water on its nose. If your cat licks the water off, then this means that it has swallowed the pill.
 Tricyclic antidepressants should be given with food to decrease side effects such as vomiting. Therefore, feed your cat directly after giving it its medication. If your cat will not eat, then entice it to eat by feeding it its favorite food like cheese, or by giving it a treat.Make sure to provide your cat with water as well. You can also give your cat flavored water like juice from a tuna can to entice it to drink.

