 Use a nice smelling body wash, and be sure to wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner for your hair type every other day, or every day if you have oily hair. Use a deep conditioner once a week or every other day, and maybe a leave-in detangler if your hair is really knotty.;
, Find a nice scent you like, such as vanilla or strawberry, and use it every day. Deodorant is important so you don't smell like sweat. Some good brands are Dove, Degree, and Lady Speed Stick.
 Match the scent of your lotion to your body wash so you don't have too many different smells.
 Shave your legs and armpits, and if you have dark hair, possibly your forearms. If you're comfortable, shave your bikini line, but it's not a necessity, as no one will see down there. Don't start shaving anywhere because someone else thinks you should. Lots of 12-year-old girls do not have unsightly body hair. Many girls can be cool, stylish and beautiful without shaving. Only shave if you want to.
 Make sure they fit properly- nothing too short or low cut, nothing too baggy or ill-fitting. Your pants should fit snugly, if they don't, wear a belt. Nothing is less attractive than yanking at your pants or rolling them up.
 Wash it with a nice face wash (not an acne wash unless you have acne) wash twice a day, then use toner, face lotion, and any acne treatments or special creams you wish. Do not skip this step!

, There is no need for heavy foundations, blushes, or eyeshadows. If you really think you need it, some BB cream or concealer, some lip balm / gloss, and a touch of mascara will do it. You also might consider plucking your eyebrow or curling your eyelashes. Don't put on any make-up just because this article says you should. Only wear makeup if you want to; avoid doing it just because of peer pressure or to fit in and "look cool".
 Go to bed early enough that you can get up on time in the morning without feeling too tired.
 Be nice to everyone, especially your enemies or the people no one seems to talk to. Have close friends that you genuinely like and feel comfortable around and be close with them: entrust them with your secrets and invite them to sleepovers and parties.
 Although lots of girls this age have them, it's not really "dating". You normally just hold hands a little bit and maybe go see a movie or two. In extreme cases, they might kiss but don't let this pressure you!

, After all, they love you!

