 In Italian, the word for "dear" is "caro", although this word may vary based on gender. As most are in Italian, adjectives will change with gender and plurality.

For more than one person, you might also write "I miei cari (nome) e (nome)" (masculine plural) or "Le mie care (nome) e (nome)" (feminine plural), for "my dears (name and (name)". For both feminine and masculine names, always go with the (otherwise masculine-specific) "I miei cari".
E.x. Caro Davide; Cara Marzia; I miei cari Davide e Giuseppe; Le mie care Marzia e Laetitia; I miei cari Davide e Marzia...(David and Marcia will be used for the rest of this guide).;
, There's many different ways to do this. You can just write "Buon Natale!" (Merry Christmas!), or even "Buon Natale e Felice Anno Nuovo" (Merry Christmas and Happy New Year). To actually wish this, you would put "ti auguro un" or "vi auguro un" ("I wish you a"; "ti auguro" is to one person" and "vi auguro" is to more than one).

E.x. I miei cari Davide e Marzia, vi auguro un Buon Natale e Felice Anno Nuovo!

, You can also wish them a Christmas filled with love and happiness. In English, this seems like a very personal thing to say, but if you're writing this to an Italian, stick it in there. Italian culture is very based around these things (love and happiness), and phrases such as "I love you" (Ti amo to a romantic partner or family member; ti voglio bene to a family member) are very loosely used. To say, "I wish you a Christmas filled with love and happiness", write "Ti/vi auguro un Natale pieno di amore e felicità".

E.x. I miei cari Davide e Marzia, Buon Natale e Felice Anno Nuovo! Vi auguro un Natale pieno di amore e felicità.
 Your note doesn't have to be too sentimental, so steps two and three could be adequate. To write "Best wishes", put down "I migliori auguri". End with your name and marvel at your completed letter!

E.x. I miei cari Davide e Marzia, Buon Natale e Felice Anno Nuovo! Vi auguro un Natale pieno di amore e felicità. I migliori auguri, (il tuo/la tua nome).

