 To start, you want to make sure your twins are on roughly the same sleep schedule. If your twins are used to napping around the same time, this decreases the likelihood one twin will disturb the other's rest. This will also make things easier on you. You do not want to constantly be tending to one baby or the other.Try to put your twins to bed at the same time each night. In the morning, make sure they're also up around the same time. On occasion, this may mean waking one twin up.
Schedule nap times around the same time as well. How often your children need to nap varies by age. Babies under 6 months should nap on and off throughout the day, getting about 16 to 20 hours of total sleep. From 6 to 12 months, babies usually require two daytime naps totally 3 to 4 hours. Toddlers usually need one daytime nap of one to two hours. Children ages 3 to 5 may occasionally want an afternoon nap, although it's less necessary at this point.;
, During the night, twins will often need nighttime feedings. Often, one twin will wake you up crying. Even if the other twin sleeps through the sibling's crying, wake and feed the other twin. While you may dislike the idea of waking a sleeping baby, you need to get rest yourself. You do not want to be awakened in another 20 minutes to feed the other baby., Keep the lights dim as you're feeding your baby. Do not handle the baby more than you need to. Simply do the feeding and put the baby back to sleep.If your child is at least 9 months old, you can put a toy or blanket in the crib after feeding. This may help soothe the baby, resulting in falling asleep faster., Write down your twins' sleep and nap schedule. This will help you keep track of the schedule so you can stick to it more easily. In general, babies fall asleep easier if they nap around the same time each day.When you first bring your twins home, life can be especially chaotic. However, routine is important to sleep cycle and twins will sleep more easily if they're going to sleep and napping around the same time each day.Keep a journal where you jot down when the babies fall asleep each night, when they get up in the morning, and what times they're napping.
Consider recording details that can help you improve your schedule. Track the twins moods before naps. If they seemed energetic, you may be scheduling a nap at the wrong time of day. Try moving your nap back half an hour the following day and see if the twins fall asleep easier.
 If your twins are 3 or older, they may have less of a need for naps. Some days, an older child may claim not to be tired. You can try to encourage rest time over nap time, as rest in the afternoon is still vital to a young child's wellbeing.


Compromise. Try to get the twins to lie down in a dark room and listen to some gentle music. Encourage them to rest and avoid playing with their toys.Your twins may not actually fall asleep during this time. However, the physical rest can be beneficial on its own. As children get older, they have less need for nap time. Do not worry if twins older than 3 years do not nap every day.