 Balance problems can show up when your dog's limbs appear weak. Weak limbs can make your dog appear to limp or walk differently. Your dog might put their weight on one side, stagger, topple, or walk as if drunk.For example, you might notice that your dog only likes to use the limbs on one side of their body or only likes to use their hind legs.;
, The most obvious signs of a balance problem are often swaying, tipping over, staggering and stumbling. At first, you might think that your dog is just a little clumsy. However, your dog may have a balance problem if they continue to struggle with simple walking or running in an open space.


Your dog might fall suddenly and have trouble getting back up if it has balance problems.
 In addition to the full-body signs of a balance problem, you should also look at your dog's head. Your dog's eyes might move rapidly from side to side, as though watching the ball at a tennis match. Your dog may also tilt their head or shake it if your dog is having trouble balancing.Any changes in your dog's eye movements can indicate a balance problem.
 Keep track of how much food your dog eats at meal times. If it seems like your dog isn't eating as much or has nausea in addition to showing some of the other signs described in this article, then they may have a balance problem. Your dog may also hack or struggle to eat.The balance problem can make your dog feel motion sick which is why they develop nausea.
 As soon as you notice any sign of a balance problem, get your dog examined by the vet. There are many conditions that can cause balance problems in dogs and the vet will need to make a diagnosis before your dog can start treatment. Give detailed information about the signs you've noticed. For example, you might say that your dog always wobbles after it stands up or maybe your dog has stopped eating meals. It may help to write down the signs so you can easily tell the vet your dog's symptoms.


Chances are your dog's condition will respond best when treated early. This is why it's important to get your dog examined quickly.
 Ataxia is a sensory dysfunction that causes balance problems in dogs. The vet will run tests to look for a lesion in your dog's brain, inner ear or spinal cord. These tests may include radiographs, x-rays, MRIs, and tomography scans. The vet may also want to test fluid from your dog's spinal cord and test the blood and urine.Ataxia is further diagnosed as vestibular, proprioceptive or cerebellar. Since there are different types, it's important to get an accurate diagnosis from the vet.
 To diagnose a middle or inner ear infection, the vet will examine deep inside your dog's ears and may take x-rays.Your dog will probably have to be anesthetized since this is a detailed examination that may be uncomfortable for your dog.
 To get this diagnosis, the vet will take a full medical history and watch your dog's movements. The vet will also test your dog's blood and urine. Your dog might need testing like radiographs, MRIs, or tomography scans to look for tumors. In order to diagnose vestibular disease, your dog must:Be an older dog
Experience sudden balance problems
Not have another condition causing the balance problems (like ear infection, trauma, thyroid problems, etc.)
Recover from the balance problems within a few weeks

, Your dog may develop balance problems if their ears have been poisoned by drugs or chemicals. Since there are no specific tests to determine if poisoning caused the balance problems, the vet will take a full medical history and test your dog's hearing to determine any hearing loss. Tell the vet if your dog has been exposed to any of these:Aspirin
Quinine
Loop diuretics (water pills)
Antibiotics
Anti-neoplastics (anti-cancer drugs)
Environmental chemicals (like lead, tin, manganese, mercury, carbon monoxide)
Any drop or cleaner has been put in the dog's ears

, Treatment will depend on the location of the lesions, how severe your dog's balance problems are, and how old the dog is.Some dogs still have balance problems even after the lesions have been treated. Your dog may need help recovering from the balance problems, so make your dog's environment safe so they can't injure themselves. Remove furniture with sharp corners, lay down soft pillows, and block off stairs.
 If your dog is diagnosed with a mild infection, the vet will probably prescribe oral and topical antibiotics. The vet may also give an antibiotic injection. If your dog is diagnosed with a severe ear infection, the vet may have to surgically remove fluid from the ear drum or remove part of the inner ear.If allergies or tumors caused the infection, the vet will create a treatment plan to manage the underlying cause.
 Most dogs with vestibular disease will recover on their own within a few weeks. Since vestibular disease isn't usually caused by anything, the vet will treat the balance problem itself. The vet might recommend giving your dog intravenous fluids or hospitalization, if your dog can't walk or eat on their own. The vet may also prescribe medications.The vet may recommend giving your dog a sedative that will help them relax as they recover. Your dog might also take motion sickness or anti-nausea drugs to help them cope with the balance problems.
 As soon as the vet determines that your dog's ear has been poisoned by something, your dog shouldn't be exposed to the substance anymore. For example, if a medication (like an antibiotic) caused the hearing loss and balance problems, the vet can prescribe a different medication. If the ototoxicity was caused by environmental poisoning (like lead), you'll need to remove all lead from your dog's environment.Note that there are relatively few antibiotics that are toxic to the ear. You and your vet will need to discuss why it is necessary to use that particular antibiotic, should this be the best treatment option.
Unfortunately, hearing loss caused by ototoxicity can't be reversed. The sooner you can identify the toxin causing the problems, the better.

