 A nursery or a dedicated garden store will give you quality plants, and you can pick up knowledge from the experts. You can buy plants at a home improvement stores or grocery stores, but usually they don't directly source their plant products. In other words, they can't vouch for the quality of their plants. Often, they don't offer refunds for plants, so it's a risk.When evaluating a nursery, look for a relatively clean environment. Also, if all the plants are priced low, that could mean they care more about cost than about providing good plants.
You can also buy plants online or via mail order.;
, If you're new to growing plants, start with something that's easy to grow. If you need a desert cactus for a starter plant, that's fine. Just make sure you have an easy plant that you know you can take care of. Some easy-to-care-for houseplants include coleus, sweet flag (Acorus calamus), Aspidistras (cast-iron plants), bromeliad plants, peace lilies, amaryllis, African geraniums, bamboo, Philodendron, spider plants, succulents, cactus, and button ferns.

Just because you see a particular species everywhere doesn't mean it's an easy plant to grow. They may be everywhere because they are easy to reproduce in a greenhouse, but that doesn't mean they are an easy houseplant.
Many plants don't belong in the house. Plants like tulips and hydrangeas need to be planted outside after they bloom, while other plants die after they bloom, such as paperwhite narcissus or Persian violets. Mini roses and Easter lilies just don't thrive well indoors.
 You can choose from two main categories that apply to all houseplants. These categories are divided according to visual differences.


Flowering Plants: The main attraction of these plants is the flowers. In nature almost all plants fruit and flower. However, due to the lack of light and root space in most homes, many plants don't reach maturity and won't flower as a houseplant.

Foliage Plants: These plants are grown for their attractive leaves. They can sometimes produce blooms, but they are not really attractive or worth the effort.
 A good plant should have an attractive shape and fresh-looking leaves without spots or blemishes. Check that the stems have leaves growing from top to bottom with no major gaps. Also, with flowering plants, look for ones with a lot of tight buds and few full blooms; the blooms should be bright and rich in color.New growth is a good sign, though some plants grow slowly, meaning new growth may not be noticeable.
Buy a plant that is the size you want, instead of trying to grow a larger version from a young plant.
 Give the plant a slight tug to make sure the stems are connected to the roots, and the plant is secure in it's pot. If the soil is pulling from the pot edge or it is soggy or dried out, choose another plant. Crowded roots are not a major issue., Sometimes, suppliers will use deceptive tricks to make a plant more attractive. For instance, they may glue a bloom on to a cactus that isn't from that plant. They may even spray plants to make them a prettier color. Not only are these tricks deceptive, but also they can harm the plants. Look the plant over carefully before buying it.

However, plants that are grafted, braided, or in novelty containers are fine.
 Plant dealers will help wrap the plant to help prevent damage. If the plant dealer won't wrap it, figure out a way to protect it from the elements, such as wind, cold, heat, and car fumes. You want to avoid shocking the plant. If the plant is huge and you can't transport it, have it delivered.

Create a barrier between the plant and the environment. When purchasing multiple plants have a partitioned container like a wine box ready. Buckets and storage containers will also work.
Cover the plant with plastic bags or old newspaper, and use skewers inserted in the dirt to prop up the bag. If the bag touches the leaves and flowers, it can damage them.
Cover the container or seal the bag before leaving the area, so you carry a bit of the indoor air with you. Also, don't leave the plant in a hot or cold car/trunk, which could damage the plant.
 Choose a spot that isn't full sun (unless the plant is a succulent, cactus, or a plant with flowers). Also, don't pick a spot that gets extreme temperatures. A sunny room is a good choice, but set the plant out from the window 4 to 5 feet so that it gets indirect light. Leave the plant in this spot to help it adjust. Resist the temptation to move the plant around or to transplant it into a new pot. Let the soil dry out almost completely before giving it its first watering.After being moved around among several different environments, the plant is in a state of semi-shock and needs time to adjust to yet another environment.
Isolate new plants from other plants in the house to prevent the spread of diseases and pests.
Avoid placing a warmth-loving species in the greenhouse or warm room right away, even if it loves the situation. Many florists and garden centers keep plants in lower temperatures, and if you make the plant too warm at first, it can lead to shock.
 Keep observing the plant and give it help if needed. Many plants will either wilt or drop flowers and leaves, which is normal when moving a plant. However, if the plant withers excessively or turns brown, you may have something more going on.Don't keep plying it with water or excess nutrients, which might actually make the plant worse.
Some plants, such as the Benjamin ficus, drop all their leaves then later sprout new growth vigorously after getting used to the environment. Some plants will lose all but their younger leaves and the leftovers grow more resilient in the new environment.
Sometimes, you may have bought a plant that is just ready to go dormant or even die.
 Watch the plant to see how it adjusts. Once it is showing new growth and isn't wilted anymore, you can move it to its permanent location. You can also transplant the plant to a new pot as needed.

If your plant location fits this description already, you don't have to move it.
 The plant has probably been fertilized at some point. The plant already has enough nutrients, and adding more could do more harm than good.After about a year, the plant may need fertilizer. Check on what that species needs specifically, as some do not need fertilizer at all.
 With too little light, a plant will produce poorly sized leaves and leggy stems. Variegated and colorful leaves of many plants will disappear and turn green. Flowering plants do not flower in poor light. At the other side of the spectrum, too much light can result in a tightly bunched plant with scorch marks and shriveled leaves. Knowing what plants need what light can help you provide the right amount for your plant.High light is light right next to a sunny windowsill. Cacti, succulents, and many houseplants will thrive here, but others will need to have the light filtered.
Medium light is light that is about 3 to 5 feet away from a sunny window. It produces a distinct shadow. Most houseplants thrive at this level of light without a problem.
Low light is the farthest from a sunny window, and it produces a fuzzy shadow. Some houseplants can tolerate this light and stop growing yet remain healthy.
 You can buy special grow bulbs or plant lights in big box stores or garden stores. These bulbs produce a light that is similar to natural sunlight. Turn off the lights on a schedule so plants can rest at night.You can also use ordinary household "daylight" bulbs, which are the same as grow bulbs only less expensive. These produce a bluish-white light.
LEDs generate less heat and less energy than incandescent, fluorescent, or halogen bulbs. With these bulbs, the plants don't get overheated as easily, and you save on energy bills.
 No plant likes to be exposed to a sudden change in temperature, which can happen when a cold front or thunderstorm passes through. The same goes for being near doorways and windows connected to outer walls. Changes of 5 to 10 degrees are harmless, but larger fluctuations can shock the plant.Most houseplants can thrive in temperatures of 60 degrees to 75 degrees Fahrenheit.
If your plants are exposed to temperature shocks, they may collapse and lose all their leaves and/or blooms. Too much cold can lead to rot and leaf curl, while too much heat can lead to shriveled flowers and yellowed leaves.
 You may have areas in your house that are "heat pools," which can reach extremely warm temperatures. For instance, extra sunny areas and heat sources like computers, TVs, heaters, and air conditioners. Most plants will not tolerate this kind of heat at all, but cacti and succulents can thrive., Giving your plant too little water will result in a scorched plant with crispy leaves. Too much water can lead to mold, fungus, and stinky rot. Understanding what each plant needs will help you give it the right amount of water.


Low Moisture: Many desert plants belong to this group. They don't like high-moisture environments, since they cause mold, fungi, and rot to grow on the plant. With these, provide low humidity and water only when the soil is almost dried out.

Moderate Moisture: Many plants enjoy moderate moisture and humidity. Wait for the soil to dry out a bit (like a half or quarter of the soil) and water thoroughly. Keep an eye out and provide humidity as needed.

High Moisture: Some houseplants are real water babies and love high humidity and soil moisture. These plants do better in a terrarium, vitrine, or indoor water display. A few even can live with their roots submerged in water.
 If your plant is subjected to high humidity and low temperature and light, it is likely to rot and grow fungus. That means you need to lower your watering levels if the temperature drops.

English ivies, English primroses, begonias, and some ferns don't like crowded, damp conditions. Don't place these plants in crowded plant groups or they will get rot and mildew.
 Feel the soil with your finger. For high moisture plants, if the surface is completely dry, water immediately. For moderate moisture, stick your finger in the soil to half an inch or so. If it's dry, water it.Pour water into the soil until the water runs through the drainage holes. This process waters it thoroughly. Plants love this technique, and it helps the roots at the bottom get water. Also, it gets rid of leftover salts in the soil.
 For practice, use room temperature water that has sat out overnight. However, you can also use lukewarm faucet water if you need to water a plant immediately.If you're not certain of the chemicals in your water or if your plant is sensitive to chemicals, you can use filtered water or spring water. Watch how your plant reacts. Some plants hate fluoride, lime, or salts that are present in water sources.
 Even the exact same species in the exact same situation in different pots will need water at different times. Treat each plant as a individual. Also, plants higher up on shelves or in hanging pots need more water usually than their counterparts that are lower down.

When dealing with plants that require high humidity, it's best to leave the plant alone and watch for signs of needed humidity. The leaves will scorch on the edges or tips and shrivel up.
 Many species like humidity but don't want water on their leaves, such as plants with fuzzy leaves. Instead of misting, place the plant in a humidity tray containing pebbles and water, buy a humidifier, place the plants in a group display, or plant in a greenhouse-like terrarium for watering.

However, bromeliads and many orchids love being misted. In fact, bromeliads like water in their cups and at the top of the plant, and Tillandsias or air plants have water-absorbing scales on their leaves.
Some plants get ugly cola/coffee spots if misted. Leathery leaves get corky spots. Several species develop glassy, limp leaves. Hard water also causes hard white chalky markings on misted foliage.
Splashing cold water on leaves can kill the leaves via rot. Wet leaves in full sun can burn leaves like a sunbeam through a magnifying glass can burn paper.
 Some plants like African Violets and Cyclamens will rot if water touches their crowns or bulbs, which kills the plant. Set the pot in a bowl of lukewarm water and lift it up when the water stops bubbling and the soil glistens on the surface., When it comes to pots, you have a wide range of options. You can use a nonporous or porous container, depending on your preference. You can also hide an uglier planter in a prettier container.

Nonporous containers have the advantage of holding moisture in the soil so plants don't dry out quickly, which is good when you are a forgetful caregiver. These include plastic, ceramic, and glazed clay.
Porous containers absorb water through soil, which can dry the roots; this type of pot might be helpful if you overwater. These pots also absorb fertilizer salts, and the inside edges of these can be loaded with salts that can burn roots.
 Good quality potting mix has particles of various sizes instead of only fine particles resembling black sand. Also better quality potting mix has a fluffy, damp, crumbly feel. Stay away from soils with added fertilizers which can burn plant roots and kill plants. Most plants are sensitive to salts in soil.Bad quality potting mix has a tendency to become very compact, making it difficult for roots to penetrate the soil. Also, watch out for weed seeds and bugs.
You can also mix your own soil from ingredients found at a garden center, such as peat moss, humus, perlite, pure garden sand (not builder's sand), and others. Recipes for soils are available on the web and in garden books.
Many plants also have specific soil needs, and you can find soils specific for these groups. For instance, many tropical plants prefer acidic African violet mix and rhododendron foods. Other examples are cacti and succulent mix, orchid mix, and citrus food.
 First, choose a pot that's 1/2 an inch larger than the old pot. To transplant the pot, remove the plant from its original pot by turning the plant on its side and lifting the plant out. If necessary, use a spade or knife to separate the roots from the inside of the pot. You might have to cut or break the container to free the plant. Lift the plants by the leaves or woody stems not by the soft stems or crown, which prevents damage to tender soft stems and roots.

Cover the bottom of the new pot with pebbles to have adequate drainage. Also if it has one central drainage hole, cover the bottom with a piece of fine screen.
Fill the bottom of the pot with your soil so that the plant crown (where the roots meet the stems) is almost to the top of the pot. Fill the surrounding areas with soil.
Shake the pot to settle the soil, which gets rid of large air pockets that could kill roots. Give your plant water, and let it rest for a few weeks. Do not fertilize for a few weeks

, Some plants (such as Chinese Evergreens) like to be planted deeply, while others do not want to be planted too deeply, such as African violets. Learn your plants' preferences.

Also different plants like different pot heights and widths. Palms like narrow deeper pots to support their deep taproots. Azaleas and African violets like shallow pots. Flowering plants and some other species like being cramped in the same pot they've lived in for years.
 Too much fertilizer can result in weak growth that needs to be removed, as well as white crusts on the soil and burn marks on the leaves. Plants with too little fertilizer just stop growing and start declining, slowing down, and losing leaves. Using the wrong fertilizer (like a high-nitrogen fertilizer) on a flowering plant will lead to no flowers or bad performance.The three main macronutrients are:


Nitrogen (N) is for leaf growth.

Phosphorus (P) is for the development of roots, flowers, seeds, and fruit.

Potassium (K) promotes strong stem growth, movement of water, and flowering and fruiting.


Look for these macronutrients presented in the format of dashes and numbers (e.g., 10-10-10 or 16-4-8), always in the NPK order. Generally, foliage plants need more nitrogen in their soils while flowering plants need more potassium and phosphorus. Also, a good garden store will have a large selection of fertilizers for each specific group.
 Follow the instructions on the package. It's best to choose either a liquid fertilizer or a mix-in fertilizer rather than fertilizer sticks and pellets. The sticks and pellets don't always melt correctly into the soil and leave "salt spots" that can burn roots. Whenever you use fertilizer, use less than the recommended amount to avoid harming your plant.

Don't fertilize plants during the dormant season or when they are not growing. Many plants appreciate a good rest during the cool season. They receive less light thus have less energy to be used in making food. Fertilizer during this dormant (sleep) season will result in weak, leggy growth that is more susceptible to diseases and pests. Also, this growth will not produce strong flowers or fruit.
 Learning the native climate and soil conditions may help uncover little secrets that will help you grow better plants. You can do a bit of research about each plant to find out more., Routine checking up on your plants will help you spot problems when they are still minor. If you don't check up on your plants, you may find they are too far gone to save., If you find pest or disease, start the appropriate pest- or disease-killing procedures immediately. If your problem is poor conditions, correct them quickly to avoid further damage.

Many completely different ailments produce similar symptoms. Look for combined symptoms. Leaf drop and yellowing symptoms due to dried-out soil will accompany dry soil and scorch marks.
 If you see a rotten, dead, or deformed leaf, pluck it off. Remove spent and dead flowers, as both dead leaves and flowers are sources for disease.Many soft stem plants like Pilea benefit from a procedure called pinching in which you pinch off the top of a stem to encourage side shoots. This procedure results in fuller growth. Use these clippings for cuttings.
Indoor trees and shrubs also need pruning to help encourage healthy growth, an attractive shape, and blooming. Some plants only bloom on new wood.
 If the plant tolerates water on leaves, give them a nice lukewarm shower, or set the plant out in a summer rainstorm. Leaves that don't like water on the leaves are best dusted with a makeup brush., Many tropical houseplants in their native tropical habitat don't go dormant at all and keep growing. Others, however, have distinct sleeping seasons that need to be provided for proper growth. You'll need to provide less water and warmth for a period of weeks or months. During the winter, almost any plant can get by with less water or warmth, which results in vigorous spring growth or even flowers and fruit.Signs of dormancy vary among plant species. Evergreen species just stop growing. Deciduous plants drop all their leaves. Most bulbs like caladiums simply appear to go dead above ground while the bulb lives on. In fact the calla lily unusually falls asleep during the growing season in northern climates due to the opposite seasons of its South African home. Cacti and leafless succulents don't display dormancy but appreciate cold dryness in winter.
Do not fertilize a plant during winter or dormant season unless it's required for the species. The plant's roots will not be using the nutrients, and it will damage roots or force the plant into active growth, which results in weak foliage and flower performance., Compacted soil results in water and nutrients draining too fast into the draining dish. The soil should bubble and make soaking sounds when you water it. In soil that is too heavy, plants will have symptoms of weak brittle stems and normal leaves.

Sometimes the plant will snap off the root ball with a slight tug, or stronger species will be less vigorous.
Plants with taproots and some indoor trees will topple over in soil that's too light.

