 Whether the tree is real or artificial won't really matter. However, if your kids are allergic to pine or spruce, go with the artificial tree.;
,, Children love to help with these strands, though you might be needed to help with the lights to ensure the kids don't get hurt in the process. But let them make some of the choices of whether it would be best to move around clockwise or counterclockwise or further up versus further down than what you've decided. Listen to the kids choices, unless their choices would potentially hurt other innocent people.


For Christmas lights, start with the end that doesn't contain the electrical plug first. Wrap that around the tree-topper area and decorate downward until the lights run out or it reaches the bottom.

You can connect additional strands of lights to the tree until you get to the bottom, but don't overdo it if you are coming close to finishing, as you should use an extension electrical cord instead.


For popcorn strands, let them help set these up completely by themselves, though be around to ensure they don't try to taste-test them in the process.(Popcorn always looks inviting to any child whether or not it's been freshly prepared or not!)

,, Keychains or costume jewelry are a great start, though you can follow up with additional small mementos that your children won't mind destroying if you had to place something through them. (Although that miniature tool from a toolbox wouldn't be too devastating to a child who doesn't mind building, asking your kids to give up a sports card to poke a hole later could be both emotionally and financially disastrous.)

, Get them to hang on the tree without overdoing the amount of weight on each branch. Hang heavier ornaments on the bottom, and lighter ornaments on top.
 If they can't, you have to give it up in lieu of safety.
 If they can give up a small-to-medium size stuffed animal, you can use this animal. If you must use a real Christmas tree topper (or have an extra unneeded few lights from the Christmas light strand, make sure the light that was placed around the treetop can't catch the stuffed animal on fire. Bend the wire away from the bear or untie this section of lights from that area of the tree., Place it on a nightstand or other place away from their hands where only you (as the adult) can be responsible for it's operation (yet still allowing them to see it sparkle throughout the day).