 Spend some time and money on transforming your bedroom into an escape from the outside world. Making your bedroom feel like a hotel room can help you escape your everyday life and move into a more satisfying love life.Put noise-cancelling curtains on your windows and soft, luxurious blankets on your bed.
If you have any pets, be sure that they are out of the room during your intimate encounters. It can really kill the mood if your dog jumps up on the bed and decides that it wants kisses, too.;
, On average, people with silk sheets have more intimate encounters per week than those with duvets., Studies have shown that people who have purple bedding or furniture in their bedroom have more intimate encounters each week than those who do not.Other colors that did well in the study were red, sky blue, pink, and black.
Colors to avoid include grey, green, and beige., Pillows can be used in a number of ways to enhance intimate positions.Make sure that you have lots of comfy pillows on your bed!

, Couples are more likely to get intimate in a warm bedroom, where being scantily clad (or naked) feels comfortable. That said, a bedroom that’s too hot makes it difficult for both parties to perform.Aim for a temperature between 68 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit, depending on your tastes., Sheets that smell like sweat (and lord knows what else) are less sexy than clean-smelling sheets. Be sure to keep your sheets clean and smelling nice by washing them regularly.You might also want to spray your sheets with a linen spray to keep them smelling good. If you do this, make sure you don’t go overboard — an overpowering scent will be off-putting.
 Ensure that dirty laundry is in a hamper and that there are no other reminders of your household chores within eyesight when you’re getting intimate. Seeing reminders of your chores can be distracting and stress-inducing., Condoms, toys, props, lubricant — put anything that you are likely to use during intimate encounters into a box or drawer that is meant only for those things.


That way, when you’re making out, you don’t end up digging around or searching for things when you need them., Music and physical intimacy go well together — as one expert says, the two tap into a primitive part of our brains.

Recommended tunes are ones with a sexy beat that evokes a wave-like feeling, but really anything that gets you going is fine!, Candles do more than set the mood: their flattering light will boost your physical appearance. Avoid choosing candles that are too heavily scented, as these can be off-putting.To be safe, stick to unscented candles.
If you really want to use scented candles, try one of these scents: pumpkin pie, licorice, lavender, cinnamon buns, or cucumber. Avoid cherry, cranberry, chocolate, and smokey scents., Instead of turning your attention to the TV, smart phone or tablet when you retire for the evening, make an effort to be together in bed — to cuddle and unwind together. Doing this will make intimate encounters more likely.Resist the urge to check your phone while being intimate with someone. A study showed that 1 in 10 people do this. If you’re one of those people, remove the temptation by leaving your phone on silent in the other room.