 To help you choose an exercise that will be something you look forward to, sit down and make a list of every kind of exercise you can think of. Get your mom or dad to sit down and help you think. If you don’t already play sports in school, this type of brainstorming is especially helpful.


Every type of exercise burns a specific amount of calories, and you want to pick a type of exercise that will help you burn your goal amount of calories.If you don’t like traditional sports, consider taking a class at your mom’s gym, like yoga, Pilates, or kickboxing. If you don’t have gym access, then try watching exercise videos at home. You can find many free workout routine videos on Youtube that you can follow along with and get a great workout. You could even do this with a friend for something fun to do.
Consider joining a sports team if you’re not on one already, or maybe a fitness club like hiking or rock climbing at your school. Keep in mind that accessibility and ease are important for sticking with exercise. Choose something that will be convenient and plan to do it during a time when you feel good.
 Once you have thought of some activities you think sound fun, give them a try. For example, if no sports sounded appealing, a yoga class at the gym might sound like something you’d enjoy. Before committing to a yoga routine, attend a class to make sure that it’s for you.


If you’re thinking about joining a fitness club at school, perhaps attend one meeting on a trial basis, and tell the club leader.
 The most effective way for a teenager to stay motivated to do physical activity is to have fun with it.Pick activities that you don’t even think of as “exercise.” Do you like horseback riding? Swimming, hiking, or canoeing? Pretty much any outside activity requires physical exercise.
 One way to stay motivated and have fun at the same time is to have a friend with you. Ask one of your friends to become your fitness buddy, and if you're on a sports team, find a teammate you can exercise with.


Schedule weekly meetings with your fitness buddy so that you develop the habit of getting exercise together. Arrange days and times to go for a walk, bike ride, or run with your friend.
You can also incorporate some active time into your outings with friends, such as by going to the skate park, going bowling, or going for a hike together.

