 Being familiar with this creates a more understanding of the modernized Hawaiian language. Some Hawaiian words, such as "pau" (pronounced pow) meaning "finished", are included in Pidgin.;
, Contrary to the modern English alphabet that consists of 26 letters, the Hawaiian alphabet contains 12 letters. The seven consonants are h, k, l, m, n, p, and w and the five vowels are a, e, i, o, u.


Vowel pronunciation are "ah", "ey", "ee", "oh", and "oo".
When a long vowel is pronounced, the macron symbol (dash or hyphen) is used over the stressed letter.
 Some words are actually used worldwide in media and everyday communication.



Aloha (ah-low-ha): This is the universal word for hello and goodbye, as well as love.
Kama'aina (caw-ma-eye-na): Native born or Hawaii resident. Certain places and attractions, such as the Honolulu Zoo, provide kama'aina discounts.
Mahalo (ma-ha-low): Thank you. The phrase "mahalo a nui loa" (ah nu-wee low-ah) means thank you very much.
Ohana (oh-ha-na): Family. This could mean blood-related family and people that you feel close enough to call family.
Haole (how-li): Caucasian person. If a person is half Caucasian, they would be considered "hapa haole".
 Pronounced as wee-key, wiki means fast or quick. Some schools have included a "wiki lunch" in their schedules, which is a mix between a snack and lunch during the first recess. Between 1970 and 2007, there was a "wiki wiki" shuttle system at the Honolulu International Airport to transport passengers and baggage around in a quick and efficient time.
 A Hawaiian dictionary also further explains how one word can be used in other expressions and as other meanings.
 Not only do they educate on common words and phrases, but there are songs about colors, numbers, and other other things in life that they teach. Hawaiian History is a high school curriculum class for the Social Studies department. Depending on the school, it is optional or a requirement in order to graduate. Ukulele is another high school curriculum class for the Arts and/or Music department.
 When sounding out syllables that contain vowels, use the Hawaiian vowel sounds. "Ke", as in the Likelike Highway, is swayed between "kay" and "key" and "me", as in Kamehameha, is pronounced as "meh", not "me".

