 The less dark and swollen your black eye is, the easier it will be to hide. Before you try to cover it up, hold a cold compress against your eye for 10 minutes. Then, take the compress off and let your eye rest for 10 more minutes. Repeat this pattern as needed.


This will reduce the pain and swelling in the skin around your eye and help stop any bleeding under the skin. This should also make the black eye less noticeable before you even apply any cover-up — if not, it will at least make it less painful to touch.Making a cold compress is easy — just take an ice bag or a sack of frozen vegetables and wrap it in a thin towel or rag. You can also apply a pharmacy-grade cold compress or use frozen tea bags.
 If your black eye is especially painful or swollen, you may want to consider taking a small amount of an over-the-counter drug to help soothe it. Specifically, anti-inflammatory drugs like Ibuprofen can reduce swelling while easing the pain, making them an especially good choice.


Be sure to follow any dosage instructions on the box carefully. If you are a child, get an adult's permission before taking any medicine.
 If your black eye is the result of an accident or something non-serious, click here to skip this step. On the other hand, if your black eye was the result of violence that a family member or romantic partner inflicted on you on purpose, you should get help immediately. Getting yourself out of this abusive situation is much more important than hiding the evidence of it. Remember, it is never OK for someone to use violence against you.


In the U.S., one great resource for victims of abuse is the National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-799-SAFE (7233) or 1-800-787-3224 for TTY (text telephones). You should also call your local police to report violence or situations that make you feel like you are in danger.
See also:
How to Report Child Abuse
How to Report Elder Abuse
How to Report Domestic Violence

How to Recognize a Potentially Abusive Relationship.

