 Traditionally, at old diners, the cooks would slice dry toast (without butter) in half vertically, and would slice buttered toast on the diagonal, so that the waitresses would could differentiate between them quickly and easily. Plus, everybody knows diagonally-cut toast tastes better, right?









The club sandwich is cut diagonally twice, while toast sticks--slice in several vertical strips, are commonly served with a soft-boiled egg, to make for easy dipping. Mix it up. Cut your toast however you most like to eat it.
 When you've got a perfectly-crispy slice of toast straight from the toaster, it makes a great vehicle for toppings. While you can obviously put anything on your toast you like, there are some classics. Common toast-topping options include:


butter or margarine
peanut butter
jelly or jam
Nutella
eggs, fried or scrambled

, It's hard to think of something more comforting and delicious to eat for a snack than toast with cinnamon and sugar-sweetened butter. To mix up this delicious topping for your toast, thoroughly combine the following ingredients in a small cup or bowl, and spread onto toasted bread:


1/2 tablespoon of butter, soft
1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon, ground
1 teaspoon granulated sugar

, Great for a side to lunch or a snack in and of itself, a toasted cheese or a cheese toast is a simple slice of bread topped with melted cheese. Made traditionally with cheddar, you can use any cheese you like. To make it, the oven is your best bet.


Toast the bread on one side and remove from the oven. Top the untested side with slices of your favorite kind of cheese, or a shredded variety.
Return the bread to the oven so the bread continues toasting on the top side, melting the cheese at the same time. Remove from the oven when the cheese is bubbly and the toast is brown.
 While it may sound strange to the uninitiated, savory gravies are often used to top beans in English cuisine, for breakfast or snack.


Sautéed mushrooms make an excellent side to steaks or chops, especially when topping a slice of grilled toast.
Beans on toast is a staple of the full English breakfast, featuring a basic slice of toast with baked beans on top.
Creamed chipped beef on toast is Midwestern cooking at its finest, and a Military staple commonly referred to with a crude bathroom epithet (Hint: something on a shingle). Think of it as a poor man's biscuits and gravy.
 In his later years, legend has it, the singer favored nothing so much as an enormous white-bread peanut butter, banana, grape jelly, and bacon sandwich, fried up in bacon grease. You think toast is good? Try frying it in bacon grease and topping it with that mess. You're in Fat-Elvis heaven. To make the sandwich:


Fry up a few slices of bacon in a skillet, reserving the grease. Remove the bacon and make a peanut butter sandwich on white bread, topping it with the bacon and a generous portion of sliced banana and your favorite jelly.
Return the whole sandwich into the skillet with the grease in it, frying it evenly on both sides and heating it throughout. When the bread becomes toasty and golden, it's ready to eat. Be sure to use a napkin.

