 Most attorneys get their clients from referrals from previous clients or recommendations from other lawyers. While online sources have become more important they have only replaced yellow pages ads in importance. A good lawyer will have a strong reputation, so consider the recommendations of others carefully. While a positive recommendation suggests that the client had a good overall experience with the lawyer, look at negative reviews closely. Are the previous clients upset because the lawyers were disorganized and lazy, or are they upset because their case was an uphill battle that the lawyers weren't able to win? Think carefully about which recommendations you want to believe.


Talk to immigrant friends and family about their experiences with their lawyers. Ask them for a detailed account of the strengths and weaknesses of their lawyers.
Find out what was most important to them in their process. For example, you might find that a smart, hard-working lawyer is still not a good choice if they can't provide a translator for you.
Check online reviews on websites like Find Law and Avvo. Which of your lawyers has the most positive feedback, and why?;
, Find local immigration attorneys by visiting your state bar association’s website or by calling them to ask for referrals. In the list you compile, include the attorneys' basic contact information: name, address, phone number, and website address.


Many state bars have programs where attorneys can become certified specialists in Immigration and nationality Law. These lawyers typically go through a fairly rigorous screening process (exams, recommendations, experience, etc.) Typically, these attorneys are extremely qualified. Californiaand Floridaboth have this type of program.
Use the search function on the American Bar Association's website to find your state bar association.If you don't want to call the state bar association, you can do an online search. Enter "immigration attorneys in " into your search engine and sift through the results.
If you don't have regular access to the internet, you might try using the Yellow Pages. Look in the "attorneys" section for ads that list immigration law as an area of specialization.
 If you don't have a website address for any of the lawyers you found, run an internet search for their name, phone number, or address to see if you can find one.


Any reliable attorney should have a website that's easy to find. If you're struggling to find a lawyer's website, you should think twice about hiring that firm.
 A website is a firm's public face, and it can tell you a lot about the attorney you're researching. The content on these sites will help you make your decision about which attorney is right for you.
 Many firms provide information about immigration law on their websites. Look for a section with general information about the immigration process or a frequently asked questions (FAQ) on immigration law.


An FAQ section suggests the lawyers in a firm listen well to their clients and anticipate the concerns of future clients.
By keeping you informed, a firm empowers you to make the right decisions for yourself. Read this information carefully to give yourself the knowledge you'll need to make your decision.
 Bad grammar and spelling demonstrate a lack of attention to detail. That's the last thing you want in the attorney helping you through the immigration process.


If English is not your first language, you may not feel qualified to judge the grammar and spelling on a website. Ask a friend who's good with English to help you.
 A poorly designed website suggests that the firm doesn't place importance on how they come across to the public. Avoid firms with websites that look cheap or outdated. If they don't care enough to give themselves a professional face, you shouldn't trust them to handle your future.
 A good website will provide information about each attorney working for the firm. Inspect each lawyer's educational background and work history. An attorney with years of experience in immigration law will be able to represent you better than one who's just starting out.


Look for an attorney who has at least three to five years of experience doing immigration law. Make sure they're still practicing it currently.
Give priority to lawyers who have worked with clients from your country. The more familiar they are with the laws of your homeland, the better they'll be able to represent your individual needs.
If you're not comfortably fluent in English, look for a lawyer who speaks your native language. Clear communication is important for a lawyer-client relationship.
If a firm doesn't have any attorneys who speak your language, don't rule them out immediately. See if they provide interpreters or translators for their clients.
 State bar associations keep track of complaints and disciplinary actions. Avoid the lawyers on that list at all costs.


Look for an online database of complaints or disciplinary action on the website for your state bar association. Search it for the lawyers on your list.
Call or visit your state bar association if the information is not listed on their website.
 As you go through the previous steps, start making judgment calls about which attorneys or firms might be a bad fit for you. Good reasons for immediately crossing someone off your list include:


They don't speak your language or provide interpreters.
They don't have enough experience in immigration law.
They have a shoddy website filled with grammatical errors.
They've been disciplined for ethics violations in the past.
 Some attorneys charge a small fee of $50 or so for consultations. If you think this particular lawyer has the potential to serve you well, it may be worth it to pay the fee. However, most attorneys do offer free consultations. Do not pay a fee if you can't afford it.


If an attorney lives in a different state, you can schedule a phone consultation instead of an in-person meeting. However, because the attorney will have to appear in court where you live, try to find a local attorney to represent you.
Hire an out-of-state attorney only if you have a particularly complicated case. In that case, you may need a lawyer who specializes in situations like yours.
For example, a political refugee hoping to get asylum in the United States would need to find an attorney who specializes in asylum cases.
 You have a limited amount of time with each lawyer, so make each question count. Remember that you are interviewing the attorney for a job, and treat your meeting as such: a job interview. Some questions you should ask include:


How long has the attorney has been practicing immigration law? Look for someone with at least 3-5 years experience.
How many immigration cases does the attorney handle every year? At least 50% of the lawyer's cases should be immigration-related.
Does the attorney know the immigration judges in your area? A good working relationship with immigration judges will be very valuable.
 Do this well before your meetings and save them somewhere they won't get misplaced. You should be able to find these documents easily before your appointments.
 Take notes as you talk to each attorney to help you remember what they said and what your initial impressions were. These notes will help you make a smart, informed final decision.


Be assertive during your meeting, but let the attorney do most of the talking. Be sure to listen carefully and take notes.
The attorney should be able to answer your prepared questions easily. They shouldn't sound hesitant or unsure.
However, if your particular issue is complicated or extremely rare, they may have to do some research.
If an attorney says they need to research the issue before giving you an answer, don't assume they're a bad choice. It's actually good that they're willing to do the research needed to win your case.
It's much better for an attorney to take the time to research the right answer instead of giving you the wrong one.
 The relationship between an attorney and client is based on trust and security. If you feel uncomfortable about a lawyer for any reason, you shouldn't place your fate in their hands. Even if you can't say specifically why you didn't like a lawyer, trust your instinct.
 You might still have two or three top choices that you're having trouble deciding from.


Solving immigration problems can be expensive. Find out how they will charge you (flat fee or hourly). Get an estimate from them re: total potential costs and time to help you make your decision.
Remember what successful immigrants told you about what to value in an immigration attorney.
Think about what you learned about each lawyer during your consultations. Which one matches your needs most closely?
At the end of the day, choose the lawyer who you feel most comfortable with.

