 Clarinets are designed to be transposed to match other players’ keys. For most standard clarinets, you will be one whole tone flatter. A “C” for most instruments can be played by playing a “C,” but a clarinet will play a D to reach a “C.”This is the reason people call the clarinet a transposing instrument. Transposing means to fix the notes to match up with the instrument. To transpose a piece for the clarinet, you would need to raise each note a whole step.
 A standard chromatic tuner costs about $25 and can be found in any music shop or online. You can also download a chromatic tuner app for you smartphone, if you have the means. Chromatic tuners are ideal because they will show you what note you are playing.


Make sure your tuner is set up with a microphone as opposed to being used as a guitar pedal.
You can choose to tune to any key, but for this demonstration, tune to concert “C.” Concert “C” for most clarinets is D.
 It is best to start with the lower register of the clarinet and move down to the other sections. Play a low D while facing your tuner. The tuner should detect the note as around a C. It’s okay if the note isn’t in tune because you’re going to fix that.


Play a firm D and don’t use a softer tone. Playing softly on the clarinet will produce a sharper tone.
 Now you need to adjust the barrel to better tune your lowest octave. For sharp notes, you will extend your instrument. When you are too flat, you will shorten your instrument to sharpen the tone. Make your initial adjustments to the upper barrel about a half millimeter either by pulling or pushing. Play that same note and take note of your tuner.


You’ll probably need to experiment for a bit to get a close enough note. The ideal tune will be slightly sharp. Make sure the tuning needle is roughly in the center to indicate in-tune.Make as many adjustments as needed.
 Now play a D an octave higher while facing your tuner. For most clarinets, this octave is too sharp. Take note of what the chromatic tuner indicates. Tuning the higher pitched notes uses the same principles as the lower octave., Make your adjustments to the halfway part of the clarinet. If your D is sharp pull the clarinet about half a millimeter. Play the note again facing your tuner and see if you are closer to being in-tune. Continue to adjust until you’ve reached the sweet spot of being slightly sharp.


Make sure you line up your bridge key properly before playing the higher notes., Go through each note on your clarinet with your tuner. For your left-hand notes, or the lower octave, you will make any adjustments to the barrel. For any of the higher pitched notes, or the right handed notes, make adjustments at the halfway part of the clarinets.

