 Your puggle will need to have a high-quality food to keep him in good health and you will also need to choose a food that is appropriate for small breed dogs. To determine if a food is of high quality, check the ingredients. If meat (not a meat by-product) is listed as the first two ingredients, then the dog food is most likely of high quality. If not, then keep looking.


You can also find dog foods that are formulated just for small dog breeds.;
, Making your dog’s food requires careful planning to ensure that you meet all of your dog’s nutritional needs. Dogs require a specific balance of vitamins and nutrients, which is not easy to achieve.Talk to your puggle’s veterinarian first if you are considering preparing homemade food for your dog.
 Your puggle’s daily food requirement will depend on his weight and activity level. Your dog food package should provide a suggested feeding range, but you will need to tailor this amount to your dog’s activity needs.


For example, if the dog food package recommend ½ to one cup of food per day and your dog is very active, then you will need to give him the full cup of food each day. If he is more sedentary, then he may only require ½ cup per day.
Ask your veterinarian for a recommendation if you are still not sure how much you should be feeding your puggle., Some people like to free-feed their pets, which is when you leave out a large amount of dry food and allow your pet to eat as much as he wants. This can cause your puggle to become overweight or even obese, so it is best to stick to measured portions and a regular feeding schedule instead.To determine how much to feed your puggle at each meal, you will need to divide his total daily food intake into multiple portions. For example, if your puggle is supposed to have one cup of food per day, then you might give him ½ cup in the morning and another ½ cup in the evening.
 If your puggle tolerates it, you can give her all of her daily food in one meal per day, but some dogs do better if fed two meals per day. If your puggle is still a puppy, then she may require more than two feeding sessions per day. If your puppy is:


eight to 12 weeks, then feed four meals per day
three to six months, then feed three meals per day
six months to one year old, then feed two meals per day, Puggles need to have access to plenty of fresh, clean water at all times. Make sure that you wash and refill your puggle’s water dish at least once per day. Keep his water dish somewhere that is easy for him to access.


Stainless steel or ceramic water dishes are best for dogs because your dog will not be able to chew on it. Stainless steel and ceramic water dishes also tend to be cleaner than plastic.
 Your puggle will appreciate the occasional treat, but it is important not to give your dog too many treats or he may start to gain weight. Instead of higher calorie treats, try offering:


steamed broccoli
baby carrots
cooked sweet potato slices
cooked green beans
blueberries
watermelon chunks
banana slices, There are also some foods that can make your puggle very sick or even kill him. Be careful to avoid giving these foods to your dog. These foods include:alcohol
avocados
chocolate
caffeine
grapes and raisins
onions, garlic, and chives
nuts
yeast
xylitol