 Find a sturdy bowl or basin that is large enough to comfortably soak your feet in. If you're serious about pampering your feet, you can also invest in an electric foot bath with features like bubbles, heat, and vibration. Place the tub in front of a comfortable chair, with a towel underneath to catch any spills.;
, Lighting and sound can have profound effects on mood. To create a calm, spa-like atmosphere, dim the lights- bright, harsh lighting will ruin the relaxing vibe you're going for.Choose soothing background music, like classical music or white noise. Music has been proven to enhance relaxation and restore harmony between mind and body., Avoid filling up your foot bath at your bathtub or sink, as you will then have to transport it to your relaxation area. Instead, add water to the foot tub with a pitcher or kettle to make things easier and to prevent spills. You can adjust the temperature to your liking by slowly adding boiling water and then cold water, alternating between the two until the bath is just right.


If you are using an electric foot bath, make sure to leave the machine unplugged until after you have filled it with water to avoid the risk of an electrical shock.
 There are a host of ingredients that can be added to a foot soak to help and soothe tired feet. Scour your kitchen cupboards or visit a health food store to find the perfect additions to your foot bath. Some of the best, foot-friendly ingredients are:


peppermint, which can invigorate skin and muscles and reduce inflammationvinegar, which can help treat foot fungus, odor, and athlete's footepsom salts, which can relieve muscle pain, tension and joint inflammationlemon, which can be energizing, Aromatherapy is believed to treat ailments and relieve stress through the use of fragrant, essential oils.In addition to their healing potential, essential oils can make your foot soak especially indulgent. For a relaxing effect, try vanilla or lavender essential oils, which have been shown to be calming.Consult with a doctor first if you have one of the following conditions: a lung condition, such as asthma, respiratory allergies, chronic lung disease; skin allergies; or pregnancy (some oils may cause uterine contractions)., An easy alternative to DIY foot soaks is to purchase one at a bath and body boutique, pharmacy or department store. Look for products that include soothing ingredients like epsom salts or peppermint, and have fun shopping around for scents that you enjoy. Bath "bombs" or "fizzies" are popular foot soak options that you can watch dissolve as you enjoy their soothing properties.
 Test out the water before you soak your feet- the temperature should be between 92° to 100 °F (37.8 °C). Anything above 104° F is considered unsafe, especially for people with certain conditions, such as poor circulation and pregnancy.Immerse your feet and soak them for 10 to 30 minutes, depending on your comfort level. Relax and enjoy the experience!


While you are soaking your feet, you could entertain yourself by reading a book or magazine or by simply closing your eyes and listening to the background music.
 Exfoliating your feet removes dead skin and leaves feet feeling smooth and refreshed. Use a pumice stone or foot file to slough away rough skin. You can also use an exfoliating scrub, or make one of your own by combining some of the following natural, ingredients:


Sugar and baby oilEpsom salt and lavender oilSalt and mineral oil, After exfoliating, rinse your feet thoroughly. Dry them gently with a towel. Trim your toenails if necessary and apply a rich, moisturizing lotion to feet; lotions that contain synthetic urea are especially good for dry feet.As a final, pampering touch, put on a comfortable pair of socks or slippers.

