 Horses are natural grazers, spending their time steadily eating in small amounts. In order to keep your horse happy, you will need to replicate this natural way of living for your horse. You should feed your horse small amounts of grain throughout the day in order to make him feel comfortable.Avoid feeding your horse big meals or all at once.
Larger meals won't digest as well as smaller meals will.
Try to feed your horse grain at least three times a day.
For example, horses can eat grains like oat and barely.;
, Horses won't eat just one type of food in their natural environment. As they graze, horses will eat many different plants, many of which provide roughage. These plants will help maintain proper digestion in your horse. In addition to letting your horse graze, provide some roughage in your horse's diet to replicate his natural grazing and keep him happy and healthy.Generally, fresh hay is given to horses to provide roughage.Stabled horses should be given a stack of hay to nibble at whenever they like.
Horses love to chew. Providing roughage and fiber can let your horse chew and feel relaxed. Your horse may exhibit bad behaviors if he isn't able to chew as often as he likes.
Horses should eat about 1% of their body weight in roughage every day.
 If for some reason you have to switch your horses diet or introduce a new food, make the change a gradual one. Changing diets too quickly can have an effect on your horse's health or may cause him to simply reject the new food. Always work slowly to introduce any new dietary changes to help make your horse more comfortable with the change.Make any changes over the course of one week.
Introduce new items by 25% every two days.
 In order to stay healthy, your horse will need to eat a specific amount of food. Exactly how much will vary from horse to horse and is usually based on his size and ideal weight. Once you know what amount of food your horse needs to eat, it's important to measure that amount out each time you feed him. This will help keep your horse at an optimal level of nutrition.The average horse eats about fifteen to twenty pounds of hay each day.
If your horse grazes often, you may not need to feed him as much.
Give your horse plenty of hay during winter months.
If your horse is doing more work, you will need to feed him more food.
 It can be a good idea to stick to a feeding routine. Horses are habitual animals and prefer steady schedules throughout their day. Regularly feeding your horse can help make him feel more comfortable, relaxed, and may actually encourage him to eat without trouble.Horses should be fed at least three times daily. You might try spacing these out over a period of fourteen hours.Horses can get stressed if you don't stick to your schedule.
Your horse will know if you are late or early.
 Horses need time to properly digest and allow their food to settle. Taking your horse out for some exercise too close to meal times can cause digestive troubles for him. Always allow your horse plenty of time, either before or after meals, to keep your horse feeling comfortable and happy.Feed at least three hours before exercise.
Wait for your horse to regain its normal breath rate and temperature before feeding after exercise.
Your horse may suffer from colic if he ate too close to exercising or heavy activity.
 Your horse will love receiving the occasional treat. These treats should be a healthy part of their diet and some foods are more ideal than others. It's important to only offer treats that are small, about the size of a quarter, to avoid choking hazards. Check out some of these following foods to learn which ones can make great treats for your horse:Apple slices
Carrots
Melon
Pumpkin
Hay cubes
Commercial horse treats

, Horses can eat many things, but there are some foods that are dangerous for them to consume. It's important that you know these foods and avoid offering them to your horse to avoid causing health troubles. Take a look at some of these dangerous foods that you should avoid giving to your horse:Broccoli
Onions and garlic
Meat
Peppers
Potatoes
Tomatoes
Cauliflower
Cabbage

