 Allowing your guinea pig outside is good for his health and well-being.Guinea pig runs are popular enclosures that will allow your guinea pig to play safely outdoors. Runs are relatively easy to put together and can be made of different materials, such as wood, PVC, nylon and mesh.Whichever type of run that you choose, there are few important things to keep in mind. For example, cover the run to keep predators out and provide your guinea pig with some protection from the sun and breeze.Place some things in the run that your guinea pig can hide and rest in, such as a guinea pig-size igloo and paper bags. Plastic tunnels or toilet paper tubes are also good items that he can rest in.Make sure that you place plenty of water and good-quality hay in the run as well.If the grass is still damp, place several large towels on the ground so that your guinea has somewhere dry to go when he is outside.Alternatively, you could wait until the grass is completely dry before taking your guinea pig outside.
Remove any weeds, and debris from inside the enclosure area., Guinea pigs are very sensitive to hot weather (80 degrees Farenheit or more), so it is important to take him outside only when the temperature is not too hot. Temperatures will not be extremely high in the springtime, so this would be the perfect time to take your guinea pig outside.
 Because guinea pigs are sensitive to extremes in temperature, watch your guinea pig when he is outside to make sure that he looks okay. If your guinea pig is starting to suffer from heatstroke, he may exhibit signs such as reluctance to move, weakness, and panting. If you notice any of these signs, bring your guinea pig inside immediately and contact your veterinarian.You can administer some first aid to your guinea pig before taking him to your veterinarian. Wet his ears, feet, and fur with cold water. Do not use a lot of cold water, because cooling his body temperature down too quickly and/or too much can also cause serious medical issues.On your way to your veterinarian’s office, keep your guinea pig on a cool, wet towel. Putting on the air conditioning (not too high) or keeping the windows down will also help to keep your guinea pig without lowering his body temperature too much.