 It is easy to become overwhelmed when studying, especially when you have a very limited amount of time. Determine study topics in highest need of studying and in least need of studying.


Create a study checklist. Make a column listing the reading, assignments, lecture notes and handouts that were covered in class. Next, highlight the areas where you are the weakest. In addition, highlight areas that received the most attention during instruction.Identify areas in your notes where you have vague or insufficient information. Review a classmate’s notes to help fill in these gaps.Setting priorities are important, but be sure to not over prepare. Avoid trying to study all of the material covered in class. Your instructor will most likely test you on the most important ideas and concepts, so focus your attention on this.;
, Where you study is as important as what you study. You need to study in a place that is free from distractions and conducive to learning.


Choose a place to study that is free from TV or computer distractions. Also, don’t study around people who will distract you with off topic conversation. Consider studying at quiet places such as a library, coffee shop, or on campus study lounge.Sit in a straight back chair where you can maintain good posture and that isn’t too relaxing to avoid possibly falling asleep.Lighting and temperature are important too, so choose a well-lit area with cooler temperatures. It is difficult to focus when studying in a place that’s too hot.
 Make sure you are adequately prepared for studying by having all of your necessary resources and materials. This will prevent you from having to search for these things and wasting precious study time.


Bring all necessary textbooks, calculators, notes, and writing utensils such as highlighters, pens and pencils. Bring along some music if you find that helps you when studying.
Consider using only paper-based resources and materials and leaving your laptop and other electronic devices behind. It is too tempting to become distracted with emails, social media, and online games.

