 This is so important, especially for teenagers. You have to be happy being single and you can never be dependent on having a boyfriend. Basically, be sure having a boyfriend is good for you and be happy with yourself! Personally, I see so many women and girls who feel a boyfriend completes them, and deep down are unhappy with themselves. If you are young, it's a good idea to wait until you are in high school, or preferably can drive before dating. Don't rely on guys to make you feel loved or happy, happiness comes from within.;
, For instance, if you want a guy who can make you laugh, you have things in common with, but is a gentlemen and treats you with respect and you happen to find a guy who is funny and charming but isn't such a gentlemen, don't settle. There's many fish in the water and there will be someone better for you! Set your standards high, but also don't be extremely selective.
 Many people say 'appearance does not matter, it's what's on the inside that counts' but truthfully it does. Let's face it, no one wants the person they're dating to be lazy and sloppy looking. At the same time, you don't have to be a rich perfect-looking supermodel to get the guy you like, but just be happy with yourself and look your best. Dress nicely to flatter your figure without being overly-exposing, and wear subtle makeup to enhance your eyes or maybe try a new hairstyle.
 The idea that girls should be cute and guys should be tough may not be good for society, but because they are based on human instinct, many guys sub-consciously want cute vulnerability in girls, even if they consciously think strong women are admirable. Lying about who you are is bad, but if you have a cute and vulnerable side, let it show.
 Smile, and talk to people, and if you're out on the prowl for a guy, don't bring more than one friend with you. Also, you want to look good, but if your look is especially fashion forward or avant garde, you might look great, but you won't look very approachable. A quiet girl who looks like she just stepped off the runway at a fashion show might catch a guy's interest, but even the most beautiful girls don't get asked out often if they don't seem approachable.
 Go do the things you like and find other guys who like doing the same things. It shows you have things in common. Try to find guys you like and approach them in a friendly way. Don't be overly flirtatious which could lead to rejection or bad first impressions. Don't be too shy, which could lead to never getting a chance though. Be yourself, most importantly, and have them like the real you.
 For example, if you want a smart guy, join a chess club.
 If you both have a good connection, congrats you've found someone to date. If things don't work out, you haven't found the right person and it's nothing against you.

