 It's located at https://squareup.com/.
 It's a blue button in the middle of the page., To create an account with Square, you'll need to create the following sign-in credentials:


Email address - Type in an active email address (e.g., your work email address) in the "Enter your email" and "Confirm your email" fields.

Password - Type in a password to use with your Square account in the "Create a password" field.

Country - Select your country of residence from the "Country" drop-down menu.
 This blue button is on the right side of the page., This includes the following:


Type of business - Select a business type from the "What type of business is it?" box.

Business name - Type your business' name into the "What is your business name?" box.

Estimated annual revenue - Select your company's projected annual income from the "Estimated annual revenue" box.

Number of employees - Select a number of employees from the "Does your business have any employees?" box.

Business category - Choose a category from the "Business Category" box. If you can't find a relevant category, click Other.
You can also select a reason for using Square in the "How do you plan to use Square?" drop-down menu if you like.
 It's on the right side of the page., This includes the following:

Legal first and last name
Home address
Zip code
City
State
Date of birth
Last four digits of your Social Security Number
Phone number

,, You'll need to enter the following information:

Name
Type of account (e.g., Checking)
Your routing number
Your account number (twice)

, This will take you to the card reader selection page, where you can choose one of the two card readers:


Square Contactless + Chip Reader - Costs between $29 and $49 depending on available deals. This package includes a chip reader for modern cards and a contactless reader for mobile pay methods.

Square Magstripe Reader - Free. Contains a traditional card reader.
 This will take you to the card reader checkout., It's a box on the right side of the page.

If you're purchasing a reader, you'll need to enter your payment information (e.g., your card number).
You can also click the "I need a reader today" option and enter your Zip code to see a list of nearby retailers who sell readers. Square will reimburse you for the cost.
 Square will use your previously supplied home address by default., Your Square card reader will ship to your provided address within 10 days., You can do so on iPhone or Android., It will plug into your phone's or tablet's headphone jack.

If your device doesn't have a headphone jack, you'll first need to purchase an adapter from Amazon or your phone's specific store.
If you're using the Square contactless reader, first connect it to your phone or tablet.
 The Square POS icon is white with a grey square and a grey cube in the middle., It's a white button toward the bottom of the screen., These are the credentials you used to create your Square account., As long as your email address and password correlate, you'll be signed into your Square account., Square requires access to your phone's microphone, location services, and push notifications. To do so, tap each item (e.g., Enable Microphone), then confirm by tapping OK., It's at the bottom of the screen., There isn't a decimal point button, so you'll type without it (e.g., type "4200" for a $42.00 purchase)., It's at the top of the screen. As long as your card reader is connected, doing so will open the card interface., If they're paying with Apple Pay or a similar service, they'll simply need to hold their phone or card face-down over the contactless card reader.

If the purchase exceeds $99.99, they'll first have to enter their PIN.
 Once it does, your payment is complete., To do so, open your iPhone's or Android's Settings, tap Bluetooth, and slide Bluetooth right to the "On" position., It's a white app with grey squares on it., It's in the top-left corner of the screen., You'll see this option in the pop-out window on the left side of the screen., It's in the middle of the screen., This option is at the top of the screen., It's the only option on this page., This is the circular button on the back of the reader. You'll want to hold it down for around three seconds., These are on the front of the contactless reader., This should complete the pairing process. Your contactless reader is now connected to your device.

If your reader goes to sleep at any time, simply press the reader's power button to wake it back up.

