 Add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to each measurement. You will need this extra width for the seam allowances., Add 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) to your measurement. You will need this extra length for the hems., The best fabric to use for a tube top is stretchy, jersey type fabric, like the kind used to make t-shirts.
 The top of the rectangle should equal your bust measurement. The bottom of the rectangle should equal your waist measurement. It will likely taper slightly.
 Secure the side edge with sewing pins. Leave the top and bottom edges alone for now. You will hem them later.
 Pull the pins out as you sew so that you don't accidentally prick yourself. When you are done, tie the threads off into tight knots, and snip them as close to the fabric as you can.
 Flatten the tube top on your ironing board, with the seam facing upward. Spread the seam allowances apart, so that they lay flat against the fabric to either side of the seam. Press them flat with a hot iron.
 Secure the folds with sewing pins, and press them flat with a clothing iron. The wrong sides of the fabric should still be facing outward at this time.
 You will need this gap to slide the elastic through. When sewing the hems, try to sew as close to the raw/cut edge as you can, so that you will have enough space for the elastic. When you are done, pull the sewing pins out. Be sure to tie the ends of the threads off into tight knots and to snip them off, as close to the fabric as you can.


Try to use a stitch intended for sewing stretchy fabrics. It usually looks like a straight stitch, but is broken up by V-shapes.
 This piece of elastic will help keep the tube top up, so make sure it is sturdy.
 Find that ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) wide gap in the top hem. Push the safety pin into the gap, then use it to feed the elastic through the hem. When you reach the gap again, unclip the safety pin. When you are done, you should have both ends of the elastic sticking out from the gap.
 Use the smallest stitch you can, and be careful not to sew them to the fabric. When you are done, push the elastic back through the gap.


At this point, you can sew the gap shut for a neater finish.
