 Stand facing away from the wall but within close proximity so you can see the wall in your peripheral vision. Now, this is the most showy form of twerking. Make sure you don't think this is a good idea after you've had one drink too many, or you'll be fixing for a fall. When you attempt the wall twerk, you should already be pretty confident in your twerking abilities. This move is not for amateurs.


You need to have a lot of upper body strength and good coordination to pull this one off.
 This time you want to make sure you have a strong grip on the floor as you will be walking your feet up the wall so you don’t want to fall. Your entire hands should be on the ground to give you the balance you need. Get your booty high in the air to make it easier to get your legs up there. Your hands should be down about a foot in front of your feet, shoulder width apart. As you place both hands on the ground, shift the weight from your legs to your hands.









Your torso and upper body should essentially be in handstand position. Your fingers should be facing away from you.
 First, place one leg on the wall, get it up there until you feel stable, and then move the other leg up to join it. Your feet should be wide apart, about one foot away from each hip. Get your toes firmly on the wall and practice arching your back and hallowing it, creating the basic twerk move. Keep your arms and upper body strong and stable as you rock out with your lower body (which will be above your upper body!). You can think of this as a version of the "hands on the ground" twerk -- except that this time, you're up on a wall.









You should aim to be up there for thirty seconds, or maybe even a minute or the length of a short song, but remember that your hands and shoulders will get tired after a while. 
This is also a great opportunity for grabbing a wall twerking partner to join you as you show off those moves!
Make sure to come down gracefully. Move your feet back down the wall, one at a time. You can continue doing the "hands on the ground" twerk, or just take a complete break from twerking for a little while until you're ready to channel your inner-Miley again.

