 This will help you rule out some face shapes and help you get a general sense of your look. Use a mirror and measuring tape if you need help.


If your face is about equally as long as it is wide, you most likely fall into the round, square, or heart shaped category. You will not, however, fit the oval shape category. If your face is a bit longer than it is wide, you may fall into the oval, square, or heart shaped faces. Your face is not round. ;
, Your jawline falls at the bottom of your face. It starts at the level of your lower ears and ends at your chin. Look carefully at the shape of this area, paying close attention to the perimeter.A pointed jawline will make a V-shape.
A round jawline is mostly circular. Look for more rounded edges.
A square jawline looks angular. It forms very clear lines that define the bottom of the face.
 Determine if this area is wide or narrow. Use the other areas of your face for comparison. If your forehead is larger or more prominent than the other parts of your face, you have a wide forehead. On the other hand, your hairline may come inward and make your forehead look narrow in comparison to the other areas on your face.
 The length of your face, your jawline, and your forehead dictate whether your face is round, oval, square, or heart shaped. Not all faces are perfectly square or oval. Use your judgment to determine which shape most accurately describes your face.


A round face looks circular. The jawline is round and the forehead may be wide or narrow. The face is equally long and wide.
A heart shaped face looks like a heart. The forehead is wide and the jawline is a pointed V-shape.
An oval face is long and round. The length of the face is longer than the width. The jawline is round.
A square face has even width from top to bottom. The forehead is wide and the jawline is square.
A diamond shaped face is widest in the center at the cheekbones. The jawline is V-shaped and the forehead is narrow.
 Ideally, your hairstyle will accentuate your eyes and make your face appear more oval. Since your hair frames your face, bangs will add an extra dimension to how you look. You can ask for any type of bangs, but it is best to choose a style that will flatter your natural features.


Round faces do best with thick and choppy bangs that create hard angles on the face. These might lay on the forehead or swoop across to the side. Most stylists do not suggest bangs that cut straight across the forehead for round faces. Heart shaped faces do well with several styles. Both side-swept and straight across bangs look nice as long as they are textured. Also consider curtain bangs that hit right at the jawline. Oval shaped faces are easiest to work with. Stylists agree that oval faces can pull off most cuts. Go for bangs that hit between the eyebrows and the eyelashes and are longer on the edges. That way you can wear them in front or swept to the side.Square faces need bangs that soften the angles of face, especially at the forehead. Consider shorter side-swept bangs or even frontal bangs with a center part. Avoid evenly cut bangs that make a line across the forehead. Remember that adding texture is key. Diamond shaped faces require mostly side-swept styles. These may vary from short and thick to a long swoop across the face. Avoid any bangs that are cut straight across the forehead. , Remember to think about what your hair does and does not do naturally. Your hair may be too flat or too curly to create the exact look that you want. Try side bangs or wispy bangs for thin hair. Remember that bangs will take away from any volume that you do have. If your hair is limp and gets greasy quickly, the same will occur on your forehead.Decide if that is something you are willing to work with!
Find a stylist that knows how to work with curly hair if you have curls. Have your stylist cut your hair dry so you know exactly where the hair will fall after shrinkage.
Invest in hair products and a good blow dryer to tame a cowlick. Many types of bangs work with a cowlick. The catch is that you will have to blow dry your hair right after washing to get rid of the cowlick., This will not be entirely accurate, but you will see what a slight change in your face looks like. Tie your hair in a ponytail or half ponytail. Lift the ends of your hair to your forehead. Adjust the length and the part to test out different looks.
Use the front part of your hair and pin it to the side. Part your hair in the middle and pin the sides to look like curtain bangs. Alternatively, create a side part and swoop your hair across your face. Pin the ends to test out a side bang look.
 Go to a beauty supply store and try on wigs. It's more accurate than using your own hair, and you can get a sense of different styles.
 Search for a website that does virtual hairstyles. You can upload a picture of yourself and try on a variety of bangs!

, Talk to your friends about what they think of your new idea. They may be able to give you additional advice and suggestions. If you know a stylist, reach out them! They can advise you in your decision making process.
 Bangs can make you look younger or older, depending on the face you already have. Think about your current look and how bangs will change your style.
 Bangs require upkeep. If you plan to straighten curly hair every day, decide if that will fit in your schedule. , Your bangs may grow quickly. This will be especially noticeable if you have straight hair and a choppy cut. You can trim your bangs at home, but you may not achieve the same look. Decide if you are willing to add an extra haircut into your budget. , If you don’t like your bangs, you have options. You can patiently grow out your bangs. Remind yourself of how fast your hair grows and decide if you are willing to wait for it to grow back to normal.


There are ways to hide your bangs if you want a different look. Try pinning them back to the side or use the extra hair to create a frontal poof.

