 You can measure in thought how you have improved in these areas or you can write down your findings. Note that the areas of personal growth for you will be different compared to others.;
, Ask yourself how much you believe that you are responsible for having a good life. In order to grow personally, you do need to recognize that only you can make that happen. Make sure that you have improved in this area of your character, and if you are serious about growing personally, then you have to improve in this capacity.
 Avoid looking back in order to feel regret or guilt about the past. The process of looking back is to see how you have become better in certain areas or your character. This should be a positive experience which allows you to learn from any bad choices that you may have made.
 Maybe in the past you did not realize that your negative attitude had a negative impact on your life. Determine whether you have become more positive in your thought process.
 If you find that you are no longer complaining about your situation, but rather looking at all the good things in your life, then that demonstrates success when assessing personal development.
 Assuming you feel that you were not as honest as you wanted to be, ask yourself if you have improved in that area. Contemplate your relationship with others in this context. Determine if you are honest in both word and deed and whether being truthful comes naturally now.
 Personal growth is calculated in many ways, but one of the best ways to grow is to help others. Being there for someone else or others often provides a moment of clarity. Not only are you giving to someone else, but you can see that you are fortunate enough to be able to give to someone else. Giving to others, whether in charity or friendship, puts a lot of things in perspective and offers substantial personal growth in many areas of a person's character.
 If you find that you have not improved in certain areas, find out why. You have control of your own actions, so understand why you did not allow for improvement and come up with a plan to be more proactive at making your desired changes.

