 The easiest way to find a cell phone is to call your phone number from another phone. You can do this to find any cell phone, regardless of whether it's a smart phone. Just ask someone you know to call your number, or use a free website service like wheresmycellphone.com or freecall.com to dial your number from a computer., A close second to calling your cell phone is having someone else text your phone. If your phone is truly lost (as in lost at a public place, not misplaced around your apartment), you can text your contact info to your phone so that anyone who finds the phone will know your identity and how to reach you.If you can't find anyone to text your phone you can use a free website service like txt2day.com.
You can also try texting a reward offer to your phone. This may convince someone who finds your cell phone to contact you and arrange a meeting., Retracing your steps can help you find any lost or misplaced item, not just cell phones. However, if you had your phone at an earlier location and have realized that you left your cell phone somewhere, retracing your steps can help you locate your mobile phone (as long as it hasn't been taken).Whatever you do, don't panic. Panicking will only worsen your situation, and might make it difficult to concentrate or think clearly.Sit down for a moment and think about where you've been and what you've one. Consider when and where you last remember having or using your phone, and work your way forward from there.
If you frequented any restaurants or stores before you lost your phone, try asking an employee if anyone found/returned a lost phone. If the phone was left with an employee, you should be able to simply give a description of your phone, or tell the employee your phone number so he can call it and verify that it's your phone.
 Some cell phone service providers have GPS location services available to customers. Even if your provider does not offer such an option, they can at least cut off service to your phone.Find your provider's customer service number online, or look up your provider's local offices in a phone book.

