 Most fragile jewelry can be cleaned with a simple solution of mild dish soap and water. Use a soft brush, such as a soft-bristled toothbrush, or a soft lint-free cloth to wash the jewelry with the soap and water. Rinse off the jewelry in a glass of water, not the sink, and dry them well once they have been cleaned.Check the ingredients list on the soap to make sure it does not contain bleach, ammonia, or any harsh chemicals. These substances can all cause damage to jewelry.
If you have jewelry that contains pearls, use a clean makeup brush to gently clean the pearls. You can use run the water and soap over the pearls and let them air dry on a towel.;
, Baby shampoo is a good option for costume jewelry or regular jewelry that is fragile or delicate. Mix a few drops of baby shampoo and ¼ cup of water together. Then, use a soft toothbrush or a Q-tip to remove any grime or dirt in the jewelry. Rinse the jewelry off in cool water and dry with a soft towel.If you want to dry the jewelry more efficiently, you can use the cool setting on the hairdryer to dry it. You may do this on costume jewelry if you are worried any remaining water will rust the pieces.
 This method is good for silver or gold jewelry that does not contain pearls or gemstones. Combine ¼ cup baking soda and two tablespoons water to make a thick paste. Then, apply the paste to the jewelry with a damp sponge and gently rub to remove dirt or grime. Rinse the jewelry in a glass of water and use a clean soft cloth to dry.Do not use this method on costume jewelry as the acidity in the baking soda can damage it. Instead use another household product for costume jewelry.
 Use a light ale to shine up your gold jewelry. Pour the beer on a soft cloth and rub it gently over the piece. Then, use a clean dry cloth to try. Do not use this method on gold that contains gemstones.You can also try soaking jewelry that contains diamonds, rubies, sapphires, and emeralds in club soda to brighten them up. Let them soak in a glass full of club soda overnight. Then, rinse them off in a glass of water and dry them with a clean soft cloth.
 These substances can be too harsh and acidic for cleaning jewelry, especially if the jewelry is delicate or costume. Do not soak your jewelry in vinegar or ammonia to clean them as this can damage the pieces. Less harsh substances like water or mild soap will work better and not put your jewelry at risk.You should also avoid using any stronger than water and mild soap on jewelry that contains a lot of precious stones or gems.

