 This should include such information as when horses need to be fed, how to ride them, their ancestral history and general facts.;
, Is a horse compatible with your lifestyle? Realize that horses are expensive, they require constant care and a large space to keep them in. You can't keep one in the backyard of a suburban house. Also consider who will benefit from the purchase––if your siblings also want to ride, then you've already got a stronger argument. If one of your parents is also horse-mad, this too will work in your favor.
 If this isn't coming from your own money, your argument will need to include why your parents should fork out the cost of a horse and its upkeep. It's a good idea to have a list of the things you'll do to raise money and help to keep the horse down the track.
 This argument should cover:


How the horse will be funded. For example, you'll start babysitting, pet sitting, walking dogs, doing extra chores, whatever you can do to start making some money.
How the horse will be cared for.
How the horse will be used.
 If this is just a passing whim and you've no real idea of the work involved in caring for a horse, you might end up not looking after it properly.
 Reveal your love for horses in everything you do each day. This lays the groundwork for your parents, who will already have been exposed to your horse-loving ways prior to the discussion. Make it clear that horses are all you think about (getting pictures, putting up posters, drawing them, etc.).


Ask if you can start taking horseback riding lessons, and start watching horse races and shows on TV. Show your parents that you're really interested.
Bring up the topic of horses casually. But don't whine about it otherwise that will prove you are not responsible and grown up enough to look after a horse.
 Do this by undertaking your chores without being asked, completing homework on time and keeping your bedroom tidy.


Take care of existing pets to show that you do care and are responsible enough.
 If so, have this person available when you seek to persuade your parents.
 Choose a time when they're not busy and there is time for a good discussion.
 Then let them know that you are aware of the responsibilities involved and that you'd like to give them a presentation on why buying a horse is a good idea for your family. You can give them your fact sheet as well.
 Explain the reasons that owning a horse make sense. For example, it's exercise and it will teach you (and perhaps siblings) responsibility, etc. If you want to show how serious you are about getting a horse, then research all the pros and cons of getting a horse and summarize it in a speech, report, poster, etc., and present it to your family.


Tell them that you won't ever ask for expensive toys and clothes because horses are expensive and your parents will need money if they are going to buy you a horse.
 Set out how you will help pay for it. As well as buying a horse, explain the costs of boarding fees, veterinarian fees, food, accessories, etc. and how you expect these will be covered.
 Suggest that they get back to you in a couple days (sound as grown up as possible), after they've had a chance to think it over.


Don't keep pestering them and whining abut it. This will just show them you're childish and not responsible enough for a horse.
 If your parents say no, ask for a clear reason. If they say, "Because I said so!", then ask them why they said so. Once you get a reason out of them, then start researching ways to fix the problem. Maybe they said, "because we don't have any room for a horse." The solution would be to board your horse at a nearby stable. Find places to board your horse near you and tell you parents about it.
 If they agree, be enthusiastic but don't leave it all up to them to do the work. Do some research on where to purchase the horse from. Show them this and ask for their help in making a decision.

