 Only a child, the child's mother or legal guardian, a person claiming to be the child's father, or an authorized agency such as the Department of Social Services can file a petition to establish paternity.Under South Carolina law, anyone who has sexual intercourse in the state submits to the jurisdiction of the state courts for the purposes of establishing the paternity of a child later born in the state., Unless you signed an affidavit acknowledging paternity when the child was born, you must have the court establish paternity if the child was born out of wedlock.


You must establish paternity to file for child custody as the father of the child if you were not married to the child's mother. Under South Carolina law, custody of a child born out of wedlock rests solely with the natural mother., You must file your petition in family court to initiate your action to establish paternity.


To initiate an action in South Carolina courts, you must pay a filing fee of $150. If you cannot afford the filing fee, you can apply for a waiver. You will have to fill out a financial disclosure form and sign it in the presence of a notary. The judge will review your form and make a decision whether to waive fees in your case., The mother must receive adequate notice that you have requested that the court establish paternity of the child.


You can have papers served by using certified mail with restricted delivery and return receipt requested, by using private delivery services such as FedEx or UPS, or by arranging for personal service with the sheriff's department or a private process serving company. You will have to pay a small fee for service., The mother has 35 days to respond to your petition.If the mother voluntarily acknowledges your paternity, you can go ahead and file your petition for custody. South Carolina law encourages voluntary settlements, which typically are readily approved by the courts., Once it has determined paternity needs to be established for the child, the court will issue an order for DNA testing to establish paternity.


The child and the child's mother also must undergo genetic testing.DNA tests showing a statistical probability of 95 percent or higher create a rebuttable presumption that you are the father of the child.If you apply for DNA testing, you will be responsible for any charges associated with the test. For example, if you apply through DSS to establish paternity, you must pay $25 for processing of the application and to have a DNA test conducted., If a hearing is required to establish paternity, you must appear in court.


Before you can file for custody, the judge must issue an order designating you as the natural father of the child.In addition to the results of genetic tests, the judge may review other evidence of possible paternity, including your testimony, testimony of the mother, and examination of the child for the presence or absence of physical characteristics showing the child has a physical resemblance to you., After the court has established paternity, you are free to file a petition requesting custody of your child.


After paternity is established, the court considers custody using roughly the same procedure as that used if the parents are filing for divorce.The judge will look at anything relevant to determining the child's best interests, including the relative situation of each parent economically and socially, each parent's local family support systems, the relationship of the child to either parent, the preference of the child, and other social and psychological factors.