 The most important piece of equipment is obviously the paintball gun. When you're first starting out, pick something relatively cheap, versatile, and lightweight, so you can get some experience and find out whether or not you want to upgrade your gear later.


Tippmann 98 Custom guns or Brass Eagle Strikers are lightweight, effective, and generally easy to handle for beginners. You'll also want to get a 200 round hopper for ammunition.
Experienced players use different guns for "woodsball" or "tourney" style play, so sometimes the best bet is to head out to a field and rent some equipment to try out the different styles and see what you like before you buy something.;
, To power paintball guns, CO2, air, and nitro compresses are all commonly used. CO2 tanks are usually recommended for the first time player, because they're much easier to buy and fill cheaply.


As you get more experienced, you may want to invest in an air tank, which is not temperature sensitive. This has the added benefit of consistent speed and distance in your shots.
 Buy armour. Every paintball facility will sell or give armour. Make sure you have as much as you can to play safe. Eye and face protection are essential to paintball safety. Other armor is often used, though it can be somewhat uncomfortable, and unnecessary the more you play. Paintball shot usually leaves a medium size bruise and a small welt. Protective gear commonly used in paintball includes:


Padded gloves
Full head-shield mask
Knee and elbow pads
Long, dark pants and shirts

, If you plan on playing paintball regularly, a good set of goggles is an important investment. You can always try out other guns besides the rentals, but it's best to have your own goggles as soon as possible, so you're always ready to play.


Thermal goggles are heat resistant, and won't fog up while you're running around, making them a good investment. If you can't see because your goggles are fogging, you will not be able to enjoy playing. If the rental goggles you get are scratched and dirty, ask for a clear set.
Never play paintball without goggles. While paintballs may only hurt a little bit when you get hit in the leg, it can be devastating to your eye. Always wear goggles when you play.
 Once you've got your paintball gun and gear, you'll need something to shoot. Most paint fields won't sell paint (although some do), so it's important to load up before you head out with your friends.


Spend a little extra on paint and you'll hit more of what you shoot at. Well-made paintballs tend to be more accurate and fly more true than cheaper paint, which can pop in the tube and melt more easily.
Buying paintballs in larger quantities (such as 2,000) is usually cheaper per paintball than buying in smaller quantities (such as 500).
 Paintball is definitely a hobby for gear-heads. There are lots of less essential paintball gear items that you can get, which aren't necessary but are a lot of fun to get. There are many things you can get, talk to experienced players, and keep an eye out for ways to outfit yourself.


Ammo belts are available that hold between 700 and 1,000 paintballs.
Paintball attire such as company brand name jerseys and pants.
Military gear, including anything camouflage.
Tank covers, or barrel bags are also nice and handy.
 Practice looking down the barrel and aiming your paintball gun, and take the gun into a safe location with a solid backstop and take a couple shots to get used to the accuracy.


If you have a vertical feed gun, look down the right or left side of the barrel to aim. Even though it looks cool, don't shoot from the hip. Do not just pull the trigger and watch the balls fly. AIM from the shoulder and correct your aim as you shoot.
Learn how accurate your gun is at distance. Most guns will be accurate at 50 feet (15.2 m). If you are farther than 50 feet (15.2 m) you may be less accurate than someone who plays PB well, has a better gun, and has better paint. If you have bad accuracy over 50 feet (15.2 m), get closer so you can make up for it.
 When you run out of ammo, you'll need to be able to load it up again quickly to keep firing when you're playing. Practice unloading and reloading your paintball gun regularly so you can stay in the fight.


Open up your new load of paintballs before you shoot the last of what's in your hopper. This helps keep your opponents' heads down while you reload.
Standard loaders need to be opened up, which you'll usually want to do before you reach for a new load of paintballs. Opening the lid can be difficult without your hands free.
Some paintball guns have "speed-feeds" which have no lids and are super-fast to reload. It's good to learn the old-fashioned way, but go for a newer speed-feed if you want to invest.
 Being a crack shot from a standing or kneeling position is one thing, but being able to shoot on the move will help you become a great paintball player. When you've got your gun and have practiced operating and loading it, practice moving safely with your gun, and firing while you move.


Practice moving side to side, and keeping your gun at a steady level. Set up some cans or other targets to strafe as you run.
Only practice in safe areas with a backdrop. The backyard's probably not the best idea. Find a place where you can set up some cans to practice firing while you move.
 Stealth is one of the most essential parts of being a good paintballer. It's not all running and gunning, heading straight into the belly of the beast and coming out having tagged all your opponents. That'll only work some of the time. Learn to hide and to blend in with your surroundings as well.


Run with your legs flexed, your head down, and your body as tight in as possible. The more you run around flailing about, the more exposed you'll be to enemy fire.
Practice finding cover and making yourself as small as possible. Practice firing behind cover, popping out for minute to shoot, then hiding again.
 Get a barrel squeegee, gun oil, and valve o-rings to replace parts as necessary. All of these items should come with instructions so you should be able to figure out what to do.


A clean barrel is an accurate barrel. Squeegee the barrel regularly to keep excess paint gunk from clogging it up. If you continue to play paintball you will want to buy a squeegee to help clean your gun.
If you can, check your barrel between games to make sure it's clean. If you see spray spewing from your barrel, you know it's dirty and won't shoot straight. Clean it or ask someone how to.
 Paintball can't be played alone. It requires a community, or at least a few friends that you an team up with to take on other teams in your area for fun. If you want to know something specific about paintball, you'll have a willing group of people to ask.


Hang out at local paintball fields to meet people if you don't have any paintball friends. Ask around if there are any open teams, or teams that you might join to learn more.
Lots of paintballers talk a big game, but it's supposed to be fun, and it won't take long before you feel like an experienced player. Don't let yourself be intimidated by more experienced guys.
 So the game has started and you will be feeling a lot of adrenaline and may be a bit scared. Shake those nerves off and get ready to play., Your first task will be finding a place that you can regularly play paintball. Urban areas typically have indoor fields and obstacle courses that you can pay to play at, while rural areas will often have outdoor parks in which you can paintball with your friends. All paintball facilities will have different rates, fees, and features, so explore what's available in your area to learn more.


If you don't have access to a paintball facility in your area, it's perfectly fine to paintball on private property, if you choose. Read this article to learn more about setting up your own paintball facility.
 All paintball fields are different, usually set up with a variety of hiding places, alleys, barrels, bins, and other things that you can use to your advantage. Likewise, there will usually be big open places where you won't want to find yourself without protection.


Before the game starts, or just after you get on the field, make sure to walk around the facility a bit and get a sense of the lay of the land. Pay particularly close attention to good hiding areas you might want to bunker down in with your team.
While you're playing, keep your head up as much as possible. Watch for signs of motion. Watch for the glinting light of your enemies helmets as they flash in the sun. Listen for signs of movement. Listen to them talking. Be aware.
 Bad paintballers start shooting the second they run onto the field and don't stop until they're totally out of ammunition. While some paintball guns are more accurate than others, even the best of them aren't super-accurate. Wait until you've got a smart shot, and don't just spray paint all over the field.Different players have different philosophies. You came to play and shoot after all, so let 'er rip if you feel the need. Lay down some suppressing fire to guard your buddies.
 Keep moving, to avoid getting caught in a compromising position, but also keep an eye out for good places your team might be able to guard and stay safe in. Look for big bunkers that you can hide in and lay down fire from. Look for places you'll be safe for a while, to avoid running around like a chicken with your head cut off.Don't run aimlessly. Find a place to go, then move. Practice firing a few shots before you run somewhere, then run quickly and get to where you're going fast.
 Paintball can get pretty intense. Make sure to take deep breaths and calm yourself down, or your panic can cause you to make mistakes. Listen closely, watch the other players to follow instructions and go with the flow of the game. And have fun.


Don't worry too much about getting hit. The first time you get hit, it will sting for a split second and may even surprise you, but it does not hurt that bad. It is also a good incentive to make sure you keep cover.
 A good paintball team talks, verbally and non-verbally. Establish different roles in your team, helping to guard the other players, or find new territory, or go out on recon missions to shoot at other guys. Depending on how you're playing, you might have a more specific objective in mind, so listen up and keep talking so you play well as a team.Listen to your instructor. Just before your game, you may have an instructor explain the objective and useful ways to win. Listen carefully as they do know what they are talking about.
Coordinate attacks and time them well. Split up into a few groups and attack your opponents from two angles at once to pin them down and go in for the kill.
Pay attention to the more experienced players to come up with a good strategy, but chip in when you feel like you've got an idea of your own. If it's good, you'll be helping the team.

