 If you're pursuing domestic or international adoption through an agency, it's important to learn as much about the agency as you can before going forward. Meet with representatives from several agencies in person before you decide to move forward with one. Your relationship with the agency you choose could last for many years, so you should choose one in which you have utmost trust and confidence.


Talk with other adoptive parents. Join online support networks or local groups that have in-person meetings to discuss the adoption process. Ask questions about experiences others have had with the agencies you're considering.
Beware agencies that may try to scam you. Prospective parents are in a vulnerable position; they deeply want to be parents as soon as possible, and they have to place their faith in strangers to make that happen. Some agencies take advantage of this by requiring upfront payment before placing parents on waiting lists for years at a time. Do careful research on each agency's reputation.
 When it comes to domestic adoptions conducted through an agency or independently, the prospective parents' relationship with the birth mother is key. In many cases the birth mother has the chance to select from among several prospective parents, and she may change her mind if she doesn't feel comfortable with a situation.


If you're working with an agency, you will be asked to write a letter to the birth parent(s) and to send photos of you, your family, and your home. This is typically referred to as your profile. Once all the paperwork has been filed and approved, the agency will present your profile to the families wanting to place their baby for adoption. Many birth parents will want to interview you by phone; some will want to meet in person before making their final decision.
Have patience during this process. This can be an exciting, anxious, and frustrating time. In some cases adoptive parents hit it off with the birth mother right away, and the adoption goes smoothly; other times, parents have to go through a few false starts before finding the right match.
Once you have been selected by a birth parent and you agree to the plan, you are said to be "matched." The birth mother can only sign relinquishment papers after the baby is born. At that time (usually 24–48 hours after the delivery) her parental rights are terminated and at that point (in most states) the relinquishment becomes irrevocable.
Be open to the birth mother's needs. When you find a birth mother who agrees to let you adopt her child, you'll need to figure out what relationship you'll have with her during her pregnancy and after the baby is born. The adoption agency or your lawyer can help you negotiate the legal aspects of an open or closed adoption.
 After months of waiting and meeting all the necessary requirements, the time will come when you'll get to meet the child you've been waiting so long to see. This experience will be different depending on which adoption route you choose to take.


If you're adopting a child from the foster care system, you may get the chance to meet the child relatively early in the process. You may browse a database such as AdoptUSAkids.organd fall in love with a child online, then contact the agency to express your interest.

If the child's social worker thinks you are a good fit, he or she will facilitate a meeting. Since children in foster care are usually older than children adopted via other systems, they often get a say in the adoption process, too.
After a few meetings, you'll receive a placement. The child will live with you for several weeks, with frequent visits from the social worker, before the adoption is finalized.


If you're adopting a child from another country, your meeting will be dictated by that country's laws. Usually the prospective parents fly to the country and meet the child once, go home to finalize the adoption, then fly back to the country to bring the child home.
If you're adopting a baby from a birth mother with whom you have a relationship, you may get to be present in the hospital for the birth.

