 Actions speak louder than words. If you want to show the people in your life that you've turned over a new leaf, you will need to prove it by being especially careful.


Be patient. It takes time to build trust. Practice being as gentle as you want to be, and continually evaluate your actions. Am I being gentle? Am I being kind?

Do not expect anyone to forgive you. If people do forgive you for past violence, do not expect them to forget. You cannot change the past, but you can shape the future.
 If you are trying to overcome your violent impulses and become a more gentle person, consider sharing this with the people in your life that have been hurt by your anger. Ask them to tell you when you step out of line.


In order to do this, you must be prepared to take constructive criticism. It may be a challenge to stay calm when someone asks you to curb your anger--few things are more infuriating than the phrase, "Calm down!" Bear in mind that your loved ones are only trying to help you help yourself.
 Search for therapists and psychologists in your area that specialize in helping people deal with their anger. It can't hurt to try just one session.


Run a web search for "anger management coach" or "anger management classes". You can take these courses over the Internet. If you want to meet with someone face-to-face, search for "anger management coach" along with your city (e.g. "anger management coach san -francisco").
Enter with an open mind. No one can help you change unless you are prepared to help yourself. Work with the people in your life, not against them.
Research your anger management coach before you make a final decision. If you can find reviews online, read them. Try to get in touch with someone who has been to see this particular coach.
 If you are acting in a rash, violent way, you are letting your negative emotions overwhelm you. Embrace your positive emotions and let them guide you through trying times.


It's okay to be vulnerable, and it's okay to cry. You can be strong and also keep in touch with your feelings.
Don't be afraid to vent. Find someone to talk to about your problems. You may find that an outlet of support makes it much easier to cope with your stress.
 Be gentle and be self-aware. If you get angry and do something rash, you may undo all of the work that you've done.


Continually evaluate whether your actions are gentle or violent. Do not let yourself forget the person that you used to be.
Eventually, with time and care, you can change your image: you can become a genuinely gentle person in the eyes of yourself and others. Practice leads to habit. Start today.

