 In additional to the basic Fountain, there are other four ball juggle moves that are fun to do. Start with two balls in each hand. Throw the ball on the right side of each hand straight up in the air. Move your hand slightly to the left. Right before the first balls come back to your hands, throw the second ball in each hand straight up in the air. Then, move your hand back toward the right and catch the first ball.


To keep the columns going, throw the balls back straight in the air before the second balls fall back in your hands.
Unlike the Fountain, your hands move back and forth from side to side instead of in a circle.
You can also do an asynchronous column as well. Instead of throwing your balls at the same time, stagger the timing where one of your hands is releasing and throwing the balls in the air while the other is catching., Start with two balls in each hand. With your left hand, throw a ball in a large arch from the outside to your right hand. At the same time, with your right hand, throw a ball directly to your left hand across the inside before catching the ball coming down from the arch. There will always be at least two balls in the air, though there will be three as you thrown the ball from right to left.You can also do a Half-Shower. To do this, instead of throwing the ball directly from the right hand to the left, throw it in a small arch across the inside between your hands., Start with two balls in each hand. Instead of keeping two balls on each side, you are going to switch balls between your hands. To do this, one of your balls needs to be thrown a bit higher than the other. Your hands should circle in mirror images of each other, where they each go to the outside and inside at the same time. Pick one of the balls in each hand and circle your hands. As you hit the center area, throw one of the balls in each hand towards your other hand, throwing one higher than the other.


Continue the circle with your hand and, as you make your way back towards the center, throw the second ball in each hand into the air towards the other side, again throwing one higher than the other. As you make your way across the top of the circle with your hands, you should catch the first ball thrown from the opposite hand.
As you move your hands in circles, the balls will keep changing hands as you throw them towards the other hand.
You can choose which ever hand you want to throw higher. Some prefer their non-dominant hand instead of their dominant. You can figure out which feels the best for you., The Windmill is a distorted version of the basic Fountain, but is more complicated. Instead of keeping your hands in a circular pattern, you cross your arms under one another. Start with two balls in each hand. With your right hand, throw one of the ball into the air toward the left side. Cross your arms in front of you, moving your left hand under your right arm and throwing one of those balls in the air in the same direction as the first.


With two balls in the air, uncross your arms and move your right hand back to where it first threw the first ball. Throw the second ball from your right hand. Crossing your arms again, grab the first ball with your right hand and throw the second ball with your left. Uncross your arms again, catching the first ball in your left hand and throwing the first ball from your right hand again.
Like the fountain, your balls will not change hands. You keep throwing the same two balls with each hand, you just interlace the actions with each other by crossing your arms.
If you are left handed, you may want to switch the actions where you cross your right arm under your left and throw the large arch with your left hand. Just do what feels right for you.
If you find this move difficult, try the three ball Windmill first.