 Write down the reasons you want to start a daycare. Make a list of qualities you have that will make you a positive role model for kids.;
, Realize that starting a true business is a huge challenge as a young person (or an adult, for that matter!). In starting a real business, you need to consider legal and licensing requirements, taxes, budgeting, and safety laws. You may be able to babysit in a more casual sense, without getting into those details.
 Make a large list of activities and games that you do to keep the kids active and happy.
 Kids need snacks and meals, make enough meal plans to last at least a week without repeating the food. Make it fun. Maybe make a cheese sandwich cut into a heart with a cookie cutter, or another fun shape. Make sure you know about any food allergies.
 Kids fall and scrape their knees, bees sting, lots of things can happen. You'll want to be prepared.
 If you plan to do this at your house, talk to your parents and get permission.
, At a friends house? Your house? Get permission.
 Children need to play, so if you don't provide a place to play, they'll get bored and crabby. Plus they'll complain to their parents and not want to come back. Have lots of toys and things to do.
 You have to make sure you have plenty of healthy foods and snacks for the kids. Check to make sure there's nothing in there that the kids are allergic to. Write down things you'll need to buy.
 Kids will need to use it; make sure there's nothing in there that can hurt the child.


Set it up so you can supervise the kids when they go to the bathroom without needing to leave the other kids alone.
 Make sure you include your daycare name, your name, your address, your telephone number, and how you can help with their child.
 If you know anyone with children and know they're very busy, you can go to there home. You can also go around the neighborhood and talk to parents.
 Ask your parents, siblings, and friends if they know anyone with kids who might need your daycare.

