 Many states may require a school nurse to be a registered nurse who holds a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), but others may have different requirements. The National Association of School Nurses (NASN) can help you determine the requirements in your state. The requirements vary, but may require a school nurse certification., Your state's nursing board should have a list of approved nursing programs from which to choose.You may also want to check with the NASN to see if any of the programs in your area offer any programs that cater to those seeking to become school nurses. The NASN does have information that should help.In general, school nurse is not a separate degree. You will complete your BSN as a four-year degree, then pass the necessary licensure examinations. School nursing can then be learned via internship, mentorship, or getting hired at your first job.
 The NASN recommends school nurses hold a BSN, though some states may require a higher degree than this. Complete the requirements of the program, and graduate with your BSN.Meet with your advisor to be sure you are meeting the requirements of your program in a timely manner so that you can graduate as soon as possible.
Completing the BSN is a rigorous process; there is much to do during this four-year time span. Make sure you receive help in areas where studies are weak. It is recommended by many colleges to maintain at least a 3.0 average throughout coursework.
 Once you graduate with your BSN, take the NCLEX-RN examination, which is a national test that you must take to be licensed as an RN. You must pass this test to be licensed and work as an RN in your state.The preparation of NCLEX examination can be very daunting. Sign up for preparatory course which breaks down test, gives example questions and outlines the percentage of each areas tested. In addition, you can purchase certification exam preparation books to help guide your studies.
Try taking practice tests online. Your can give you insight into which subjects require more of your attention and if you need to work on your time management or other test-taking skills.
 Passing the NBCSN test gives you an advantage when starting a school nurse career. Most states do not require this exam, but it shows future employers that you have mastered the most recent methods for nursing. The examination is administered by the NASN and the National Board for Certification of School Nurses (NBCSN).Some certification renewals can be waived if you maintain log of required continuing education credits.
 The NBCSN certification lasts for five years, after which it must be renewed by way of recertification. To renew, you must have a current RN license and be employed as a school nurse with 2,000 hours of clinical practice in the past five years. 750 of the clinical hours must be within the most recent three years. A fee of $240.00 is also required.Work experience and continuing education is usually enough to maintain certification.
RN licenses also require renewal. Be aware that RN license requirements vary from state to state. Know your specific state requirements to earn and renew your license.
 Use your RN license to work in the acute care field before applying for a school nurse position. Some employers will require a minimum of two years of this type of experience.This will allow you to learn while on the job, as well as have a head start when you do apply.


Often it is said the learning begins after graduation and passing licensure. Two years in an acute care setting teaches many skills that can not be learned in a classroom setting and can only be experienced on the job.
 Most degree programs require internships before graduation, as this kind of experience provides you with the basic information that you will use in the field. Be sure you intern in a school nurse setting. RNs seeking to go into school nursing specifically may find that the internship in the field is required in their state., School nurses sometimes take leave for various reasons, and in such circumstances a substitute is needed. This is a great way to gain experience as a school nurse. Substituting also allows you to see the policies and procedures of school nursing., Your resume is how you introduce yourself and your skills to potential employers. You want to include your name and address, as well as your education, licenses, and certifications. You may want to include an objective statement that outlines your career goal of finding a school nurse position as well., Even community colleges and universities typically have school nurses, so consider whether you would like to work with young adults instead of children — and keep in mind that this may not be the position for you if you're not very fond of children or teens. The duties of a school nurse go beyond treatment — you may be responsible for educating students on health issues, for instance. Because counseling may also be a part of the job,you may want to consider what types of counseling you may need to offer in elementary school versus high school, for instance.
 You can apply for jobs at local schools, even if they do not currently have an opening for a school nurse. They can keep your resume on file for the future. A great place to look for jobs is on the NASN website. They have a listing of job opportunities that may help you.