 The first order of business is to actually have your villagers ask you for a favor, and they can’t ask you if you don’t talk to them. So run around your town, and every time you see a villager stop and talk to them by pressing A.


When talking to the villagers, make sure you don’t pick the bottom option, which is always some version of “Nevermind.” Choosing this option will end the conversation. Instead, pick the options that are long the lines of “How are you?” and “I’m bored” and “What’s going on?” Those options will prompt the villagers to ask you for a favor if they currently have one.
Villagers will not ask for favors if they are inside shops. They need to be inside their own houses or wandering around outside.;
, Sometimes, a villager won’t have a favor to ask you when you first talk to them, but they might a few minutes later. If you really want to get a large number of favors to complete, you need to talk to villagers often.
 Villagers can ask for a wide range of favors. They are always clear, however, in what it is they want. Once you have a favor to do, do it on the same day that they are accepted.


If one of your villagers asks you to catch him a shark, for example, but you can’t catch a shark until the next day, then there is no point in accepting the request.
For a better idea of what favors you will be asked to do, see Part 2.
 Many villagers will request that you catch them a specific kind of fish. Sometimes, this will be broad and they want just an ocean fish or river fish. In that case, any fish caught in the right area will do. Other times, they want a specific kind of fish, like a Hammerhead Shark, and then you have to have that exact item to complete successfully.


Fish vary based on the season and time of day. Sometimes, your villagers will request fish that you simply can’t get. There’s nothing you can do about that.
 Villagers will often request that you catch them a certain kind of bug. Go out and use your Net to catch the bug they want.
 Some villagers will invite you to come over to their house. When this happens, they often state that they are free after a certain time and then it is up to you to choose when you want to drop by.


In order to complete these requests successfully, you need to remember to show up to that villager’s house at the specified time then stay in the house for at least a few minutes and talk to the villager inside their house a couple of times. Afterwards, you can successfully leave and they will say it was nice to have you over.
If you leave their house without staying long or saying anything, they’ll wonder why you bothered coming over at all.
 Some villagers will request to see your house. This works similarly to the above requests, in that you will be able to choose a time. Sometimes, they ask to do this immediately, and if you accept, you need to walk over to your house right away.


Again, this involves showing up at your house at the specified time and then talking to the villager a couple of times while he or she is in your house. If you leave your house, the villager will leave also, so again, spend at least a few minutes before heading out.
 Some villagers will express discontent with their house’s current decorations. There are a couple of different variations on this request:


They simply want a new piece of furniture to spruce up the room. This one is the broadest and easiest to complete. You just need to buy any piece of furniture and give it to the villager. You may, however, want to look in their house first and try to buy them something that will go well with their current décor.
Replacing a piece of furniture. Other times, the villagers will mention one piece of furniture and say that they want it replaced. As an example, a villager might say they want something to replace their twin-sized bed. This doesn’t mean that you have to get them a bed to replace it, but it does mean that you need to get them something of the same size and type. You couldn’t give them something that goes on the wall or is half the size. In these instances, they want something that fills up the space in the exact same way.
 In order to receive time capsule requests, you must have at least one spot open in your letters. For these requests, villagers will hand you their time capsule (which will show up in your letters area) and ask you to bury it for them. Make sure you do not accidentally open the time capsule because that will fail the request and cause the villager to be upset with you.


Choose a spot that you like and bury the capsule by first digging a hole with your shovel. To dig a hole with your shovel, equip it and press A. Then open up your letters, tap on the time capsule, and choose “Bury.” A little star will show up on the ground to indicate that you buried the capsule. This completes this portion of the favor.
At a later date, the villager will request that you dig up the capsule and return it to them. Do so, and make sure you don’t accidentally open it.
 If, and only if, you have visited a friend’s town before in Animal Crossing, your villagers will sometimes request that you travel to another town to collect signatures. This requires that you use the train station, visit another town, and then talk to the villagers there.
 Deliveries are a fairly common, and very easy to complete, favor. In these, villagers will ask you to take something to another villager. All you need to do is not open the package, find the other villager, and hand the package over to them.


The villager that you give the package to will be the one to reward you, not the one who initially requested the favor.
 Make sure that they are not in their shops before you talk to them.
 Complete the favor by talking to the villager again. If you have to give them something to complete the favor, this is where you’ll do so.

