 An important first step in standing up to injustice is making changes in your own life.This can be hard, but to the extent that you can, avoid contributing to things you think are unjust and try to be just in your own behaviors.


For example, if you are concerned about racial discrimination, do some soul searching and think about how you can be more fair to people of other races in your own life. Are there racist stereotypes that are affecting your own behavior? If so, you can make a conscious effort to treat people more fairly.
Nobody is perfect, and in the complex world we live in, it's difficult to avoid all injustice. If you pay taxes, chances are, some of that money is going to go toward something you disagree with, regardless of your beliefs. Do your best not to contribute to injustices in any way you can avoid, but don't let yourself be immobilized by a need for perfection.;
, When you see injustice happening in daily life, don't just let it happen. Speak up and let the person behaving unjustly know that you think what they are doing is wrong.


If you have friends who make jokes that are racist, for example, think about how you can let them know that you don't appreciate this.If you are in a position where you influence hiring decisions in your workplace, do your best to ensure that discrimination isn't occurring in that process.
If you see someone being bullied, you can stand up to this injustice by telling the bully to stop. If the bully doesn't stop, you can help the person being bullied out of the situation by walking them to somewhere safe or finding an authority figure who can stop the bullying behavior.Speaking out against everyday injustices takes courage, and can be difficult at first. If it's something really care about though, you will feel better for not keeping silent when it comes up.
 Tell people you know about the injustice you have learned about. Many people probably won't be aware of the issue. Some people may know about it, but not see it in the same way you do. Talking to others is a good way to promote more justice in the world.For example, if you are concerned about a new tax your city is considering that you think will make it hard on certain people or businesses, tell your friends about it. If you think it's wrong to eat meat, tell your friends and family about why that is. You may help them learn something, or you may even find other people who also want to take a stand on the issue.
Be aware that some people are not going to want to hear what you have to say and are unlikely to change their views no matter what you may tell them. If someone is clearly not interested or doesn't want discuss an injustice, don't press the issue. You can make people mad and waste a lot of energy talking to someone who is unwilling to consider your views.
 If you are serious about taking a stand against injustice, you need to make your views known outside your social circle. A great way to start is by contacting those responsible for the injustice.


You can write a letter to the person or institution you think is responsible for the injustice, or that has the power to do something about it. For example, you can write a letter to your elected representatives urging them to do something about an injustice. Or, you can write to a company that you think is doing something unjust as part of its business practices, sharing your concerns and asking them to make a change.
You can also sometimes make a phone call that serves the same purpose.
Note that even in this age of electronic communication, many people still take old-fashioned paper letters more seriously than an email or online comments. Taking some time to print and mail a letter to your congressperson, for example, may make his or her staff more likely to take your comments seriously., You can also use the news media to let people know about injustice. You can write a letter to the news media, such as a letter to the editor.


Newspapers often publish well-written letters to the editor in both their print and online editions. This can be a great way to use media to let others know about injustices you care about., Some injustices that are political or economic in nature can be affected by voting. It takes some time to learn about where your elected officials stand on the issue you have identified as an injustice. Use your power as a voter to promote more just government.If you have the option, vote for candidates who want to do something about the injustice you have identified. If you think abortion is unjust, for example, research anti-abortion candidates you can support. If you think the minimum wage is unfairly low, look for candidates who have plans to raise the minimum wage.
 In some cases, you can make purchasing decisions that promote justice. Don't buy from people or companies you believe are doing something unjust. Look for a way to use your consumer power to support justice.


You can boycott, or refuse to buy from, companies that do things you think are unjust. Look for alternative options you can support instead.For example, if you think that people who work in overseas factories are mistreated, look for companies that produce goods under conditions you think are more fair and don't buy from those you think abuse their workers. If a company contributes large sums of money to political campaigns you think are unjust, avoid supporting it.
 Another way you can take a stand at an individual level is by contributing money to a group or campaign that is trying to correct an injustice. If you can afford it, consider a financial contribution to a group you think is doing good work.Do some research and find a group you like. There are groups out there working on almost anything you can think of, whether its bullying in schools, gender discrimination, homelessness, or issues related to international politics.

