 Credit unions are not-for-profit institutions that are often cooperatives managed by their members. They often have lower rates than banks, lower interest rates, and more satisfied members.However, credit unions may be limited in the number of services that they can offer, have eligibility requirements for membership, and may not be in accessible locations.
 Some credit unions limit their membership to certain companies, occupations, certain affiliations, or industries. While credit union eligibility has expanded in recent years, you will need to speak with a credit union representative to make sure that you are eligible to open an account there.


You may also be eligible to join a credit union if your spouse or parent is a member at that union.
The credit union representative will be able to tell you if you are eligible to join that particular union based on your occupation and membership affiliations to partnership organizations, like a fraternal order or the military.
If you are ineligible at that credit union, you’ll have to look for different unions to join.
 One reason that credit unions are typically less popular is that they are intended to serve a local area so they can be less accessible when you’re outside that network. However, many credit unions are part of co-ops or shared networks that allow members to deposit and withdraw from their accounts at any of the member institutions.


Ask if they are a member of a shared branch network. There are often fewer locations for credit unions than there are for banks.With a shared branch network, you can go to any of the member credit union locations to access your account.
Ask whether they belong to an ATM network. If they are, you can withdraw or deposit money at different ATMs even if they aren’t specific to your credit union., Credit unions that are insured are able to pay back members if the credit union happens to fail. The National Credit Union Administrationis the independent federal agency that regulates and charters federal credit unions. Nearly 98% of all credit unions in the US are regulated and insured through the NCUA. Check to see if your national government regulates credit unions through a similar agency.Like the FDIC, the NCUA has a searchable database that provides information about the size, financial health, and their insurance status.Use this resource to research credit unions in your area.
 Here, you’ll need to see whether the credit union offers the services that are important to you. You can ask whether they offer online banking, 24 hour support, or financial and investment services. If a credit union doesn’t offer a particular service, you might consider it to be a deal breaker. If you can live without this service, keep the credit union on your list of potential institutions.While you can likely find the information you want on the credit union’s website, it’s easier to speak with a credit union representative and ask them your specific questions.
 Most credit unions offer competitive interest rates that are better than banks. They also tend to offer higher savings rates. Ask the credit union about the rates that they offer and use that information to compare unions.Over time, fewer banks and credit unions are offering interest-yielding bank accounts. However, credit unions are still more likely to offer competitive rates to their members.
 Across the board, credit unions tend to have lower fees than big banks. You will want to find out whether there are fees associated with going below a certain account balance, if checking accounts are free, if there are monthly account maintenance fees, and if there are overdraft fees.


Take careful notes about what these fees are and how much they will cost you. Factor in this information when you are comparing credit unions.
Keep in mind that some fees will not apply to you. For example, if you never use ATMs an ATM fee won’t make any significant difference in your decision.

