 Informative speeches are very basic and only provide factual, useful information to an audience without making judgments on that information.The tone of an informative speech is usually fairly flexible and often dependent on the topic of the speech. For instance, a speech about cancer would demand a serious start and serious tone, while one about the history of the yo-yo would be very lighthearted.
 Demonstrative speeches are generally designed to teach an audience how to do something instead of teaching them about something.Demonstrative speeches are often on the lighthearted and non-academic side, so the openings of such speeches tend to be more relaxed. That said, if you do end up dealing with a serious topic, such as how to stay safe in a hurricane or tornado, make your introduction and overall speech fairly serious.
 Persuasive speeches strive to convince the audience to change their ideas or behaviors about a topic and should use an appropriate tone to communicate that persuasion.These types of speeches can be the most difficult to deliver because, as the speaker, you have to be engaging enough to "sell" your opinion to those listening in.
Persuasive speeches are often serious and may use a serious opening, especially if the speaker is trying to persuade an audience to take a certain beneficial action or to adopt a new perspective about a topic. The only time that a persuasive speech might take on a more casual, lighthearted tone is when the speaker is trying to sell an actual product.
 This category of speeches covers a wide range of tones and purposes; these include speeches for weddings, funerals, graduations, and other events. These speeches focus on values and qualities about particular people that you highlight in the speech. Tailor-fit your introduction to match the tone of the occasion in question. A serious or sorrowful occasion will usually call for a somber or nostalgic tone, but a celebratory occasion demands an opening and a speech that is entertaining or uplifting. For instance, a speech delivered at someone's wedding should be a lot more lighthearted than one delivered as a eulogy, and both will be very personal. A graduation speech must be general enough to relate to a wide audience.
 Getting a sense of who will be in your audience before writing your speech will help you tailor your speech in the right direction. For example, if your audience is a group of community business leaders, you will address them differently than you would address a group of teenagers.

