 For a less intense dressing, use oil-packed anchovies instead. Drain 2 to 4 fillets from the oil, and mince them before adding the garlic.


You can make the dressing up to a day ahead. Store it in a jar or bottle in the refrigerator.;
, You can use a fork or a small whisk to do this. For a more lemony sauce, use freshly-squeezed lemon juice instead of white vinegar.
 Keep whisking it in until the dressing turns creamy. For a more traditional dressing, use 2 egg yolks instead. Keep in mind, however, that consuming raw eggs puts you are a higher risk for food-born illnesses.


To make the raw eggs safer: simmer them (still in shell) for 1 minute, then cool them in cold water. Crack the eggs open, separate them, and use the yolks., Some people like their dressing saltier while others prefer theirs more tart. Give the dressing a taste, and add more salt, pepper, or vinegar/lemon juice until you get the flavor you prefer. Set the dressing aside when you are done.
 Gently pull apart the leaves so that they are separate. At this point, you can also remove and discard any wilted or damaged leaves.


For a more classic salad, use Romaine lettuce hearts instead. They do not need to be chopped down into smaller pieces. This is what the original salad used.
 Rinse the leaves individually under cool, running water to get rid of any dirt. Shake the leaves dry, then pat them with a paper towel. You can also dry them off in a salad spinner.


The leaves must be dry. Salad dressing will not stick to wet lettuce.
 Stack the leaves, and cut them down the middle, lengthwise. Next, cut the leaves into 2 inch (5.08 centimeters) wide slices.



If you are using Romaine lettuce hearts, you do not need to do this.
 You will be tossing the salad in this bowl, so make sure it is large enough. If you plan to add any extra ingredients, make sure that the bowl is large enough to accommodate them as well.
 Start with ¼ cup (25 grams) of cheese and ¾ cups (75 grams) of croutons. You can use a little more/less depending on your preferences.


If you don't have any Parmesan cheese, or simply don't like it, try another hard, white cheese, such as Romano.
Consider making your own croutons from scratch. Click here to learn how.
 How much dressing you put in depends on your preferences. Most people, however, seem to prefer adding in just enough dressing so that it lightly coats the leaves and doesn't collect at the bottom.


If you add the dressing too early the croutons will be soggy.
If you made the salad far in advance, place the salad and the dressing in separate bowls in the refrigerator.
 Use a pair of salad tongs to grab some lettuce from the bottom of the bowl. Bring them towards the top of the salad, and lightly drop them. Keep picking up lettuce from the bottom of the bowl and transferring to the top until the leaves are lightly coated with dressing.
 Once the dressing is in, the salad cannot sit for too long, or it will get soggy. If you are serving guests at a party, consider separating the salad into individual portions first, then garnish each plate. This will make a nicer presentation.


Consider garnishing individual servings with lemon wedges.
 Plan on making the croutons up to half an hour before you plan on serving the salad. The croutons will need some time to cool.
 Start by cutting the bread down the middle, like making a sandwich. Next, use your knife to cut the bread away from the crust. Try to keep the bread intact as much as possible. Cutting the crust away will give the croutons a nice, even texture. It will also help them bake more evenly.
 Start by cutting the bread into slices. Then, stack several slices on top of each other, and cut them down into smaller pieces.
 You can do this in a small saucepan over the stove, or in the microwave. Be careful not to heat the butter so much that it begins to brown.
 Transfer the melted butter into a large bowl, and add the olive oil. Stir the two together using a fork. Make sure that the bowl is large enough to fit the croutons.
 Use a pair of salad tongs to scoop the crusts from the bottom of the bowl, and transfer them to the top—just like tossing a salad. Keep doing this until the croutons are evenly coated.
 Add the seasoning into the bowl, and continue tossing the croutons until they are evenly coated.
 Make sure that they are spread evenly across the sheet in a single layer. If you can't fit all of the croutons on the baking sheet, don't stack them. Instead, bake them in separate batches., Once they are done baking, pull them out of the oven and let them cool. Add them to your salad once they are completely cool.
 Pound about 1 pound (453.6 grams) of chicken breasts until they are 1/8 inch (3.18 millimeters) thick. Season them with 1 tablespoon of Caesar dressing, and salt and pepper (to taste). Grill the chicken for 3 to 4 minutes, per side. Let the chicken cool, then cut it into thin, bite-sized strips. Add the chicken to the salad., Peel, de-veined, and rinse 1 pound (453.6 grams) of medium-sized shrimp. Brush the shrimp with olive oil, then toss it with 1 tablespoon of shrimp seasoning (listed below); store any leftover shrimp seasoning in a jar. Spear the shrimp onto skewers and grill for 2 minutes on both sides. Let the shrimp cool, then add to the salad. For the shrimp seasoning, you will need:2 ½ tablespoons paprika
2 tablespoons salt
2 tablespoons garlic powder
1 tablespoon black pepper
1 tablespoon cayenne pepper
1 tablespoon onion powder
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 tablespoon dried thyme

, Preheat your grill; high heat for an indoor grill, and medium high for a gas grill. Mix together some Worcestershire sauce, balsamic vinegar, and extra-virgin olive oil in a small bowl. Brush the mixture onto both sides of a 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) thick piece of beef sirloin (about 1½ to 2 pounds). Let the meat marinate for 10 minutes, then grill it for 4 to 6 minutes per side. Remove the steak from the grill and let it rest for 5 to 10 minutes. Cut the meat at an angle, against the grain, into thin slices. Garnish the salad with the sliced steak.Consider seasoning the steak further before grilling with steak seasoning, or a mixture of coarse-grained salt and pepper.
 Take 1 to 2 bunches of kale, and cut out the thick stalks from the centers. Stack several leaves and roll them up like a cinnamon roll. Cut the roll into thin slices, no wider than your finger. Unroll them and toss them into the bowl. Repeat this for the rest of the leaves., The highlight of a Caesar salad should be the dressing. If you add too many flavors, the salad will become overpowering. Limit yourself to one or two additions. Stick with milk flavors, such as white chickpeas, or tart flavors, such as capers.
 Instead of using Parmesan cheese, consider using another type of cheese, such as blue cheese or gorgonzola. For a more lemony flavor, substitute freshly squeezed lemon juice for the white vinegar.