 Keeping your sick bird warm is essential. Unless your bird has a fever (if this applies, then it's not good to raise your bird's temperature even more, which could be lethal) you should keep your bird at a warm temperature. Remember, an overheated bird will raise its wings away from its body and may pant, and a cold bird will fluff itself up.


Try putting a heat lamp in your birds cage (these can be purchased from any pet store, and are normally used for lizards- a 40-60 watt green bulb works best, avoid white bulbs) and turn it off at night, or put a hot water bottle on the bottom of its cage, with a towel or a blanket to cover it. Whatever works best for you and your bird.;
, This prevents the spreading of germs and prevents the bird from getting sicker. Remember to clean the fruit and seed that your bird has dropped on the floor of its cage as soon as it appears.
 Your bird needs rest when it is sick and a long trek to its food and water bowls is not what it needs.
 Try not to knock its cage, put it in a new environment (except if it's unavoidable, eg. going to the vet's) or touch it too much. Do not wake it up while it's sleeping and keep the volume low if you keep it in a family room, because a sick bird needs 12 hours sleep each day.
 A bird has an increased chance of falling when its sick, and stress and possible injury is not good for your bird.
 Don't move your bird's cage to another room just to achieve this (see step 4) but sunlight can be very beneficial for your bird, particularly if it is suffering from a lack of vitamin D. Vitamin D from sunlight can lift your birds mood and help your bird recover from its illness.


Make sure that this doesn't overheat your bird and if it's not comfortable, make sure there is some shade for him to go in to.
 A symptom of dehydration is crinkly skin around the eyes. This is the biggest problem a bird can face when sick. Keep fresh, clean water nearby at all times, and sweeten it with a tiny bit of honey to encourage drinking if needed. However, you must clean the water out regularly if you do this, because bacteria grows more quickly in sweetened water.
 This includes millet sprays, seed, fruit, and dropped food at the bottom of the cage. One of the most common causes of bird illness is poor food.
 If your bird is displaying alarming symptoms or the illness is getting worse, it's best to seek a professional opinion, or it could be fatal. Your vet can also give you medicine and supplements for your bird if its not feeding well or its dehydrated.

