 Sporting dogs are active and likeable dogs known for their instincts. These dogs are also called "bird dogs" or "hunting dogs" because they are traditionally bred to participate in field activities. Look into the various sport breeds to figure out which one is right for you. There are over 30 breeds of sport dogs recognized by the American Kennel Club.Here is a sample:


American water spaniel - known to be eager and charming.
Curly-coated retriever - known to be proud, confident, and smart.
English springer spaniel - known to be playful and obedient at home.
Golden retriever - known to be intelligent and devoted family dogs.
Irish setter - known by to be outgoing and sweet-natured.;
, To locate a sport dog to adopt, start by contacting animal shelters in your area. Perform an internet search for local animal shelters. Then get in touch—by phone, by email, or in person—to find out if they have any sport breeds available for adoption.You might say, "I am calling to see if you have any sport dogs, such as retrievers or spaniels, available for adoption."
Shelters are a good option because the application process is simple, and the fees are affordable.
 If you already know which specific breed of dog you would like to adopt, you can check out various breed-specific rescue organizations. Each rescue organization will have a different process of adoption. However, the application process is usually quite rigorous. It may require a several page application, referrals from a veterinarian, and an inspection of your home. Rescue organizations have high standards, and may reject applicants they do not see fit.A simple internet search for "rescue " will likely turn up any breed-specific rescue organizations in your area. For instance, you could search "Golden retriever rescue Salt Lake City, Utah."
Rescue organizations are the best way to locate purebred dogs available for adoption.
However, the application process can be quite rigorous and the fees are typically more expensive than your average shelter.
 Numerous online pet adoption locators—such as Adopt a Pet, Animal Adoption Center, Best Friends Animal Society, and Petfinder—exist to help you browse adoptable animals in your area. Simply enter the breed you wish to locate, and view the animals up for adoption in your area. These services draw from shelters, rescue organizations, and individuals looking to re-home animals.Once again, sport breeds include retrievers, pointers, spaniels, and setters.
 Adopting a sport dog is not as simple as walking into an animal shelter and waltzing out with your new pet. Shelters and rescue organizations work to make sure that these pets will be adequately cared for. As such, you will need to meet a series of requirements in order to adopt.These will vary from location to location, but may include:


You must spend at least 30 minutes with the dog you want to adopt.
You must show a valid government-issued I.D.
You must be at least 18 years old.
You must show proof of address. (Some shelters will require you to live within a certain area.)
You may need to prove that you have adequate space for a sport dog, and plenty of time to exercise them.
 In order to adopt an animal, you will need to fill out an application. This process will vary slightly depending on the specific shelter or rescue organization you work with. You will also be asked to pay an adoption fee. Breed-specific rescue organizations will have the most rigorous in-depth process.The adoption fee will vary from organization to organization, and from breed to breed.
The fee can also vary depending on which medical services (such as spaying/neutering or vaccinations) are included.
This fee can range from as little as $25 to as much as $300.
 In order to qualify for a dog adoption through some services, you must bring the dog home with you for a short period of time as a kind of “test.” Inquire about this with your adoption service and schedule a time for your home visit.Get the details about your required home visit right away.
In some cases, this may only be for a few hours, while other services may ask you to take the dog overnight.
If you have other dogs at home, a representative from the organization might help facilitate the first meeting.
Make sure you have everything you need to care for the dog for this time period (some shelters may supply food and other items).
 If you have met all necessary requirements, paid the appropriate fees, and successfully completed your home visit, you can make arrangements to pick up your new dog and welcome them into your home., Before you bring your new dog home, you will want to get your home ready. This will help create a smooth and comfortable transition for your new dog. You will want to get:


a leash
food and water bowls
dog food
a collar or harness (and tags)
a dog bed
a crate (optional)
dog toys

, Sport dogs are also called "performance dogs," because they have been bred for hunting. As such, these dogs require a special diet that supports their athleticism. A sport dog should receive 30-35% of their calories from protein, and up to 60% of calories from fat, which is quite different from the diet of other breeds. Choose a "sport dog" or "hunting dog" blend of dog food that fits these requirements, and/or seek a recommendation from your vet.Studies suggest that hard-working dogs like these should be fed only once per day.
The amount of food your sport dog needs will vary based on their weight.
You may want to consult a veterinarian to determine the best diet for your sport dog.
These breeds need a lot of water, too! Water should be offered at least three times a day.
 Sport dogs are naturally curious, so it is best to allow them to explore your home in their own time. Although they are not known to be aggressive, they will be the most comfortable if they are given plenty of space at first. When you bring home your new sport dog, consider placing the dog in a quiet room, where no one will bother them. Leave the door open and allow your dog to investigate the rest of your home when they are ready.


If you have other dogs, it may be helpful to introduce the dogs to each other in a neutral place (such as a park) before bringing the new dog home.
Sport dogs tend to respond well to crate training. Consider crate training your new dog.
Be sure that all dogs have their own “nest” or private space to sleep.
 Sport dogs of all breeds are known for being active and alert. As such, a sport dog will need daily exercise. This can include walks, playing fetch, running, and general play. Be prepared to spend 30-45 minutes exercising your sport dog each day.At least some of this exercise should be vigorous. Try taking your dog on a run.
Additionally, some of this should include mental stimulation, such as playing hide and seek with a toy.
Aggressive play, restlessness, and excessive barking are all potential signs that your dog needs more activity., Now that you’ve acquired your new sport dog, be sure to take excellent care of them! Provide your new dog with food, water, daily exercise, veterinary care, and lots of love!

