 Obey traffic lights carefully when approaching an intersection controlled by them where you want to cross the street. Follow green for go, yellow for slow, and red for stop.


Pay particular attention to traffic that may be crossing your path, even when the light is green for you. These could include cars from the cross street that run a red light illegally, or vehicles from the other side of the street who make unprotected left turns (or right turns in some countries).Gauge when to slow down for yellow lights very carefully. You shouldn’t speed up to cross while a light is still yellow, but you also should not abruptly brake right before an intersection and risk causing an accident. Slow down when you can do so safely, or proceed through the yellow light with caution.
 Yield to other drivers when you approach an intersection controlled by one, two, or four stop signs, or an uncontrolled intersection with no stop signs at all. Slow down and obey yield signs in the same manner as stop signs when other traffic is present.


In general, and at four-way stops (all streets have stop signs), any driver should observe right-of-way by letting whoever got there first proceed. If two or more drivers arrive at the stop sign at the same time, the driver to your right proceeds. If it is still unclear, a driver going straight will proceed first before one turning.At a two-way stop or a T-shaped three-way intersection, the driver at a stop sign should always wait for traffic to completely clear on the through street that does not have any stop signs.
At an uncontrolled intersection, where there are no stop signs, a driver should slow down and be prepared to stop and wait for any drivers already in the intersection to pass through, then proceed cautiously when no other cars are passing., Pay attention to any other traffic signs and signals directed at vehicles before you cross a street. You should always proceed according to what’s going on around you, even when signs and signals indicate it’s safe.


Observe pedestrians closely when proceeding across the street. You might see signs in some areas that alert you to “PED XING” when there is a crosswalk you should be prepared to slow down and stop for.
Pay attention to other special signs at intersections that could affect the way you cross the street, like “Cross traffic does not stop” or markings on the road that indicate things like changing lanes or a bike lane to keep clear of.

