 Walking is a simple, low-impact activity that anyone can start doing anywhere. Start slow and stick to a moderate pace – one in which your breathing is slightly heavier but you're still capable of carrying on a conversation.If you've been entirely inactive, try to start walking 10 minutes a day – preferably at an hour when the sun isn't directly overhead and it isn't too hot or too cold out. Treadmills also are a good option because you can control the environment as well as the incline.
Gradually increase the time and distance of your walks. For example, after walking 10 minutes a day for a week, you might start walking 15 minutes a day. The week after that, walk for 20 minutes.
Once you get to the point where you're walking for a half hour or longer, you may want to take a day off between walking days to give your body a chance to recover.;
, If you have access to an indoor pool, swimming can be a great low-impact way for you to exercise when you have fibromyalgia. The water also has a calming effect which may help ease your symptoms.If you don't enjoy swimming laps, you might be able to find a gentle water aerobics class that you can take. Check your local swimming facility to see if they offer water exercise classes to learn safe and effective water exercises.Even if you're not a skilled swimmer, you can get some exercise by holding onto the side of the pool at the shallow end and kicking.
As long as you remain within your comfortable range of motion, you can do many exercises in the water. Try arm or leg circles, or walk across the pool while sweeping your arms.
 Cycling – whether outdoors or inside on a stationary bike – is another low-impact exercise you can enjoy if you have fibromyalgia. Stationary bikes may be better because you can control the resistance more easily than you can on a road or bike trail.If you're starting a cycling regimen for the first time, treat it the same as walking. Only bike for 10 or 15 minutes a day at a low resistance to start. Gradually up the length of time you bike but keep the resistance low. Keep your pace moderate.
Be cautious about adding resistance because you don't want to over-exert yourself, which could lead to flare-ups.
 With the exception of a brief 10- to 15-minute walk, you generally don't want to exercise every day when you have fibromyalgia. Exercising two or three times a week with a day or two in between gives your body adequate time to recover.If you're starting a new program, wait until you're at your baseline – don't start when you're in the middle of a flare-up.
Give yourself as much time as you need to adjust to your new exercise regimen, keeping in mind that during and after exercise you may notice increased discomfort. However, if the pain becomes unbearable you should stop immediately and allow your body to rest.
 One of the nice things about aerobic exercise is that it's fairly easy to build brief spurts of it into your everyday routine without going out of your way to go to the gym or hit the treadmill.For example, when you're out running errands you might park in a spot further away from the entrance so you can walk across the parking lot. You might also consider taking the stairs instead of the elevator if you're only going to the second or third floor.
Modify activities when you need to do so to accommodate chronic pain. For example, instead of chasing or lifting children, you might play with children on the floor or at a table.
Being more active in your daily life will, over time, help reduce your pain and fatigue, enabling you to do more. Just remember to take a rest when you feel you need one and don't overdo it.

