 No in Afrikaans is pronounced differently than it is spelled and should sound like nee-yu. To say yes you say ja. It is a long and low sound with an h sound like ya-hu. Afrikaans is one of the languages of South Africa. It is a descendant of Dutch, a West Germanic language, brought to the Dutch colony of the Cape of Good Hope in Africa by European settlers in the 17th century.Afrikaans evolved from a mixture of Dutch and other languages including Bantu, Khoisan languages, and English. There are approximately 10 million people total who speak Afrikaans as a native language. It is spoken mostly in South Africa, but it is also spoken some in Botswana, Namibia and Swaziland., The pronunciation of não is nõw, and you say it as you would in English but the ow is more nasalized. In Portuguese yes is sim, and it is pronounced as see or as if you are saying the first half of the word sing in English. Portuguese is a Romance language with Latin roots spoken by around 220 million people in the world mainly in Portugal and Brazil but also in other countries like Mozambique, Cape Verde, and Angola Guinea-Bissau, São Tomé and Príncipe.Portuguese is the sixth most spoken language in the world. A Portuguese quote containing the word no is, Não há remédio para o amor, exceto amar ainda mais, meaning that there is no remedy for love but to love more., No is pronounced nyet. Niet is written Нет in Russian and is the most common Russian word. The Russian word for yes is da. It is pronounced duh. Yes written in Russian is Да. Russian is the eighth most spoken language in the world with 145 million native speakers and 110 second language speakers. It is an official language in the following countries: Abkhazia, which is a part of Georgia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, and Transnistria, which is a part of Moldova.An expression with the word no in Russian is, Нет. Без муки нет науки. Directly translated this means “without torture no science.” The equivalent meaning in English is something like, “adversity is a good teacher.”

, The emphasis is on the "ei" sound when you pronounce the word nein. Ja is how you say yes in German. German is the tenth most spoken language in the world with 101 million native speakers and 128 million second language speakers. It is an official language of Austria, Belgium, Germany, Italy (South Tyrol), Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Poland, Switzerland.You can say “no way” in German by saying, Auf keinen Fall. Nicht is the equivalent of not in English.

Kein is another word for no and can mean not any, no one, nobody, none, and not.Niemals means never in German. A saying with a negation in German is, Wenn der Reiter nichts taugt, ist das Pferd schuld. The literal translation of this saying is, “If the rider is no good, it’s the horse’s fault.” This means that one should take responsibility for his/her actions and not blame others or the circumstances for one’s loses.
 In Hindi, no is written नहीं. No is pronounced nahin and the pronunciation is soft. The emphasis is on the na at the beginning of the word, and the n is nasal. Yes in Hindi is pronounced haa and is spelled हाँ. Hindi is the second most spoken language in the world. 370 million people speak Hindi as their native language and 120 million speak it as a second language. It is an official language in Fiji and India. To say no more politely, add ji to the beginning or end of nahi. This is the same for yes, haa.Although Hindi is the official language of India, there are 22 major languages and 720 dialects spoken in India. A quote that says no in Hindi is, जल में रहकर मगर से बैर ठीक नहीं which translates to you should not have enmity with the crocodile if you are living in the water and means that you should strive to have good relationships with the people you have to live or work with.There are 3 stylistic varieties of Hindi: one used in high courts, journalism, literature, philosophy and religion; another Persianized version that is used in lower courts, films and some genres of literature; and a third Anglicized version for business administration, colleges, and science and technical journals. , In Armenian, no is written as ոչ and is pronounced votch. Ha is how you say yes in Armenian. Che and ayo are another way to say no and yes in Armenian, respectively. There are approximately 6.7 million people who speak Armenian in the world. 3.4 million live in Armenia and the majority of the remainder live in Georgia and Russia. However, there are also smaller populations of Armenians in Lebanon, Egypt, Azerbaijan, Iraq, France, the United States, and Bulgaria.


In Modern Armenian there are two written versions, Western Armenian, Arewmtahayerên, and Eastern Armenian, Arewelahayerên. There are also many dialects of Armenian although the number has been drastically reduced since 1915 when the massacres in Turkey began an exodus.A quote that includes no in Armenian is, Ոչ իմ հալը, ոչ քո հարսանիք գալը, or Voch im hal, voch qo harsaniq gal. The literal translation means, neither my situation, nor you coming to a wedding. And it means something like, I am not in the mood for what you're doing right now., Non is "no" in French.

