 After you ask about a bra, they may want more information or they may want to tell you about their own experiences bra shopping. Be prepared for any kind of response. It is also a good idea to talk with them when your schedule is relatively open, in case they want to head out shopping right away., If the person asks why you need a bra, you might want to talk about the activities that you are involved in that require a great deal of movement. This means that you are not only asking for a bra for personal reasons, but for health ones as well.


For example, you could tell them about how you play basketball and how you need more chest support as you are running around the court.
 If you’ve noticed that many of your friends have recently gotten bras, you might mention this as well. However, just be sure to reassure the person you’re asking that you are not giving in to peer pressure, you actually need a bra. But, putting everything into context as part of puberty may make this transition easier for all involved.


You might say, “All of my friends are currently wearing bras and, from talking with them, I think that it is a good time for me to start doing it as well.”

, This is a good way to break the ice too. Ask if they would like to go shopping with you and then head to a department store. Then, browse around the racks like usual, but make your way to the lingerie and undergarments section.Looking through the bra offerings of a large store can be a bit overwhelming, so before you go it is a good idea to hop online and browse through the various styles and sizes available.
 If this is the case, you may want to ask again after a few days have passed. Or, you can save up some money and see if you can purchase one on your own.Try to be conservative in what you ask for initially. Don’t request an elaborate or expensive push-up bra. Instead, keep your requests fairly minimal.
 If you are simply too nervous to talk, then compose a quick letter to your parent or guardian in which you ask them to help you select and purchase a bra. Keep the letter brief and to-the-point. State your request in a polite way and then explain your reasoning. Make sure to tell them whether you would prefer a written or verbal response.


For example, you might write, “I think I need a bra because my chest frequently hurts when we play sports in school. I think that I could use the additional support that a bra would provide.”

