 Find your materials at your local hobby store, hardware store, or dollar store.You can find the precut wood in the “hobby wood” section of your local hardware store and the wood lath in the section containing pine boards. Build a tri-level swing with the following:Six hobby precut wood measuring four inches wide x quarter inch thick x two ft long
30 feet of rope
Two hooks that you’ll screw into ceiling studs
Four wood laths that measure four feet.
Hobby pre-cuts and wood lath are relatively cheap but make sure to choose lath that have minimal knots and are straight.
Each shelf fits around eight Build-a-Bear sized toys with room to stuff a few smaller ones in as well.;
, Sand both the hobby pre-cuts and the lath. Once smooth, cut your wood lath so that you will have six pieces that measure two feet in length and six pieces that measure one foot in length. There should be two two foot and two one foot pieces of wood lath for each level of your swing., Glue a length of lath to the end of your hobby precuts. Place two hobby pre-cuts on the ground separating them about two - three inches. At each end of the precuts, place a one foot length of lath and secure it using wood glue. Finish glueing the swing seats for each of the remaining two levels.Allow the glue to dry completely. Lay something heavy on each lath or clamp the lath and precuts as the glue dries.
 Drill a hole at each end of your pieces of lath. Make sure the hole is big enough for the rope to fit through. Measure the drill bit against the thickness of the rope prior to drilling. Measure the length of rope needed depending on how high your ceiling is and how low you want the swing to hang.You will need to cut four lengths of rope measuring at about eight feet depending on the height of your ceiling. Thread one piece of rope through your swing set making sure to knot the end so that it doesn’t come through the hole completely and secures the bottom. Create a second knot on the other side of the swing seat so that there is a knot on the top and bottom of the seat.Take a two foot piece of lath and place it four inches above the seat of the swing. Create the swing bar by wrapping the rope around the lath and either securing it with staples or by knotting the rope around it., Repeat the process of threading the rope through each additional level and securely knotting each seat and swing bar. Keep the seats about 18 inches apart or space them according to your preference. You could make more space between the first and second seat to keep the larger animals at the bottom., Screw hooks into studs in your ceiling. Use a stud finder to make sure you have a secure stud to hang your swing from and measure the distance between the rope on the left side of your seats and the rope on the right side. This will be the distance between your hooks. Knot the ends of the ropes and hang the swing to your hooks from each knot. You should have a knot on each side of the swing so that it hangs balanced.