 If you focus on yourself and your self-esteem you can deal with an ex who seems ok after your breakup.Boosting your self-esteem will make it possible for you to recover from the breakup and be okay like your ex.


Make a list of all of the good things about you. Include things about the way you look, skills you have, and things about your personality.
Use positive self-talk with yourself. For example, get in the mirror and tell yourself, “I’m a great person with a lot of great qualities.”

, When you are dealing with a breakup, even if your ex seems fine, you need to do things to make sure that you are fine. It will be much harder for you to deal with your ex if you are tired, hungry, or just plain not feeling well.


Avoid eating junk foods as a comfort. Instead, eat a healthy, well-balanced diet.
Get 6 – 8 hours of sleep each night. An hour before bed, start preparing yourself to settle down and rest.
Participate in physical activity on a regular basis. For example, start jogging, go swimming, or join an athletic team.
Do not turn to drugs or alcohol for comfort.
 You can deal with an ex who seems fine after your breakup if you make sure that you aren’t bottling your feelings up. Doing this can stress you and make the breakup more difficult to handle. Cope with the breakup and with your ex by expressing your feelings appropriately.Talk to friends and family members to help you process your feelings.


Talk to someone close to you about how you are feeling. For example, you might say, “Would you mind talking with for a little while. I’m having some feelings about my breakup.”
Avoid trying to talk to your ex about how you are feeling. They may not want to talk or respond to you the way you want them to.
Try expressing yourself creatively. For instance, write a song or a poem or paint a picture about how you are feeling.
 During your relationship you may have stopped doing some of the things you like to do in order to make time for your partner. You can deal with an ex who seems fine after your breakup if you focus on doing things that you enjoy and are interested in.Make a list of activities and events that you would like to participate in. Pick one thing off of the list and get information on how to participate in the activity.
Make a list of skills and talents that you want to develop and how you can do so. For example, you might put fencing lessons on your list.

