 Before you talk to an attorney, you must have information about the claims made in the advertising, their deceptive nature, and the harm you suffered as a result.The false or deceptive claim made in the advertisement can't be mere "puffery," such as a statement that the product is the "greatest" or "the world's best." There must be a specific fact that can be verified as true or false.
For example, if a car manufacturer claims it has the "best looking" cars, this probably is puffery – the attractiveness of a car (or anything else, for that matter) is a subjective claim, a matter of opinion.
However, if the same car company claimed its cars were rated "#1" in their class by some other company, this is a fact that could be checked. If that rating authority did not in fact give that car company's vehicles top honors, saying it did would constitute false or deceptive advertising.
You also must be able to show that you relied on that deceptive statement to purchase a product or service, and that you were injured as a result.
Your injury may simply consist of being out the money you paid for the product or service, or you may have incurred a physical injury requiring medical treatment.;
, An attorney with experience consumer protection law can help ensure you get the maximum recovery as a result of being injured by deceptive advertising.Begin your search for an attorney on your state or local bar association's website. Most bar associations have searchable directories of their members, and many have referral services where you can describe your issue and receive a list of attorneys suited to handling your case.
Typically attorneys who litigate deceptive advertising lawsuits work under a contingency fee agreement. This means your attorney will take a percentage of your settlement or award if you win your lawsuit, but you won't have to pay him or her up front.
For this reason, you shouldn't let concerns over your ability to afford an attorney dictate whether you hire one.
In many situations your actual damages will be minimal, but you may not be the only person injured by the company's deceptive advertising. An attorney can help you assess whether a class action lawsuit is appropriate.
 Your lawyer will work with you to analyze jurisdiction, but generally, the size of the company responsible for the advertising and the scope of the advertising campaign may affect which court has jurisdiction over your case.If you are a competitor of the company engaging in deceptive advertising, you may be able to sue in federal court. Federal law allows private actions from competitors for harm suffered as a result of false or deceptive advertising.
Additionally, many state laws allow consumers to sue companies for damages suffered as a result of deceptive advertising.
Advertising law isn't the end of it, however. You may have other claims depending on the subject of the advertising.
For example, if you're suing a pharmaceutical company over a deceptive commercial for a drug that actually had dangerous side effects that weren't disclosed, you might have a products liability or personal injury claim because of the harm done to you by the drug as a result of your reliance on the deceptive advertising.
 If the deceptive advertising was a national campaign, there potentially are many more people who have been injured by it who may want to join with you in suing the company.Class actions can have the greatest impact when the plaintiff's individual damages are minimal, but add up to a significant amount of money when combined together.
In the case of large national or multinational corporations, a small lawsuit may be quickly and easily settled out of court, but a lawsuit for millions of dollars in damages will make a significant impact on the company's reputation and its future practices.
Examining class action potential typically involves placing advertisements in print media, online, and on television asking people who have potentially been harmed by the deceptive advertising to contact your attorney.
If enough people come forward, your attorney may talk to you about the possibilities of getting the court to certify a class so you may proceed as a class action lawsuit.
 Once you and your lawyer have all the information necessary to file the claim, your lawyer will be ready to draft the complaint to initiate your lawsuit.Your complaint identifies you and the company your suing by name and address and explains why the court has jurisdiction over your case.
The second part of your complaint will be the allegations against the company responsible for the deceptive advertising. Those allegations must add up to a violation of the law for which you can sue the company.
The third part of the complaint will describe the damages you have suffered as a result of the activities described in your allegations.
Your attorney will go over the complaint before you sign it to make sure you understand the allegations. If you don't understand any terms or have any questions, ask your attorney to explain it to you in layman's terms.
 To initiate your lawsuit, your attorney will file your complaint with the clerk of the court that will be hearing the case. You typically don't have to be present, but you may want to go along to better understand the procedure.The clerk will stamp the complaint "filed" with the date and take the filing fees from your attorney. These fees generally amount to a few hundred dollars and will be included in your legal costs.
If you win your lawsuit at trial, the court typically will order the defendant to pay these costs. If you settle the lawsuit before trial, costs typically will be taken out of your total settlement amount., After your lawsuit is filed, you and your attorney are responsible for making sure the company you're suing has sufficient legal notice of your lawsuit.Your attorney will complete the necessary forms to establish legal service of process. Typically this involves having the complaint hand-delivered to the company's official legal representative by a sheriff's deputy.
Along with the complaint, the company will receive a summons giving the company a certain amount of time, typically around 20 days, to respond to the lawsuit.
 The company you've sued, typically through its attorney, will file a response to your lawsuit, which may include a motion to dismiss.Don't be surprised or upset if the defendant denies most or all of your allegations. This doesn't necessarily mean the defendant is saying that aren't true. Rather, the defendant is forcing you to prove they are true.
Any allegations the defendant admits are things you don't have to prove at trial.
The answer also may contain affirmative defenses, which are reasons the company asserts it is not liable for your damages. These are things the defendant must prove – you don't have to prove they aren't true.
 Particularly if you're suing a relatively large company, you should expect to receive a settlement offer relatively quickly after you file your lawsuit.Your lawyer can advise you whether to accept or reject a settlement, but the final decision is always yours. If you choose to reject the settlement, the case will proceed to the next stage of litigation.
If you decide to accept a settlement offer, papers will be drawn up listing the terms and conditions of the settlement. These terms may include a requirement to keep the settlement amount confidential.
Your lawyer will receive the settlement check, deduct the costs of the lawsuit and his or her fees, and write you a check for the remainder., Through the discovery process, both you and the defendant have the opportunity to exchange information and build your case.Discovery almost always involves requests for production and interrogatories. These are written documents sent by your attorney to the defendant's attorney, and by the defendant's attorney to yours.
Requests for production entail producing written documents and other evidence you have in your possession related to your lawsuit. In a deceptive advertising lawsuit, requests from the defendant most likely will include documents or evidence of your damages.
For example, if you claim were physically injured as a result of the deceptive advertising, the defendant most likely will request that you produce medical records and other evidence of your injuries.
Interrogatories are written questions that must be answered in writing under oath. If you receive interrogatories, your attorney will go through these with you to help you formulate your answers.
Depositions are another part of discovery that may prove key in a deceptive advertising lawsuit. Through the deposition process, you (through your attorney) interview key witnesses or employees of the defendant regarding the deceptive advertising.
The interviews are conducted under oath in the presence of a court reporter, who creates a transcript of the proceedings that you can use later on.
 Courts typically schedule a number of pretrial hearings and conferences to keep the litigation on track.Your lawyer will advise you on whether you are required to be at these hearings. Particularly for scheduling conferences, it often isn't necessary for the plaintiff to attend. Your attorney will send you a letter summarizing what happened.
As the case gets closer to trial, the attorneys and the judge typically will get together in a conference to establish the order by which the trial itself will proceed. This gives the judge a good idea of how long the case will take to try.
 Some civil courts require the parties to attempt mediation before the case can be set for trial.Depending on the court, a mediator may be appointed or you may choose a mediator with the help of your attorney. The mediator is a neutral third party who works with you and the defendant to come to a mutually beneficial settlement of your claims.
Just as with an independent settlement, the mediation procedure and its outcome are confidential. The company you're suing may prefer this to avoid word of the settlement getting out and encouraging others to file suit as well.
Typically mediation begins with you and a representative of the company seated together at a table with your attorneys and the mediator. The mediator will explain the process and each side will have the opportunity to make an "opening statement" regarding the dispute.
After opening statements are complete, the mediator typically will move you and your attorney to a separate room from the defendant. The mediator will discuss the case with you, then leave the room and talk to the defendant.
The mediator proceeds to go back and forth between the two parties until a settlement is reached or it becomes clear that you have reached an impasse.
 Throughout the time before trial, you typically will be working closely with your attorney to build your strongest arguments and organize your evidence for trial.Your trial strategy will differ depending on whether you and your attorney have decided to have a bench trial (with only the judge deciding the case) or a jury trial.
If you plan on calling witnesses, your attorney will want to get together with them at least once, if not several times, before the trial to go over their testimony.
For example, if you suffered a physical injury, you may want to call your doctor or other healthcare professional to testify as to the extent of your injuries and the treatment he or she provided to you.
Depending on the characteristics of the deceptive advertising, your witnesses may include other experts who will testify as to the nature of the deception or the falsity of the advertising's claims.

