 If kids do great at school all day then fall apart once they get home, it may be that they need some structure at home. School tends to be very structured, from when children arrive, eat, play, and do work. Having a routine at home can give your child a sense of security and build self-discipline. Kids sometimes fear the unknown, so having something they know they can rely on every day can be comforting and help them feel more secure and, by extension, better behaved.Have a morning routine before school and afternoon and night routine after school. Consider having a routine for the weekends, too.
For example, teach your child that first they get out of bed, put on their pajamas, brush their teeth, then eat breakfast, in that order.
However, keep in mind that children need some unstructured time as well. Be willing to let your child run around and do what they want after school to release some energy. Having too much structure can also prevent a child from following their instincts and making their own choices., Schools often have a list of rules and classroom guidelines hung somewhere where all children can see. Many elementary school classrooms have behavior charts for all the children. Consider implementing a similar system at home so that house rules can be easily referenced and followed. When children know what rules they need to follow and what consequences result when they break a rule, they can set clear boundaries for their actions and begin to self-regulate their behavior without adult intervention.Create house rules and consequences together as a family. Let the children have some input as to what rules are important to follow and what should happen if someone breaks a rule. You always have the final say, so don’t be afraid to add your own rules or modify existing ones.
For younger children, make the chart visual with colors or pictures. Display house rules somewhere it can be easily referenced.
 Often, parents will make rules and enforce them for a time, then forget about them or gradually let problem behaviors slide. When you implement routines, structure, and rules, commit to enforcing them consistently. If you have more than one child, make sure everybody follows the rules and faces consequences for breaking them. Decide on consequences for breaking the rules before rules are broken so that both you and child will know what to expect.Consistency creates fairness for both parent and child. When you are consistent, siblings can’t accuse you of favoring one child over another or giving smaller consequences to one child and larger consequences to another.
Make sure that you and your spouse are on the same page regarding the rules as well.

