 If you want a more low pressure situation to hang out with your crush, you could ask them to hang out with you and your friends that weekend. It’s a low key way to get to know them more without the added pressure of a date. You’ll also get a feel for whether or not this person gets along well with your friends, which can be important if you want to date them!


You could say, “So my friends and I usually hang out on Sunday nights and watch the game. Would you be down for that?”
Or, “Bobby, Jackie, and I were thinking about going to lazer tag on Saturday afternoon. Do you want to come?”

, If there’s a school event coming up, like a dance or a carnival, ask the person to go with you. It still has less pressure than a date (because the person would probably go anyway), but it’s still special for you two to go together. Here are some ways you can ask your crush to go with you:


You could say, “Hey! I don’t know if you’ve heard about the dance on Friday, but I was planning on going and was hoping that you would go with me. Would you like to do that?”
Or try, “Do you want to go to the home football game with me on Saturday afternoon? We could get ice cream afterwards, if you want to!”

, If you are interested in the person and they seem interested in you, too, you might want to ask them out. You should ask them out in person, rather than over a text message, because it seems more sincere. Here are some tips for asking someone out:


Have a specific date and time in mind. Don’t just ask, “Want to go out with me?” Instead, ask, “Would you like to go see the new James Bond movie with me on Saturday night?”
However, you should also be willing to move around the date and time. People can have really busy schedules, and you should think of a couple dates and times that would be convenient for you. The person might say, “I would love to, but I have plans on Saturday!” If that happens, you should have a couple of other times lined up.
Don’t take a “maybe” as a “no.” Sometimes, people have to check their schedules or check with their parents about whether or not they can go out on a date. Don’t get discouraged yet!If the person says no, don’t sweat it! There are so many people in high school (and beyond!) that will make you happy. It also might have nothing to do with you personally.
 If you want to take things to the next level with your crush, you could also try to do something physical, like put your arm around them or hold their hand. If you want to do this, you should be getting clear body language signals that your crush wants to do this, too.


If the person has positive body language around you, such as smiling at you, standing or sitting close to you, or makes a lot of eye contact with you, they might be ready for physical affection.It’s always better to ask, “Can I hold your hand?” or “Can I kiss you?” than to not do so. This will make sure that you don’t make your crush uncomfortable and that any advance you make on your crush will be well-received.

