 Correct arm position is vital for starting to slow dance properly. For the traditional slow dance position, the man should put his right hand on his partner's left hip side or on his partner's mid to upper back, and his left hand should gently grasp his partner's right hand and hold it up at about shoulder-level of the taller partner so that both partners' arms are bent upward from the elbow. You should stand about a foot to half a foot (30 - 15 cm) away from your partner, depending on the level of intimacy you want to create.









The woman's left arm will generally be placed on her partner's shoulder. This is a traditional ballroom dancing position (as well as a safe junior high dancing position), and you should still be standing about a foot from your partner.
If the two of you are in a romantic relationship, you can even get into a hug stance with the guy’s arms around the girl’s waist and the girl’s arms around the guy’s shoulders. This is also just a more common move for middle-school and even high-school dances because it's a bit easier to get into this position -- but it does make it a bit trickier for the guy to lead.
Don't let your hands wander. Even in the event that your partner doesn't mind, it’s distracting for the other dancers and just not classy.
 Face your partner, standing so that your head is about a foot or two away from his or hers. Standing toe-to-toe is not the optimal position -- you need to give yourself room to move your feet without bumping into your partner's feet. Some couples stand offset, with each person's right foot inside the other persons pair; some partners may have the woman's feet to the inside of the man's.









Your feet should be at least 1 foot (0.3 m) to 1.5 feet (0.5 m) apart (30 cm-45 cm) so that you can move comfortably from side to side.
 Luckily for you non-dancers, slow dancing is about as easy as it gets. Movements should be slow and smooth, and you need not move very much. (Swaying back and forth as you move in a circle is perfectly acceptable.) Simply transferring your weight back and forth, however, is a language everyone speaks. To vary, move or rotate, slightly lift the foot your weight is not on and slide that foot a little forward, back, or sideways.









As you improve your slow dancing skills, you can master the "step touch": simply step to the right with your right foot, then follow the foot with your left, touch the ground, and then step to the left with your left foot, and then follow your left foot with your right, touching the floor again before you move it back.
You and your partner's feet should be in sync when you do the "step touch," or even when you sway your feet.
Your arms should stay in place, except when the guy tugs the girls hand to lead her in a new direction.
If you're close to the person you're dancing with, you can face each other directly, making your faces just a few inches apart. If not, you can move your head slightly to the left as your partner moves his to the right, or vice versa, so you're not facing each other head-on.
 Traditionally, the man leads the dance and the woman follows his movement. This means that not only should the man give cues that the couple should turn or move to a new position, but that the girl should allow herself to be led. If you're a guy, then you should guide your partner, not move her around on the dance floor like a broom. You should be confident enough in your movements to show the girl when you want to turn or move in a new direction. Here are some other things to keep in mind as you lead the girl:









The easiest way to lead the girl this is by subtly pushing or pulling her right hand (assuming you are holding it in your left hand) in the direction you want to go.
However, make sure you’re not doing all your leading with just your hands; if your body’s doing one thing and your arms are doing another, you’ll come across as pushy or like you don’t know what you’re doing.
Instead, lead with your whole body: keep your shoulders and elbows firm but springy and then step in the direction that you want to lead your partner.
You can lead your partner in a new direction, and continue to turn in a box-like shape so that you keep slow dancing while keeping things interesting as you move your bodies.
You can also just move your partner to the right, left, or back or forward if you want to find a less crowded place on the dance floor or if you just want to mix things up.
 Though you girls may not want to cede control to your dance partner, you have to trust him and hope that he'll do his best. If you try to control him while he tries to control you, then you'll end up in an awkward tug-of-war situation and neither of you will be able to really move or enjoy the dance. Here are some things to keep in mind as you allow yourself to be led:









If you’re lucky enough to get a partner who leads – even if awkwardly – don’t fight it. In fact, do your best to follow along; the clearer you make it that he’s in charge, the likelier he is to try to lead better.
If your partner moves his foot, you will need to compliment his action: as the leader moves his right foot backward, for example, you should move your left foot forward.
 Your steps should move roughly in time to the beat of the music so that you make a step every beat or so. This is not as hard as it might sound since the music will be nice and slow and easy to follow. If the song speeds up at some point, then speed up the "step touch" or swaying movements of your feet to match the music -- make sure that you and your partner and speeding up and slowing down when it's necessary.









If the music suddenly slows down, or if you're just feeling playful, guys, then you can turn your partner in the middle of the dance.
 For most of us, a slow dance is more about being close to your partner and getting to know each other than it is about moving. Feel free to talk to your partner, to look into his or her eyes and, if the situation is appropriate, to steal a kiss or two. Talking to your partner will put both of you more at ease during the dancing process, whether you know each other well or not.









Don't feel the need to talk constantly -- this can disrupt the flow of the dance and may make things awkward if you can't hear each other very well. Just a bit of conversation here and there will make the experience more fun and comfortable.

