 If you are in class and you feel tears coming on, ask to use the bathroom.You are much more likely to be alone in the bathroom during a class period.


If you are at lunch or recess, move away from others. Try making an excuse by saying something about how you need to clear your thoughts or how you want to run around on your own.
 Once you are in the bathroom, make your way to a stall so that you can be alone. If you are worried about making crying noises, try running the faucet or flushing the toilet when you feel that you need to really let the tears out so people are less likely to hear you.


If you are at lunch or recess, by moving away from others you will be less likely to be heard or seen crying.
 Once you are alone in the bathroom or you have flushed the toilet so no one can hear you, let yourself cry until you can't cry anymore. After you have let out all your tears and you think you are over your sad spell, give yourself a minute to recover.


If you are at lunch or recess, look around and make sure no one is too close by, then let it all out.
 After crying, your face might be red or puffy. Before you head back to the classroom, wait a few minutes for evidence of your crying to disappear.


If you can without being seen, try speeding up the process by running cold water over your face.
If your face is still red and/or puffy when you head back to class, try placing your hand in front of your face and scratching the top of your forehead as you walk back into class and take your seat. This way you will cover up most of your face and it will just look like you had an itch.
When you enter the classroom, you can also do a fake yawn, which will scrunch up your face and help to hide that you were crying. You can try this alone or in combination with scratching your head.
To wait around while at lunch or recess, do your best to stay as far away from your classmates as you can.
 If you are sitting on the left or rightmost side of the classroom, you can continue to hide your puffy face or any additional tears by resting a hand on your face in a way that will help to block others' view of you.


If you are sitting on the leftmost side of the classroom, you can rest your right hand on your face, or if on the rightmost side, your left hand.
Be careful to not look like you are falling asleep when you do this otherwise your teacher may call on you and put unwanted attention on you.

