 Horror movies are a particularly formulaic genre, as anyone who has watched a lot of horror can attest. This means, however, that astute viewers can usually piece together the general arc of action and suspense. While this may "ruin" the scares a bit, it helps you realize that the scares in horror aren't real -- they are manufactured in a very similar way to get a very similar response from all viewers:



First is a scene meant to scare you immediately, such as the first victim or the release of the "evil" at the heart of the film.

Second comes establishment of characters and locations. This is usually the place of the first jump scare -- not the real villain or scare, but something to put you on edge.

Third comes the first death or scare, while people think things are still "normal" in the horror world. The jump scare usually coincides with this death, if there is one.

Fourth comes the worst/scariest part of the film -- the bodies mount up and the characters slowly realize that things are not looking good. Expect 1-2 more jump scares.

Fifth and finally comes the defeat of the villain (or is it?!), and this section is usually more action-heavy than the rest. There may be 1-2 jump scares, but they are usually easy to see coming., Because most horror films follow cookie-cutter plots, this isn't where most directors look for inspiration or originality. Horror is a very stylized, unrealistic genre that takes great creative leaps in lighting, costume design, sound/music, and theme in order to stay relevant. Most horror connoisseurs don't watch horror to get scared all of the time, they watch it to enjoy great artists pushing an extreme and stylish genre to its limits, all while serving up a delicious shot of adrenaline.



Cinematography in horror films is extreme and artistic. Pay attention to the lights and common colors, crazy camera angles, and interesting jumps or cuts.

Social themes are common motifs in horror, exploring what society fears through art. From Night of the Living Dead to It Follows, look for the real-life metaphors.

Sound and Music are subtle but key. It's been shown that sound on its own is often scarier than pure visuals. Anyone who's ever been alone at night in a creaky house knows that, but ask yourself how the filmmakers are able to pull off this same effect in the movie., A truly great horror movie is scary because you never see the events and scares coming. While all horror films will follow the "rules" outlined above to various degrees, you should be prepared for a great horror flick to break these rules in crucial, terrifying ways. The best way to avoid jumping, at the end of the day, is to never watch horror movies in the first place. But what is the fun in that?!

, You may get annoyed at how easily you flinch during a jump scare, even one that you see coming, but there is a very good reason for the jump. Almost all mammals share this "startle reflex," as it naturally moves you away from potential danger without having to take the time to think of it. Even if it's not fun, it is hardwired into human DNA to move when scared.