 A rubric is a sheet of paper that tells you the requirements you must meet to get that A+. It will have detailed instructions to follow in order to provide a project that is logical and covers all the issues.;
, If there are rules and guidelines the teacher shows you, then write them down. Make sure that you know what you have to do for the project, before adding interesting facts or decorations.
 On the same day you receive the project assignment, read through the whole thing and see whether you understand it all. If not, write down the questions and be prepared to ask your teacher these questions the next day. The earlier that you sort out any misunderstandings, the easier the preparation of the project will prove to be.
 This will help you to avoid leaving the whole project until the last minute. In this schedule, put down:


Time for research.
Time for collation.
Time for writing.
Time for editing and reviewing.
The hand-in date.
 The earlier you start, the earlier it'll be completed and you won't have to finish it at the last minute.
 If you have the freedom to choose a topic, select one that is narrowed down. If you try to cover too much, it'll be too general in nature and you might not finish it in a timely way.
 Use the internet, databases, books and other class recommended resources to do research. Check that the websites you're using are okay with your teacher.


Get adequate background knowledge concerning the topic, or a topic you are interested in.
 Is it all text or will there be other elements, such as images, videos, audio and PowerPoint? Map this out before beginning the creation of your project.
 Keep the flow of your project logical, so that the reader can understand what the project is about, what you are testing/theorizing about/summarizing, etc., and how you will go about it. Then have the relevant information and discussion, followed by your summary or conclusion.


Reference your facts and any quotes.
 Add pictures, decorations, or anything else you can to make your project unique. Make your project the one that nobody will forget! Many teachers will add points for creativity, though some not as many points.


Find out whether or not additional elements are allowed in your project before putting the effort in.
 If you're stuck on any particular issues or have questions, talk to your teacher, a parent, an older sibling or a friend. It can often help to talk things through, just to increase your own understanding of the topic.
 Check that everything makes sense and flows logically. Check that all the facts needed have been provided. Ask other people if they can check your, or your group's, work. You may have looked at it so many times, you skim over the simplest mistakes.


Double check that you have the correct facts and that they're properly referenced.
 Cross check the rubric requirements against the project work you've completed, just to make sure that you have met all the requirements.
 You will get marked down points if your project is late (for just forgetting the project, or an element of it, not because of absences).

