 Rosacea is a chronic skin disorder that comes and goes. It can be hard to predict, but one of the best things for you to do in order to get rid of rosacea related redness before it comes is simply to avoid some of the most common, known triggers of the condition.


Common triggers include sun exposure, heat, alcohol, spicy food, hard cheeses, intense emotions, and changes in the weather such as increased humidity and strong winds.
Emotional upsets for rosacea include stress, fear, anxiety, and embarrassment., Prescription medications reduce skin inflammation and can be prescribed if none of the redness remedies or natural treatments work for you. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, may become pregnant, have other medical conditions, or take other medications before starting new medications.


Your doctor may prescribe you doxycycline, which is an oral antibiotic known to reduce inflammation. A low dose version of doxycycline, known as Oracea, is given initially in high dosages to jump start the drug in your system but then levels out to maintenance dosage levels.
Doxycycline treats not only redness but also the red bumps that are associated with rosacea.
There are many other prescription medications as well. Ask your doctor which is best for your specific case. These are prescribed with moderate cases of rosacea instead of mild ones., Some patients prefer topical treatments to pill ones. Your doctor may prescribe medicated creams such as sodium sulfacetamide/sulfur, Metrogel (metronidazole), or Finacea (azelaic acid), which have the same capabilities as the oral treatment but are applied topically. Each help treat the red bumps as well as redness associated with rosacea., This treatment is often used by patients to help relieve redness for longer periods of time than other treatments. This can also help with noticeable blood vessels on the face, neck, and chest. This therapy is used to help visibly improve the skin and brighten the complexion.


Laser treatment can cause some discomfort, but topical anesthetics and ice packs can be used to decrease discomfort.
This treatment is not a one time only treatment but is given in 3-6 week intervals. It takes a few sessions to get the best effect and is likely not covered by most insurance companies.
It is used mostly when a patient has continual redness that has not responded to other, easier treatments.