 An outfit can make you extremely self conscious or boost your self confidence.Choose pieces that accentuate your best features, hide your flaws, and fit you well.


For example, if you have a tiny waist, wear shirts, sweaters, and dresses that are cinched at the waist. If you want to mask your midsection, wear a peplum skirt, shirt, or dress.
If you aren’t comfortable rocking a crop top or a backless dress, don’t wear it.;
, Makeup is designed to subtly enhance your natural features, not mask them. Experiment with various products to discover the makeup application process that best suits your features.Create a flawless complexion by covering any blemishes you may have with foundation and then concealer.
Enhance your eyes with natural shades of eyeshadow. For a dramatic look, line your eyes with eyeliner and coat your lashes with mascara.
Give your cheeks a natural glow with blush, bronzer, and highlighter.
Complete your look with the perfect shade of lipgloss or lipstick for your skintone.
 Little details, such as manicured fingernails and a radiant complexion, can attract the attention of boys. Set aside time to care for your skin and nails.


Cleanse, moisturize, and exfoliate your skin.
Protect your skin with sunscreen.
Trim, shape, and if desired, paint your nails., When your wear perfume, scent, eau de toilette, body spray, scented lotion, etc, boys will remember your scent and associate it with you. Prior to going out, spray a small amount on your hair. When you encounter a boy you are attracted to, flip your hair to subtly waft the scent in his direction., Boys and girls are more attracted to people that smile than to people that frown. Smiling also has the added benefits of making you and those around you feel happier.Laughing is also very attractive. It illuminates your face., When we become aware of who we are, we can start to accept ourselves and feel more comfortable around others. Keeping a journal or blog is an excellent way to improve your self-awareness and track your personal growth. While you write, consider the following topics:


Identify your likes and dislikes.
Define your dreams.
Determine if there are areas of your life that require additional work., With the media bombarding you with idealized images of beauty, it is easy to forget that perfection is not attainable and beauty is not perfection. Your flaws are what make you unique—embrace your imperfections and start making them work for you.Instead of focusing on the negative aspects of your appearance, praise the features that you love.
Surround yourself with positive people that make you feel loved and beautiful. , Beauty is more than skin deep—your thoughts, actions, and passions are a reflection of who you are as a person. You can enhance your inner beauty and your outward appeal by putting the needs and feelings of others above your own.


Instead of judging others, compliment them.
Freely donate your time and resources to those in need of your assistance.

Be kind and ] to everyone you meet.Embrace your passions—when you do things that make you happy you will feel happy., The people in your life can have a significant impact on your self esteem. When your friends and loved ones constantly criticize you or themselves, it is challenging to see yourself as beautiful. Choose to spend time with people that reaffirm your self-worth, complement you instead of criticizing you, and radiate confidence., Non-verbal cues are a powerful form of communication. When you flirt, use your body language to let him know you are available and interested in him.


To show that you are available, keep your chest, torso, and abdomen open. Avoid crossing your arms in front of your chest.
To show that you are trustworthy, keep your hands visible. Avoid placing them in pockets or under a table.
To showcase your sexuality, expose your neck. Tilt your head back slightly as you laugh.To get or keep his attention, graze his arm. The human touch releases hormones that make you feel connected to the other person., In order to form a genuine connection with a guy, your conversations need to move beyond small talk to more meaningful topics. During your conversations, make an effort to be vulnerable—share your interests, show him your goofy side, and tell him your fears.


When people discuss their passions, they light up, feel happier, and instantly become more attractive to those around them.Furthermore, they subconsciously associate those positive vibes with the people around them.Throughout the conversation, maintain eye contact. It not only lets him know you are listening, but it can actually make him more attracted to you.Compliment him for something that is clearly important to him, such as his determination to succeed in school or in a sport., Clingy, overly available girls can bore or overwhelm guys. The pursuit of mysterious girls, however, is often a welcome challenge. Instead of dropping everything to spend time with your crush, be intentionally elusive and vague from time to time. When he calls, don’t answer your phone right away; if he asks you to hang out, let him know that you’re busy. If he is interested in you, he will put in the effort to capture your attention., Boys are fascinated by independent girls. Demonstrate to him that you have goals and interests your own. Talk to him about your classes—what is your favorite subject and why? Share your dreams with him—what adventures do you plan to take?


When he asks for your opinion, don’t respond with, “I don’t know.” Tell him what you want to do on your date and let him know where you want to eat.