 Most fraternities have a code of conduct or beliefs that informs their existence. What do you believe in? Why are you creating this organization? What are your core beliefs? These are important questions to answer if you want to be able to you're your fraternity to fellow students and the administration.


Loyalty, leadership, service, and rigorous academic standards are all ways to appeal to your school’s administration.Sports often work as a big draw too.;
, There are many national fraternities that may not already exist at your school. If you want to start a chapter for a certain fraternity you can visit the national fraternity's website and follow the process that they list there. There are many different fraternities but the processes are relatively similar. They will help you raise funds and find appropriate members for the fraternity.You can also stay independent. There are not many independent fraternities because they lack funding that national fraternities have. Alumni networks are key to maintaining a fraternity.
 If you are starting an entirely new fraternity you’ll have to figure out what exactly is appealing about your fraternity. An independent fraternity might make its mark by being more spontaneous and avoiding many of the tropes that national fraternities fall into. Try to add your own flair to your fraternity.You might want a fraternity that is associated with athletics, or theater, or a different activity.
Try to pick something that you are interested in and will also interest a lot of other people. For example, you could try to start a fraternity that is very interested in community service or one that wants to be known for holding a lot of fun social events.
For example, many fraternities have their own songs. However, one popular fraternity in Nevada called Omega Xi made a name for itself by choosing ‘Row, Row, Row Your Boat’ as their song.
 Spread interest through word of mouth and by posting on social media. Put flyers up all over campus and advertise relentlessly. When you go to the administration asking for them to recognize your fraternity you’ll need a large number of people who are already interested in joining the fraternity.


Your administration will probably try to dissuade you from starting a fraternity because it doesn’t look good for them to support failed projects.

