 This game is much like FLAME. It is also random, but can be played with friends for fun or to explore your true feelings for someone. The romantic twinge you feel deep down when you select that certain someone could mean your feel for that person as more than a friend. To play this game you'll need a blank piece of paper and a pen or pencil., On one side of your paper, you should write two lists of people: one male and the other female.These lists should have an equal number of people in each and can even include famous people, if you want to have fun with it!

, On the back of your paper, write a list of simple actions. You can include as many or as few actions as you wish, some examples of actions including: hug, shake hands, poke, wave., You can do this many different ways, but you'll want to fold your paper so that your lists are hidden from view. Try folding your paper in half three times - depending on where you've written your list, this kind of fold might work for you.
 Now that your paper is folded in such a way that your lists can't be seen, blank parts of your paper should be all that is visible. On the side that is face up, draw a button and label it "Button", "The Button", or "Push."

, Ask a friend who is willing to play to "push the button" and, when she does, open your paper to the side with your lists of people. Be careful that you do not show your friend any of your lists. You should keep your lists of people and actions secret.
 You should ask your friend what gender she wants to choose for this round of "Push the Button." When she has chosen either "Boy" or "Girl," you should ask her to choose a number. This is the subject, or the person you will be performing an action to/on.
 Now that you know the "who" you and your friend need to find out what will happen to that person. Turn to your action list and ask your friend to choose a number. Once she does, you will can tell her what she is going to do and who she will do it to!


For example, if your friend chose the name "Alex" and the action "shake hands," once these decisions have been made you would tell her, "You are going to... shake hands with Alex!"

