 The pitch is an introduction to the story you’d like to do for a magazine; it gives the editor a general idea about the story itself, as well as your own writing abilities. When choosing an idea for your pitch, think about subjects that matter to you. You don’t need to interview the next president, but you do need it to be something compelling, that other people will relate to.


If you’re interested in human interest stories, look to your local paper. Maybe you can find a short piece on a person that you can interview and turn into a longer piece.
Think local and global at the same time. That is, what’s happening locally that reflects something that a large number of other people will be interested in?;
, You want to be at least something of an expert on your topic before you write it. Plus, you want to make sure your idea will make a good article before you pitch it.


You don’t want to be approved for an idea that you find out later you can’t write. Therefore, it's important to research your topic thoroughly so you know what you're getting yourself into.
 Make sure your idea is the perfect fit for the magazine you choose for submission. Also, ensure that you read a few previous issues to understand exactly what kind of content they publish.


If you don’t want to spend too much money buying back issues, search for old copies of the magazine in the library, or purchase cheap copies at a used book store.
 If possible, research the editor and what kind of articles they have accepted in the past. This will give you an idea of what they look for in a story and allow you to tailor your pitch/article to their preferred style.
 Most magazines have their submission guidelines posted on their website. Look for length restrictions, as well as style guidelines; magazines will either want you to follow an established style guideline (like AP) or use one they have created.


Style guidelines will tell you things like how to write numbers, when to use a serial comma, and how to capitalize titles. These may sound like minor details, but getting them right can make a positive impression on the editor, as it shows them that you've done your homework.
The submission guidelines should also tell you what kind of content the magazine is looking to use.
 It's important to keep your pitch short, usually less than a page — just like a cover letter. At most, it should be a page and a half.


If the pitch is too long, the editor will be more likely to just skim over it and potentially miss the main point of the article. Keeping it short allows them to easily grasp what you want the article to say and make a quick yes or no decision.
Also be sure to keep it free of typos and grammatical errors. Like a cover letter, the pitch is where you show the editor you can write.
 In the first paragraph, explain your idea in a short, compelling manner. In the next 2-3 paragraphs, tell the editor why your story is important. Keep it to one idea per paragraph.


Next, outline how you want to execute your story. That is, when and where are you going to find your information? Who are you going to talk to? How are you going to incorporate that information into your story?
Don’t forget to include previous publications, as that shows you have writing skills. You can list a few in paragraph form or a short bulleted list.
 In the conclusion, make sure your editor knows exactly why this story should be in his or her magazine. Remember that even if you find a good story, your first task is convincing the magazine editor that it’s the right story for them.
 Writing for a magazine is a bit different than other types of writing. It is informative, but it’s also entertainment. You want to open the readers’ eyes to something they've never noticed before.


An essay your writing for class is not likely something that your professor has never read in the past, unless you are in a postgraduate program. Also, in an essay, you’re building an argument, while a magazine article is more story-based, though there is still an underlying point.
Also, the writing style for most magazine articles tends to be more short and to the point, as well as being more fact-based (unless you are writing an editorial) rather than opinion-based.
Writing an article is also different from many freelance writing jobs, as many of those are marketing-based, where the company employing you is trying to drive traffic to the site. While magazines also have this goal in mind, they tend to do it through using trending topics and entertaining readers rather than trying to trick search engines to drive their results higher.
 Again, research, research, research. The best sources are often people, so set up interviews. Make sure to record your interviews and take notes so that you have a backup system. Also, always be professional when conducting interviews: show up on time, dress nicely, and be polite.


However, you can also use other resources, of course. Check local papers, archives, and books at the local library—anything that will help you tell the story.
Just remember that more current resources are generally considered better, especially in journalism.
 Outline exactly where you want your story to go. Remember that in a journal article you want to tell the story little by little, not all at once. Keep that in mind when making your outline.
 Begin with a great hook. A hook draws your reader in. It can be a short anecdote, a joke, or a shocking fact. Make sure whatever you choose is appropriate for the venue. The hook should be relevant, drawing your reader in to the story.
 In some ways, a magazine article isn't that different from a short story. You are leading up to a climax for the reader, and you want to spin your story well. I


n that vein, make sure you keep the suspense going; that is, continue to drop in new details throughout the article, and make sure the story flows in a logical manner.
 For instance, instead of saying “June was a middle-aged housewife,” you could say, “June spends her days at home caring for her two kids. She gave up a career in accounting to take care of her family.”


The second set of sentences provides more detail, allowing more space for the reader to connect with it.
 Like all journalism, space in magazines is at a premium. You will have a set word limit; stick with it. Also, short sentences make more sense in a format like a magazine, where small columns make long sentences look longer and more confusing.
 You don’t want to draw too much on cliché, but most magazines will want you to wrap up the story nicely. Have a climax (a high point), and pull it altogether into the point your making.
 After you have finished writing, have someone proofread both your pitch and article for grammatical errors. There is a good chance they will pick up on errors that you missed. Also remember to go back and make sure that your story will fit into the submission guidelines.
 Not only is the deadline basically a contract with the magazine, but also you will build a good reputation by always being on time. If you miss your deadline, the magazine and editor will be less inclined to want to work with you again in the future.
 Many writers are rejected a number of times before they are accepted somewhere. Try your story at other places until one of them accepts it. Even if you can’t find a home for your current article, try another one; eventually, you’ll find one that an editor loves.

