 Most people contract salmonella poisoning from eating poultry, hamburger meat, or eggs that were not cooked sufficiently to kill all of the bacteria present. Food products produced by animals could be infected with salmonella by coming into contact with feces or the bacteria from it. Cooking your foods completely will kill that bacteria.Be wary of foods that may contain raw eggs such as homemade salad dressings, cookie dough or ice creams.
Make sure the meats you eat are cooked thoroughly and have no pink coloration.
 Washing your hands regularly can prevent you from transferring salmonella causing bacteria from dirty surfaces to your mouth or food that you are preparing. Make sure to wash your hands after you use the bathroom or handle raw food in particular.Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly regularly throughout your day.
Always wash your hands after using the bathroom, cleaning up pet feces, or coming into contact with birds or lizards to limit your chances of contracting salmonella poisoning.
 If food that is already cooked or does not require cooking comes into contact with food that has not been cooked yet, you run the risk of cross contaminating salmonella bacteria onto the ready-to-eat foods. Avoid this by keeping food separate until you eat.Do not place cooked foods back on to plates that once held raw foods.
Do not use the same utensils while handling already cooked foods and raw foods.
 Pasteurizing dairy products like milk and cheese eliminate much of the bacteria that can cause salmonella. Drinking or eating products that were not put through the pasteurization process increases your risk of contracting the illness.Unpasteurized milk offers a level of risk very similar to that of eating raw meat.
 Occasionally food is recalled because of its exposure to dangerous viruses or bacteria. Keeping apprised when food gets recalled can help you ensure you don’t accidentally eat something that is known to be contaminated with a virus or bacteria like the one that causes salmonella.You can find a comprehensive list of food recalls by the FDA here: http://www.fda.gov/Safety/Recalls/

Most companies also publish press releases on their websites if they need to recall some of their products. You can check with specific companies if you’re concerned about food you don’t find on the FDA’s list.
 Salmonella infection is caused by exposure to the bacteria that causes it. If you have salmonella, you can help to ensure you don’t spread it to others by following a few simple guidelines:Wash your hands regularly and especially after using the bathroom..
Do not handle the food of others while infected with salmonella.
Do not share glasses or utensils with others while infected with salmonella.
Cover your mouth when you sneeze or cough.

