 Letting her know that her point of view is reasonable is important way to get past the anger. When a girl is angry with you, there's a good chance that she's feeling threatened, overwhelmed or scared.If it helps keep you from defending yourself, imagine that she's mad at someone else. Then you might have an easier time listening calmly to her anger.
Letting her know that you can see how angry she is may help her calm down more easily.
 If you kept her waiting, imagine what it must have been like for her to not know where you were. She might have been embarrassed, or worried, or afraid. Allow yourself to feel what her feelings must have been.When you've recognized her feelings, you'll have a better idea of what might help you in that situation. Probably you would be helped by listening and understanding. Chances are, this is what she needs too!
If you never get a chance to explain your good intentions, that's okay. Once you've really empathized with her feelings, explaining your point of view may not feel as important.
 Someone's anger usually indicates they're feeling threatened in some way. Maybe she's afraid you're planning to leave her, which means she'll have to be alone. Maybe your actions make her feel that she's not worth being cared about. To help a girl get over being mad, you'll need to remind her that she's safe.Remember, everyone is self-centered when they're feeling angry. If she's unable to take in your point of view, that's normal.
If you're trying to help her get past feeling mad, don't blame her for being angry. If you're able to translate her anger into her own feelings of fear and anxiety, you'll be better at helping her calm down.
 If you're chronically the cause of her anger, is there something you could change? If so, how do you feel about changing these patterns of behavior or communication? If she's mad at you for things about yourself that you can't change, you should reconsider being in the relationship.Ask a friend to help you with this if you need to. It's not easy to identify your own role in causing problems.
Don't make any decisions when you're feeling angry. Wait until you're both calm to talk about important topics.
 If you're feeling calm and confident, there's less chance that you'll react to a girl's anger by getting defensive. You should cultivate habits that help you feel better about yourself.Making a list of concrete things you can do when you're feeling angry and overwhelmed can help. Hang the list someplace you can easily see.
A list might include things like: get exercise, do something artistic or crafty, write in a journal, look at an object that you love, or call a friend you trust.

