 For some people, they show no symptoms at all and the diagnosis is discovered from a screening test (such as the stool test); this is followed up by a colonoscopy (where the doctor inserts a tube through your rectum to look at your colon, at which point he or she will be able to see any cancer that may be present). For other people, colon cancer is diagnosed after presenting to the doctor with suspicious symptoms (which will be described in detail later in the article), at which point a colonoscopy is done which may or may not reveal the presence of cancer (note that colonoscopy is the test that is used to officially "diagnose" cancer as the doctor can see it before his or her own eyes). , This means that you will likely not be aware that you have it, unless it is detected by a routine screening test such as a stool test to check for blood. These are recommended every one to three years depending on the test. For example, Cologuard is only required once every three years.Another option is a colonoscopy. This test is most often recommended for those who have a personal or family history of "polyps," which are growth on the intestinal wall that may be the "precursor" for colon cancer., Symptoms appear during these stages, when the tumor mass begins to grow and causes obstructions or invades adjacent organs. Symptoms of colon cancer include: Blood in your stool. This may be visible, or it may be in too small of a quantity to see with the naked eye, which is what the stool screening tests are detecting.
Abdominal pain. This may be due to partial obstruction of your bowels by the cancer, among other potential causes of pain.
Changes in bowel habits, such as decreased frequency of stools, or constipation due to the cancer mass obstructing the colon.
Feeling unusually fatigued, or light-headed when you stand. If your doctor checks your blood counts, people with colon cancer often have low red blood cells and low hemoglobin due to blood loss from the cancer.
 Stage IV is when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body, beyond the colon.


The most common sites that colon cancer spreads to include: the lungs (resulting in difficulty breathing), the bones (resulting in bone pains and aches), and the brain (resulting in confusion, dizziness, and/or seizures).
Additionally during stage IV colon cancer, patients often lose a significant amount of weight (many of them up to 10 pounds per month). This is due to lack of appetite, uncomfortable bowel/abdomen after eating, and the increased metabolism from the cancer cells.
Cancer cells have a faster metabolism rate than normal cells. Therefore, as the cancer cells spread, they “eat” more nutrients and leave the patient less nutrients for maintaining body function and weight.
 Not only does it provide you and your doctor with helpful information about how severe or worrisome your colon cancer is, but it is also necessary in order to determine the best course of treatment. Early stage cancers (usually Stage I or II) that have not spread to lymph nodes or other parts of the body can usually be removed surgically; this is called a "resection." However, if the cancer has spread to nodes (often Stage III) or to another part of the body (Stage IV), the treatment is usually chemotherapy and/or radiation. Patients are "re-staged" after they receive chemotherapy and/or radiation, and if their tumor has responded well to these treatments (i.e. if the tumor has shrunk and is now present only in the colon and not in the lymph nodes or elsewhere in the body), the patient may then receive surgery to cut the remainder of the cancer out. , Therefore, making use of today's medical imaging advances (such as CT scan) will make the world of difference in helping your doctor to get the clearest picture of what is going on, and what "stage" of colon cancer you have, so as to optimize treatment and help you in the best way possible., These include "clinical staging," "pathological staging," and "post-treatment staging," each of which are important in their own way."Clinical staging" is established through your doctor's physical exam, and the help of imaging studies such as a CT scan. It is basically the "pre-treatment" look at the situation, as doctors gather as much information as possible to determine what "stage" your cancer is at.
"Pathological staging" requires examination under a microscope of a sample of the cancer itself. If you receive surgery, a sample of your cancer is usually taken at this time and examined under the microscope to give a precise assessment of exactly what "stage" it is at based on "pathology" (how it looks under the microscope).
Finally, "post-treatment staging" is after a patient receives chemotherapy and/or radiation (which is only for patients with more severe disease). After these treatments are completed, the tumor will be "re-staged" to assess whether it has shrunk, and whether the "stage" has decreased enough to proceed with surgery and to cut the remainder of the cancer out.
Note that you may hear your doctor talking about "TNM staging" as well. What this stands for is tumor size (the "T"), lymph node involvement (the "N"), and presence or absence of metastases, which means the involvement of other organs beyond the colon (the "M"). The reason your doctor may use these terms is that these are the criteria which, together, help a doctor to stage your colon cancer from I to IV., After your doctor has completed a physical exam and assessment of your symptoms, this is the next step in "clinical staging." It allows your doctor to see in much more detail the extent of your cancer, whether any lymph nodes or surrounding structures are involved, and whether or not the cancer may have spread to any other areas of your body (called "metastasis").A CT scan is also helpful for surgical planning, as it provides images that show the location and size of the cancer mass.
 This may include a liver MRI if your doctor is worried that the cancer may have spread to your liver.


The most common site of metastasis for colon cancer is to the liver, and MRI is a much more precise way of looking at the liver (as the liver is harder to visualize on CT scan alone).If the cancer has spread to parts of your body other than your liver, your doctor would recommend tests specific to those areas to better assess the extent of the cancer. (The type of test would depend on the area of the body involved.)
Finally, if a CT provides results that are at all "unclear," or difficult for your doctors to interpret, you may be sent for something called a PET/CT. This is where glucose (sugar) molecules are "tagged" and sent into your body and, since cancer takes up sugar at a faster rate than regular cells, the cancerous areas "light up" on the PET/CT scan when they take up the sugar. This test is much more expensive, however, so is rarely used except in those cases that are challenging for doctors to diagnose based on CT scan alone., This is important because, even if your cancer is removed surgically, there is a chance it could come back down the road, and it is always better to catch this sooner rather than later.


Perform laboratory tests to check for cancer recurrence. Laboratory tests are not used for staging or diagnosis; however they should be performed in pre-treatment evaluation and post-treatment surveillance for recurrence of cancer.
During a lab test, the analyst will look for tumor markers. The main "tumor marker" that has been associated with colon cancer is something called CEA. Although markers like CEA are not useful for staging or diagnosis, they are useful for surveillance of cancer recurrence.
The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) recommends yearly CEA levels be performed for up to 5 years.

