 In some cases it's easier to start learning a handstand against a wall or another sort of prop. If you're a bit leery of being upside down, or you're afraid you're going to take a tumble, this is a good way to learn a handstand at your own pace.


Another plus to this method is that you don't need a spotter. You can learn to do a handstand all by yourself.
You'll be putting your feet on the prop, so find one that you don't mind getting a bit dirty, or do the handstand in socks.
 In other words, make like you're going to do a push up right next to the wall by starting on your stomach and lifting yourself up with your hands. You should be close enough to the wall that your feet are touching it.


Your body should be parallel to the wall and your legs should form a 90 degree angle with your upper body., Start moving your feet up the wall with your toes. At the same time, "walk" toward the wall with your hands. As you get closer to the wall, your body should become more vertical. Stop when your hands are about 12 inches (30.5 cm) from the wall. You are now doing a wall-assisted handstand!


Keep your body in a straight line and your shoulders tucked in, as if you were shrugging.
Your head should be directly centered between your shoulders; don't lean it too far backward.
 Use one of your feet to gently release your body from the wall so that your weight is completely balanced over your hands. Your body should now be in a straight, vertical line, ending with pointed toes.


Move your hands if you need to correct your balance. Remember to keep your weight between the palms and first knuckles on your hands, and correct by moving the weight toward your fingers.
Bend your legs and move away from the wall when you're finished.
 Now that you're used to being upside down and you've gotten a feel for how to do a handstand, it's time to change the way you start. Instead of gently walking yourself up the wall, you'll face the wall to start. When you learn how to do a handstand by facing the wall, you'll be able to do it anywhere, anytime.


Stand facing the wall with your feet shoulder-width apart.
Step forward, tilt over, and plant your hands about 12 inches (30.5 cm) from the wall.
Keeping your arms straight, lift your legs over your head in one fluid motion.
Don't kick up to hard because it might hurt your heels on impact.
Keep your shoulders tucked in and your head straight. Keep your legs straight and point your toes.
Be sure your weight is centered between your palms and the first knuckles on your hands. Adjust as necessary to keep your balance.
When you're ready to stop, roll out of your handstand.

