 An understaffed store makes it easy for shoplifters to steal. They know that employees will either be distracted with other customers, or may be confined to a single part of the store. For this reason (and to help your employees get through the work day), it's important to hire enough employees and staff an adequate number of workers at all times.Remember that many shoplifters work in pairs or larger teams. It's not uncommon to have one or two people distract an employee who is understaffed while another person steals as much as he can.There is no concrete number in terms of how many people to hire. You may have to start out with a set number of workers and hire more as needed.
You can also talk to other store owners of similar businesses and ask them how many employees they typically have on duty on a given day.
Remember to take into account the fact that an employee or two may call in sick or request a day off. You'll want to have enough employees working there that you'll be able to find a replacement for that shift, if need be.
 When you walk into a store, you may have noticed employees greeting you at the door. Even if there isn't a designated greeter, you've probably had a cashier or employee on the floor say hello and offer assistance if you need it. It may seem like mere pleasantries, but it actually serves a purpose: greeting people as they arrive forces those customers to interact with employees. This practice can help deter theft and allow employees to identify shoplifters who manage to get away.Make sure at least one employee greets every customer who walks through the door.
If at all possible, try to have one employee out on the floor during busy rushes. This can help keep an eye on customers who wander through the aisles while the register is busy.
Have employees initiate small conversations with customers. Say things like, "Hi, is there anything I can help you with today?" when customers walk in, and "Thank you for coming in today, we hope to see you soon" as people leave.
Engaging with customers, even for a brief instant, forces the customer to make eye contact with an employee. You may be able to tell someone is up to no good by the way they act (looking nervous, avoiding eye contact), or simply get a better description to give to the police.
 No matter how many employees you hire, you should train them all on theft prevention, including the store policies you've implemented. Teach your workers how to spot shoplifters, what type of behavior or red flags to look for, and what to do in case of a theft.Make sure your employees know about any anti-theft policies, like checking bags at the register. Have them enforce those policies 100% of the time.
Train your employees on how to prevent theft, as well as what to do in case of theft. Have employees follow store protocol, and encourage them to talk to you about any concerns they have.
 If nothing else has worked, or if you've experienced repeated thefts or robberies, you may want to consider hiring security. Hiring a security guard is a big decision: you'll need to pay that individual, and it may intimidate other customers to come into a store and see a burly, threatening security guard. However, if your business is losing a lot of money due to theft, it may be worth the risks to hire security personnel.


Search online or in the phone book to find security services in your area.
Check reviews online from other businesses that have contracted out those security companies/guards.
If you know other store owners, ask them for references and recommendations on security companies they've worked with in the past.

