 Dorm living can be tough to get used to, especially having to use a shared bathroom. While most universities do have a communal bathroom, not all do. If you’re lucky, you might have a suite where you only share a shower with two or three other people. Check with your university to find out what your bathroom situation will be.


If you will be using a communal bathroom, pack accordingly by bringing shoes you can wear to/from (and in) the shower, a shower caddy with ample room, and a robe to wear to and from the shower.

It is a good idea to use a shower caddy that is plastic rather than fabric. A plastic caddy is much easier to clean if it gets wet.Bring towels and washcloths. Pack at least three of each so you will have clean ones to use without having to do laundry constantly.Ensure you bring all the toiletries you use on a daily basis, like shampoo, conditioner, face wash, moisturizer, razors, shaving cream, and so on. Once you get to school you may not have easy access to a store to buy anything you forgot., You will be responsible for washing all your clothes and linens at college, so you’ll need the appropriate supplies.


Pack laundry detergent, fabric softener, and stain remover. While you’ll want to have enough to last for a while, keep in mind you may be going up and down several flights of stairs to get to the laundry room. Look for smaller-sized jugs of laundry detergent and consider using dryer sheets instead of fabric softener.
Bring a drying rack for any clothes that can’t be put in the dryer. Get a rack that folds up so you can store it easily between uses.
Bring hangers for your wardrobe. While your university will probably provide a place to hang up clothes, you’ll need to bring your own hangers.
College is often the first time many people do their own laundry. If you’re new to this task, get a lesson before you leave for school., Find out the dimensions of the beds in your dormitory before buying sheets. This information should be available on your university’s website or in your orientation documents. Many schools have extra-long twin beds.


Be sure to bring at least two sets of sheets so you have a backup when one is dirty.
You may also want to bring a mattress pad for your bed, as university beds are not always super comfortable.
Also, remember to bring the rest of your bedding, like blankets, pillows, and a comforter., While you’ll most likely be eating most of your meals in the cafeteria, you’ll need to keep a few snacks in your room for in between meals.


Bring cookies, crackers, granola bars, and trail mix that you can store in small bins.
Also bring drinks for your mini-fridge, like water, soda, and juice, as well as items like string cheese and yogurt that don’t require any preparation.
You’ll likely have access to a microwave as well (although maybe not in your room) so bring items like popcorn, Easy Mac, soup, and premade dinners., Dorm rooms are known for being tiny. Therefore, to be able to fit everything you need into yours, you’ll likely need some items that are designed for maximizing storage in small spaces.


Bed lifts are great for maximizing space. Depending how much extra room you need, you can find lifts that raise your bed a few inches to a few feet.
Under-the-bed boxes are helpful for storing items you don’t use on a daily basis, like supplies for hobbies, extra shoes, or snack food.
Since you probably won’t have your own bathroom or much closet space, over-the-door hooks provide a great solution for hanging wet towels or bulky winter coats., Most universities have a list of items they recommend students bring to their dorm rooms, as well as a list of restricted items. This information should be available on the school’s website or in your orientation or housing documents.


Generally, schools do not allow students to have candles, halogen lamps, or certain electronic appliances, like space heaters or toaster ovens, because they can pose a fire hazard.