;
, Untwist a paperclip or take the rubber ends off a bobby pin. Poke it into the mouthpiece, carburetor, or bowl (anywhere you need to) and collect the resin as best you can. Optionally, you can stick a lighter (10-15 seconds) where you plan to scrape. This heats the resin and makes it stickier. It is better to not try the lighter method or scraping the outside the bowl, as the resin here is going to be very hard. Instead, run the bowl under hot water for about 30 seconds, then take your fingernail (protected by a strong cloth or napkin if you don't want dirty nails) and scrape for a huge amount of resin. After scraping, you will get several very sticky black chunks of resin. Find somewhere to lay them where they can easily be picked up. Metal or a similar surface works best because it's impossible to separate moist resin from things like Kleenex and pipe cleaners after if it's been meshed into the material by accident. Once you have all your resin pieces removed and they have become cool/somewhat dry for better conformity, roll them together into a ball. If you aren't going to smoke the resin then skip this step entirely.


Continue to scrape until you can see through the glass or look inside and see no pieces of resin left.
 For your pipe to look like new you will need at least 90-95% isopropyl alcohol, preferably 100% (it takes a lot to break resin down). You can find it at your local drugstore or Walmart. You may also want to buy a canister of uniodized salt.
 Using salt as an agitator (shaking the bag side to side for the agitation) will drastically reduce the time cleaning takes.
 If you used salt with the alcohol, it doesn't have to sit at all, just shake until finished. No one wants to wait 3 hours before using their favorite piece.
 Rinse your pipe well. If you skipped the salt or scraping step, scrub it with a baby bottle brush or test tube cleaner to remove any remaining debris. Water and a tiny squirt of dish detergent alone will remove any alcohol.
 Once you have rinsed it and the smell has gone, your pipe should look new and ready to be re-resed

