


If you're looking for the 2014 Wii U game, see the section on Mario Kart 8 instead. Note that you can still play Mario Kart Wii on the Wii U console.;
,


Each Grand Prix Cup can be unlocked by getting a trophy (bronze or better) in an earlier cup. It does not matter which engine class (50cc etc.) you use.Here's the full unlock system:

Star Cup: Finish 3rd+ in the Mushroom Cup and the Flower Cup.

Special Cup: Finish 3rd+ in the Star Cup.

Leaf Cup: Finish 3rd+ in the Banana Cup and the Shell Cup.

Lightning Cup: Finish 3rd+ in the Leaf Cup.
You can also unlock "Mirror Mode" for all cups, reversing the tracks left-to-right, by getting first place in all cups at 150cc difficulty — quite a challenge!

,


Here are the characters you can unlock in the easiest mode, so go for these first:King Boo: Win the 50cc Star Cup.

Diddy Kong: Win the 50cc Lightning Cup.

Baby Daisy: Earn one star or better on all 50cc Wii cups (Mushroom, Flower, Star, and Special).



Go for these next, playing on harder difficulties:Dry Bones (a Koopa skeleton): Win the 100cc Leaf Cup.

Mii Outfit A: Win the 100cc Special Cup.

Bowser Jr.: Earn one star or better on all 100cc Retro cups (Shell, Banana, Leaf, Lightning).



Prove your skill by earning these characters on the hardest difficulty:

Daisy: Win the 150cc Special Cup.

Dry Browser (skeleton bowser): Earn one star or better on all 150cc Wii cups (Mushroom, Flower, Star, and Special).



In Time Trial mode, you race alone, with a "ghost" racer you can't interact with demonstrating the time you need to beat. If you beat the ghost by a significant amount (sometimes 2 seconds, sometimes more), you'll get an announcement that you've unlocked a new (faster) "Expert Staff Ghost." You do not need to beat these expert ghosts, but unlocking enough of them by beating normal ghosts will unlock characters.Funky Kong: Unlock four expert ghosts.

Baby Luigi: Unlock eight expert ghosts.

Birdo: Unlock sixteen expert ghosts (or play online until you've beat 250 players.)

Toadette: Play all 32 Time Trial tracks (you don't need to beat them).

Mii Outfit B(Mario/Peach Outfit): Unlock all 32 expert ghosts. This character has identical stats to the Mii unlocked by winning the 100cc Special Cup. Instead of your normal Mii outfit, this Mii will wear an outfit like Mario (male Miis) or Peach (female Miis).,


There are two ways you can unlock Rosalina, the NPC from Super Mario Galaxy. Complete one of these tasks:Get first place in all 150cc cups to unlock Mirror Mode, then get 1 star in Mirror Mode on all eight cups.

or install Super Mario Galaxy on your Wii, start a Galaxy game and save it, then play any races in Mario Kart Wii until Rosalina appears.



Whether you're going for Time Trials or 150cc courses, knowing advanced strategy can save hours of effort. Check out this expert driving guide for all of these challenges, plus these tips:Use Heavy vehicles for Time Trials, since they have the highest max speed. Acceleration doesn't matter as much when there are no opponents to disrupt you.
Look for hidden shortcuts. There are many of these in the game, from a dirt path near the start of Maple Treeway, to a passageway under a minecart in Wario's Goldmine. If you're having trouble on a track, search for online videos and you might discover a new shortcut.

