 If your school doesn't have a problem with you walking around with a hoodie/jacket, fix it up with some band patches, buttons, studs or spikes, and try painting some band logos on it, or painting slogans/logos all over it.;
, Buy a messenger bag or a black/dark blue backpack and add pins/badges with your favorite bands, sayings and symbols (any rebellious symbols will do but some symbols may cause more offence than you intended, such as Nazi or white supremacy symbols) on them. You can even add duct tape to your bag. You can also draw/stitch things onto it for a little originality. Get a marker or a corrector pen for some scrawling of your own. You can even make your own bag.
 Anything that is labeled by the dress code, do not wear. For instance, if all you are required to wear is a uniform shirt, then do not wear khaki pants. Instead, wear rocker belts (pyramid, bullets, spiked) with good belt buckles over jeans or black pants.
 A bold color, such as black, blue, or red, or even mix and match. Roll up your sleeves. For the finishing touch, wear a leather jacket or dark hoody.
 Put them in your hat, your jeans, shirts, your bag... Everything.
 Try to stay within the rules, but still be unique. Try a messy look, or some spikes, or possibly a faux mohawk. Test your boundaries.



If your school has rules and you aren't allowed to dye your hair crazy colors, just dye the very ends, so that you can easily cut them off if your school has issues with it. You could also try a temporary dye - this also helps when you are experimenting.
 If you are forced to wear a tie, leave the top button undone and let the tie hang sloppily. Roll up your sleeves too if you have to wear a dress shirt. Also, If the school does not require a specific tie to be worn, go to your local thrift store and pick out the ugliest or most satirical ties you can find. Also, if you want to be extreme, rip up your tie, pull out strands, just destroy it. Maybe even add a few anarchy symbols.
 Knee high, pink, green, hello kitty, whatever! Wear them. Don't tuck them in your pants! Also try to punk up your shoes. Draw, write, paint and color on them!

, Some schools have them embroidered on jumpers, shirts or hats. If you are good at sewing or embroidery, try modifying the crest so that it says something completely different. Usually, the changes are difficult to spot, but the results of people seeing them are great! Don't go too far in making too obscene messages, but it's all a matter of testing. If you're not good at embroidery, use a permanent marker or some acrylic paint.
 Some schools have an incredibly strict dress code, we know. So look at the rules and interpret them. Buy yourself some black converse if your school says you have to have black shoes. Only allowed school colours and/or black and white for accessories (like hair ties and headbands?)... make your own, preferably with a big anarchy symbol on it. Just interpret the rules.

