 Shampooing your hair too often can strip it of its natural oils. Because damaged hair is already dry, you don’t want to dehydrate it any further. If you’re used to washing your hair every day, switch to every other day. If you usually wash every other day, switch to every third day.If you hair is greasy between washes, a dry shampoo can help freshen it. Spray the dry shampoo at roots to soak up excess oils and add volume. Be sure to work it through all of your hair to avoid powdery residue on the scalp, though.;
, When you do wash your hair, it’s important to use the right shampoo. Choose a moisturizing formula that won’t dry out damaged hair. Look for a shampoo that contains hydrating ingredients such as argan oil, macadamia nut oil, or shea butter.Make sure that your shampoo is sulfate-free. Sulfates are harsh sudsing agents that can easily strip damaged hair of essential oils.
 If you’re used to washing your hair with hot water, it’s time to switch to a cooler rinse. Hot water can dry out your hair, leaving damaged tresses even more brittle and weak. Instead, rinse your hair with lukewarm or cool water to keep the moisture in.For the final rinse of your hair, it’s best to use cold water. It seals the cuticle so your hair appears smoother and shinier.
 A good conditioner is essential for damaged hair because it helps hydrate your locks. For the best results, choose a strengthening conditioner that will moisturize and help your hair become less brittle. Look for a formula that contains proteins such as keratin, amino acids, and collagen.Your conditioner should also contain natural oils, such as argan oil, coconut oil, avocado oil, and marula oil, that will moisturize your hair.
 Even if you use a traditional conditioner, your damaged hair may not get enough moisture throughout the day. After you finish washing and conditioning your hair, apply a leave-in conditioner to hydrate and coat your strands so they’re protected all day.Cream and lotion leave-in conditioners typically work best for damaged hair.
To apply your leave-in condition, gently dry your hair with a towel. While it’s still damp, use your hands to apply a small amount of the conditioner throughout your hair, paying special attention to the ends.
For short hair, a dime size amount of leave-in conditioner is usually enough. For longer hair, use a quarter or half dollar size amount.
 To ensure that your damaged hair is getting all of the moisture and strengthening ingredients that it needs, it’s important to use a deep conditioner or hair mask regularly. Apply a formula for damaged hair at least once a week to get your locks soft and shiny.If your hair is extremely damaged, use the deep conditioner twice a week.
Some deep conditioners are applied to dry hair, while others should be used on wet hair. Consult the instructions on the packaging to determine how to use yours.
Leave the deep conditioning treatment on for an hour before rinsing it to ensure that it has time to really moisturize and strengthen your hair.
Make the deep conditioner more effective by placing a shower cap or plastic wrap over your hair when you’re wearing the mask. That will generate heat that allows the conditioner to penetrate your hair more easily.
 When your hair is damaged, it’s best to avoid heated styling tools, such as flat irons, curling irons, and blow dryers. Heat can damage even healthy hair because it strips moisture, so it’s especially bad for already damaged locks. Allow your hair to air dry, and only use your curling iron, hot rollers, or flat iron when absolutely necessary.If you have to use a heated styling tool, always apply a heat protectant product first. It will coat your hair so the heat doesn’t strip any of the natural moisture.
For damaged hair, a cream or lotion heat protectant is usually the best option.
 Chemical processes such as coloring or straightening are extremely harsh on your hair. When your hair is already damaged, you don’t want to do anything that will weaken it further so don’t dye, straighten, or perm your locks when they’re in a weakened condition.If you really need to have your hair colored, talk to your stylist about using gentler hair color, such as ammonia-free and demi-permanent formulas.
 Just like the sun can damage your skin, it can weaken your hair. When you have damaged hair, protect it from the sun by using an SPF hair product. They contain UVA and UVB filters that keep the sun from drying out your hair. Spray it on your hair whenever you plan to spend time outside.For periods of prolonged outdoor activity, wear a wide-brimmed hat to cover your hair and keep it shielded from the sun.
 Salt water and chlorinated pool water can be very harsh on damaged hair. If you plan to go swimming, wear a swim cap that will keep your hair protected from the drying effects of the water.If you don’t have a swim cap, wet your hair with a leave-in conditioner or fresh water before you go swimming. That will keep your hair from absorbing too much of the ocean or pool water.
 In most cases, the most damaged part of the hair is the ends. By getting your hair cut every six to eight weeks, you’ll removed the dry, brittle ends so your hair looks healthier overall.You don’t have to cut all of the damaged sections of your hair out at once. By getting a small trim every six weeks, you’ll slowly remove the dry, split ends, and over time, your hair will become healthier.
 Damaged hair is prone to tangles and knots, but working them out with a brush can snag your hair and cause breakage. A wide-tooth comb is a better option for damaged hair because it’s gentler and less likely to pull or tug at it.Your hair is most fragile when it’s wet, so it’s especially important to only use a wide-tooth comb on your hair right after you’ve washed your hair.
 Damaged hair often looks dry and dull. Adding hair oil to your locks can help hydrate them and boost the shine, so your hair looks healthier. You can apply an oil all over your hair when it’s wet, or just work it through the ends when your hair is dry.The best hair oils for damaged hair are argan oil, marula oil, avocado oil, and coconut oil.

