 Take 3 kokum and place them in a small bowl or glass. Add approximately 3 to 4 tablespoons (45 to 60 ml) of lukewarm water to the container, so the kokum are completely covered with liquid. Allow them to soak for 5 to 10 minutes.Kokum, also known as kudampuli or gambooge, are the outer skins of fruit from the kokum tree that have been dried in the sun and used to provide a tart flavor to the curry. You can usually find them at Indian grocery stores.;
, Add 6 tablespoons of canola, vegetable, or another neutral cooking oil to a large skillet. Set the burner to medium high, and heat the pan until the oil is hot, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.Kerala fish curry is traditionally made in an earthen clay pot known as a meen chatti. If you have one, you can use it. Otherwise, a standard skillet or pan can work well.  

, Once the oil is hot, mix in 1 teaspoon (4 g) of mustard seeds and ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of fenugreek. Heat them over medium high heat until they start to sizzle and pop, which should take approximately 3 minutes.You can also tell that the spices are ready when the seeds start to take on a darker color.
 After you’ve sauteed the mustard seeds and fenugreek, stir 6 shallots that have been finely chopped, 2 fresh green chillies that have been deseeded and sliced, and 1 ½ tablespoons (13.5 g) of garlic and ginger that have been crushed together into a fine paste into the pan until thoroughly combined. Allow the mixture to saute for 3 to 4 minutes or until lightly fried.The easiest way to make a paste with the garlic and ginger is to place them in a food processor and grind until they are combined.
 When the shallot mixture has sauted for several minutes, lower the heat to medium low, and add 1 ½ to 2 tablespoons (12 to 16 g) of chili powder, 1 ½ to 2 tablespoons (12 to 16 g) of coriander powder, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) turmeric powder to the pan. Mix until well combined, and let the mixture cook until the spices turn golden brown, which should take approximately 3 to 4 minutes.You can adjust the amount of chili powder based on how spicy you want the curry to be. If you use 2 or more tablespoons (16 g), it will be very spicy. Stick to just a 1 tablespoon (8 g) if you want the flavor to be more mild.
Using Kashmiri chili powder instead of regular chili powder can also help make the spice in the curry more mild. It has a vibrant red color as well, so your finished curry will have a more vivid color.
 Once all of the spices have been added to the pan, mix the kokum, the water that it has soaked in, an extra cup (237 ml) of water, and salt to taste into the pan. Cover the mixture, and allow it to come to a boil, which should take 3 to 5 minutes.Be sure to taste the mixture before you add the salt so you know how much is needed.
 After the kokum mixture comes to a boil, remove the lid from the pan and add 1 pound (½ kg) of firm white fish that’s been cut into medium size pieces, along with as much water as is necessary to just cover the fish. Cover the dish and allow it to come to a boil again.Be careful when you add the fish because it can break easily. Instead of mixing or stirring it in with the other ingredients, swirl the pan around to incorporate the fish without breaking it.
 When the fish mixture comes to a boil, reduce the heat to low, and allow the mixture to simmer until the fish is cooked through and the sauce thickens. That typically takes 20 to 30 minutes.Make sure to swirl the ingredients in the pan periodically while it’s simmering to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 Once the fish is cooked and the curry sauce is thick, use a wooden spoon to gently stir the ingredients. Work slowly so you don’t break the fish into pieces., When the fish curry is fully mixed, turn off the burner and take the pan off the heat. Drizzle coconut oil to taste over the top of the curry to give it a delicious aroma.Coconut oil is a solid at room temperature, so you need to melt it in order to add it to the curry. Simply place the jar of coconut oil in a pan or bowl with very hot water for several minutes or until it liquefies., After adding the coconut oil, transfer the curry to a serving dish or platter. Place 6 to 8 curry leaves on top as a garnish, and serve.Kerala fish curry is usually served with cooked rice and warm naan bread.

