 This is perhaps the most common way to hold your baby and a great way to gaze into the new baby's eyes; it's also the most natural and easiest way to hold your baby. It's easiest to hold your baby this way when the baby is swaddled. Here's what you should do:


To cradle hold your baby, first lay your baby down and pick it up by sliding one hand under the neck and head, and the other under the bottom and hips.
Spread your fingers as much as you can as you lift them to your chest so you can support the baby as much as possible.
Gently slide the hand supporting their head and neck along their back, so that their head and neck slide along your forearm, making their way into the crook of your arm and elbow.
Keep your other hand where it was, cupping your baby's hips and bottom.
Bring the baby close to your body and gently rock their back and forth, if you like.
 This is a great hold for interacting with your baby. Here's what you have to do to get it right:


Place one hand behind your baby's head and neck.
Put the other hand under their bottom.
Hold the baby out in front of you, just below your chest.
Have fun smiling and making faces at your cute baby.
 This hold is perfect for calming your baby down when they are being fussy. Here's what you have to do to master this hold:


Drape your baby's head and chest over your forearm.
Make sure that the baby's head is turned outward, resting near the crook of your arm.
Pat or rub your baby's back with your other hand.
Check your baby's head and neck to ensure that they are supported at all times.
 This hold is great for feeding and can also be used whether you're standing or sitting. Here's how you do it:


Place a hand under your baby's head and neck and rest the baby's back on the inside of the same forearm of the hand you're using to hold its head. You can use the other hand as a placeholder under the baby's head as you get adjusted, as long as you make sure that the head and neck are supported at all times.
Have the baby curl around the side of your body, with its legs extended behind you.
Draw the baby close to your chest or your waist.
Use your free hand to feed the baby or give its head extra support.
 This is a great hold if you have a curious baby and want to let it see what is going on around it. Here's all you have to do:


Let your baby's back rest against your chest so that his head is supported.
Place one arm under his bottom.
Place the other arm across his chest.
Make sure that the baby's head remains supported by your chest.
If you're sitting down, then you can place the baby on your lap and don't need to put a hand under his bottom.
 Once your baby has gotten a bit older, somewhere in the 4-6 month mark, they should be able to steadily support their own head! Once your baby has achieved this, here's how you can hold him/her on your hip: (The seemingly most common hold for very young babies and toddlers alike):


Rest the baby's side (nestled) or midsection (straddling you,) against your side/hip. Be sure to rest the baby's left side or midsection against your right side/hip; or vice versa, depending on which side you wish to hold the baby. Make sure that no matter which side you hold the baby on, you ensure that the baby's head faces outward. (Refer to the photograph above. The mother is holding the baby on her right side/hip, From the baby's left side (straddling) with the baby's head facing forward.)
Use the arm of your "holding" hip/side to support the baby's legs and back. Add support firmly, yet comfortably, for you and the baby.
You can use your free hand for extra support under the baby's legs, back, bottom or wherever else the baby may need extra support. You can also use this hand to feed your baby or perform other necessary tasks (so long as the baby does not need extra support and you feel very comfortable with this hold.)
This hold is very common, important and convenient; especially when you have to multitask. Take time to master this hold, use it safely and I promise, you will be very glad that you did.

