 If you start your Thanksgiving day without a roasting pan, there are a few ways of making do with what you have or purchasing something. Although the kitchen store will be closed, you can probably get something from a grocery store or from your neighbor. Try to find one of the following options:An aluminum roaster. A cheap aluminum roaster can be used for cooking your turkey. If you use two of them, layered on top of one another, you will be able to hold more heat.
Use a broiler pan. Remove the broiler from the top and put the turkey in. Throw a baking sheet below to catch any drippings.
Use a rimmed baking sheet if your turkey is especially large or you don’t have other options.
 Typically, a fourteen-pound turkey will take four days to defrost in the fridge. If you forget to defrost your turkey ahead of time, you should defrost it using cold water. Put the frozen turkey in a clean five-gallon bucket filled with cold water. You can also fill your clean sink with cold water. It is important to use cold water because warm water poses food safety concerns. Let the bird defrost for seven hours and then cook it.If you cook a frozen turkey without covering it with foil or a pot lid, you may end up with a burnt outside and an uncooked middle.
It takes three days to defrost a turkey in the fridge, depending on the size of the turkey and the temperature setting of your fridge.
 If you finish cooking your turkey ahead of time, there are a few ways to keep your turkey warm and ready for the main meal. If your turkey is finished one hour ahead of time, let it rest for thirty minutes. Then, put some foil over the turkey to keep it warm. Avoid using a lid because you don’t want to overcook the turkey.


If your turkey is done several hours ahead of time, you can let it rest for thirty minutes. Slice it up and put it on a platter. Put it in the fridge. Twenty minutes before serving time, throw it in the oven at 350 Fahrenheit (176 Celsius) for fifteen minutes and then put it on the table., If your turkey stayed in the oven too long and got dry, you can still save it. Slice the turkey and put it in a dish or leave it in the roasting pan. Pour three cups of chicken or turkey stock over the sliced turkey. Put it in the oven for a few minutes before serving.If it tastes like cardboard, you know it is dry.
If you touch it with a fork and you see some moisture, you know it is rehydrated. You can also try tasting it.
 If the turkey gets burnt, you should try to see if there is a way to save it. Start by identifying the burnt parts of the turkey. If the outside is burnt but the meat on the inside is fine, you can remove the burnt parts and serve the good parts. Another option is to make a new dish with the turkey.Make a turkey stew with the burnt turkey or a burnt-end turkey barbecue dish. Start by removing the most burnt parts of the turkey. With the remaining parts, make a stew or smother the turkey in barbeque sauce.
You will need your leftover turkey or at least half to three quarter pounds of turkey. In addition, you will need the following ingredients: two carrots cut into half inch pieces; three celery stalks cut into half inch pieces; one chopped onion; three cloves of minced garlic; four cubed potatoes; thirty-two ounces of chicken or turkey stock; a teaspoon of dried sage; a teaspoon of curry powder; two tablespoons of olive oil; salt and pepper.
To make the stew, heat the olive oil over medium heat, add the garlic and onion and cook until translucent. Add the potatoes, carrots, celery and the stock. Bring the stock to a boil, reduce and simmer for fifteen minutes. Add your curry and sage and the cook for another five minutes. Finally, add your turkey and cook until it is warm. Serve with salt and pepper.