 Place unpeeled potatoes into a large saucepan and add enough water to cover them. Place on a high heat, add 3 tsp (1 tbsp) of rock salt, then leave to boil. Check the "Warning" section below, however.






;
, When the potatoes are tender, after about 20 minutes of boiling, turn the heat off and tip them into a colander to drain.
 To protect your hands, use a tea towel to hold the potatoes as you peel away the skins with a knife.
 Pass the still hot potatoes through a passatutto (or potato ricer). Or you can grate them. This method is recommended as air gets trapped in the potatoes making for a lighter gnocchi. If you don't have a passatutto handy, you can use a masher instead.
 Add 2 generous pinches of salt and a pinch of pepper. Crack the egg and stir in quickly before the temperature of the potato cooks it. (The egg is optional, though.) Add 2 handfuls of flour. Mix until fully absorbed.
 Turn the potato onto a wooden surface and tip the rest of the flour on top. Use your hands to mix it together. After a minute or two it will form into a dough. Knead lightly. When it reaches a pliable consistency, it's ready.










Sprinkle the surface with flour. Slice a fist-sized piece from the dough ball and roll out into lengths that are about 3 centimeter (1.2 in) thick.
Working quickly while the dough is still warm, use a flexible knife to cut off 2 centimeter (0.8 in) pieces. Slice off another fist sized piece and repeat until you have used all of the dough.
Place the gnocchi onto a tray, leaving a space between each piece to prevent them from sticking together.
 Fill a large pan with water and add 3 tsp of rock salt. Place over a high heat, put on the lid, and bring to the boil.
 This method will stop the water from splashing your hands. Give them a little stir and leave to cook.
 When the gnocchi have all bobbed to the surface, they're ready to serve. Scoop them out with a sieve, shake off the water and transfer them to a tray. Drizzle a little oil over them and give the tray a shake.
 As a final touch, you can grate a little Pecorino cheese over the top. This dish works exceptionally well with a rose wine.








