 Curly hair is more prone to drying and heat damage. Heat damage can ruin your natural curl pattern. If you want to transition to curly bangs, the first thing you need to do is stop straightening them with heat. Let your bangs grow out for a few months., Before you style your bangs, they need to be cut properly. Cutting curly hair in general requires more thought than cutting straight hair. This is especially true with bangs, which are highly-visible and leave no room for mistakes.


Remember that curls make bangs appear shorter and that your hair will shrink a little as it dries. Leave your bangs a little longer than your straight-haired counterparts'.
Each ringlet should be cut individually. Working with your natural curl pattern will help make sure your bangs don't look uneven.If you're cutting your own hair for the first time, hold off on the bangs for now. Practice on the rest of your hair, which is more forgiving. Once you've perfectly trimmed your hair a few times, you can get a little more adventurous and start working with your bangs.
If you're getting your hair professionally cut, find a stylist experienced with curly bangs. Some stylists are either inexperienced with curly hair in general or subscribe to the idea that bangs shouldn't be curly. Before booking an appointment, ask him or her about both., Either wash your hair or simply add a little water to your bangs. The water may be any temperature you feel comfortable using. If you're planning on washing your hair soon, be sure to do so before styling your bangs. Your hair will likely lose the style next time it gets wet.
 Curl definers are also marketed as curl enhancing creams and custards. These products work to separate out and define each individual curl. Curl definers help you to avoid the issues of crunchy or greasy hair that can occur with other styling products.If you've never used a curl definer before, you may need to try out a few different products to find the perfect one for your unique hair type.
Many curl definers also act as leave-in conditioners. If your hair is particularly dry, look for a definer will extra moisturizing properties.
 Select a small strand of hair from your bangs. It can be wide or thin, depending which best suits your curl pattern. Use a finger to scoop up a tiny portion of definer. You should have just enough to lightly coat the strand. Run your fingers up and down the strand to work the definer into your hair., As you work in the curl definer, use your fingers to make little twists with each small lock. Follow your hair's natural curl pattern; do not wrap your hair around your finger in the opposite direction. Work from right to left across your bangs, applying curl definer and twisting one lock at a time.
 Once you've finished styling your bangs, you will need to dry them first. To prevent damage, set your hairdryer to the lowest heat and speed possible. Push the diffuser directly into your hair. As you dry, use your fingers to untwist your bangs and fluff them out slightly.


A finger diffuser is a device that attaches to the end of a hairdryer and help to prevent damage to your hair by decreasing the strength of airflow. A finger diffuser will keep your curl pattern intact and help you to avoid frizziness.