 A good tagline can sometimes pique the interest of people who may not otherwise match you. By crafting a unique, thoughtful, or interesting tagline, you might lure in people who would otherwise pass you by.


Be honest about who you are and what you like, and include some specific detail that might be interesting. Try to sum up everything in a line: "Outdoors lover, Columbia graduate, writer, and into the finer things in life."
Avoid being dishonest. Unless you go sailing a couple of times a month, don’t say that you sail all the time.
Don’t use overtly sexual references.;
, By completing your profile in full, you’ll give potential matches the minimum amount of information they need to assess you. At the same time, Tinder may sort incomplete profiles down to the bottom of the swipe list.


People might pass you by if you skip the bio section.
Use this as an opportunity to give readers a glimpse into who you are. For example, if you volunteer at animal shelters on the weekend and work as a whitewater rafting guide during the summer, let people know.
Make sure to fill in your education qualification. This is important, even if you don’t have a degree from Harvard Business School. It gives people – and Tinder – a sense of your experiences., Just as not having any info in your bio will hurt you, having too much text will also hurt you. By providing too much, you’ll provide potential matches with information that might lead them to move on.

Tinder has a 500-word limit. Try to come in well under that limit. Anywhere between 100 and 300 words is ideal.
Only use as many words as you need to describe yourself and give others a sense of who you are. Your description of yourself might be as simple as "I'm an introvert who enjoys the arts, classical music, and the outdoors."
Avoid long words or wordy or run-on sentences., While it may be beneficial to provide insight into your personality, you’ll likely lose matches if you share too much information. Ultimately, less is often better when you’re trying to get matches with people you’ve never met.

Don’t talk about your health, any conditions you may have, or fun facts about you losing part of your index finger when you were twelve.
Avoid writing anything about previous relationships. For example, don’t say “I’m looking for love after a bad divorce.”
Try not to be negative in any way. For example, don’t write “I’m on Tinder because the dating scene is hard.”, When rewriting the text for your profile, make sure you don’t appear like you’re bragging about yourself or your accomplishments. Ultimately, you need to write carefully so you balance confidence and modesty.

If you’re monetarily successful, don’t flaunt it by writing about how you make $200,000 a year and need the right person to complete you.
If you’re very well educated, don’t say you need someone super smart. Instead, write about how you need a witty companion to match your own sensibilities., Humor is an excellent tool to put prospective matches at ease and to get them to swipe you in the right direction. By using humor in your profile, you'll give people who view it a better idea of who you are. You might also make them smile or laugh.

Consider self-deprecating humor. If you're generally a confident person, you may be able to include a joke about yourself. For instance, if you're tall, make a comment about how the air "up here" is thinner.
Make sure your humor comes across right. While you may think your joke about dogs is really funny, others may not. To avoid this, have friends review your joke before you post it.
Avoid off-beat humor and jokes about race, ethnicity, religion, or politics.