 Apathy and lethargy are commonly experienced by people who are depressed and they can make it extremely difficult to feel motivated to do things, from seeking help to going to work to simply getting out of bed in the morning. Apathy is an actual lack of emotion — it means you feel nothing. It has been shown that you must have a feeling about something in order to be motivated to change it, so feeling apathetic makes it extremely difficult to change your situation. You might know that your lack of productivity at work might get you in trouble or even fired, but you simply can't make yourself care enough to actually do anything about it.Lethargy is a feeling of fatigue, which can make it even harder to work up the motivation to do things, even when you know you must.Apathy may cause you to feel like happiness, fulfillment, or the ability to reach your goals are impossible. You may feel bored, worn out, and like there is nothing to look forward to.
If you notice feelings of apathy or lethargy as part of your depression, you will need to learn to manage and overcome them to be productive at work.
 The challenge with apathy and lethargy is that you don't feel like doing anything. So, while there may be many things you can do to relieve those feelings, you can't get yourself motivated to actually do them. Overcoming these feelings begins with changing your mindset so you get to a place where you can begin to take action. Start challenging your apathy. Recall the times in the past when you felt happy, motivated, and enthusiastic. What were you doing? Who were you with? Try to do something as small as text someone who always makes you laugh, or do a crossword puzzle if that's something you used to enjoy. Start small.
Ask yourself what you can do right now to move forward, even a tiny bit. Maybe you know you should see a doctor, but your lethargy and apathy are making it seem impossible. Try simply doing an online search of doctors in your area. You don't need to call or make an appointment today — just take that first, small step.
Identify the things you cannot change. Perhaps you feel apathetic because there are some things about your situation you simply cannot change right now. Work on accepting those things and focusing on what you can change.
Manage your expectations. Setting your expectations too high and asking too much of yourself sets you up for failure and can make you feel worse about yourself. It's okay to adjust your expectations throughout the day — even multiple times. If you start to feel overwhelmed, check in with yourself and consider that your current expectations may be too high., Depression may cause you to lose your appetite or turn to unhealthy comfort foods, which can drain your energy and leave you tired and fatigued. Try setting an alarm to go off ever two to three hours and make yourself eat a healthy snack containing protein and complex carbs. These foods can give you energy. Try eggs, yogurt, meat, raw greens, and nuts.Avoid sugar, which can give you a quick burst of energy but ultimately cause you to crash. It may also cause you to feel irritable.
 Getting down on yourself for your feelings of depression, apathy, and/or lethargy will only make you feel worse and isn't constructive in any way. Putting yourself down and calling yourself "lazy" won't do anything to motivate you to do more work. Take steps to end negative self-talk by first becoming aware that you are doing it. Ask yourself — What am I saying to myself? What messages am I sending? Would I say this to a friend?Try apologizing to yourself when you catch yourself engaging in negative self-talk. Say something like, "I didn't deserve that. I'm not lazy — I'm depressed, and there is a difference. I am doing the best I can right now."

, If you're continuing to feel apathetic and lethargic, you should check in with your doctor. You may need to have your medication adjusted, either by upping the dose of your current medication or switching to a different one. If you're not on a medication, consider talking about one with your doctor. If your depression is affecting your work, it may be time to think about an antidepressant. There's no shame in getting medical help to improve your mental health.

