 When gripe water was first invented, it contained alcohol, which was believed to calm babies. While that type of gripe water isn't common these days, make sure that any gripe water you buy for your baby doesn't have alcohol in it, as that is harmful to an infant., Another common ingredient in gripe water is vegetable carbon or charcoal. While it's not toxic to your baby, this ingredient can cause constipation. Therefore, check for this ingredient, and make sure the gripe water doesn't have it in it before feeding it to your baby., Another ingredient you need to keep an eye out for is sugar. A number of gripe waters contain sugar, but your baby doesn't need that extra sugar.Plus, introducing sugar to a baby's diet can lead to dental problems early on.
 It's always best to talk to your child's pediatrician before starting any supplement or home remedy. Your doctor can help you decide if gripe water is safe for your baby, as well as help you chose the best brand for your baby's safety.Make sure to ask about dosing before giving gripe water to your child.
 Every brand will be a little different, so you must follow the directions on the bottle when you give your baby gripe water. Basically, you'll put a dose in the bottle and have your baby drink it instead of milk.Keep in mind that gripe water isn't regulated like medication, so every brand is different.
 In some cases, gripe water can induce colic in babies, which is, of course, what you're hoping to soothe. Therefore, it's important to pay attention to see if the remedy is actually worsening your baby's symptoms., Gripe water can also cause other side effects in babies. Namely, it can cause either vomiting or constipation, both of which can be dangerous, or at the very least, make your baby uncomfortable., Gripe water isn't particularly known to cause allergies. However, any new substance you give your baby can cause an allergic reaction. Therefore, you should be on the lookout for symptoms such as hives, watering eyes, swelling in the mouth or tongue, or trouble breathing. Stomach problems, such as diarrhea, can also indicate an allergic reaction., The World Health Organization recommends exclusively feeding breast milk for the first six months. Regularly feeding gripe water breaks up this process, as it introduces another source of water that may fill up the baby., If you have your baby on formula, simply switching to a different one can help ease colic symptoms. You can switch off a cow's milk formula, to a non-cow's milk formula, for instance, though it can be more expensive. Look for words like "hypoallergenic.", If you're breastfeeding your baby, you can try changing up your diet. Sometimes, the things you eat can affect the baby. Try cutting common allergens from your diet, such as wheat, soy, fish, eggs, peanuts, and cow's milk., Sometimes, swaddling can help colic symptoms. Simply wrap your baby up completely in a blanket (with their head out, of course), then hold your baby close to you. Gently rocking can also help.Some people also find that carrying your baby more can help.
 You can also create better conditions to help your baby sleep. For instance, you can have a white noise machine in your baby's room, or even use things like the dryer or vacuum cleaner nearby when they're out of their crib. You can also take your baby for a car ride, as many babies find that soothing., While smoking doesn't cause colic, it can make your baby cry more. Make sure you're not smoking around your baby, and if you're breastfeeding, it's best to cut out smoking altogether. In addition, make sure no one else smokes around your baby., In the moment, make sure your baby isn't hungry, tired, or wet every time they cry. It's also important to have your baby child checked out by a doctor if they suddenly start crying more. They could have an underlying condition that's causing the crying.