 Level up your heroes to at least 100 in order to have good chances of winning. Consider using legendary heroes and getting more heroes by rolling gems as well as getting a card from the daily rewards.


In Guild Wars, there will actually be very low bases as well. The choices of bases to attack range from the highest might player to the lowest. If you have at least level 140 - 160 heroes, you can almost reach the highest, or you will be in between.;
, Gather plenty of mana and blue crystals. Constantly inscribe your best heroes that you will be using whenever you have enough resources. Raid other bases in regular attacks to gather mana and do Lost Realm whenever you have stamina to gain blue crystals.
 Visit your warehouse and equip your heroes with the strongest possible crests you have. Guild Wars do not allow you to use any magic, which will make it a bit tougher to attack bases. Crests are a great addition to help your hero gain another hero power. Battle in the Lost Realm frequently and try to get Here Be Demons, which can give you a Mythic Crest bag if you win.


Battle the types of battles that take more than 6 stamina to attack, where there are more upgraded heroes you need to defeat. These battles can get you Rare Crest bags as well. Open them, hoping for a good crest. Mythical Crest bags actually can give you crests such as War God, etc. These crests work best on legendary heroes.
Try to get as many Merchants and Treasure Troves as possible. Make sure to raid other bases for enough gold every time before you start Lost Realm, since if you get a Merchant, that will be the only chance you get to buy something if there is something good, but expensive. Save crystals not only for Treasure Troves, but also for inscriptions. If you open each Treasure Box in the Treasure Trove, make sure to have enough extra crystals for inscribing your heroes.
Use red crystals to combine some crests you have for higher level ones. The same can be done with blue crystals in a different way. You combine one crest with a different crest and get a better one. Red crystals are rare however, so try to gain several red crystal packs and use them to gain more. Use them wisely, and make sure you still have a fair amount of the crests you combine.
 Leveling up your heroes is, of course an important part. Do quests all the time in order to collect plenty of books. Collect the books that are only available from the Daily Calendar too. Gain as many blessed tomes as possible - they are different from regular tomes, and can give up to 500,000 EXP to your heroes! Use them either for honer badges (by selling them to upgrade your hero's star level) or for leveling up your hero's levels.


Keep a balance between your books - you will need plenty of honer badges if you are low level and need to upgrade your hero's star level. Sell your blessed tomes for honer badges - they give a huge amount if you sell those. Use the regular tomes to level up. It could be the other way around - use whatever way you would like.
 Save up plenty of gems and roll 300 gems at a time until you get better talents for your heroes. This is known as your hero's second ability/talent. Save some extra gems however, and aim for getting a 5/5 talent. Make sure it is an accurate talent, such as War God, Berserk, etc. Check the list below for talents you should aim to roll for.


War God - Increases attack power, 8/8 talent increases your hero's attack by 90%.
Berserk - Increases attack speed, 8/8 talent increases hero's attack speed by 70% (very affective on Pumpkin Duke since he normally has a talent that also speeds up heroes).
Revitalize - Gains energy at start of battle, which helps a hero unleash its special ability faster to deal more damage. 8/8 talent increases hero's energy by 100% at start of battle.
Revive - Revives hero right after it dies once with a bit of HP, 8/8 talent revives your hero with full HP.
Self Destruct - Deals a huge amount of damage to nearby targets upon death, 8/8 talent does 1000% damage.
Deadly Strike - Has a chance to deal more damage when attacking, 8/8 talent has a chance to do 15 times more damage.
Tenacity - Increases HP, 8/8 talent increases HP by 100%

, Fame is used for upgrading talents to 6/8, 7/8, and 8/8. The only talent you can roll for is 5/8 as the max number. Do Lost Battlefield each day and use up all your chances. Battle wisely in order to not lose a chance when you lose a battle. Attack higher players so you can get more fame and move up in the week's rankings, which can gain you gems as well.
 Use skill essences and other heroes you do not want to use. Consume them into the other hero you want to upgrade, and level up the ability as much as possible. Upgrade the ability all the way to the max - 10/10. This will ensure that your hero deals the most damage when it has enough energy to use its special skills.
 During the time of building up your base, when you reach a higher level, your buildings will cost a large amount of resources to upgrade. Frequently raid other bases with large amounts of loot, and collect as much of it as possible. Spend all your resources before you log off - you don't want someone to raid your base and steal all your gold and mana.
 Use your mana and gold to upgrade your buildings as much as possible. Raid other bases a lot so that you can collect enough loot to fill your vaults. If you upgraded your watchtowers to the maximum level, choose either an arrow tower or a magic tower. Cannon towers hardly do much damage. They can slowly melt down a hero's HP, but they are not as effective.


Arrow towers fire arrows more faster than a Watchtower, and they do way more damage. They can kill off a hero and do extra damage as well.
Magic towers are probably the best choice to use in Guild Wars. They deal a decent amount of damage, can do extra damage, and can also stun enemies for a long time. You can use a mix of arrow towers and magic towers, or just one type.
 Consider using the corner base design. It can protect your heroes well, and uses the defenses in a balanced out way. It is also a popular choice for most players. Keep your extra buildings (resources, etc.) near the defenses and your defense heroes so that they won't be able to win at least one flame when the Guild War starts. Other designs can be searched up on castle clash websites, or the castle clash wiki.
 Layer up to at least five layers of walls around your base, or a few layers of walls if you are using a compartment base. This is a great design for corner bases, skull knight bases, etc. If a player that has heroes with Self destruct, they could wipe out your heroes in no time, and win. Layer as many walls as you can so as to soak up any Self Destruct damage. Place the walls to make sure no enemy ground hero is able to get through until your heroes kill them.
 Upgrading your hero bases can increase the attacking range of your heroes, making it more easier to defend against enemies. Use mana to upgrade all your hero bases more to have better range for your hero.





