 Copyright holders need a way to reach you to complain that pirated work is appearing on your server or website. You can designate an agent to receive these complaints. You can name an employee as the agent.


You need to register this person’s name with the U.S. Copyright Office. This office runs a directory people can search to find your agent.;
, You can download a template from the Copyright Office for designating the agent. You do not have to use this template; however, it is probably easier to use it. You can print a copy of the form and fill it in by hand, or you can enter information directly into the PDF.


The template is available here: http://copyright.gov/onlinesp/agent.pdf


, Be sure to gather the necessary information before sitting down. By doing so, you can complete the form all at once. Gather the following:your full legal name
your alternate business names (if any)
your business address
your designated agent’s full address
fax and phone numbers where the agent can be reached
an email address for the agent
an officer or representative’s signature
the date

, After completing the template, make several copies and store them in a safe place. Then mail the original to: U.S. Copyright Office, Designated Agents, P.O. Box 71537, Washington, DC 20024-1537.


Pay the registration fees. You have to pay $105 to register an agent for an ISP or for a web domain. If you do business under other names, then you must pay an additional $35 if you have ten or fewer alternate names.If you have 11 other names, then you will need to pay an additional $70.
Write out your check to “Register of Copyrights.”, There is a specific form you can use, which is available at http://copyright.gov/onlinesp/agenta.pdf. You can download the form and insert information directly. Alternately, you could print it off and write or type in the information.


This form requests the same information as the initial registration of your agent. You will also mail it to the same address.
You have to pay fees to register a new agent. You must pay $105 to change the agent. You also have to pay an extra $35 if you have 10 or fewer alternate business names. Make checks payable to “Register of Copyrights.”

, If you run a website, then the DMCA requires that you post the contact information on your website.You can find this information by visiting any website and looking for a “Contact Us” link. You should provide contact information on your own website.


For example, CNN.com uses the following language: “For copyright inquiries under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, please contact” and then insert the name, address, phone number, fax number, and email of your agent., The DMCA requires that certain information be included for a notice to be effective. You shouldn't assume people are familiar with the requirements. Accordingly, tell users that they must include the following:a physical or electronic signature from the owner or the owner’s authorized agent
identification of all copyright works which have been infringed
where to find the information on the website that should be removed
contact information so that you can contact the complaining party
a statement from the complaining party as to its good faith belief that use of the copyright work has not been authorized
a statement that the information included in the notification is accurate and, under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to submit the notice to you

, You might receive notices in the mail or through the fax. Alternately, you might get emailed notices. Make sure that the person complaining has provided all required information. Also commit to addressing the alleged infringement. Don’t let notices pile up in your in-box.


If a takedown notice is missing some information, you should still treat it as a valid takedown notice. The law is a little unclear about whether or not an imperfect takedown notice is valid.To protect yourself, you should treat all notices seriously and follow up with the person filing it if you need more information.
 In order to get safe harbor protection, you must immediately remove any content identified in a takedown notice.If someone is constantly streaming infringing content on your website, you should disable their account as well. You shouldn’t delay. Instead, address each takedown notice on the day it is received.


Some takedown notices will be fraudulent. For example, a rival musician or writer will send a takedown notice to harass a competitor. Some people might even file false takedown notices and then turn around and try to extort money from the person who posted the material.
However, to protect yourself as the ISP or website owner, you need a “take down first, ask questions later” attitude. Once you take down the material, you can contact the user who uploaded it. Ask him or her to provide you proof that they are the rightful copyright owner.
 To get safe harbor protection, you also need to put in place policies for terminating a user’s account if they infringe someone’s copyright.You might want to publish this policy on your website. You can include the information in a “Terms of Use” section, where you also identify your agent. Warn users that their accounts will be terminated if they post pirated material.


For example, CNN.com uses the following language: “By submitting any user content or participating in any interactive area within or connected to this website, you agree to the following: You agree not to upload, post, or otherwise transmit any user content that is protected by copyright without the express permission of the owner of such copyright. The burden of determining that any user content is not protected by copyright rests with you. Any person determined by the website owner to have violated the intellectual property rights of others shall be barred from submitting or posting any further material on the site.”, You can’t seek safe harbor protection if you profit from the infringement.For example, you can’t run a website and knowingly let someone try to sell pirated music to subscribers.

