 If the spine of your book is loose along one or both of the hinges, use this quick fix to have it back in perfect condition. Coat a long knitting needle in binding glue and slide it down the spine of the book along the loose hinge. Turn the book around and do the same on the other side. Place the book under a heavy weight for several hours to dry the hinge in place.
 If one of the spine's hinges has come undone from the textblock of the book, use glue and a bit of tape it to put it back in place. Brush glue along the exposed hinge and on the corner of the textblock. Put the cover back in place and use a weight to hold it till it dries.









For extra reinforcement, use a strip of binding tape (or duct tape if you don't care so much about the appearance) along the corner of the hinge on the inside cover and the flyleaf page.
Use a bone folder to crease the tape along the length of the hinge and secure it in place.
 If your covers/hinge are intact with the textblock of the book, you can replace a broken spine without removing the entire cover. Use scissors to cut out the spine without cutting along the hinge. Then, cut a new piece of board to fit the spine (use the old spine for measurement). Use two long pieces of binding tape the length of the book to secure the spine to the two covers.


If you want, you can cover the board in a matching fabric before sticking it to the covers.
If you don't have binding tape and don't mind appearances, duct tape or a sturdy packing tape can be substituted to hold the spine in place. Binding tape is especially useful though, because it comes with special corners that fit perfectly around the top and bottom edges of the spine.
 If the cover of one of your paperback books has come off, brush glue along the entire spine of the textblock and put the cover back in place. Put several heavy weights on the book and allow time to dry.
 If the hard cover of your book is salvageable, use the directions above for creating a hard cover from scratch to replace your book cover. You can also choose to buy a new or used hard cover book in good condition and of the same size, cut off the cover, and use it for your book.