 Most Red Cross centers across the United States offer courses in “Babysitting Basics,” “Babysitting Training,” and “Advanced Child Care.” The Red Cross is a nationally-recognized and widely respected organization, so it is an excellent choice for babysitting training courses., The “Babysitting Training” course is the most extensive and effective option. This on-site class last for 7 hours over the course of one day. “Babysitting basics” and “Advanced Child Care” are both online courses. Each lasts for 4 hours, and can be completed at your own pace.Babysitting Training is recommended for students aged 11-15.
Babysitting Basics is intended for students 11 and up.
Advanced Child Care does not carry an age requirement, but is geared toward experienced babysitters.
 The “Babysitting Training” course, once again, is the most comprehensive overview. The fee for this course is $85. The “Babysitting Basics” online course is $29. The “Advanced Child Care” course costs $49, although it is sometimes on sale at half-price (for $24.50). These fees are due at the time of registration.
 If you have signed up for the “Babysitting Training” course, make your way to your local Red Cross center on the date of your course. Students are instructed to bring a lunch. If you have registered for one of the online courses, log in and begin working whenever you have a couple of hours to dedicate to learning. When you have completed the course, you will receive a certificate.


The Babysitting Training course focuses on developing leadership skills, developing a babysitting business, keeping kids safe and helping children behave, and learning about basic child care and basic first aid.
The Babysitting Basics class focuses on staying safe, what to do in an emergency, selecting age-appropriate activities, and handling a variety of behaviors.
The Advanced Babysitting course focuses on how to take care of children outside of the home. It teaches students how to keep children safe and happy in a variety of situations.
You will not need to pass a test. Simply complete the course to earn your certificate.
 Although it is not required, it is strongly encouraged for all babysitters to take a course in CPR and First Aid. These courses are also offered through the Red Cross. Certifications in CPR and First Aid increase make you a more hireable babysitter.The Red Cross Adult and Pediatric First Aid/CPR class meets for 6.5 hours.
The cost is $110.
The certification you earn will be good for 2 years.

