 If the wound completely punctures through the skin or is wider than two millimeters, you should consult a doctor or visit an emergency clinic. If you have trouble closing the wound on your own or can see any exposed muscle or fat, you will likely need stitches.Getting stitches within a few hours of the injury will reduce the risk of scarring and infection.
Keep in mind that wounds with jagged edges are more likely to become infected, so make sure you see a doctor if you have this type of wound.
 Call a doctor immediately if redness and swelling spread beyond the wound or infected site. If you’ve already seen your doctor, call them for a follow-up if a fever persists for two days after starting an antibiotic, or if the infected wound shows no signs of improvement for three days after starting an antibiotic. Signs of a worsening infection may include:Increased swelling
Red streaks traveling away from the wound
A foul odor coming from the wound
Increased amounts of pus and fluid coming from the wound
Fever
Chills
Nausea and/or vomiting
Swollen lymph nodes

, When you have your doctor examine the infected wound, discuss whether you should take topical or oral antibiotics. A topic antibiotic is an ointment that you apply directly on the infected area and is the most common form of treatment.Oral antibiotics, or systemic antibiotics, are taken by the mouth and are best if your doctor believes the infection is spreading or if your immune system is compromised. Tell your doctor about fever or any other symptoms, and be sure to mention any chronic health conditions or medications that might have weakened your immune system., It’s always best to talk to a doctor about getting a tetanus shot if the wound is deep or dirty. Puncture wounds from soiled or rusty surfaces can cause tetanus, but most standard vaccination programs protect against the disease. If you haven’t had a tetanus shot in the last five years, you might need a booster., You should contact your doctor immediately if you have any concerns about the nature of your injury or about your existing medical conditions.

For example, be sure to consult a doctor if you take a prescription blood thinner or if your immune system is compromised.
In addition to wounds from rusty or soiled objects, it's best to see a doctor for wounds from animal or human bites or with hard to remove debris.Also, keep in mind that some people are at an increased risk of infection, such people who are diabetic, elderly, obese, or immunocompromised (those who have HIV/AIDS, are undergoing chemotherapy, or who are on a steroid medication).
 In some situations, you may need to seek immediate medical care. Symptoms that indicate a need for immediate care include:Feeling short of breath
Having a rapid heartbeat
Feeling confused
Having excessive bleeding that soaks through your bandages
Feeling like your wound is ripping or noticing that it has actually come apart
Having severe pain
Noticing red streaks coming from the infected area

