 In order to do a great manicure, you'll need certain supplies. Most supplies can be purchased at a local makeup store or drug store. To do a salon style manicure, you will need the following:Nail polish, a base coat, and a top coat
Nail polish remover
Cotton balls
Q-tips
A bowl filled with warm water and moisturizing shower gel
A set of manicure tools that includes a cuticle pusher and cuticle blade
Cuticle moisturizer;
, Acetone nail polish removers tend to remove polish quicker. However, they also contain harsh chemicals that can wear down nails. You should opt for an acetone free polish remover, especially if you do your nails frequently. Check the ingredient list of any polish remover you use to make sure that it does not contain acetone., To start, you'll need to remove any previous polish. If you do not have old polish on your nails, you can skip this step. You should not soak you nails in remover, as this can be harsh on your nails. Instead, dab a cotton ball in remover and gently swab your nails until any leftover polish comes off., You should moisturize your cuticles before applying any polish. This can help your cuticles retain moisture, keeping your nails healthy.








Near the root of your nail, there is a small flap of skin known as a cuticle. Dab a small bit of moisturizer over this skin.
Gently massage the cream into your skin until the lumpy bits of cream dissolve into your skin.
 Take your bowl of warm water filled with shower gel. Place the tips of your fingers in the bowl. Allow them to soak for two minutes.You can use a clock to track time, but you may be able to gauge the two minute mark by just counting to 120 in your head.
 Take your cuticle pusher, which is a small wooden or plastic stick. You will use this to gently push each of your cuticles back so they merge with the skin in your fingers. Older cuticles will emerge from underneath the pushed back cuticles. Take your cuticle cutter and run the blade along the length of your cuticles to cut them off.








You want to take caution with this step. Be very gentle as you push your cuticles back and cut them. Use very slow motions. Forcefully cutting or pushing your cuticles could lead to an infection.Never neglect to soak your fingers before pushing back your cuticles. If your hands are slightly wet, the cuticles will move easier. This can also help prevent infection.
 If your nails are not in your desired size and shape, you should now cut and file them. You can use a set of nail clippers and a nail file to do so. You should also use a nail buffer to smooth out the tops of nails.Trim nails to your desired length. Then, take a file and file them into a good shape. Salon style manicures usually file nails into a square shape or round out the edges of nails. To create a squared look, file each nail flat across the top and then soften the edges slightly so they aren't too sharp. For a rounded look, file the tips of your nails into a soft curve. Be sure to file your nails in one direction only. Start at one edge and work your way over to the other.
Avoid using metallic files, as these can be too harsh. Opt for an emery board or crystal nail file.
Gently rub your nail buffer over the tops of your nails until they have a smooth, even appearance. Do not buffer for too long, however. If nails become too smooth, polish may slide off.
 A base coat will protect your nails from becoming tinted by polish. It will also make the nail polish come on smoother. Add one layer of base coat to your nails.








Use about three strokes to cover your nails in base coat. If there are any lumps or uneven patches, use a few shorter strokes to smooth out these bumps.
For best results, you should let nails air dry.However, as you're adding multiple layers, this can be time consuming. You can dry your nails with a hairdryer, but make sure to set it to low heat. If you set it to high or medium heat, you could end up burning your fingers.
 You'll want to add nail polish in layers for best results. Start with one thin layer of polish. Do not worry if the polish looks a little light. It will become darker when you add the second layer. As with the base coat, apply with two to three strokes. If you notice any uneven patches, use shorter strokes to smooth out the polish.The drying procedure is the same as the base coat. Air drying works best, but you can use a blow dryer set to low to dry your nails.
 Use two to three strokes to cover your nails in a second coat. If you need to smooth out any lines or bubbles, use a few shorter strokes to do so. This should make your nail polish darker and smoother. You can air dry your nails or use a blow dryer set to low., A top coat will protect your polish, allowing it to last up to two weeks. It will also keep your nails looking clearer and smoother. Apply a top coat the same way you applied the other layers. Work extra hard to get the top coat looking smooth, as this is the last polish you'll be applying.
 Your nails will look smoother and shinier if you allow them to air dry after adding the final coat. It can take up to an hour for nails to dry completely, so avoid touching or handling anything until your nails have dried.Find something to do to distract yourself. Turn on a TV show you like or listen to some music.
 Even when you work slowly and carefully, a small bit of nail polish may spill onto the skin around your nails. If you want your manicure to look professional, dab a q-tip in nail polish. Then, take the q-tip and rub it along the skin of your nails to remove any rough edges or spilled polish.








Go slowly here. You do not want to accidentally rub your nails themselves, as this will remove the polish.
 Products used in nail polish can be harsh on your nails. It's a good idea to add another layer of cuticle moisturizer once you've finished doing your nails.








Remember, to apply cuticle moisturizer you dab moisturizer on each of your cuticles. Then, rub the moisturizer into your skin.

