 If you are bringing home a bonded pair, you will need to create a quite space for the two dogs. Place their bedding, food, and other necessities in a part of your house that is peaceful, yet frequently accessed by members of your household. If you are bring home two new puppies, you will need to give each of them their own space, bedding, food, and toys. This prevents them bonding too closely with each other.Avoid having any large social events in the first few weeks after your bring your new pets home.
Ask your roommates or family members to keep it quiet while the new dogs adjust to your home.
 After your pets have had a few days to adjust to your home, you should take them to see your veterinarian. Your vet will want to make sure that they are up-to-date on their shots and that they are in good health. Depending on the age of your dogs, your veterinarian may have tips on how to care for them as well., If you are bringing home a pair of puppies, you will need to do all of their training individually. This includes crate training and housetraining. Because it will be extremely difficult to reward and direct both dogs at the same time, you should set up individual training sessions so that you are properly training your dogs.You can also have someone else train one dog while you are training the other one.
Because older dogs often lapse in their training when they are adjusting to a new environment, you may also need to retrain members of a bonded pair as well. Depending on the level of separation anxiety, you should also try to train them separately.
 With multiple puppies, you should be sure to walk and play with each dog individually. This will ensure that you are properly leash training each puppy without any interference from the other dog. You should also play with them separately to ensure that they are socialized as individuals and not a pair.If you adopt a bonded pair, you may want to walk them together if they are already leash trained. If not, you will need to separate them for training as well.
A bonded pair can play together since they have already been socialized as a pair and not individuals.

