 For veterinary hospice care, your vet will help you make the decision to keep your pet under hospice care. The vet will help teach you about what is required during hospice care, including diet, medication, and other care requirements.Every veterinarian does not specialize in pet hospice care. You can ask your vet for a recommendation for a vet who provides hospice care in your area. You may also search online or contact animal agencies, such as the Humane Society or the ASPCA. They can help you find a vet or a hospice center in your area.
Pet hospice care is an intensive commitment for you. You will have to be an active participant in your pet’s care and provide continuous supervision. You will be the caregiver for the animal, not the vet.
 Part of veterinary hospice care is education on the particular ailment your pet suffers from. This education includes symptoms, the way the pet will decline, and any other processes at the later stages of the disease.Your vet will work with you to help educate you on your pet’s condition and how best to care for them.
 You and your veterinarian will work together to design and implement a hospice care plan for your pet. This plan will cover how best to meet the specific needs of your pet. The plan will also take into consideration your family’s needs and wishes.For example, the hospice care plan will outline how to recognize pain in your pet and the treatment for their specific type of pain.
The treatment plan will also cover how to deal with any bodily fluids, how to manage incontinence, and how to change bandages or care for wounds.
Your treatment plan will also cover any nutrition information.
 Hospice care can be expensive. Hospice vets often make house visits to check on the sick pet, which costs more than a regular vet visit. The medications and pain management treatments may be very expensive, too. You should talk to your vet about how much hospice care will cost as you make the decision.If you have to have someone come to your home to walk your dog, sit with your cat, or feed your pet a special meal, you have to consider that cost, too.
Some pet insurance plans may cover some expenses related to hospice care, such as veterinarian visits and care. Consider looking into pet insurance plans to find one that can fit your needs.