 The most accurate way is to go to a professional. This can be done at a clothing store, a lingerie store, or a tailor or seamstress. Another option is to have a friend use plastic measuring tape to get accurate measurements such as on your hips and shoulders. If you do this, be honest. Don’t try to alter the results by sucking in your belly, for instance. Inaccurate measurements lead to poorly-fitting clothes.For men, measurements include height, neck, chest, waist, hips, and inseam.For women, measurements include height, shoulders, waist, hips, and bust size.;
, This sounds counterintuitive, but the truth is that the tags on clothing aren’t helpful beyond an initial reference. Size standards vary between designers, patterns, and manufacturers. In addition, clothes are made for the standard hourglass shape when men now often have wider shoulders and women have wider hips.Some designers use vanity sizing, which puts a single-digit number on a size that is normally double digits in an attempt to appeal to your emotions.
The number-letter system (small, medium, large, extra large) has no standard, so the dimensions on these clothes vary.
 Sizing charts can be found in some stores online and offline. They’ll have it posted around the store if they have one. This is most likely in stores that don’t carry clothing from a variety of manufacturers. Getting some idea of the store’s policy helps you compare their clothes to your own measurements and determine which stores give you reliable fits.
 Remember that many men have wider shoulders and many women have bigger hips compared to the standard companies manufacture. If you have wide shoulders, for instance, you can get jackets in a bigger size and balance the non-shoulder proportions or take the clothing to a tailor to adjust those other areas.Those who differ from standard size, such as those who are tall or short, will have a harder time finding clothing. Specialty fits or tailored work are the best options.
 The more you try, the less of a gamble buying the clothing becomes. Take several different sizes and put them on in the changing room. If possible, stand before a full-body mirror and take in your entire appearance. The clothes should fit comfortably, neither tight nor loose.


Don’t worry about using a larger size. You can cut off the tags if you need to, but clothes that fit well will do more to make you forget your flaws than clothes that poorly mask them.
Don’t forget to check out your backside. Clothes that don’t fit well can squeeze your back and leave a very noticeable, unappealing roll of flesh.
Anyone who had a parent who made them walk around when trying out shoes knows how important testing is. Turn while wearing the clothes. Lift your arms and legs. Sit on a chair. Good clothes won’t feel restrictive.
 Getting an outside perspective is useful. Bring along a friend who will be honest with you or ask a store employee. Many, such as those in lingerie shops, are trained to take measurements in order to find the best fits for customers. Even if they aren’t trained, they may be able to give you an honest outsider’s opinion.


Use your judgment in evaluating these opinions. Store employees for example may be more concerned with flattering you and making sales.
 You may end up finding great clothing but the measurement is off in a key area. The clothing you buy is for now and should not be stored for a time when it does fit. Search your local listings for tailors or seamstresses. They’ll be happy to have your business and it may not cost that much.


Alternatively, you can learn to adjust clothing yourself.
 Thanks to the Internet, made-to-order clothing is becoming more common. Designers and retailers such as Indochino and eShakti will work with you to achieve the fit that you want. Some brick and mortar stores may do this too. For anyone who has trouble finding a proper fit, extra money spent here can be well worth it.