 Invisible ink can be made from lemon juice and water. The lemon juice mixture is clear when applied to paper, but turns brown when heated up due to oxidization. This makes passing secret notes easy, because no one will even know you’ve written anything on the paper.Squeeze half of a lemon into a small bowl and mix in a few drops of water.
Use a paintbrush to apply the lemon juice to the paper, writing as you normally would. Make sure not to use too much of the liquid, as it can make the paper fall soggy and it could fall apart.
To decode, heat the paper with a hair dryer, or hold it under a warm light bulb. The clear lemon juice will slowly turn brown as it warms up.
 This invisible ink takes a few more obscure ingredients than lemon juice alone, but if you have corn starch and iodine, it works just as well. You'll need access to a stove too.Mix two tablespoons of corn starch and four tablespoons of water in a small pot.
Heat the mixture on medium heat until warm, but not hot: around 3 or 4 minutes.
Dip a toothpick into the corn starch solution and use it to write your message on the paper. It will dry clear and look like a normal piece of paper.
To make the decoding solution, mix one teaspoon of iodine with ten teaspoons of water in a bowl. Mix well.
Dip a sponge in the iodine solution and wring it out so it's damp. Carefully wipe the sponge over the paper to decode the message: it should turn purple. Be careful not to make the paper too damp and soggy!

, This method doesn't create a hidden message, per se, but it allows the receiver of the message to wipe it away quickly and easily. This will keep any message safe from prying eyes and essentially hidden. You'll need glossy tape, a small notecard or paper and a felt tipped pen.


Cover a small card or paper with tape. Make sure the it’s the glossy kind of tape, like packing tape, not the matte “invisible” type of tape.
Write your message on the tape with a felt tipped pen.
Pass the note to your friend. It will look like an ordinary note: colored marker on regular paper.
Your friend can now easily wipe the message in felt tipped pen off of the glossy surface, destroying the secret message as soon as it's read.

