 Have some friends or whoever you know over to your household or apartment or where you live. In order to do this, you'll need 6 people you know over to your place and you will assign them to their own position. You want to make sure that they agree with it and like it. Nobody likes a fight against a toy.;
, Ask them what are they best at.
 The perfect Nerf squad normally has a balance of power, stealth, speed, and accuracy. The key is to find people that fit these descriptions. For each team member, select as follows:

If they're best with the Retaliator or the Rampage, they'll probably be in the speed category.
If they're best with the Vulcan or the Rapidstrike, they'll probably be in the power category.
If they're best with the Fire Strike or the Strongarm, they'll be best in the stealth category.
If they're best with the Longshot or the Longstrike, they'll be best in the accuracy category.
 They will need to get along with you and each other, its best not to let total strangers into your squad. They will also need a leader, as their leader you will need to be focused, have a good voice for giving orders, and you will need to know how to use all the weapons in your Nerf arsenal, not just a few.
 A successful Nerf squad has at least five people as members of the squad if not 10, its always good to have at least two of each category., The following describes good classes or roles in Nerf combat:


Commander. The "Commander" should use an Alpha Trooper, as they are a lightweight and perfect gun for combat,while sharing with the squad tactics and war plans.






Assault. The "Assault" unit should use a Retaliator CS-12, Rampage CS-25, Alpha Trooper CS-12 or the Rapidstrike CS-18. These guns are all perfect for the main task of hanging around the enemy base.






Sniper. The "Sniper" unit should use a Longshot CS-6 or a Longstrike CS-6 or a Tri-Strike CS-10 for the work he/she must do. They supply support for the team while taking out high value targets.






Support.The "Support" unit should use a Havokfire or a Hyperfire for giving allies covering fire, they must also be protective of the "Commander", as a "Sniper" could be watching! Although optional, the "Support" role can give squad members ammunition if they are given it by the ally requiring one






Engineer. The "Engineer" is an optional class, they should use a Rampage or a Stockade while maintaining the condition of allies weapons if they jam bad enough for them to have to fix.






Medic.(If the game-type includes revives, then this class is necessary)Also optional, the "Medic" should use primarily pistols or light rifles while giving allies revive buffs to help with the war effort!






Gunner: Has full firepower and can take on rough challenges, like getting past an invasion. The Gunner should carry a Rapidstrike and should have 5 grenades. A Gunner can take five hits, unless healed by the Medic.






Recon: Needs to be very sneaky and fast. The Recon Soldier should carry a medium blaster, and a knife. They can take two hits, unless healed by the Medic.
 Every member of the Nerf squad will have different tools depending on their role.


The Commander should carry a Retaliator CS-12 and 3 Nerf magazines.






The Sniper should carry a Longstrike CS-6 or Longshot and Retaliator CS-6 and 3 Nerf magazines. (grenades are optional, but recommended)






The Medic should carry a first aid kit and a Firestrike, or a Strongarm.






The Gunner should carry a Hyperfire and 3 Nerf magazines.






The Engineer should carry a wrench, Nerf turrets, and a rough cut.






The Recon should carry a Firefly REV-8, a Nerf Dagger and a pistol.
 Once you have assembled your Nerf squad, give them specific duties such as, the snipers should be stationed in the trees and double as lookouts, the assault troops should have half their men on the front lines and the other half protecting the heavy machine gunners, the assassins or spies should be behind enemy lines or waiting in strategic positions to pounce on the enemy.
 Do not beat people with your stuff you have, especially people walking down the street.
 What's the point of doing this if you're not going to have fun?

