 If you have to spend time around someone that you can’t let know you’re crushing on – avoid opportunities for emotional connection by keeping conversation short and boring.Reply to questions in short, direct sentences.
Don’t ask unnecessary questions, especially about anything fun or otherwise off topic.
Avoid conversations about topics that either of you will enjoy.
As a general rule, don’t perk his interest by doing or saying intriguing or engaging things.;
, People get animated around those they’re into. When you feel your blood pressure rising or notice you’re nodding more than usual, calm yourself down by taking a deep breath and focusing on something other than the dangerously enjoyable conversation you were having. Otherwise stated, be boring.Monitor your own excitement. Don’t allow yourself to send the message you’re interested.
Don’t open up to him. If you make yourself emotionally accessible – even about something seemingly innocuous – you won’t be able to hide your feelings about him for long.
 Face it, people have only gotten better at monitoring the crushes they aren’t supposed to have with the rise of social media. Quit allowing yourself to dream about the possibility of romance with someone you can’t even admit you’re into.Unfriend or unfollow him on Facebook.Quit following his Instagram. If you’re into him, looking at his selfies will be torture.
Repeat the equivalent for all the other social media platforms you both use. No need to see that snapchat of him having a blast. Way too cute to handle.
 Resist the temptation to text, email, or call your crush – even with totally non-romantic messages. Delete his number, and forget his email address too. If you can’t delete this information, make it harder on yourself to contact him.If your crush is someone you need to keep in touch with for professional or other non-romantic reasons, re-label his number in your phone according.
For instance, change the contact information to “Your Boss” or “Jenny’s Boyfriend.”

