 This minion requires a bit of sewing, but it is cute and squishy once finished. Here's a list of what you will need:


Banana-yellow sock
Blue sock
Teddy bear stuffing
Needle and thread
Scissors
Googly eyes
Yarn
Black buttons
Black and grey felt
Black yarn
Fabric glue

, You need a bright yellow sock, the color of a banana. You will also need a blue sock.
 You will be using the toe/foot part to make the minion's body. Save the top part for later; you will need that to make the arms.
 Make the running stitch about 1 centimeter away from the cut hem. Gently pull on the thread to close the sock and tuck the raw edges inside. If the stuffing starts to come out, poke it back in with your finger. Tie the thread off in a knot and cut it., How long you make it will depend on how large you want the overalls to be. Most minions' overalls stop about half-way up their body.
 Measure down 1 centimeter from the top part of the sock. Cut a small half circle along the folded part. Repeat this for the other side. This will make the arm holes/shoulder straps of the overalls.
 Draw a thin line of glue along the top, inside edge of the overalls, as well as around each arm hole. Tug the overalls on, and press the top edge of the blue sock down onto the minion's body. If the edges of the overalls keep popping up, pin them down with some sewing pins. You can remove the pins once the glue dries.


Draw and cut out the arms. Start by drawing two minion arm shapes on the top part of the yellow sock and cut them out; be sure to cut through both layers of the sock so that you end up with four pieces.
 Pin the right sides together of each arm. Sew around the edges; try to keep the seam allowance as small as possible. Be sure to leave the narrow bottom part of the arm open. Turn each piece inside out, and fill it with teddy bear stuffing.


A minion arm is shaped like a skinny rectangle. The hand is shaped like 3 loops, sort of like a 3-leaf clover.
 Cut two L shapes out of the top part of the blue sock. The back/straight part of each L should be on the fold of the sock. You will end up with two pieces.


Sew the feet and stuff them. Pin wrong sides together of each L shape. You should end up with two Ls, but that have the fuzzy side of the sock showing. Sew around each L shape. Try to keep the seam-allowance as small as possible. Leave the top part of each foot/L shape open. Turn each L shape inside out and fill it with stuffing.
 The arms will go onto the minion's body, just beneath the shoulder straps. You can make them stick straight out, like a T, or you can have them hanging down by the minion's sides. The feet will go onto the bottom of the minion. The toes should be pointing towards you. Try to use the ladder-stitch while doing this to make it as seem-less as possible.
 Use fabric glue to attach a small, black button to the front of each shoulder strap. Cut a square from the left-over blue sock, and glue it down onto the front of the overalls to make the pocket. Use a fabric marker to draw the stitching, pockets, and the initial.


In the movies, the minions had a letter "G" on the front of their pockets. You can draw a "G" too, or you can make it your own minion and draw the first letter of your name instead.
 Cut two circles out of grey felt that are a little bit larger than the googly eyes you are using. Use Put a drop of fabric glue onto the back of each eye, then press each eye down onto the grey felt circles. Then, use fabric glue to attach the felt circles to the minion. If your minion has two eyes, make sure that the felt circles are touching.
 Place a thin line of fabric glue all around the head, going from one side of the goggles to the next. Press the felt down onto the glue.
 You can cut the yarn however long you want it. If you want your minion to have spiky hair, tie knots at the end of the yarn pieces, and glue the bottom of the knot to the top of the head.
 Minions make many silly faces, so you can draw the mouth however you want. When you are done making the face, use the marker to color in the hands; this will be the minion's gloves. Then, use the marker to color in the bottom part of the feet. This will be the shoes.


Remember, minions don't have noses or eyebrows.

