 In general, you are much better off accepting student loans from the government than you are applying for loans from banks and other lenders. Fees and interest rates for private loans almost always exceed those associated with federal aid. Therefore, apply for private student loans only if you have borrowed the maximum in federal financial aid and still need more money for your education.


Keep in mind that even if interest rates seem similar when you compare federal and private student loans, most federal loans are fixed – that is, the interest rate will remain the same. Private loans, on the other hand, do not typically offer that security. Your interest rate could increase over time.
In addition, private student loans are not usually eligible for the deferment and forgiveness plans that apply to many federal loans.
 Many of the same eligibility requirements that apply to federal financial aid apply to private loans. In general, you must be a U.S. citizen, national, or permanent resident, and you must be attending an accredited college or university at least half time. Check with individual lenders to see what other criteria may apply.
 Again, remember that private loans can be more expensive than federal loans, and you’ll have fewer options for deferring your payments down the road. Therefore, when you calculate how much you’ll need to borrow, take care to cover your costs without taking on any unnecessary debt.
 Applying for private loans can be overwhelming because there are so many different potential lenders with such a wide variety of loans on offer. Take the time to compare these products. Websites such as Student Lending Analytics can help you do so efficiently.As you shop around, consider, first and foremost:


interest rates
repayment terms
the amount of money you can borrow
any regulations concerning how the money can be used

, If you don’t have a good credit history in your own name – and most students who apply for private student loans do not – you will need someone to cosign for you. Parents and other relatives often make good cosigners.


As tempting as it might be to gloss over the potential consequences of cosigning for you, it’s important to be responsible and let your cosigners know what they are getting into. Cosigning is not simply vouching for you; it’s assuming responsibility for your debt. If you don’t make your payments – or if, due to financial hardship, you can’t make your payments – your cosigner will be responsible. Your loan could therefore negatively affect his or her credit and financial circumstances.
 When you’ve weighed your options and, if necessary, found a cosigner, you can go ahead and apply for a loan with a bank or other lender. Application procedures vary depending on the institution, but in general, you’ll simply have to fill out some paperwork and agree to a credit check for you and your cosigner. Many lenders have simple online application forms.
 If your application is successful and you are offered a loan, read all of the terms and conditions before you accept it. Make sure, especially, that you understand your interest rate and the terms of repayment.
 To minimize your overall debt upon graduation, consider making payments during the school year. Even if you can only manage small interest payments, you will make repayment during the years after graduation much easier.

