 You can use makeup that is slightly darker/lighter than your natural skin tone to make your nose appear slimmer. Keep in mind, however, that it won't physically make your nose smaller. Also, if you have a very long nose, contouring will not make your nose look shorter in side view.;
, You can use powder or cream-based makeup, but many people find powder easier to blend and work with. You can use special contouring and highlight makeup, or you can use matte eye shadow. Avoid anything with shimmer in it, or your skin will look shiny instead.For the shadow, choose a color that two to three shades darker than your natural skin tone.For the highlighter, choose a color that is two to three shades lighter than your natural skin tone.Consider your skin undertone. Some people will have a warmer/yellow-tinted undertone while others will have a cooler/pink-tinted undertone. When choosing your highlighting and contouring shadows, try to find something that also matches the undertone of your skin. Wearing the wrong one can look unnatural.
 You will need some brushes to apply the makeup. If you are using a powder-based makeup, choose a soft-bristled brush. If you are using a cream-based makeup, choose a brush with stiffer bristles. Here are the specifics of what you will need:


An angled brush to apply the shadow and highlighter. This will also give you the most control.
A soft, blending brush to blend the two colors together. You can also use a blending sponge, if you find that easier to use.
 The primer will help minimize any pores, and the foundation will give the contouring makeup something to grip onto. It will also make it easier to blend and even out skin tone.









Use your fingers to apply the primer and a makeup sponge or a foundation brush to apply the foundation.
Make sure that the foundation matches your face exactly. It is not a good idea to match foundation on your hand or wrist; these are usually a different shade than your face.
 Use an angled brush to draw a thin line down the center of your nose. Try not to make the line too thick, or your nose will look wider than it actually is. Start at the top of your nose, and continue down to the tip. Do not curve under the tip, however.
 Set aside the angled brush, and pick up the blending brush (or sponge. Gently run the brush down the center of your nose, to either side of the highlight. You are just softening any harsh edges; you are not widening the highlight or blending it out.








Highlighting helps to lift the face up, drawing focus to these points. It also adds dimension to your face.
 Use a clean, angled brush to draw the shadow from the inner corners of your eyes down towards the tip. Use a blending brush to blend the shadow upward towards the highlight.









If you want to slim down wide nostrils, then apply the shadow to the sides of your nose as well.
 Start by drawing the shadow down either side of your nose. Then, extend the shadow under the tip of your nose, just above the nostrils. Be sure to blend the "bottom" shadow up towards the tip of your nose. This will "lift" your nose up and make it look shorter







, Begin by drawing the shadow from the inner corners of your eyes down towards the tip of your nose. Curve both lines under the tip to form a small "U" or downward arrow shape. Try not to make it too pointy, or your nose will look unnatural. Instead, try to match the width of the "U" to the width of your nose' bridge.
 Crooked noses can sometimes appear large, even if they are small to begin with. Draw the shadows down either side of your nose. Start at the inner corners of your eyes, and end just at the tip. Instead of following the contour of your nose, try to make the lines at straight as possible in the mirror.
 Run it down the sides of your nose, right between the highlight and shadow. This will soften any harsh lines. Next, feather the shadow towards your face. Do this by brushing across the side of your nose, starting just next to the highlight, and going towards the side of your face.









If you added shadow to the tip of your nose, be sure to soften it by swirling your brush around it.
If you added shadow to the sides of your nostrils, be sure to sweep your blending brush across them too.
 This will set the contouring makeup and prevent it from shifting. It will also help soak up any excess oil. Try to use a translucent powder, or one that matches your skin tone. Avoid using anything shimmer, or your nose will look oily. If you notice any excess powder on your nose, use a clean brush to lightly dust it off.








