 Even if you just met the person, take a few moments to get to know a little about them. If you already know them, talk to them to find out more. The more you know about them the easier it will be for you to ask them out and the easier it will be for you to set up a date successfully.Ask what they like to do for fun. For example, you might say, “So what types of things do you enjoy doing for fun?”
Ask about hobbies and interests. You could try saying, “What are some of the things that you do in your spare time?”;
, You will feel much more confident and comfortable asking the person out on a date if you have practiced your approach. Rehearse what you will say and how you will say it in order to set up your date successfully.


Stand in your bathroom mirror and practice what you will say to ask the person out on a date.
For example, you might look in the mirror and say, “Hey, Frank! I was wondering if you might like to go out some time?”
If you need to, then write down what you want to say and rehearse it with a friend.
 Approaching your potential date with confidence will make it more likely that they will want to go out on a date with you.It will also help set the tone for a successful date.


Take a deep breath and remind yourself that you can successfully get a date with this person.
For example, you might say to yourself, “I can do this. I can successfully set this date up.”
Put a smile on your face, hold your head up, and feel confident about yourself.
 You will have an easier time feeling confident and working up the courage to ask someone out if you feel good about yourself. Take pride in your good qualities, and set a few positive, realistic goals for yourself. You might try some of the following:


Practice positive self talk. If you find yourself thinking or saying negative things about yourself, gently redirect yourself to something positive. For example, instead of, “I still have so much left to do. I’m so disorganized,” tell yourself, “Wow, I finally finished that huge job on my to-do list! Way to go!”
Take care of your physical health by exercising, eating right, and meditating.
Focus on doing things that you enjoy and are good at.
Keep your goals and expectations for yourself and your life realistic.
Don’t compare yourself to other people.
 Once you have learned more about them and built up your confidence, you need to go ahead and ask them out. Tell them you would like to go out sometime and then talk about the details to set up the date successfully.


For example, you could say, “Deborah, I’d love to go out with you sometime! When might be a good time for you?”
Or you might try, “I really like spending time with you. Would you like to go on a date with me?”
You could even say, “There’s a great new restaurant that opened up around the corner. I know how you love Italian, would you like to go?”

