 You may feel that you could or should do something else with your time other than meditate. But, if you treat meditation like it is a part of a healthy lifestyle then you will find yourself more motivated to do it.


You deserve to be peaceful as much as you deserve to eat, sleep, or breathe. It is a part of who you are.
Furthermore, the world around you—–your family, your friends, your companion animals, even strangers—–deserve for you to be peaceful, too.
”Tell yourself, “It’s okay for me to take the time to meditate. This is a part of being healthy. It’ll help me be calmer and more peaceful. “

, You can even tell the rest of the household that this area is off limits during the times you are using it for meditation. Having a dedicated space that you enjoy can help you find the motivation to meditate.Use scented candles, incense, or aromatherapy fragrance makers to make your meditation zone appealing.
Add light as part of the enjoyment. Use low-key colored lights or pretty hanging lights to create an atmosphere that draws you to this area for "me time".
By making the space where you meditate a special place, in time you will become aware that you are calmer here, because it will be associated with peace and reflection.
 Listening to relaxing music playing quietly in the background can help you relax and get into the ‘meditation mood’. And the more you are in the mood to meditate, the more motivated you will be to meditate.


Create a meditation playlist of your own made up of music that calms you and helps you be more peaceful.
Find a relaxing channel or playlist on an internet radio or video provider by searching for the term ‘meditation music’.
If you can, wear headphones, as this also allows you to block out any other noises and distractions.
Don’t allow the music or sounds to become a distraction. You want to focus on meditating, not the music., So keep the positive effects of meditation and your personal reasons for trying it in mind as a way to motivate yourself.


For example, tell yourself, “One benefit is that it can help me remain more aware and focused. That will make all those tasks I have to perform much easier!
Or, you might remind yourself, “Meditation can help me appreciate time and learn to manage it better. Then I’ll feel less rushed and busy.”
Remind yourself if you want to use meditation as a way to think about a specific issue or question in depth. You might say, “Meditation is the way that I am going to think through this problem.”
Think about your spiritual and religious reasons for wanting to meditate. For example, remind yourself that you want to contemplate your higher power and become insightful.
If you feel emotionally or physically disturbed, then you may have some mental or emotional issues you need to address. Meditation may help.

