 Specific regions should be selected depending on whether you are creating a fade-in or fade-out. For a fade-in, the region you select must be the exact beginning or a blank area preceding the region you want to create the fade-in for. The same rules apply to fade-outs, as your selection must extend to the exact end of the region or a blank area after the region in the audio file.;
, To select a region, you must activate the Selector tool by clicking on the third icon from the left that is shaded blue, directly above the timeline bar. Once the Selector tool is activated, double-click on the region you want. You may also use the Grabber tool, which is the fourth icon from the left in the shape of a hand.
 In your Pro Tools session, open your Fades dialog box by going to "Edit," selecting "Fades," then selecting "Create." An alternate method is pressing the "Control" and letter "F" keys simultaneously on a Windows computer or by pressing the "Command" and letter "F" keys simultaneously on a Macintosh. The Fades dialog window will then appear on your screen.
 In-Shape settings must be modified for fade-ins, whereas Out-Shape settings will be modified for fade-outs. In the Fades window, choose your desired fade shape by selecting the correct radio button. The Standard setting is a general-purpose fade whereas the S-Curve setting allows for a faster fade-in. You may also select a custom curve by clicking on the arrows next to the curve diagram to display a drop-down menu.
 To hear the effects of the fade you created, click on the "Audition" button in the top, left-hand corner of the Fades window that resembles a speaker.
 If you need to edit your fade, you can adjust the curve by dragging it to a new location or by selecting a different fade shape from the In-Shape or Out-Shapes settings section.
 To finish creating your fade, click on the "OK" button in the lower right of the Fades dialog box to save and complete your fade. Pro Tools will then calculate the fade and add the selected fade curve to your region.

