 The basic gravy recipe above tastes great on its own, but it's not the final word on hamburger gravy. For example, if you want to give your gravy a slightly more complex taste, try adding these dried herbs with the salt, pepper, etc. at the end of the recipe. The bitter aromatics of sage and the sweetness of basil pair well to make a gravy that's a little more filet mignon than hamburger.
 Bouillon is a common ingredient in gravy recipes. Its salty, meat-y flavor make for a mouthwatering gravy. To use bouillon, just stir it into the mixture along with the flour. Both beef and chicken bouillon make good choices.


You can also use broth for a similar flavor. About one 14-ounce can of chicken or beef broth should be plenty.
 If you don't have any flour or you like a slightly thicker gravy, this is the way to go. However, since cornstarch can form unappetizing clumps if you add it directly to hot liquids, you need to prepare the recipe a little differently:


While the beef cooks, combine the corn starch with the milk in a small bowl. You can also combine it with the broth if you're using it. Stir until well-combined. Add the liquid-cornstarch mixture gradually to the pan, stirring as you go.
 Steak sauce goes excellently with beef, so it only makes sense that it would go with hamburger gravy. The sour-savory taste of most steak sauces makes the perfect companion to the smooth taste of the basic gravy. Add your favorite steak sauce at the end of the recipe with the salt, pepper, etc.


Barbecue sauce and hot sauce also work well here.
 Gravy is delicious, but it's not something that people usually associate with the word "spicy." If you have a bold palate, try adding red pepper flakes or cayenne to your gravy. The latter will give it a nice pinkish color in addition to plenty of heat.


Don't forget to add gradually and taste the gravy often to avoid adding too much!

, Cutting down on the fat in your gravy is as simple as adding nonfat milk in place of 2% or whole milk in the recipe. Since nonfat milk is slightly more watery, you may need to heat the gravy for slightly longer to get the same thickness (or add a little extra flour/cornstarch).


You can also use leaner grades of ground beef to reduce the fat in the dish even more.

