 In most cases, your only interested party is going to be people from the ages of 50 - 85 years old. Also, you will want to decide on an income bracket. Most life insurance agents will choose between $15,000 and $50,000 a year because they have found that anyone with a lower income won't pay their premiums and anyone in a higher income bracket, has no need for final expense insurance.;
, You can buy this list through many online vendors or credit bureaus. You will want to make sure you are getting the most up to date list available, so check with other agents or brokers to find out who they use.
 You have a few choices here. You can go with the traditional direct mail final expense leads that are designed and managed by mailing houses or you can go with telemarketed final expense leads, internet final expense leads, newspaper ads, flyers, business cards, or all of the above. Most successful agents use a combination of all of these. See the link below that demonstrates a perfect direct mail final expense lead.
 You have to be realistic here. If you don't have much money, you will want to find a company that sources out the leads for you. However, if you are financially secure enough or have enough credit, sending out your own final expense sales leads is much more lucrative in the end. If you are going to do direct mail insurance leads, then you need to be ready to spend $2000 a month, 10 months out of the year (don't send mailers during November and December). If you are going to use the phones, decide whether you want to hire a company to do this for you or if you are going to hire someone to call for you out of your office. Again, this depends on your budget. Call around to your local papers and mailing houses to see all that they offer and add in the cost of business cards and other grass root marketing.
 Now that you have decided which avenue you are going to follow for your leads, you have to stick to your guns. If you don't stay committed to your plan, you will never see the actual lead flow because it takes time for people to respond to lead cards or phone calls etc. Its all about consistent exposure. The more the prospect is exposed, the more likely they are to respond at some point.
 While you wait for you leads or during a slow time, go and door knock or cold call for your leads. If you already have leads that you haven't sold to yet or who have told you they aren't interested, go by and knock, try to get in for a sale or make an appointment for the following day. If you don't have any final expense leads, just go out there with your list of seniors, enter their addresses into your GPS and knock on their doors.

