 Feedback generally revolves around negative performance. Therefore, we often find ourselves dwelling on the negatives far more than the positives. Instead of trying to build up your weaknesses, direct your energy towards further developing your naturals talents.After you have performed an assessment of your strengths, strategize ways to leverage them for your success. Success in any area breeds confidence.
For example, if you are naturally good at drawing or painting, you can spend your leisure time practicing and refining your skills. When opportunities present themselves for you to make use of your skills, such as for a school mural or play, you will have more confidence to offer up your services because you recognize your abilities in this area.;
, Learn to alter that voice inside your head telling you that "you're not good enough" or "you can't do this." When you become aware of such negative self-talk, challenge these self-statements.

For instance, in response to "you're not good enough," you might think about all the ways that you have proven yourself to be good and effective at something.
When you identify negative self-talk, strive to transform such statement into more positive thoughts.
 Properly preparing yourself to achieve goals can boost self-confidence. You can set goals in a variety of areas of your life — in school, work, basketball, singing, writing, etc. And, as you reach each goal, you get automatic and effective feedback to set and accomplish new ones. Start small, and gradually increase the size and scope of your goals as your self-confidence grows. Goals that build confidence are:

Specific

Measurable

Actionable

Realistic

Time-bound

Exciting

Recorded

, If you can be anything, be kind. It takes almost no energy or skill to be nice to those around you, yet the action results in immeasurable benefits. There is evidence to support that being kind can help us live longer, find greater success at work, reduce stress, and feel happier.

Kindness can be displayed in simple or complex ways. Hold the door for a stranger, smile as you walk down the street and greet those you pass, share a joke or a meal with someone who often gets left out socially.
What's more, expressing kindness in your community by volunteering can help you cultivate self-confidence.Help build houses for Habitat for Humanity, donate blood if your health allows it, read to the elderly in nursing homes.
 The clothes you wear can make you scowl at the mirror, or blush with self-satisfaction. Whatever you wear, know that clothes can affect your confidence, so pick pieces that align with the image of yourself you'd like to portray.

Researchers have proven that humans frequently assign emotional meaning to articles of clothing. Maybe you wore a specific tie to your college graduation, or a special dress on a first date that went well. Over time, you will reach for those items to produce a similar effect on your mood.One study showed that people wearing Superman t-shirts rated themselves as more likeable and superior to others who were not. These same students also felt stronger when wearing these heroic shirts.