 Kendall has long, shiny dark brown hair. To achieve this look, either grow your hair out or get extensions. To make your hair shiny, wash it every other day, eat right, drink lots of water, use a shine-enhancing shampoo and conditioner, and use a shine spray after styling your hair. Part your hair in the middle and make loose waves by either braiding your hair loosely overnight and brushing it out, or by using a curling wand.


If you choose to use heat to style your hair, use a heat protectant on your hair so that your hair doesn't become damaged by your styling tools.
Non-brunettes may want to dye their hair; however, this isn't necessary.;
, Wash your face, and if you have acne, try a cleanser meant to remove or treat acne. Use skin moisturizer day and night.
 Start with a foundation; try a BB, CC or DD cream that matches your skin tone. Use a concealer for any imperfections, and then apply powder. Kendall's look is usually thin eyeliner, eyelashes, brows, and a nude lip, so consider doing the following:


Apply a bronzer to the hollows of your cheeks, nose, and corners of the forehead.
Apply highlighter to the high points of your face.
If applying eyeshadow, first, use gold eyeshadow as a wash to your lids. Next, use a taupe eyeshadow in your crease and outer corners. To finish, use a vanilla eyeshadow and apply it to your brow bone and inner corners.
If applying eyeliner, use a gold eye pencil and line your waterline with that. Then, thinly line your upper lash line with a black liquid liner. After that, tightline with a dark brown pencil.
Curl your lashes and apply three coats of black mascara to your top and bottom lashes.
Fill in your eyebrows with a brown pencil or shadow and shape them with a brow brush.
Apply a nude lipstick with a peachy undertone, and, if you want, apply a lip gloss over it.
 No one can look exactly like Kendall, but there are a bunch of foods and daily things you can do to make your body look similar to her build. Try eating lots of fruits and vegetables daily, either with a meal or for a snack. Sit-ups are good for toning up your stomach.
 Kendall is very edgy and grungy in the fashion department! Hats, skinny jeans, jackets, dresses, skirts, blazers, shorts, sunglasses and other fashion pieces are a big statement with Kendall. She's always wearing something classy, but edgy and different. You can find inspiration from little pieces in your closet, or just Google some pictures of her and save them on your computer for inspiration. She is mostly seen in black or dark colors at night and blushes, whites, and pinks during the day. She's not big on accessories, so don't wear too much jewelry.


Kendall often wears heels, which are also a good way to make you look taller.
 Okay, so not everyone can have the life of a Jenner or a Kardashian - but you can always try to. Kendall spends a lot of time with her family and friends, and is spontaneous, doing many adventurous things. Spend some time with your friends and try your best to to go on little adventures, whether it's going by the lake and jumping in, or having a water balloon fight.


Honor your family. If you have siblings, hang out with them and try to appreciate them.
 Take inspiration from Kendall's everyday style and life, and apply it to yours, but don't try to be her. Be the best you that you can be, and love yourself the way you are. Everybody has flaws, even Kendall, and no one's perfect. Always remember that no matter who you are, you're beautiful.

