 To reach Navea City, simply go to the nearest Warp Portal and then click the Crystal. Now choose Navea City in the list to teleport to that location.;
, You can purchase the Fusion Formula from the Gunslinger Master, Turin. He's in Navea, found at the upper-right corner of the city along with the other class Masters.


You can also use your auto-navigate by pressing M and then search for Master Gunslinger Turin. Click the boot found at the right side of the NPC tab to make your character move and navigate by its own.
 Purchase the Formula from Master Turin using your token.


Tokens are obtained from Daily Quest rewards, so make sure to do your daily quests every day since these are found useful for item exchange.
The Turin's Executioner Fusion Formula costs 100 tokens.
 In order for you to learn the recipe and see the require ingredients for your item, you need the blacksmith to assist you.


Open your map by pressing M on your keyboard and then look for the hammer sign in the city. Go to that location to find the NPC.
Alternatively, you can use the auto-navigate by clicking on the NPC named Knight Blacksmith Analisa in the list and then hit the boot sign to move.
 When you’ve talked to her, choose “I want precise casting and forging.” This will open up a new window where you get to learn or craft the items listed there. Open your inventory and then click, hold, and drag the Fusion Formula and drop it in the Special Recipe slot.


Click the “Learn” button to register the Fusion Formula in the list.
After learning the recipe, click on the name Turin's Executioners to see the items you need.
 Classy Pistol is a weapon that can be obtained from level 45 Weapon Crates; these are dropped by dungeon monsters in Miner's Steppe (Solo, Party, and Hell mode).


This can also be obtained from the Guard Darren's bounty reward for capturing the Face-Breaker Earl found in Candeo Marsh.
Another way to obtain Classy Pistols is to open Crystallized Mineral Boxes dropped by School of Fishes in Demarech Mines.
 This is a rare monster drop from Marauder Porter, which can be found at the Demarech Mines. The item may take awhile to drop because of its low drop rate, but it is not impossible to get.


Marauder Porter is a level 44 monster, and its location can be auto-navigated using your map's monster locator. Simply open your map by pressing M and then look for Marauder Porter's name under the monster drop menu. Click it and then click the boot sign to make your character to move on its own.
 This last ingredient can only be obtained by killing the boss monster Ramgram. Ramgram can be found within the Miner's Steppe Dungeon (Solo, Party, and Hell mode).


Just like Delicate Components, the drop rate is quite low, but nevertheless, you can do reruns while in the party for fast dungeon raids.
 Return to Navae City and talk to the Blacksmith again; choose "I want precise casting and forging" to open the window. Click Turin's Executioners and choose “Make.”


You can do this repetitively to increase your new weapon's grade.
The higher the grade it has, the stronger stats you get.
Just like leveling, every time you fortify the same weapon, the grade bar will increase until it becomes full and go on to the next level, so keep on fortifying to make your weapon stronger. Congratulations!

