 Some manufacturers produce inks marketed as “black henna” that might be a mix of traditional henna and additional ingredients. Many, however, mix henna with coal tar hair dye that contains p-phenylenediamine, or PPD. PPD is not intended to be applied to human skin. It is not permitted to be used in cosmetics for skin in the U.S., as it can cause dangerous skin reactions.While inks marketed as “black henna” create tattoos that are darker and last longer than those created with traditional henna, these dyes are harmful and should be avoided.
 Red henna is generally safe when applied to the skin. Staining the skin reddish-brown, traditional henna can be safely used for body art. Red henna does, however, carry the risk of rare instances of reactions ranging from contact allergy to hypersensitivity., Before using henna to dye your hair or create body art, make sure you conduct a patch test. Apply a very small amount of the henna to a tiny patch or skin or swath or hair. Wait at least fifteen minutes before removing. If you experience any adverse side effects, such as redness or irritation, you should not use henna on your skin or hair.
 When applying a traditional henna to your skin or hair, be sure to wear gloves. This will prevent the dye from making its way to unwanted places and help create a sanitary application process.
 Department and specialty stores often sell kits that contain supplies for creating henna tattoos at home. These can contain caustic chemicals that are unsafe for use on human skin, such as kerosene, metal salts, benzene, lead, and artificial dyes, and should be avoided., If you do make the decision to get a henna tattoo, you should seek out a reliable professional with experience. Seek out a professional who has a good reputation in your community, has been practicing the art for an extended period of time, and who uses pure henna. Be sure to ask for a full disclosure of ingredients in the henna they will use for your tattoo.
 If you experience any side effects from a henna tattoo or hair dye, please seek medical attention immediately. While side effects from red henna are rare, they can still occur and necessitate a visit to your medical provider. Reactions to “black henna” tattoos are more common, with as many as 2.5% of people experiencing a contact allergy to p-phenylenediamine, or PPD., MedWatch, the Food and Drug Administration’s problem-reporting program, can be reached by calling 1-800-332-1088. Contact MedWatch if you have an adverse reaction to body art or tattoos created with traditional henna or “black henna.”