 A great outfit should accentuate your best features and minimize unflattering parts of your body. Here are some ways to dress some common body types:Apple or circle shaped: Counter the roundness and softness of your body by adding structure to your outfit, especially on top. Wear a fitted blazer or wrap dresses that create asymmetrical lines across your body. Straight-legged pants help elongate your legs and draw attention to your body vertically. Large prints and patterns will flatter you better than small prints, especially if worn on top. Avoid covering yourself up with large or loose shirts – instead, wear more form fitted items or clothes drape down your body.

Pear or triangle shaped: Balance out your great hips by creating layers on top. A cardigan or a jacket cropped at the waist helps even out your slender top half with your curves at the bottom. Show off those great shoulders by wearing one-shouldered shirts or shirts with embellished collars. Boot-cut or slightly flared pants paired with high heels will elongate your legs.

Hourglass shaped: You’ve got the shape everyone is looking for! To better show off those sought-after curves, dress simple. Items in solid colours with cinched waists show off your small stomach. Avoid prints that take away the spotlight from your silhouette.

Athletic or ruler shaped: Your slender body can sometimes look too boxy so avoid stripes or cropped shirts. Try fitted tank tops with smaller straps, or halter-tops that enhance the look of your bust. High-waist pants and skirts give the illusion of that hourglass shape. Stick with soft fabrics that flow off your body to counter the hard lines of your athletic build.
 Learn what fit suits your body best or go to a tailor to have your clothes fitted for you. There’s nothing worse than wearing clothes that are too baggy or too tight in all the wrong places.Shoulders: The seam where the sleeve attaches to the body should rest on top of your shoulders. They should not hang down onto your arms.
Arms: The fabric under your armpits should be tapered to your skin but still allow motion for your arms.

Chest: Your chest should fill out the front of your shirt so that its shape can be seen through the fabric. You should also have a full range of motion in your arms. Try reaching up, back, and forward. If you can’t do those things, then your shirt is too tight. Buttons that looked pulled and cause wrinkles are another tell tale sign that your shirt is too tight.

Sleeves: If you’re wearing long sleeves, the cuff of your shirt should stop just at the base of your thumb.

Pants: If you’re opting for a slim-cut or skinny pant, make sure there is a straight cut from your knees to your ankles. The cuff of your pants should never create flaps or pool at your feet. They should stop just at the ankles or little past your shoes.

Belts: They should really only be a way to accessorize and should not actually be holding up your pants. If a belt is the only thing keeping your pants on, then they’re probably too big.Shoes: Many stylists claim shoes are the foundation of men’s looks. An outfit is dependent on the colour and type of shoe you're wearing. So dress from the shoes up., Solid coloured clothing items make statement pieces pop. Choose statement pieces like large earrings, patterned shoes, a colourful bag, or a fancy hat.


Black is always hot and matches with almost anything. An all black outfit gives you a clean look but also gives you a little edge and mystery.
Use the power of contrast to your advantage. Darker coloured clothing can help you achieve a more slender look or mask unappealing features. While patterns or light coloured items can highlight areas of your body you’d like to show off.
 Fashion is always changing so keep up with the latest trends to stay hot. Although, not every trend is worth following or is flattering on everyone so pick what will look good on you and what fits with your style.


Avoid age-inappropriate fashion trends. Being hot doesn't mean looking younger or more mature.
 A bit of sexiness can go a long way when you want to look hot. However, make sure it’s an appropriate amount of skin. You’ll know when you’re being too revealing when:


It gets in the way of forming meaningful relationships. We live in a sex-fuelled society, so it’s not surprising when people can’t help but look at bare skin.It can make people perceive you differently or draw focus away from what you have to offer and more towards what you look like to them. If this type of attention is not what you want, then it’s not the right moment to show off too much skin.
It prevents you from furthering your career or getting hired. In most work environments, showing off too much skin is discouraged.
You receive negative or dangerous attention. It’s difficult for many people, especially women, to show off skin without attracting negative attention. And since you can’t control other people’s reactions and actions, your safety and comfort should always come first.

