 Cover 2 cups (500 ml) of untreated wood chips with water. Keep the chips submerged for 30 minutes.


Mesquite chips work well with potatoes, but alder wood chips are another good choice.
This step is only necessary if you are using dry wood chips. Pre-soaked chips do not need to be soaked a second time.
 Create two even piles of charcoal on either side of the grill. Separate the two piles by placing a foil drip pan in the center of the grill.


You will likely need to remove the grill grate while filling the grill with coal. After putting everything in place, return the grate to its proper position.
 Use a lighter to start both piles of charcoal on fire. Allow the charcoal to burn down until it is covered by white ash.You may need to sprinkle the coals with lighter fluid before setting them on fire.
It can take 10 to 20 minutes for the coals to burn down significantly enough. Prepare the potatoes as you wait.
 Use a metal fork to pierce the skin of each potato 8 to 12 times. Space the piercings evenly around the entire potato.


You should do this step while the fire is burning down.
Piercing the skin of each potato allows steam to escape from inside the potatoes during the cooking process.
 Brush the skin of each potato with enough melted butter to completely coat the surface. Generously season with salt and pepper, if desired.


The salt and pepper amounts can be altered to suit your own tastes.
 Once the potatoes are ready and the coals have burned enough for ash to form, evenly spread your soaked wood chips over the surface of your charcoal piles.


You'll need to spread about 1 cup (250 ml) of wood chips over each separate pile.
You do not need to spread any wood chips over the drip tray.
 Position the potatoes over the center of the grill grate. Keep each potato over the drip tray and not over either pile of coals.


The potatoes must also be arranged in a single layer with at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of space separating them. Both precautions will allow for more even cooking.
 Cover the grill and smoke the potatoes without turning for 60 to 75 minutes.


Check the potatoes after the first hour. If they are not sufficiently tender, add 12 fresh coals and 1/2 cup (125 ml) pre-soaked wood chips per side, then continue cooking.When ready, the potatoes should be soft enough to squeeze and pierce with a metal skewer. The consistency should be similar to that of a baked potato.
 Take the cooked potatoes off the grill and serve them within a few minutes.


Smoked potatoes can be served in the same way as baked potatoes. Split each potato open and cover with the toppings of your choice. Popular options include butter, sour cream, cheese, bacon, and green onions.

