 Some people are a lot harder to get along with than others, and one of the best ways to get along with difficult people is to not spend any more time with them than necessary.The less time you spend with someone you don't really like, the less likely you are to have a conflict.


Have an exit strategy when you know you'll be spending time with someone you find hard to get along with. This could be making plans to be somewhere else, or just excusing yourself for unspecified reasons.It's also good to have practiced responses for politely limiting conversation with someone who talks too much and you find unpleasant. For example, if you have to deal with someone who offers lengthy and unsolicited advice, you could cut off a rant by saying "Thanks! I hadn't thought of that!" For someone who brags a lot, you can look for a place to say, "That's great, I'm really happy for you," then exit the conversation., However frustrating someone may get in your interactions with them, to get along, try to avoid getting angry.Take some deep breaths, count to ten in your head, whatever you need to do. Just try to stay calm and avoid things turning into a fight.
 If there are topics you know will lead to conflict with someone, try to avoid them. If you and your brother-in-law always fight about politics, don't bring up the election! Do your best to steer the conversation away from such topics.Likewise, if one of these topics does come up, avoid being sucked into an argument. Don't try to to defend your position or justify yourself, just say something like: "Well, you know we don't feel the same about that issue," and then try to move the conversation on to something else. You can even say "Let's talk about something else.", When someone is talking to you, don't spend that time judging what she is saying or thinking of your defense — try to be present, listening to what the person is actually saying. At the same time, try to keep in mind that what the person is saying is a reflection of her perspective — her experience of life, which may be very different from yours. Her points of view don't necessarily make her a bad person, even if you disagree with them. Most people have reasons for thinking the way they do, and immediately becoming judgmental and defensive will keep you from learning why she thinks that way.

When the person is done speaking, respond in an appropriate and kind way. Instead of saying, "I can't believe you think that. What is wrong with you?", you might say, "I've had a very different experience with that. Can I tell you about it?", or, "I'm interested to know what makes you think that."

, If someone you find difficult is critical of you, try to treat this criticism as simple information. It is information you can choose to use or not use, depending on whether you think it has any merit.Try not to take criticism personally. It is as much a reflection of the viewpoint of the other person as it is anything to do with you.
 Sometimes, especially in professional situations, it's not possible to avoid conflict. Sometimes it is necessary to criticize others, if, for example, you supervise them at work. Make your criticisms tactfully to avoid personal offense.


Focus on the behavior, not the person. Rather than attacking someone's personal characteristics, critique what he is doing that you don't like. This can minimize the risk of hurt feelings or conflict.For example, don't say "You are bad at planning ahead." Instead say: "I wish you'd try to think ahead more when we have major deadlines coming up."
Point to specific, concrete improvements you would like to see, or specific things that are bothering you.For example, you could tell a coworker: "It was really hard for me in the meeting last week when you didn't have the reports ready that you had promised. In the future, if there's a problem, let me know in advance and I can help you get them ready."
Try the "compliment sandwich." Start by talking about one of the person's strengths, then deliver the criticism, then conclude with another positive statement.
 When you have to interact with difficult people, do your best to keep it fact-based.This will make it less likely that you'll get emotional and will make it harder for an argument to start.
 After an interaction with a difficult person, do what you can to let go of stress so it doesn't build up and affect your interactions with others.Go for a run, listen to your favorite music, punch a pillow, or whatever works for you. Anything that doesn't direct your frustration at others will help you get along better with people.

