 This can take the form of a pie graph that depicts the percent of time or energy that you spend on different thoughts. You could also create a timeline of your thoughts. Graphing your thoughts gives you a visual representation of what is currently going on in your mind, and helps you create goals to think in a more organized way.For example, you could break thoughts into categories like worrying, sad, happy, stressed, and content. Each time you have a thought, decide which category it goes in and mark it down. At the end of the day, you can put the numbers into a pie chart and see what percentage of your day each type of thought took up.;
, Instead of just graphing thoughts, you can keep track of your thoughts in real time by recording them. Use a voice recorder and speak your thoughts out loud. Just be sure that you are alone while you discuss your thoughts on recording.For example, if you are driving in the car and thinking, you could have voice recorder on that allows you to talk out loud. Then you have a record of all of the thoughts that you had in the car.
 Finally, writing down your thoughts is a tried and true way to keep track of them. Keep a journal or notebook that is used only for your thoughts. Review it every day, week, or month to monitor how organized and logical your thoughts are becoming.You can choose to journal every thought, or only journal about certain thoughts. For example, you might create a journal to track all of the thoughts you have about your vacation plans.
 Regardless of how solid your focus might be, distraction is always waiting right around the corner. When your mind is presented with a new stimulus, it creates a new thought. You have to decide whether that thought is worth entertaining right now, or if you should keep doing what you were doing before. These priorities are what make your thoughts follow logical progressions.An example of prioritization might be ignoring the television while you are trying to work. Even though the thought of the TV is present, it doesn’t take precedent over your work.

