 Distract yourself from your nervous energy before and during an audition by breathing deeply or any other method you use to deal with nerves or anxiety.


Many people find that their nerves are worse leading up to the audition, but dissipate when they actually get on stage and start. Try having a small snack, chatting with others quietly backstage, and thinking about other things besides the audition while you’re waiting to go on.Remember that it’s okay to get nervous! Almost everyone gets some level of stage fright, and it’s helpful to remember that the people judging your audition are on your side and want to see you succeed.
 Explain what you’ll be reading or singing from for your audition, as well as your name and any other information the director would like to hear from your before you begin. This is called your 'slate'.


Avoid launching straight into your performance as soon as you get onstage. It benefits you to have a few moments to collect yourself first, and it benefits the director to see a little bit of your personality before you get into acting the part.Remember to give your sheet music to the accompanist if applicable for performing a song. Tell him or her what tempo you’d like the music to be played at, and give them a distinct nod when you’re ready to begin., Speak your words clearly, slowly, and loudly to command the attention of the director and audition panel, and show them that you could be heard by a large audience during a live show.


Avoid rushing through the material at all costs. It’s tempting to try to get through your lines quickly if you’re nervous, but showing patience and giving yourself time to immerse into your character displays maturity and a better grasp of the material.
Try to create as much change or variation in your short performance as possible, varying the mood, speed, and tone of your words when appropriate to help tell a story in a small amount of time.Focus on projection in particular when auditioning for a musical role. It’s important to show that your singing voice is powerful and can be heard throughout an auditorium.
 Remember that while you are focusing on your own lines, you need to interact and respond to other characters or surroundings that will be present in the real performance.


Even if you’re performing a monologue, imagine the lines that come before it, or the circumstances that brought your character to this moment, before you begin performing it.If you’re performing a song, you can still tell a story with the lyrics and mood. Think about what the significance of this song is for the character singing it or for the storyline as a whole.
Remember to react to the environment of the setting as well. While delivering your lines, would your character be hot, cold, uncomfortable, at ease? If you can’t get clues about what the environment would be like from the script, simply make sure to move around the stage., Respond with a second monologue, song, or other material you have prepared or can quickly reference in the script if the director asks you to perform something else.


Listen carefully to what the director wants you to do. Following directions and being prepared to perform different types of material will display a good attitude and ethic for rehearsals if you get selected for a role.Be prepared to read for several parts, not just the one you want most. The director may have a different idea in mind for a role you’d do well in.
 Give the audition all of your energy and enthusiasm. Don’t hesitate to get fully into the part. Being a character different from yourself is fun!


It’s always easier for a director to help an actor tone down over-acting than to coax out more expression, so don’t be afraid to be a little extra dramatic and expressive.
Remember to smile and have fun! Show that you love to perform and are enthusiastic about getting a part in the production. If the material you perform is meant to be serious, still make sure to smile and be expressive before and after the performance.

