 Think about a hobby you’ve always wanted to try or pursue or any hobbies you’ve always wanted to focus on. Sign up for a class that will help you get better at the hobby, like a class in painting, pottery, woodworking, or a musical instrument. Pick a hobby you think you will enjoy learning more about and that will force you to get out of your comfort zone.If you need more motivation to pursue this hobby, enlist the support of a friend or a partner. Take the class together or ask the person to remind you about the class every week. Having someone as a support will keep you focused on the new hobby and commit to learning new skills.
 Think about a sport or a recreational activity you’ve always wanted to try like fencing, volleyball, weight lifting, or swimming. Or, consider a sport you’ve always been good at, but have not had time to focus on. Choose a club or a recreational team in your area and show up for practice every week. Put time in your schedule to ensure you make each practice or training session and make it a priority.Participating in a sport or joining a team will also give you more opportunities to socialize with new people and be part of a new group. You can then practice your conversation skills and improve your ability to be engaging and entertaining around others.
 Maybe you tend to spend your Friday nights watching movies online or playing video games alone. While everyone needs some alone time to chill out and relax, always doing these activities on your own could lead to isolation and boredom. Rather than do these activities solo, try to share them with your friends, family, or new people. Invite friends over for a movie watching party or have a video game night with family. Try to integrate others into activities you usually do alone.Change up your routine so you are not always spending time alone or staying within your comfort zone. Focus on activities that force you to be around others and to practice interacting with others on a daily basis. This will allow you to get comfortable with talking to others and to create relationships that keeps your life interesting and exciting.
 Keep familiar activities from being boring or humdrum by adding a new or fun twist to them. This will ensure you do not get bored with your routine and you are always seeking out new and fun ways to do everyday things.If you tend to sit at home and write or read on your couch, shift your routine by going to a cafe to write or read. If you take a morning jog on the same route every time, take a detour or a new path. If you listen to the same music on your morning commute, mix it up and listen to a new mix or ask friends for new music.
 A bucket list is a list of activities that you have always wanted to do or plan to do. Your bucket list can contain dream items like “travel the world” or it could contain more practical items like “learn how to play drums” or “ask my boss for a raise”. Make a bucket list that contains practical items and dream items so you have at least one item you feel you can achieve a week. You can then set personal goals, within a time frame, so you can work to achieve these bucket list items. Track how many items you achieve over a reasonable amount of time and cross them off the list. Add more items every time you mark one off so you can feel you are continually doing new and interesting things.If you cannot decide what to check off your bucket list, you can use random selection to your advantage and choose an item at random. This will keep the ritual of choosing a bucket list item exciting and interesting.
Keep the dream items as aspirations and don’t be afraid to dream big. These dream items could push you to actually achieve seemingly impossible things, especially if you are looking to do new and fun activities more often.

