 If you know the name of your local representative, you can search for them online, like “Representative Smith office.” This should come back with results for either the representative’s public website, or for your state’s website. All states have their own websites. You will know they are official if they end in “.gov” rather than “.com” or .”org.” Here, you can search for your representative and find their address.


Many representatives have their own websites that they update regularly to contain information for their constituents about the votes they have made while in Congress and their policies.;
, If you aren’t sure who your representative is, the U.S. House of Representatives has a service at http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/ where you can find a comprehensive list of all the federal, state, and local level representatives. Enter your zip code and you will find a list of Congress members that represent you.


You can also go to https://www.usa.gov/elected-officials and find a list of every elected official, as well as ways to contact them.
 Once you’ve identified the Senator or Representative that you’d like to write to, carefully write down their address. This is likely the address for their congressional office, which is typically in the district that they represent. So the Congressman from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania has an office in Pittsburgh that you can write to. You can also address your letter to your representative’s office in Washington D.C.
 On your representative’s website, they will usually have a public email address that you can send your message to. On many websites, there is a form that you can fill out to send your email to the representative’s office directly, rather than sending an email from your own email address.


The directory for the Senate is a central database where you can find the email addresses for each member of the current Senate.There is no central database for email addresses for members of the House of Representatives. Each representative will list their public email address, if they have one, on their website.