 Natural treatments should always be used in conjunction with medicine prescribed by a doctor. While natural remedies will not cure typhoid fever, they can relieve symptoms, like fever or nausea, caused by the disease. Natural remedies are meant to help you feel better while the antibiotics are fighting the disease, not to take place of the antibiotics.


Ask you doctor about any natural treatments that you start. You want to make sure they don't interact with the particular antibiotic you are taking.Always check with your doctor before using these treatments for children or pregnant women.
 It’s important to drink a lot of fluids when suffering from typhoid fever. Drink at least 64 ounces of water each day and supplement it with juice, coconut water, and other hydrating drinks. Dehydration generally gets brought on by diarrhea and high fever, which are two of the most common symptoms of typhoid fever.


In severe cases, intravenous administration of fluids is recommended., Typhoid fever may cause you to experience nutritional deficiencies. Pay attention to what you eat and be sure you provide nutritious, high calorie meals for your body. Having a higher intake of carbohydrates will help you replenish your energy, especially if you have smaller meals multiple times a day. If you are having gastrointestinal problems, it is important to eat only soft foods that are easy to consume, such as soup, crackers, toast, puddings, and jello.Eat foods like bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. The main point of this diet is that the four different types of foods are bland and easy on the stomach which help with nausea and diarrhea.Drink a lot of 100% fruit juice (many fruit juices have a lot of sugar and can make diarrhea worse) with barley water, coconut water, or rice congee.
Fish, custards, or eggs will be effective if you do not suffer from gastrointestinal complications because they provide a good amount of proteins.
Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables to keep your vitamins levels up., A tea made out of water and honey is a great way to help with the symptoms of typhoid fever. Add 1-2 tablespoons of honey to a cup of warm water. Stir well. This drink helps with any digestive troubles that you may have. The honey soothes the irritation of the intestines and helps protect the tissues in your digestive tract.


Honey and water is also a natural energy drink.Never give honey to children under the age of 1.
 This is a really beneficial cure for symptoms caused by typhoid fever. Add 5 cloves to 2 liters of boiling water. Continue to boil the mix until half of the original liquid has boiled off. Sit the pot aside and let the cloves steep in the water for a little while.


Once it cools, filter the cloves out. You can drink the liquid daily for several days to help ease your nausea symptoms.
You can also add a tablespoon or two of honey to this mixture as well to add flavor and more beneficial qualities., You can combine a variety of spices into a tablet to help with your symptoms as well. Mix 7 strands of saffron, 4 basil leaves, and 7 black pepper corns together in a small bowl. Grind them into a fine mixture and add a small amount of water. Stir it and keep adding water until you have a paste. Divide the paste into tablet like portions.


Take one tablet twice a day with a glass of water.
This remedy is a great antioxidant and anti-microbial, which helps you to deal with digestive issues caused by typhoid fever., Echinacea, which comes in the form of a purple flower, roots, or a powder, is great for enhancing your immune system and fighting bacterial infections. It is also great for strengthening body tissues. Purchase some dried flower powder or a couple of Echinacea roots. Boil a teaspoon of the Echinacea ingredients in 8 ounces of water for 8-10 minutes.


Drink this tea two or three times per day, but only for up to 2 weeks., One of the main symptoms of typhoid fever is diarrhea. To help fight this symptom, boil 6-8 pieces of carrots in 8 ounces of water for 8-10 minutes. Filter the liquid of the bits of carrots. Add 2-3 pinches of ground black pepper to the water. Drink the soup mixture whenever your diarrhea gets to be too much.


You can add more or less pepper, depending on taste., Dehydration is a major side effect of the symptoms of typhoid fever. To help combat this, you can make a juice mixture that will hydrate you quickly and provide natural electrolytes and minerals. Mix 1 tablespoon of ginger juice into 8 ounces of apple juice. Drink it a few times a day to stay hydrated.


This juice also helps treat liver related problems that may occur by helping to eliminate all the toxins and waste products from your body., Drink this mixture every 15 minute for 1 to 2 hours if your symptoms are severe. Continue to drink this mixture before all meals for 5 days.You can add a dash of honey to help sweeten the strong taste.

