 A turbidity testing kit, also called a "disappearing dot" test, should come with a special glass test tube, a separate plastic vessel, and chemical reagent packets. While each kit can vary by manufacturer, many also come with a plastic pipette and a spoon or stirring rod.The glass test tube should have a black dot or black line at the bottom of the tube. This mark is crucial to the testing process, so make sure that it is there.
Sometimes the test tube and the plastic vessel are connected, but there should at least be two separate compartments.
 Collect water into the plastic vessel of the testing kit. Be sure to use the amount indicated in the test instructions (25 ml is common). You can do this by directly scooping the water up with the plastic vessel.Some testing kits will provide a plastic vessel that has a lid. When this is the case, you can mix the reagent into the sample water by capping the vessel and shaking it for 30 seconds or so.
 Pour one packet of the chemical reagent into the sample water. Use the provided spoon or stirring rod to gently mix the powder into the water until it dissolves. If your kit does not have a spoon or rod provided, use a plastic or glass spoon.
 Doing so will allow the necessary chemical reaction to occur. The reagent reacts with the cyanuric acid in the water to create turbidity, or cloudiness. Cloudier water indicates a higher concentration of cyanuric acid.
 Use the pipette to transfer the testing solution into the marked test tube, one drop at a time. Stand the test tube on a white or light surface so that the black mark is easy to spot. Look into the test tube from above as you drop the testing solution inside.
 As soon as you are no longer able to see any of the black mark at the bottom of the tube, stop dropping water inside. Make sure that you are viewing the test tube from the top and not the side., Read the graduated line on the test tube that hits the surface of the testing liquid. This line will tell you the concentration of cyanuric acid in your sample. If the mark disappears when the liquid is under the 100 ppm mark, the cyanuric acid concentration is greater than 100 ppm. If it disappears above the 10 ppm mark, it is lower than 10 ppm. The ideal range for pool water is between 30 and 50 ppm.
 If the level of cyanuric acid is above 100 ppm, you will need to dilute another water sample and try the test again to determine the exact value. Take another sample, measuring out only 20 ml of pool water. Add 20 ml of distilled water to the sample water and mix to combine. Run through the test in the same exact way as before, but this time, use the newly prepared diluted sample.
 Add as much cyanuric acid or fresh water to the pool as needed and retest the levels after the acid has had a chance to distribute itself evenly. This typically takes about four hours. Retest the water using the same steps performed to test the water the first time.

