 Show your child how to observe problems, think critically, and come up with positive solutions. If your child asks you a question, don’t rush to answer it. Ask, “What do you think?” For example, if your child is curious about why you have to do laundry, ask, “Why do you think we wash our clothes?” Allow your child to theorize and come up with their own answers. Then, spend some time explaining or do some internet research together.Use everyday experiences to practice problem-solving. For example, if you need to change a lightbulb, ask your child what you can use to reach the bulb to change it.;
, Coping with stress is an important part of childhood and adulthood. There will always be situations out of your control or unexpected occurrences that you have to deal with and work through. Whatever your child’s age, validate their feelings (“It looks like you’re feeling sad” or, “I can tell this makes you upset”) and begin to help your child label their emotions and experiences.Once a child is older, say, “What can we do to help ease the hurt of this?” Offer ideas such as journaling, listening to music, or going for a walk.
 Kids (and adults) of all ages can benefit from learning frustration tolerance skills to cope with stress. Some common triggers include transitioning from one activity to another, feeling misunderstood, struggling with a task, or unexpected situations. Help your kid understand their frustration by labelling the emotion (“You look frustrated”) and connecting their emotion with their body.You may say, “I can tell you’re frustrated because you’re making fists and yelling.”


Help your child become calm by practicing deep breathing together. Ask your child to visualize red, yellow, and green stoplights when angry or frustrated. If at red, stop and do some deep breaths. If at yellow, have your child ask themselves, “What are three things I can do?” When they’re at green, they can feel calm, choose an option, and move forward.
 As children continue to experience stress and the bombardment of technology, it’s important for them to know how to unplug and clear their minds into a calm and relaxing space. Especially as children often receive diagnoses of anxiety and depression, meditation can support mental health and be used as a preventative as well.Practice meditation as a family and make it a regular habit. Get together as a family and find a comfortable seating position. Set a timer for 5-15 minutes each day quieting your thoughts and actions.
For more information, check out How to Teach Kids Relaxation Meditation.

