 Everyone has a slight different style in the way they communicate. Those styles may affect how your ex will understand what you’re saying. If you have a better understanding of your personal way of communicating, you can gain a better understanding of how you may be interpreted. This could help avoid confusion and conflict, but it might also help you alter your style if you know your ex won’t react well to your typical style.For example, if you are normally someone who comes across as very direct, but you know your ex scares easily, you may want to tone down how direct you are, at least at first.



Affiliative communicators tend to like collaboration. When they need to make a decision, they obtain multiple opinions from different people before coming to a conclusion. This means they are very likely to listen to what their partners suggest and take that opinion into consideration when making their decision.

Competitive communicators like power and dominance. They tend to make decisions on their own without collaboration. They’re likely to be assertive (but not necessarily aggressive), direct and will sometimes challenge others who may disagree with them.

Direct communicators are exactly that - direct. They say it like it is, and don’t beat around the bush. If they want something specific, they’ll tell you. If they don’t like something you’re doing, you’ll know. This directness allows this type of communicator to be understood pretty quickly. There is usually little confusion about what it is that they want. Sometimes direct communicators may come across as forceful or aggressive.

Indirect communicators have trouble telling others what they think, want, or need. They may make implications about things that they hope someone will understand by reading between the lines. There tends to be a lot more confusion and misunderstandings with this type of communication, but it may also seem less aggressive.
 Listening is a vital part of any communication. Being aware of what your ex is telling you (what they are saying AND what they mean) is referred to as active listening. Active listening is even more important when you think about all the distractions you are likely to encounter when you’re having a conversation. Your cell phone, honking cars, TVs, arguing people, etc., all have a way of taking your attention away from your ex and directing that attention elsewhere. There are many specific things you can do to train yourself to be a better active listener.Restate and summarize what you’ve just been told. Feel free to restate it using words that might make the meaning clearer and simpler. By restating and summarizing what you’ve heard, your ex not only knows you were paying attention, they will know whether you actually understood what they were trying to get across.

For example, you could say: “I’m hearing you say that you want to take the children every other weekend, instead of every weekend. Is that right?”


Don’t interrupt. If your ex is trying to get something across, pay attention by looking them in the eye, and nodding your head or saying small things to encourage your ex to continue. Let them get whatever they're trying to say out without forcing them to stop and lose the train of thought. This includes being silent when the other person is thinking or when they are trying to come up with the proper words to use.
Ask questions. If you don’t understand something, or you need clarification, ask. If you feel your ex has only touched on the surface of a specific thought or feeling, ask questions to get them to go into more detail.

Try to keep these questions open-ended, rather than accusative. For example: “How do you see us interacting in the future?”


Validate your ex's emotions. Be empathetic to what they’re saying. If it sounds like a situation they’re talking about was really frustrating, tell them it sounds like they’re really frustrated. Say things that make them feel good about opening up to you. If they’ve just told you something that was obviously very difficult for them to get out, thank them for sharing it with you.
 Be careful that the combination of your communication style and active listening techniques doesn’t undermine what your ex is trying to tell you. This is especially important if one of the reasons you broke up with your ex was due to the lack of, or bad, communication. If the communication styles being used previously didn’t work, you need to try something new this time around or you won’t be able to move forward. There are several things that are helpful to remember not to do when having a conversation with your ex.Don’t ask too many questions that start with why - especially if the question starts like “why didn’t you …” Asking these types of questions tend to simply make people defensive, and you could end up starting an argument.
Don’t diminish your ex’s feelings by saying they shouldn’t worry about something, or that they shouldn’t let something bother them. You’re not the judge of what can or cannot bother or worry another person. They have a right to worry or be bothered about something.
If you start asking clarifying questions or questions to help your ex explain something in more detail, but they seem really hesitant to do so, stop. Don’t push them into saying something they don’t want to. If they want to tell you something, they’ll tell you when they're ready.
Don’t assume you know how your ex feels. This includes telling them a story about your life for every story they tell you about theirs. If they tell you about a time when they were really upset because something happened, don’t turn it into a story about you and a time you were once really upset.
 If you’re trying to explain how you feel (or felt) to you ex, don’t turn it into a blame session where you’re just listing all the things they did that upset you - “You always ignored me,” “You never wanted to spend time with me,” or “You always wanted to spend time with your other friends.” Instead make sure you use ‘I’ in every sentence - “I felt like I was being ignored,” “I was upset when I didn’t get to spend much time with you,” or “I sometimes felt like I was being left out.”The same examples also try not to exaggerate what really happened by using words like “always” or “never.”

, You don’t have to always be right. And your ex doesn’t always have to agree with you, or you with them. The point of this conversation isn’t to have an argument or a debate where someone has to win. It’s to have an intelligent and positive conversation about an important topic you need to speak to your ex about. There are no winners or losers.This doesn’t mean you aren’t allowed to have emotions about how your ex feels or what your ex thinks. You can still feel annoyed or frustrated with something they do or say. Try not to act out with those emotions without some thought first. Take a moment to contemplate why your ex did or said something and ask yourself if maybe it was justified.
 You and your ex are human. You both will have emotions at times that are uncomfortable, but it doesn’t mean you aren’t allowed to have them. It isn’t wrong to have a thought or emotion, but it is important to try to recognize when you may be projecting your emotions onto others and admit it. You might even have a perfectly reasonable explanation as to why you sometimes have such thoughts or feelings, possibly due to your past experiences.For example, if you’ve dated people who have cheated on you in the past, and one way they lied to you was to say they were working late at the office, you might think irrationally if your partner tells you they have to work late at the office. Take the time to explain this to your partner. Explain where that thinking comes from, and that you realize they’ve done nothing to lose their trust, but you still have these thoughts anyway because of your past experiences.
Sometimes, feelings and thoughts may be irrational. For example, you may be jealous that your ex has a new partner, even though you don’t want to get back into a relationship with them yourself. Your feelings may just be because your ex means a lot to you. It’s okay to have these feelings and thoughts too.
 Since you’re having this conversation because you have a specific goal you need to accomplish with your ex, you need to be as clear, concise and honest as possible, as soon as possible. Explain what it is that you want - from your ex and your relationship. Explain what you’re hoping will come from this conversation. Explain why you feel this way. Accept that you have needs and wishes, and that that is perfectly okay.


Remain understanding and honest even if your ex doesn’t treat you with respect. If they end up treating you badly, or saying something hurtful, remember you prepared for this. You can rise above this and you will be okay. There’s no point in lowering yourself to their level and being disrespectful back. You might end up regretting it later.