 You don't always have time to prepare an elaborate snack for your toddler. There are a number of things you can keep on hand or quickly whip up that your toddler is likely to find appealing. These things include:Small cubes of cheese and diced apples
Canned pineapple chunks
Whole grain, low-sugar dry cereal
Whole grain crackers with cottage cheese
Plain low-fat yogurt with sliced strawberries
Sliced banana
Sliced avocado

, A great way to get your toddler to eat a healthy snack is by getting them involved in the preparation. Fruit kebabs are a great toddler snack plus they can help make them.Note, however, that wooden skewers can present a safety hazard — make sure your child is seated when eating the kababs.


Start by washing a few of your toddlers favorite fruits; however, if there is a fruit they don't like, this is a great recipe to use it in since it'll be paired with items they do enjoy.
If fruits are large (like pineapples or melons), slice the fruit into 1 – 2 inch pieces.
Thread fruits on a wooden skewers. Alternate between each different type of fruit.
For example, put on a strawberry, followed by a small piece of pineapple, followed by half a grape and end with a pitted cherry. Serve immediately or put in the refrigerator until ready to eat.
 Another recipe that your toddler can help you make is a homemade snack mix. It's fun for them to dump ingredients in a bowl and stir together.Set out a variety of nutritious snacks that your toddler already enjoys.
Hand your toddler a 1 cup measuring cup. Have them scoop up 1 cup of each of their favorite items.
Ask them to dump each item in a large bowl. Give them a wooden spoon and allow them to stir together their snack mix. Serve your toddler a 1/2 cup portion.
 A unique and very toddler-friendly snack are fruit nachos. Your toddler will be able to help you make these and enjoy them.Start by slicing an apple and a pear into 1/4 inch thin slices. These will be your chips. Layer them on a plate or baking sheet in flat layers.
Melt 1/2 cup of semisweet chocolate chips in a microwave in a small bowl. In a separate bowl, heat up about 1/2 cup of peanut or almond butter. Stir each until they're slightly fluid.
Dip a spoon into each the chocolate and peanut butter. Have your toddler drizzle the chocolate and peanut butter over the apple and pear slices.
Then, have them sprinkle on 1/2 cup of unsweetened shredded coconut and a dusting of cinnamon. Serve immediately.
 Although traditional sushi is not a toddler-friendly food (young children should never eat raw or under-cooked fish), you can make a look-alike version of this finger food at home using toddler-friendly foods. They'll be excited to enjoy this unique food.Start by laying out a 12" whole wheat tortilla. Spread on 2 tablespoons of garden vegetable cream cheese in an even layer.
Then layer out two to three slices of turkey or ham deli meat and one to two slices of their favorite cheese. On top of the cheese, arrange a single layer of baby spinach leaves.
Roll the tortilla up like a jelly roll or a sushi roll. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerator for 30 – 60 minutes.
Take the "sushi" out of the refrigerator and slice in 2" rounds. Serve immediately.

