 This includes the body structure/anatomy of your pony. For example, what the shape of their head, body and legs will be.
 Some examples are tall, short, muscular, slim or maybe paunchy. Once you've got the main features, try having a deeper understanding of your pony's appearance, such as its eye color and eyelashes., Keep it unique, and don't base it too much on canon ponies. These are ponies that were officially published by the original MLP producers.

First, think of a hair color. Bright colors like yellow, neon blue or hot pink are usually used for cheerful, optimistic characters.
Sketch different hairstyles on your ponies. Figure out what the length of their hair will be, and throw in some bangs! Creativity and imagination will help you get through this step. Don't forget, you can add some highlights onto their hair to make them stand out a bit.
 Make some dot points of their achievements and best moments.

Don't make it too clichéd. Overdoing your character's backstory can ruin other people's interest of them.
Don't worry if your character isn't the daughter of the Princess Celestia or the cousin of Rainbow Dash. A basic, original character can go a long way!
Be creative with this. What has your character done that they're really proud of? Simple things like 'Got into finals of the Nationwide Spelling Bee' can really make your character have their own, true past.
 Take the time to name and develop each of them as well. Each friend doesn't need a bibliography about their life. Maybe just jot down how they met your character and some of their character traits., Re-read the backstory you have made for them. What is their personality? Most cutie marks show what that pony is specifically talented at or what their hobbies and personalities are like. Take the Spelling bee example. This pony can have a pencil and a lined paper for a cutie mark! Imagine what colors would look good against the color of their body., Ponies usually have names that relate to their personality or traits. Fluttershy is shy, Rainbow Dash is fast.

Note that the names don't have to be exactly what your character's appearance shows. It's true that Rainbow Dash has rainbow hair, but with Twilight Sparkle, she doesn't literally 'sparkle' 24/7.
Again with the Spelling Bee example, the name of that pony can be 'Espella Wright' Espella can relate to the word, 'Spell' as well as Wright with 'Write'

, These include scars, piercings, tattoos, etc. How about some favourite things they like to wear? A scarf, necklace, hairclip., It's always good to hear other people's opinion! Enjoy designing your own home-styled "Equestria Girl"!