 An epilator has multiple, mechanical arms that will tweeze many hairs out all at once. It can be quite painful, but it is effective. Be sure to choose one designed for removing facial hair. Facial epilators are a little smaller than the ones designed for body hair removal, but their size makes them more precise so you will have more control as you remove your hair.An epilator is ideal if you can stand some discomfort and want quick, long-lasting results.
Some epilators can be used in the shower, and wet, softened hair is a little easier to remove, which can reduce the pain.
If you are concerned about the pain, take an over the counter pain killer before using the epilator.;
, Use a gentle face wash to remove any dirt, oil, or makeup that may be on your face. It’s also a good idea to pull your hair back into a ponytail and use an elastic or fabric hair band to secure all the shorter, "baby" hairs off your face. Let the hair of your sideburns remain isolated on the other side of the headband., A good face epilator will remove the peach fuzz, as well as the coarser hair around your temple, but it will be a little easier for you to manage if your hair is short. Use a small pair of scissors to trim your hair to the recommended 0.5 millimeter length., With the epilator turned on, you want to glide it over your sideburn in the opposite direction of hair growth. Try not to get too close to the hairline, or you may accidentally remove hair beyond the sideburn. Keep in mind that if the line where you removed your sideburn is too severe, it may look unnatural too.Don't push into your skin or move the epilator too fast. Instead, use gentle, upward strokes until you have removed the majority of the hair.
Your skin may be a little red and swollen, even into the next day, so it's best not to use the epilator right before a big event.
 The epilator may not remove all of the sideburn hair, especially those close to your hairline. You can use clean tweezers to carefully remove any hairs that bother you. However, you may decide to leave some untouched so you maintain a natural shape. The effects of epilating can last from a few weeks to a month. Don't forget to clean the machine once you're done. Remove the head from your epilator and use a small brush to sweep out the hair. It’s also a good idea to clean the “blades” with alcohol.

