 This is really important. There are 5 books in the Percy Jackson and The Olympians (PJO) Series, and 5 books in the Heroes of Olympus (HoO) series. You should also read the Demigod Files, The Demigod Diaries, Kane crossovers: The Son of Sobek, The Staff of Serapis, The Crown of Ptolemy, extra books: Percy Jackson's Greek Gods, Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes & Percy Jackson: The ultimate guide. Get to know the books and love them.
 Many fans hate the movies because they aren't really accurate to the books, but maybe you want to watch them anyway. 

, This is Uncle Rick's official Twitter account, and you can get important information here. You can also follow him on Facebook and Instagram, but those aren't as important as Twitter.
 Fanfiction is really fun. You can meet other fangirls and read stories to tide you over until the next book. You could also join Deviantart (original fan art), or any other Percy Jackson related websites. 

, There are lots of really cool Percy Jackson related blogs, and you can meet other fans.
 Fangirls use a lot of weird words:Ship- To ship someone is to think they have a good relationship or would be good together. A ship name is the two people's names put together. Example: I totally ship Percabeth! OTP stands One true pair. The couple you ship most of all. You can have more than one OTP. Cannon- Cannon is what actually happened in the books, the real facts not fanfiction. If a ship is canon, that couple actually exists in the book.These are just a few of the crazy words fangirls say. You should also start saying things like "Oh my gods!" and "Holy Hades!" Make sure you don't go too weird though. And of course make references to the books.
 You can have more than one, but most people only have one or two. Some common ships are Percabeth (Percy and Annabeth), Frazel (Frank and Hazel), Jiper (Jason and Piper), Caleo (Calypso and Leo). You can ship anyone you want. Your ship does not have to actually exist in the book.
 You should definitely buy a Camp Half Blood shirt, many fangirls have them. You could also get a Camp Jupiter shirt, or a camp necklace. Whenever an important date comes around like a book release or a character's birthday, you can dress up and celebrate.
 The next book, Magnus Chase & the Gods of Asgard: The Sword of Summer is releasing on 10.6.15. Twitter will help you stay up to date on events.
 All fangirls do it. It should be loud, long, and high pitched. Bring it out whenever something exciting happens.
 The Sword of Summer is coming soon! SQUEAL!!!!! And make sure you throw a party on October 6.
 It's been years.) He wears Reeboks. U SHUD 2.



 ;
