 Basic budgeting requires that your teen can identify their wants, needs, and income. As a parent, you meet their needs, but you can help them understand the concept of wants versus needs by doing the monthly family budget along with them. Armed with a better grasp of how budgeting works, your teen will be wiser about how they spend their money.In one column, list all the needs (and their costs) the family spent on in a given month – food, utilities, rent, and so on.
In another column, list all the wants (and the price of each) that your family spent on – going to the movies, buying tickets to a concert, and so on.
Use receipts and bills to reconstruct accurate totals in both the wants and needs column.
In a third list, combine the income totals for the household – your income, your partner’s income, and – if you wish – your teen’s income.
Subtract the wants and needs from the income totals.
Explain to your teen that if your income exceeds your expenditures – the total cost of wants and needs – you’ve budgeted correctly and have extra money to save. Explain that if income does not exceed monthly expenditures, you’ll need to reduce spending on “wants.”
Suggest that your teen should save at least 10% of their income per month.
 Major brands are able to reap a premium for their products, even if they are not substantially better than the smaller or less popular brands. Share this useful tidbit with your teen in order to help them think about whether they’re paying for a product or paying for a brand., Nothing helps your teen develop wise consumption habits like a good work ethic. There are many avenues of part-time work available to teens throughout the school year, and some full-time work available when school is not in session. Jobs teens could do include:restaurant work
lawn mowing
babysitting
pet walking or petsitting
selling old toys and games online

, Teens begin to want more expensive things as they grow. If your teen wants a new computer, a set of golf clubs, or even a car, they should be willing to contribute some or all of the money toward it. If they don’t have a job, they should be willing to kick in money they’ve saved over the course of birthdays or other holidays. This will help them mold their consumption habits in a way that matches their income, which is the very foundation of wise consumption.