 Do not purchase products that are astringent, harsh, or drying.Avoid facial cleansers with alcohol in them. Look for cleansers that say they are "gentle" and "alcohol free."Astringents and alcohol will not help your acne and they will dry out your skin. Dry skin is much more likely to aggravate the worst symptoms of acne, including redness.;
, Using a gentle touch, wash your face with your gentle cleanser for one minute in the morning and one minute in the evening.Use your fingertips or a gentle cloth — not your nails or rough cloths. You should also wash your face after sweaty activities such as exercise.Do not scrub or scratch your skin: remember that acne-prone skin can be sensitive and delicate. Rinse your face with lukewarm water that is not too hot or too cold.
 Even if it seems counterintuitive, moisturizers will help keep your acne from worsening. Because acne can be aggravated by dead skin cells, keeping your skin healthy will help reduce acne outbreaks. Moreover, overly dry skin can lead to the overproduction of skin oils that cause acne. Make sure to buy a moisturizer that says "noncomedogenic" on the label: this means that the moisturizer will not clog pores.Look for ingredients like glycerin and hyaluronic acid in your moisturizer. Avoid cocoa butter, mineral oil, and cold cream.Some brands of moisturizers and cleansers have special formulations to help reduce redness in the skin. These include Eucerin redness relief, and Aveeno ultra-calming. These brands are both recommended by the American Academy of Dermatology.
 There are a number of products that can help minimize acne redness. These are all topical treatments that are applied directly to the skin once or twice a day.Begin with lower-strength acne medications before moving on to the stronger stuff.Look for ingredients such as benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, tea tree oil, and sulfur. It is best to start with a benzoyl peroxide because it is less likely to irritate your skin than other products.Start with a lower strength form such as 2.5% to reduce skin irritation as you get used to using benzoyl peroxide.
Be sure that you follow all label instructions. Sometimes these treatments can make your skin more prone to sunburn. Others might not react well with other medications. Pay attention to warning labels, and talk to your doctor if you have any concerns.
You might experience skin redness and flaking for the first few weeks of use. If any symptoms of irritation persist, however, you should consider switching products and/or talking with your doctor.
 There are a number of herbal remedies that are rumored to minimize acne. However, many of these remedies are untested and some might have dangerous side effects. Remember that "natural" does not necessarily mean healthy or safe.Discuss herbal remedies with your doctor to see if it is wise for you to try them. Possible herbal remedies include:


Tea tree oil. Apply a gel that is 5% tea tree oil to affected areas. Watch out for contact dermatitis and rosacea, however.If you have these symptoms when using tea tree oil, it may not be right for you.
Green tea extract. Apply a solution that is 2% green tea extract to affected areas twice daily. You can also soak a washcloth in chilled green tea and apply it to your face for 1-2 minutes, then repeat several times. Do this several nights a week.Aloe vera. Apply a gel that is 50% aloe to affected areas. It might be best coming directly from the plant, which can be purchased at most flower shops.Brewer's Yeast CBS 5926. Take this strain of brewer's yeast orally. Note that brewer's yeast can cause gassiness.