 One way to end a friendship that is not mutually beneficial is to simply back off from your friend. If your friendship is already touchy—for example, your friend doesn’t expect much out of you just like you don’t expect much out of them—this approach may work better because the bond is already less strong than with close friends. With close friends, this approach can be painful because your friend doesn’t know why you’re backing off which can trigger feelings of rejection.Start by communicating less frequently via text, phone, and social media. Comment on their photos and statuses less often, don’t answer their texts, and dodge their phone calls more and more often.
Stop sharing as much personal information with this friend, such as family secrets. When you confide in someone, that strengthens a bond. When you don’t confide, this sends the message that you don’t trust them as much.
The downside of this approach is that you might never get a sense of closure, and your friend’s feelings of rejection can push them to cause drama like gossip and spreading rumors.
 When you have decided to end a friendship with someone because you don’t want to deal with their lack of responsibility anymore, one thing you can start doing immediately is backing off from the friendship by making excuses. Try to make these real things rather than white lies so that your friend is not further offended.


”I have other plans” is one excuse that you can make.
”I’m busy” is another way to make excuses for not spending time with your fair weather friend.
 The other way to end a friendship is to tell your friend what you feel and have decided without being vague about it. This direct approach is useful if you have already tried the gradual backing off approach and your friend isn’t getting the message. This is also useful if your friend has hurt you deeply and you need to get them out of your life fast.Face-to-face conversation is best for the direct approach. This way there is no risk of miscommunication, and you can clearly emphasize your intentions with your tone of voice and body language.
This clear communication also avoids gossip and backbiting because you are taking guessing out of the equation. You won’t avoid hurting their feelings no matter what approach you take, but at least this way you give them an opportunity to clearly communicate it.
 If you feel uncomfortable with a face-to-face meeting, you can try the direct approach in an email or written letter, especially if you and your friend often communicate through these channels (or if you know that your friend likes to read letters). This way you can articulate your feelings, think about what you want to say, and make sure that your intentions are clear.Don’t send a text, even if that is how you communicate most often with this friend. Texts are generally viewed as quick, casual chatting, and that is not the correct setting for a friendship-ending letter.
 Don’t add insult to injury by putting down your friend for their foibles and character flaws. Even though you are probably angry about their behavior, be kind and civil about your decision. They are already going to feel bad enough that you don’t want them around anymore.


Make “I” statements, such as, “I am in a new stage of life now,” rather than “you” statements like, “You have let me down one too many times.”
Tell your friend how you feel, not how they have made you feel. Explain that you are doing this because of you, not because of them., You might ask your friend if you can revisit the friendship again in a few months, after each of you has had time to think about if this friendship is the best thing for your lives. By then, your fair weather friend may have poured their energy into other people and not have room in their life for you anymore, letting you off the hook.


This approach doesn’t eliminate all feelings off hurt, but it may minimize them because you aren’t shutting down your friend completely, just temporarily.
 Another way to communicate that you are trying to move on without your friend is unfriending them on social media sites where you have a connection, such as Facebook and Instagram. Although this blunt disconnection will most likely hurt your friend, it does communicate that you want to end the friendship in real life.

