 You should determine whether there are any T Cell cancer therapy trials in your country or region, since there are only a few major studies underway. Given the limited number of trials currently underway for this therapy and limited location sites (such as Britain and the United States), it could be difficult to secure participation in one of these trials., You should contact cancer specialists such as researchers, university medical departments or cancer support groups that focus on your specific type of cancer. Some of the support groups for specific types of cancer have information lines that will give you advice about clinical trials over the phone.For instance, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society has an informational telephone line that offers advice for cancer patients. Call: 800-955-4572.You can search for National Cancer Institute supported clinical trials via their website at: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/search

If there is a major university in your region, you could contact the medical department and inquire about any clinical trials underway at that institution.
 If you are getting chimeric antigen receptor T-Cell therapy, the doctors will take blood from your body in order to extract T cells, which are sent to a laboratory. Your T-cells will then be genetically engineered to create more chimeric antigen receptors (CARs), which will theoretically allow your body’s T cells to target tumor cells. After the CAR T-cells are multiplied in the lab, they will be reinserted into your body at the medical facility. Given the complexity of this treatment, you should ask your doctor about the details:“How long will I be at the hospital?”
“How much blood will be taken?”
“How long will I have to wait while my T-cells are at the lab?”
"How will it feel when the T-cells are reinserted back into my body?"

, You should be aware that T Cell cancer therapy trials can involve very serious side effects, which often take numerous medical experts to keep under control.Although research is underway to reduce the severity of side effects, you should know that this treatment option is only worthwhile if you have exhausted other options. If you choose it, you should know about some of the side effects. For instance, side effects of CAR T-Cell therapy include:Cytokine release syndrome, which can cause high fevers, low blood pressure, poor lung function and other serious symptoms.
B-cell aplasia, which destroys normal B cells in your blood.
Tumor Lysis syndrome, which is a life-threatening complication. This is a dangerous side effect but can be effectively managed.

