 Once you have completed or are in your last term in a health information management degree through a CAHIIM accredited program, you can take an exam to become a certified RHIT. This certification will be useful if you are considering applying for managerial positions in a hospital or clinic.You can also become an RHIT if you graduate from a program approved by a foreign association in agreement with the AHIMA.
 You may find that you want to become a cancer registrar and report cancer statistics for different healthcare agencies. In order to become a CTR you will need at least an associate’s degree and requisite experience. This exam is also taken towards the end of one’s course of study. However, those working in a health information management position, and meet the requirements, may apply.Your program of study must be accredited by the National Cancer Registrars Association (NCRA). Be sure to research your program before beginning study.
You qualify to take the CRT exam if you have an associate’s degree in Cancer Registry Management or Cancer Information Management (CIM) and complete a 160-hour clinical practicum in a CTR-staffed cancer registry.
You may also qualify if you have an associate’s degree in any field, a certification in CRM and CIM, and complete a 160-hour clinical practicum in a CTR-staffed cancer registry
You can also qualify if you have an associate’s degree and 1,950 hours of experience in the cancer registry field.
 If you are looking to solidify your credentials as a medical biller, you may be interested in receiving the AAPC certification as a CPB. Becoming a CPB may qualify you for management positions and a higher salary. To become a CPB, you will need to take an exam and become member of the AAPC. In order to qualify for the exam, you will need to have an associate’s degree and pay an examination fee.The cost of the exam is $290 for AAPC member and $350 for non-members. This cost may be covered by your employer if they require it.
The exam takes 5 hour and 40 minutes to complete.
 Depending on what type of coding and billing you perform, the AAPC offers many other certifications. The Certified Professional Coder (CPC) certification offers certifications in a range of code sets, ranging from basic knowledge of coding, to experience working in a hospital and with patients.These certifications may be worth looking into if you want a promotion, are thinking about moving to another facility or considering starting a new job.

