 Certain medications seem to be effective for specific anxiety disorders. For instance, pregabalin is indicated for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) when other psychological diagnoses are not present. The medications valproate and topiramate seem to work effectively to treat phobias. Topiramate appears to help treat obsessive-compulsive disorder. Panic disorders can be treated with anticonvulsants, though studies do not conclusively support effective treatment at this time. The medication valproate may be promising for treating panic disorder. Data is limited in treating post-traumatic stress disorder.When choosing a medication, make sure you tell your prescriber of any medications you currently take to minimize the risk of drug interaction.;
, Use the medication as directed. Do not take more or less than prescribed. Medication works best when taken at the same time each day. If you take medication more than once each day, space out the dosages, such as one in the morning and one at night.Even if you do not feel the effects of the medication, do not increase your dose without consulting with your prescriber first.
 The occurrence of side-effects depends on many factors, such as dosage, type of medication, and the length of time medications are taken. Antiseizure medications typically start with a low dose and increase to limit the possibility of harsh side-effects. The presence of side-effects tends to be more pronounced with higher doses, yet can subside with time. Some common side-effects include:Blurry vision
Fatigue
Stomach upset
Drowsiness
Dizziness

, It’s important to be informed prior to committing to taking medication. With your prescriber, discuss any concerns you may have about risks and side-effects of taking antiseizure medications. Though dangerous and fatal reactions do occur, they are rare and include problems with the liver, pancreas, or blood problems. Some people may need routine blood testing to monitor effects.Some people develop allergies to seizure medication. Typically, allergies develop within the first 6 months and most commonly include a rash. If you develop a rash or experience severe side-effects such as blisters on your skin or in your mouth, excessive bleeding, stomach pain, fever, or other unusual symptoms, contact your provider immediately.
Though the medication Lyrica appears to be beneficial in treating GAD, it is not approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a treatment for anxiety., Especially when you are first starting medication, make sure you check in with your provider regularly to ensure the proper course of treatment with medications.Discuss any side-effects that have developed, the effectiveness of treatment, and any questions about dosage. You may periodically change your dose or change medications if they are not effective.
 Alcohol can disrupt medication for anticonvulsant use in those with seizures.If you drink alcohol, let your prescriber know before obtaining medication. You may need to make lifestyle changes to receive the maximum benefits of medication.
 Most anticonvulsant medications can be taken safely while pregnant. Some specific medications can increase the risk of birth defects, so make sure you let your provider know if you plan to become pregnant, are pregnant, or are breastfeeding. Keep regular appointments with your prescriber. You may need to take blood tests to ensure that your pregnancy is healthy.Take folate in the first trimester to reduce the likelihood of birth defects.
 Keep your medication safe and do not offer other people your medication, even if they suffer from similar symptoms as you do. Instead, refer people to a prescriber to obtain their own medication. It in unlawful and unsafe to share medication.
 If you’d like to stop taking medication, do not take yourself off of medication without consulting your prescriber ahead of time. You may experience unpleasant withdrawal symptoms if you do not decrease your dosage gently over time. Before ending medication, make an appointment with your prescriber and discuss options of how to end treatment with minimal side-effects. Withdraw from medication slowly, over several months.In people with seizures, withdrawal can include re-experiencing seizures.
 Anticonvulsant medications are most commonly prescribed to treat generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), social phobia, and panic disorder.To receive medication for anxiety, a person must first obtain a diagnosis of an anxiety disorder. Anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), phobias (like social phobia), panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).A mental health provider, such as a therapist, psychiatrist, and in some cases, a general practitioner specializing in mental health can assess you to see if your symptoms fit criteria for an anxiety disorder.Many people choose to get diagnosed by a therapist (such as a psychologist or social worker) in order to begin treatment right away.
 After careful consideration about taking medication, schedule an appointment with a prescriber. It is often recommended to see an expert in psychological medication, such as a psychiatrist, however, some general practitioners may be suitable in discussing mental health medications with you. Share your medical history with your provider, including any medical or psychological conditions and medications you currently take. Discuss any herbs, vitamins, or supplements you take.


Note any allergies or adverse effects you’ve experienced under other medications., During this appointment, bring up any questions you have about taking medication, how long each dose will last, if you have to take it everyday, and what side-effects you may encounter. You may ask your provider whether you need to name-brand medication or generic. Ask when to take the medication, and if it’s best when taken with food or drink.Make sure you fully understand the medication you may be prescribed. Ask any and all questions you may have while in your appointment.
With specific medications, you may be at higher risk with certain to your provider if there are foods, beverages, supplements, or other medications you need to avoid when taking anticonvulsants.
 Beyond diagnosing anxiety, a therapist can help a person overcome the symptoms of an anxiety disorder. A therapist can work to help you discover any negative or untrue thoughts and beliefs that are influencing the anxiety. Then, you can learn to challenge these thoughts and beliefs and be rooted in more rational or positive thinking. You may also learn ways to relax and cope with stressors that can help you more effectively deal with situations that make you feel anxious.While medications can help manage symptoms of anxiety, they do not cure or get to the root cause of your anxious feelings. Therapy can have lasting effects without side-effects of medication. In many cases, therapy alone can be the best course of treatment.