 Before you try to contact your angel, make sure that you know who your angel is and what your angel’s special powers are. If you are trying to contact a specific angel, then take some time to learn a little more about that angel.


To identify your guardian angel, watch for signs. Pay attention to names and symbols that come up a lot. For example, if you notice that the name Michael keeps coming up, then your guardian angel might be Michael.You may also choose an angel to contact based on that angel’s associations. For example, Raphael is associated with healing and protection for travelers, so you may want to contact him if you have been dealing with illness or if you are planning a trip.Some people think of their deceased loved ones as their guardian angels. For example, you might identify a grandparent with whom you were close as your guardian angel.
 Creating an altar might help you to contact your guardian angel by designating a space for spiritual energy. To create an altar, set aside a small space, such as a bookshelf or the top of a dresser. Place a cloth over the area and then add a candle and an object that reminds you of your guardian angel. Some people like to include photos, food, herbs, crystals, incense, and water as part of their altars.


Think about the objects, colors, and other items associated with your angel as you choose items for your altar.
Purchase a special candle just for your altar. Only use the candle when you want to communicate with your guardian angel.
Place photos of deceased loved ones on your altar if you think of them as your guardian angels.
 Many people use special prayers to help them make contact with their angels. Some angels have prayers that you can learn and use when you contact your angel.If your angel is not well known, then you may want to consider writing your own prayer to that angel. You can write a prayer by following the basic structure used by other prayers to angels:


address your angel
acknowledge your angel’s special powers
identify your needs
close your prayer

, To increase your chances of contacting your guardian angel, you should designate a specific time each day to pray and meditate. Having a daily practice will give your guardian angel more opportunities to contact you.


For example, you might start or end each day with five minutes of prayer and meditation near your altar.
You can also contact your angel in times of need, but make sure that you make regular contact with your angel as well.

