 The SSA can send you copies of your W-2s for any year from 1978 to the present.If you need several years, keep in mind you may be charged a fee for each year.
The fee is less than the fee to get a complete copy of your tax return from the IRS including any W-2s filed that year.
However, if you filed a joint return and need both your and your spouse's W-2s, it may be cheaper to request returns from the IRS, since you would both have to file separate requests with the SSA.
 You must submit your request for W-2s in writing.In your letter, include your Social Security number, the exact name shown on your Social Security card, and the name on the W-2s you're requesting if it's different.
For example, if you changed your name when you got married two years ago and need your W-2s from four years ago, you would also need to include your maiden name.
Tell the SSA the years for which you need copies of your W-2s and the reason for your request. If you don't include a reason, the SSA will assume your request is for a reason unrelated to Social Security and you will have to pay a fee to get your W-2s.
Provide your daytime phone number and the complete mailing address where you want your W-2s sent.
When you've finished your letter, print it off and sign it.
Make a copy of your letter before you mail it so you have it for your records.
 You only get copies of your W-2s from the SSA for free if you need them for a Social Security-related purpose.For example, if you need copies of your W-2s to file tax returns, provide income information, or establish residency, these would be considered non-Social Security-related purposes.
The fee is $37 for each year's W-2 you request. If you had more than one W-2 in a single year, you still only have to pay $37 for that year.
You can pay the fees by sending a check or money order made out to the Social Security Administration. Make sure you include your Social Security number on your check.
You also can pay by credit card. Simply fill out Form 714, available at https://www.ssa.gov/forms/ssa-714.pdf.
 Requests for copies of W-2s must be sent to the SSA's Office of Central Operations.Send your request to Social Security Administration, Office of Central Operations, Division of Earnings Record Operations, P.O. Box 33003, Baltimore, MD 21290-3003.
You can expect to receive your W-2s in the mail within three to four weeks.

