 One small way to hit the reset button is by participating in a retreat. Depending on your specific circumstances, there are retreats to suit virtually every preference. A retreat offers you the chance to depart from your everyday environment for a few days or longer in order to regroup and gain a new perspective or sense of inspiration for your life.


Retreats can serve a general or specific purpose. For example, a retreat may be hosted especially for writers, married couples, fitness enthusiasts or those looking to improve their diets., If your daily life feels uninspiring, you may need to invigorate your brain cells with a challenge. A pick-me-up in the form of a new skill or hobby could be just what you need to refresh your schedule.Sign up for an evening class to learn a new language, ballroom dancing, master French cuisine, or train in martial arts. Maybe you once enjoyed running or sewing, but stopped. Reflect on passions you used to enjoy and pick them back up. Whatever you do, find some way to challenge yourself and jazz up your routine.
 Life can start to feel colorless if you spend all your time working or attending to responsibilities. Burnout from work or caregiving can cause chronic stress that threatens not only your mindset, but your health, too. Assess your daily schedule to see what tasks you can cut out or cut down to make more room for fun.


Include some time each day for play. This may translate to throwing a ball to your dog, tickling your kids, playing a video or board game, or watching a comedy film.
Take note of how you feel when you make more time for fun in your life., Indulging on processed or fast foods, sodas, caffeinated beverages, or alcohol can worsen your mood and outlook on life. These foods and beverages make you cranky and affect your sleep quality—two things that contribute to how you feel in day-to-day life. Counteract the negative effects of poor dietary choices by making a commitment to eat cleaner. This small change could have resounding benefits on your health and well-being.

Cut out salty, sugary, and caffeinated foods for a plant-based diet. Make fruits, veggies, legumes, and whole grains the foundation of your diet. Also, drink eight 8-ounce glasses of water each day to properly hydrate your body.
 Your environment impacts your mood. If your home is cluttered, dull, or decorated in a way that does not reflect your personality, you may want to hit the reset button on home décor.

Let the light in by opening blinds or hanging up sheer curtains. Organize clutter by researching creative storage solutions. Donate old clothes, books, records. Paint the walls if you can, and hang up artwork that inspires you.
 Technology is the top choice for entertainment these days. Too much TV, web-browsing, or social media can jeopardize your health if you are sedentary. Plus, making comparisons on social media often leave people feeling depressed about their own lives. Take a detox from these sources of information.

Visit a library or bookstore and select a book in your favorite genre. Or, if you prefer, download a book on your tablet or ereader. Make a vow to read for at least 30 minutes each night before bed.
 If you view your life as dull, there’s a chance you’ve been engaging in self-defeating thought patterns. When you feel uninspired by your life, instead of looking outward to the possibilities, you may beat yourself up for not being where you want to be. You can instantly feel better about yourself by taking time to acknowledge the positives.


Take a few minutes each day—whether in the morning or at night—to compliment yourself. You might say things like “You are such a caring person” or “I love my smile.” For extra points, do it in front of a mirror.
 Perhaps you feel like you have been behaving selfishly or are taking your good fortune for granted. A wonderful way to reboot your inner humanity is by giving. Seek out opportunities in your community where you can be of service to others.


Volunteerism can equate to many different actions. It could mean starting a regular commitment with a non-profit organization, or it could simply be doing kind things for others when you have spare time. Read for children at the library. Offer to walk your neighbor’s dog. Help your disabled family member keep their home tidy. Think of ways you can help those around you.
 Sometimes, a life reset means slowing down and enjoying the present moment. You may feel like you are always running from place to place and never have time to just be. Mindfulness meditation is a beneficial practice that helps you become more aware of the present moment.Start by setting aside just 5 minutes each day to sit in silence. Close your eyes or focus on a neutral spot a few feet in front of you. Breathe in deeply through your nose. Hold the breath for a few seconds. Then, exhale slowly through your mouth. Focus on your breath or the spot in front of you. If you notice your attention wandering, bring your focus back and continue breathing.

