 You can buy crushed graham crackers or crush them yourself. You can make as many graham balls as you have ingredients for, but 2 cups of crushed graham crackers is a good place to start and will make about 6 graham balls.


Crushing graham crackers takes a little bit of time and energy. If you prefer to crush the crackers yourself, try using a mortar and pestle.;
, Pour the condensed milk over the crushed graham crackers and mix it all together with a plastic spatula until combined. Aim for a slightly clumpy sandy mixture. It shouldn't be too wet or too dry and should stick together slightly.
 Scoop out a heaping tablespoon into the palm of your hand and roll it between your palms until it becomes rounded.


Make sure you have washed your hands first!

, Holding the ball in the palm of your hand, gently press down on it with your other hand. Apply pressure gently to create an even and flat surface.


Don't press too hard or your dough might crumble.
Don't worry about the edges cracking slightly, you will be rolling it back up into a ball again later anyway.
 Press a few mini marshmallows or even chocolate chips into the center of the flat graham ball. Read on for some creative filling suggestions in the next section.


Make sure not to overfill your ball! Keep your marshmallow in the center and in a small pile. If you try to put too much filling inside your graham ball, it won't be able to close properly.
 Once you have a few marshmallows in the center of your disk, carefully fold the edges up and together as you gently press down on the center. Bring the edges together on the top of your ball.


The goal is to fold the dough over completely, covering the filling inside.
 After folding the sides over, hold your graham ball between your palms and gently roll it back into a ball, applying a slight pressure. Repeat the steps to create more graham balls.
 You can munch on your graham balls right away or chill them in the refrigerator for about 5-10 minutes beforehand.Dust them with powdered sugar or coconut flakes and enjoy them with a glass of milk. You can even wrap your graham balls up and give them out as gifts or party favors.


You can store your graham balls for 2 weeks in an airtight container in the refrigerator, otherwise, plan to eat them within a couple of days.

