 Giving your friend some space may win you more attention in the long run. You can get to a point where you have made yourself so available that you become disposable. Maybe your friend knows you are always 100% accessible so they don't value your presence as much.If you are always sitting by the phone waiting for the friend to call, they may not feel the need to respect your time. You may need to step back from trying to spend as much time together as possible and find other activities to fill your schedule.
 If you have doubts about your friendship, make new friends to explore what types of friends work out best for you. Admit that you need attention from friends and find new friends that are willing to give you what you need. Fine tune your skills in being a good friend in return as well.Make space in your schedule for other friends. In addition, set boundaries about your availability to this friend so that they understand you have obligations to others. Doing this can help to make your time more valuable to this friend.
 Find something you can share with others or do on your own to fill your calendar. Sharing an interest and finding a friend who is an expert in the new hobby/activity can start a solid new friendship. Take this time to practice listening and learning as new friends talk about themselves and the interest. People like to talk about themselves and appreciate the sincere attention.It is also a good idea to find an activity that you can do alone. Not only does this allow you to foster growth in other areas of life, but it does not leave you dependent on anyone else for enjoyment.
 This does not mean doing something dangerous or illegal; it is more like opening yourself up to a new challenge in the name of mixing things up.Challenge how your friend defines you by exploring an interest they wouldn’t expect you to do or wouldn’t want to do. Join a new club at school just for the experience and to make new friends. Keep some of your life a mystery from this friend so you pique ongoing interest.
Keeping a little mystery in your friendship can gather a great deal of attention from a relationship that may otherwise become stale.

