 Even if you are looking directly at the road as you drive, you can become mentally distracted, which will prevent you from reacting to obstacles that appear in front of you as you drive. If a passenger brings up a subject you feel strongly about, wait until you pull over or park to discuss it.Difficult conversations can distract the driver from things that occur on the road.
It can be difficult to pay attention when experiencing strong emotions.
 Before setting off on a drive of any length, make sure children are safely secured in car seats and any animals in the vehicle are safely placed where they cannot interfere with the process of driving.Small lap dogs and similar sized pets should be kept off of the driver’s lap while driving to avoid distractions.
Make sure all children are wearing their seat belts and unable to move freely within the vehicle to cause distractions.
 Children will often fuss if they do not have access to their common snacks or toys during a drive. If you have a passenger that may create a distraction, make sure they have everything they need prior to setting off on a trip.Keep snacks or toys within the reach of children so they don’t attempt to unbuckle their seat belts or leave car seats.
Reaching around the car to get snacks or pass things to a child can be extremely dangerous while driving.
 If you are driving with other people in the vehicle, ask that they respect the fact that you would like to drive without distraction. This means passengers should remain in their seats, not move around the vehicle, and not try to gain your attention while you’re driving.Passengers should not attempt to distract you or gain your attention while driving.
Passengers should remain buckled up and in their seats while you drive.
 If something comes up that is unavoidable, such as an important telephone conversation or a discussion that requires the driver’s full attention, simply pull over to avoid allowing the distraction to become dangerous.Pulling over on the side of the road to take phone calls or engage in discussions is safer than doing so as you drive.
On many highways, there are rest stops specifically for the sake of phone calls or other things a driver may need to do on the road.

