 Picking the right type of enclosure for your gerbils is very important. The gerbilarium should be an aquarium, which is made of glass and has a wire mesh top.Plastic enclosures are not a good choice because gerbils can gnaw through the plastic.For a pair of gerbils, the tank should be at least 10 gallons.You will probably need a larger tank if you plan to house more than two gerbils in the gerbilarium.
Keep in mind that bigger is always better when it comes to setting up a gerbilarium.Two-tiered aquariums are ideal. One of the tiers would contain a deep layer of substrate for burrowing. Your local pet store may have two-tiered aquariums available.If you are concerned about your gerbils escaping, you can purchase locking clips at your local pet store that you can attach to each corner of the mesh lid.;
, Gerbils have a strong natural instinct to burrow, scratch, and dig.Because of this, your gerbils will need plenty of substrate in which to burrow. Ideal substrates include non-toxic damp peat,dust-extracted wood shavings,and potting compost.Recommendations vary on how deep the substrate should be. One recommended depth is 20 to 30 centimeters.Another recommendation is to have the substrate as deep as the height of the gerbils when they stand on their hind limbs.Several types of substrate are not recommended for gerbilariums, including wood shavings and sawdust. These may damage your gerbils’ livers and lungs.It is a good idea to place a small, sturdy cardboard box in the substrate, along with an empty toilet paper tube by which the gerbil can access the box. The box would give your gerbils a dark and safe place to sleep when they burrow.Sturdy objects within the substrate can also act as scaffolding as your gerbils create burrowing tunnels., In addition to substrate, your gerbilarium will need bedding that your gerbils will use to create sleeping nests. Timothy hay is an especially good bedding material, since gerbils can also gnaw on it to keep their teeth filed down.Chopped natural barley straw is another good type of bedding to use in your gerbilarium., Your gerbils will appreciate having distinct areas where they can play and sleep. However, it is important to note that some gerbils may become territorial if their gerbiliarium is too sharply partitioned.Consider placing several cardboard boxes in the gerbilarium to provide your gerbils with sleep areas without creating partitions.
 Water bottles with a spout are ideal for gerbils and create less mess in the gerbilarium. They are available at your local pet store. When you set up the water bottle, make sure to fill it completely with water to create a vacuum and prevent water from leaking out.The water bottle will likely have a ball bearing in the spout to control the amount of water that comes out when your gerbils sip from it.You may need to purchase adhesives to attach the water bottle to the side of gerbilarium. Make sure the water bottle is low enough for your gerbils to sip from easily.
The food bowl should be stainless steel or ceramic.Plastic food bowls are not recommended, since gerbils could chew on them.
 In the wild, gerbils will take dust baths to remove excess oils from their coats.You can make a dust bath for your gerbils by placing fine-ground, absorbent sand in a stainless steel or ceramic bowl.Do not leave the dust bath in the gerbilarium permanently, though—your gerbils may start to use it as a bathroom., Environmental enrichment is important to any pets’ health and well-being. For example, toys are a great way to enrich your gerbils’ environment in the gerbilarium. Untreated wicker toys would give your gerbils something to gnaw on.A wooden gnawing block will also keep your gerbils physically stimulated and keep their teeth filed down.Empty toilet paper or paper towel rolls also make excellent toys.Exercise wheels are great for physical exercise. Try to find solid exercise wheels—your gerbils may get their feet stuck in exercise wheels with bars, causing injury.Do not give plastic toys to your gerbils.
Make sure not to overcrowd the gerbilarium with toys.Two to three toys at a time should be sufficient.
Your gerbils may also enjoy climbing branches, which you can find in the reptile section of your local pet store., Although gerbils do not produce much waste,you should still maintain a regular cleaning schedule of your gerbils’ enclosure. Recommendations vary on how often you should clean your gerbilarium. Keep in mind that you may need to clean it more or less often than what is recommended, depending on how many gerbils are in the gerbilarium.


Recommendations on thorough gerbilarium cleanings with pet-safe disinfectant include once a week,once every two weeks,and once every three months.Pet-safe disinfectant can be purchased at your local pet store.
When you do a thorough cleaning of the gerbilarium, save a small amount of the substrate and bedding. This will provide a familiar scent to your gerbils, which have a sharp sense of smell. The familiar scent may prevent fighting between your gerbils.Schedule a daily general tidying up of the gerbilarium., Direct sunlight and drafts can create fluctuations in the gerbilarium’s temperature, which could negatively affect your gerbils. The gerbilarium should be at a constant temperature of 68 to 72 degrees Fahrenheit (20 to 22 degrees Celsius).Although gerbils are fairly resistant to heat stress,direct sunlight can cause heat exhaustion in gerbils.If you notice clinical signs of heat exhaustion in your gerbils (e.g., panting, weakness), move them to a cool and dark room.Place the gerbilarium away from a window and out of the path of vents and/or fans.
 Gerbils can become irritated and even distressed by loud noises (e.g., televisions, stereos) and vibrations.Therefore, it is best to put the gerbilarium in a quiet and calm area of your home.


The high frequency sounds from televisions and stereos and can also be bothersome to gerbils.Your bedroom may be an ideal place to keep your gerbilarium.
Your kitchen or family room may be too loud and have too many distractions for your gerbil.
 For your gerbils’ safety, their gerbilarium should be placed high enough so that other pets (cats and dogs) cannot get to them.Consider placing the gerbilarium on top of a table or dresser.


If you have a cat who likes to jump on furniture, you may want to block her access to the room that houses the gerbilarium.

